A partly submerged हिमानी गुफा on Perito Moreno हिमानी.
The ice facade is approximately 60 m high
Ice formations in the Titlis glacier cave
a glacier गुफा is a गुफा formed within the ice of a हिमानी.
Glacier caves हैं प्रायः called बर्फ caves, but इस पद is properly प्रयुक्त to describe bedrock गुफाएं that contain year-round ice.
In physics, गोलाकार गति is a गति of an ऑब्जेक्ट साथ the परिधि of a circle or rotation along a circular path.
It can be वर्दी, with निरंतर angular रेट of रोटेशन ( and constant speed ), or non-uniform with a changing rate of rotation.
the rotation around a fixed axis of a three-dimensional body involves गोलाकार motion of its parts.
the equations of motion describe the गति of the center of mass of a body.
उदाहरण of circular गति शामिल : an कृत्रिम उपग्रह orbiting the धरती at निरंतर height, a stone which is tied to a रस्सी and is being swung in circles, a car turning through a curve in a race track, an electron moving perpendicular to a वर्दी magnetic फ़ील्ड, and a gear turning inside a यांत्रिकी.
चूंकि the ऑब्जेक्ट 's velocity vector is constantly बदलना दिशा, the moving ऑब्जेक्ट is undergoing acceleration by a centripetal force in the दिशा of the center of rotation.
Without this acceleration, the object would move in a straight line, according to न्यूटन 's कानून of motion.
अपोलो Creed is a fictional character from the Rocky films, initially portrayed as the Undisputed Heavyweight Champion of the World.
he was played by कार्ल weathers.
Creed था अनेक nicknames, including The Master of Disaster, The King of Sting, The Dancing Destroyer, The Prince of Punch, The One and तभी and The Count of मोंटे Fisto.
Urban legend states that अपोलो पंथ 's name is a wordplay on the Apostles ' Creed, a statement of belief used in Christian churches.
All of अपोलो 's चैंपियनशिप fights were अनुसूचित लिये the 15 गोलाकार distance.
Championship fights did not convert from 15 rounds to 12 rounds until 1987.
Rocky Balboa is प्रायः wrongly credited with popularizing the red, white, और ब्लू trunks ; पंथ was the first man to wear them ( latterly worn by Rocky Balboa in the 3rd and 4th installments and finally by टॉमी `` The Machine '' Gunn ( टॉमी मॉरिसन ) in the 5th किश्त ) although normally he wore red and श्वेत, as seen in Rocky II.
Balboa 's signature colors यहूद black and gold—colors he used in the नवीनतम movie.
In the संयुक्त States, the title of संघीय judge usually means a judge नियुक्त by the अध्यक्ष of the United States और पुष्टि by the United राज्य Senate pursuant to the Appointments clause in आलेख II of the United States Constitution.
In addition to the परम् Court of the United States, whose existence और some aspects of जिनकी क्षेत्राधिकार are परे the constitutional शक्ति of Congress to alter, अधिनियमों of कॉंग्रेस have established 13 courts of appeals ( भी called `` circuit न्यायालयों '' ) with appellate jurisdiction over different regions of the United States, और 94 United States ज़िला courts.
Every judge appointed to such a court may be categorized as a federal judge ; ऐसे positions include the मुख्य Justice और Associate Justices of the Supreme Court, Circuit न्यायाधीशों of the courts of appeals, and district न्यायाधीशों of the United States district न्यायालयों.
All of these judges वर्णित thus far are referred to sometimes as `` Article iii judges '' because they exercise the judicial power vested in the judicial branch of the federal government by Article III of the U.S. संविधान.
in addition, न्यायाधीशों of the अदालत of International व्यापार exercise judicial शक्ति pursuant to आलेख iii.
Other judges सेवारत in the federal courts, सहित magistrate judges and bankruptcy न्यायाधीशों, are also sometimes referred to as `` federal judges '' ; however, they are neither appointed by the अध्यक्ष nor पुष्टि by the Senate, and their power गर्भाशयी from Article I instead.
देखिए आलेख i और Article III tribunals.
The Beretta 21A बॉबकैट is a छोटी pocket-sized semi-automatic पिस्टल designed by beretta in Italy.
Production began in late 1984, solely in the Beretta U.S.A. सुविधा in Accokeek, Maryland.
It is a further development of the Beretta मॉडल 20, whose production ended in 1985.
Variable Universal जीवन बीमे ( often shortened to VUL ) is a type of life बीमे that builds a cash value.
In a vul, the cash value can be invested in a wide variety of separate खाते, similar to mutual funds, and the चुनाव of which of the उपलब्धियाँ पृथक accounts to उपयोग is entirely up to the contract owner.
The 'variable ' घटक in the नाम refers to इस क्षमता to invest in पृथक accounts जिनकी values vary—they vary because वे are invested in भण्डार and/or बंध markets.
the 'universal ' घटक in the name refers to the flexibility the owner रै in making premium भुगतान.
the premiums can vary इससे nothing in a given माह up to maximums पारिभाषित by the Internal Revenue Code for जीवन बीमे.
इस लचीलापन is in contrast to whole life बीमे कि has फिक्स्ड प्रीमियम भुगतान that typically can not be missed without lapsing the policy ( हालांकि one may exercise an Automatic Premium ऋण feature, or आत्मसमर्पण dividends to pay a Whole Life premium ).
Variable सार्वभौमिक life is a प्रकार of permanent life insurance, because the death लाभ होगा be paid if the insured dies any time as long as there is sufficient cash value to pay the लागत of बीमे in the policy.
With most if not सब VULs, नापसंद whole life, वहीँ is no endowment age ( the age at which the नकदी value बराबरी the death benefit amount, जिससे लिये पूरे जीवन is typically 100 ).
This is yet another कुंजी advantage of vul over Whole जीवन.
With a typical whole जीवन policy, the मौत benefit is limited to the फेस amount specified in the नीति, and at endowment age, the फेस राशि is all that is paid out.
Thus with either death or endowment, the insurance company keeps any cash मान निर्मित up over the सालो.
however, some participating पूरे जीवन policies offer riders which specify that कोई dividends सशुल्क on the policy be used to खरीदें `` सशुल्क up additions '' to the policy which बढ़ाएँ both the नकदी मान and the मौत लाभ over time.
if investments made in the separate accounts out-perform the general account of the insurance कम्पनी, a उच्चतर rate-of-return can occur than the fixed rates-of-return typical for whole life.
The combination over the सालो of no endowment age, continually increasing death benefit, and if a high rate-of-return is earned in the separate accounts of a VUL policy, this could परिणाम in higher value to the owner or beneficiary than that of a whole life policy with the same amounts of money paid in as प्रीमियम.
the outdoor wood boiler is a variant of the classic wood stove adapted लिये set-up outdoors while still transferring the heat to आंतरिक buildings.
A mound of Girl स्काउट cookies.
This mound contains 74 boxes of कुकीज़
Girl Scout Cookies are cookies बेची by लड़की Scouts of the USA ( GSUSA ) as एक of इसके major fundraisers लिये local Scout units.
सदस्यों of the gsusa have महरूम selling cookies चूंकि 1917 to raise funds.
लड़कियों who participate can earn पुरस्कार for उनके efforts.
There are also ईकाई incentives if the unit as a whole does well.
As of 2007, sales were अनुमानित at about 200 लाख बाक्स per साल.
विश्वविद्यालयों Hall
Purdue विश्वविद्यालयों, located in West lafayette, इंडियाना, is the flagship university of the six-campus Purdue University system.
purdue was founded on May 6, 1869, as a land-grant university when the Indiana General सभा, taking लाभ of the Morrill Act, स्वीकृत a donation of land and धन from Lafayette businessman John Purdue to establish a college of science, technology, and agriculture in his name.
The first classes were held on September 16, 1874, with six instructors and 39 students.
Today, Purdue is a member of the Big टेन Conference, and is a खूब known world-class research institution.
purdue enrolls the दूसरी largest student देह of कोई university in Indiana as खूब as the fourth largest international छात्र population of any university in the संयुक्त States.
purdue offers both undergraduate और ग्रैजुएट programs in over 211 major areas of study, and is well known for its competitive engineering curricula.
the university has भी महरूम अत्यधिक influential in America 's इतिहास of विमानन, having established the first college क्रेडिट offered in flight training, the first four-year bachelor 's degree in aviation, and the पहला university विमानक्षेत्र ( purdue University Airport ).
purdue 's aviation प्रौद्योगिकी कार्यक्रम remains one of the सबसे प्रतिस्पर्धी aviation-specific programs in the world.
in the mid-20th century, Purdue 's विमानन program विस्तारित to encompass advanced spaceflight प्रौद्योगिकी giving rise to purdue 's उपनाम, पालना of Astronauts.
Twenty-three Purdue graduates have gone on to become astronauts, including Gus Grissom ( एक of the original Mercury Seven astronauts ), Neil Armstrong ( the first person to walk on the चंद्रमा ), और Eugene Cernan ( the most recent person to walk on the moon ).
A sebaceous cyst ( ) is a term that loosely refers to either epidermoid cysts ( also known as epidermal cysts ; l72.0 ) or pilar cysts ( also known as trichilemmal cysts ; L72.1 ).
क्युकी an epidermoid गाँठ originates in the epidermis and a pilar cyst originates from hair follicles, by definition, neither type of गाँठ is सख्ती a sebaceous cyst.
The name is regarded as a misnomer as the fatty, श्वेत, semi-solid सामग्री in both of these cyst entities is नहीं sebum, but keratin.
Furthermore, under the सूक्ष्मदर्शी neither entity contains वसामय glands.
In practice, however, the शर्तें are often प्रयुक्त interchangeably.
`` True '' sebaceous cysts are relatively विरल and हैं ज्ञात as steatocystomas or, if multiple, as steatocystoma multiplex.
Modern pointe जूते.
the किनारे of the toe pad, which is inserted between the foot and टो box लिये cushioning, can be seen on the right foot.
A pointe जूता is a type of shoe worn by ballet dancers जब performing pointe work.
Pointe shoes developed from the desire for dancers to appear weightless and sylph -like and have विकसित to enable dancers to dance en pointe ( on the tips of their toes ) for extended अवधि of time.
They are normally worn by female dancers, हालांकि male नर्तक may wear them लिये अपरंपरागत भूमिकाएँ such as the ugly stepsisters in Cinderella, Bottom in A Midsummer Night 's Dream, or मेन performing as women in नृत्य companies such as Les Ballets Trockadero and Grandiva.
They are manufactured in a variety of colors, most commonly in shades of light pink.
इस tablespoon रै a capacity of about 15 ml.
Measuring Spoons
in the us और parts of Canada, a tablespoon is the largest type of spoon used for eating from a bowl.
In the UK, Europe और सबसे Commonwealth countries, a tablespoon is a प्रकार of large spoon usually used लिये serving.
In countries where a tablespoon is a serving spoon, the निकटतम equivalent to the US tablespoon is either the मिठाई spoon or the soup spoon.
A tablespoonful, nominally the क्षमता of one tablespoon, is commonly used as a measure of आवाज़ in cooking.
It is abbreviated as T, tb, tbs, tbsp, tblsp, or tblspn.
The capacity of ordinary tablespoons is not regulated by विधि and is subject to considerable variation.
In the यूएसए one tablespoon ( मापन unit ) is लगभग 15 mL ; the capacity of an actual tablespoon ( dining utensil ) ranges from 7 mL to 14 mL.
in Australia one tablespoon ( मापन unit ) is 20 mL.
Harry कुम्हार is a series of seven काल्पनिक novels written by the अंग्रेजों author J. K. Rowling.
The किताबे chronicle the adventures of a wizard, Harry Potter, और उसके मित्रों रोनाल्ड वीज़्ली and Hermione ग्रेंजर, all of जिसको are विद्यार्थी at Hogwarts School of चुड़ैल and Wizardry.
The main story arc concerns Harry 's quest to overcome the Dark wizard Lord Voldemort, जिनकी aims are to become immortal, conquer the wizarding world, subjugate non-magical people, और destroy all those who स्टैंड in उसके way, especially Harry Potter.
Since the रिलीज of the first novel Harry Potter and the Philosopher 's Stone on 30 June 1997, the books have gained immense popularity, critical acclaim and commercial success worldwide.
the series has भी had कुछ share of criticism, including चिंता for the increasingly dark tone.
, the book series रै sold परिचय 450 million copies, making it the best-selling book series in इतिहास, and रै been अनूदित into 67 languages.
The last four books consecutively set records as the fastest-selling books in इतिहास.
A series of many genres, including काल्पनिक and coming of age ( with तत्व of mystery, thriller, adventure, and romance ), it has many cultural meanings and references.
According to Rowling, the प्रमुख theme is मौत.
There are also many other themes in the श्रेणी, ऐसे as पूर्वाग्रह and corruption.
the आरंभिक major प्रकाशक of the books were bloomsbury in the United Kingdom and scholastic Press in the संयुक्त States.
The books have since been published by many प्रकाशक worldwide.
The books, with the seventh book विभाजित into two भाग, have महरूम made into an eight-part फिल्मी series by Warner Bros. Pictures, the highest-grossing फिल्मी श्रेणी of all समय.
The series भी originated much tie-in merchandise, making the Harry कुम्हार brand worth in excess of $ 15 billion.
भी due to the success of the किताबे और films, Harry कुम्हार has been used for a theme पार्क, The Wizarding World of Harry कुम्हार in Universal Parks & रिसॉर्ट 's आइलैंड्स of एडवेंचर.
rs-68 होने tested at NASA 's Stennis Space बीच.
The nearly पारदर्शी exhaust is due to इस इंजन 's exhaust being mostly superheated steam ( water vapor from its propellants, hydrogen and oxygen )
Viking 5c rocket engine
A प्रक्षेपास्त्र engine, or बस `` rocket '', is a jet engine that उपयोग only भंडारित propellant mass for forming its high speed propulsive जेट.
प्रक्षेपास्त्र इंजन are प्रतिक्रिया engines and obtain thrust in accordance साथ Newton 's third law.
Since वे need no बाह्य सामग्री to form उनके जेट, rocket engines can be used for spacecraft propulsion as खूब as terrestrial uses, ऐसे as missiles.
Most rocket engines are internal combustion इंजन, although non-combusting forms also exist.
Rocket engines as a group have the highest exhaust velocities, are by दूर the lightest, but are the least propellant efficient of सब types of जेट engines.
``... Baby One More Time '' is a song by American रिकॉर्डिंग artist Britney Spears.
it परोसा as स्पीयर्स 's डेब्यू single and शीर्षक track इससे her debut studio album,... Baby One More Time ( 1999 ).
Written by Max मार्टिन and produced by Martin and Rami, ``... Baby One More समय '' was released on सितंबर 30, 1998, by Jive Records.
बाद रिकॉर्डिंग and sending a demo टेप with an unused song from toni Braxton, स्पीयर्स signed a multi-album सौदे with jive.
``... baby One अधिक समय '' is a teen pop and dance-pop सोंग that refers to a girl who regrets breaking up with her बॉयफ्रेंड.
The song received generally favorable समीक्षाएँ इससे आलोचकों, who praised इसके संयोजन.
``... Baby One More समय '' attained global success, reaching number one in every country it charted.
It भी received numerous certifications around the संसार, and is one of the best-selling singles of all समय, साथ over 10 लाख copies बेची.
An accompanying music वीडियो, निर्देशित by निगेल Dick, portrays Spears as a छात्र from a Catholic high स्कूल, who starts to daydream that she is गायन and dancing around the school, जबकि watching her love interest from afar.
the music वीडियो was later संदर्भित in the music video of `` If U Seek Amy `` ( 2008 ), where Spears 's fictional daughter is dressed साथ a similar schoolgirl outfit while wearing pink ribbons in her बाल.
In 2010, the music video for ``... Baby One अधिक Time '' was voted the तीसरा most influential video in the history of pop music, in a poll आयोजित by Jam !.
स्पीयर्स has performed ``... baby One More Time '' in a number of live appearances and in सब of her कॉन्सर्ट tours.
It was the encore of the... Baby One अधिक समय Tour ( 1999 ) and सपना Within a Dream Tour ( 2001 ) ; स्पीयर्स also performed remixed संस्करण of the song during the उफ़ !...
I Did It again World Tour ( 2000 ), The Onyx Hotel Tour ( 2004 ), The m+m 's दौरे ( 2007 ), The सर्कस Starring britney स्पीयर्स ( 2009 ), और the Femme fatale Tour ( 2011 ).
``... baby एक More समय '' was nominated for a Grammy Award for Best Female Pop Vocal Performance, and रै been शामिल in सूचियाँ by ब्लेंडर, Rolling स्टोन and VH1.
It has been noted लिये redefining the sound of late 1990s म्यूज़िक.
Spears has named ``... Baby One More Time '' as एक of her favorite songs from her career.
it थी also the final song to be played on the BBC 's music कार्यक्रम शीर्ष of the Pops.
Cholera is an infection in the small intestine caused by the bacterium Vibrio cholerae.
The प्रमुख symptoms हैं watery अतिसार and उल्टी.
हस्तांतरण occurs primarily by drinking water or eating food कि रै been contaminated by the feces ( बर्बाद उत्पाद ) of an infected व्यक्ति, including one साथ no apparent symptoms.
The severity of the अतिसार और vomiting can सीसे to rapid निर्जलीकरण and electrolyte imbalance, and मौत in some मामले.
The प्राथमिक treatment is oral rehydration therapy, typically with oral rehydration solution, to replace water और इलेक्ट्रोलाइट्स.
if this is not tolerated or does not provide improvement तेज़ enough, intravenous fluids can भी be used.
Antibacterial drugs are फायदेमंद in those साथ severe disease to shorten its duration and severity.
Worldwide, it affects 3–5 million people और कल्याणकारी 100,000–130,000 मौतों a year.
Cholera was one of the earliest infections to be studied by epidemiological विधि.
The Picture of Dorian Gray is the only published अनोखा by Oscar Wilde, appearing as the सीसे story in Lippincott 's Monthly Magazine on 20 June 1890, मुद्रित as the July 1890 issue of this magazine.
The magazine 's सम्पादक feared the story थी अभद्र as submitted, so they censored roughly 500 शब्द, बगैर वाइल्ड 's knowledge, before publication.
लकिन even with that, the story थी still greeted साथ outrage by British reviewers, कुछ of जिसको suggested that Wilde should be prosecuted on moral grounds, अग्रणी वाइल्ड to defend the novel aggressively in अक्षर to the British press.
Wilde later revised the story for book publication, making substantial alterations, deleting controversial passages, adding नई chapters and सहित an aphoristic Preface जिससे has चूंकि become famous in इसके अपना right.
the amended संस्करण was published by Ward, Lock and कम्पनी in अप्रैल 1891.
Some scholars believe that Wilde would आज have wanted us to पढ़ा the version he originally submitted to Lippincott 's.
The novel tells of a young man नामित Dorian Gray, the विषय of a painting by artist Basil Hallward.
Basil is impressed by डोरियन 's सौंदर्य and becomes infatuated साथ उसे, believing his सौंदर्य is responsible लिये a new विधि in उसके art.
Dorian meets रब Henry Wotton, a friend of Basil 's, and becomes enthralled by रब Henry 's world view.
espousing a new hedonism, Lord Henry suggests the तभी things worth pursuing in life are beauty and fulfilment of the senses.
Realizing that one day उसके beauty will fade, Dorian ( whimsically ) expresses a desire to sell his soul to ensure the portrait बेसिल रै painted होता age rather than he.
Dorian 's काश is fulfilled, and when he subsequently pursues a जीवन of विलासिता, the portrait serves as a reminder of the effect each अधिनियम has upon उसके soul, साथ each sin displayed as a disfigurement of his form, or through a sign of aging.
The चित्र of Dorian धूसर is considered a work of classic Gothic fiction with a दमदार Faustian theme.
Sári Gábor ( born 6 February 1917 ), known as Zsa ज़ा Gabor ( ), is a हंगेरियाई -born American अभिनेत्री who acted in supporting भूमिकाएँ in movies, on Broadway, and occasionally on टेलीविज़न.
गैबर was भी a socialite.
वो began her stage career in Vienna at आयु 15, and was crowned Miss Hungary in 1936.
वो emigrated to the United States in 1941 और became a sought-after actress साथ `` यूरोपीय flair और style '', with a personality that `` exuded आकर्षण और अनुग्रह ''.
उसके first फिल्म भूमिका was as supporting actress in प्यारे to Look At.
She later acted in We 're Not शादीशुदा !
and played one of उसके few leading roles in Moulin रूज ( 1952 ), directed by John Huston, जो वर्णित उसके as a `` creditable '' अभिनेत्री.
Besides her film and television appearances, she is बेहतरीन known लिये having nine husbands, including hotel magnate कोनराड हिल्टन और कर्ता George Sanders.
She once stated, `` मेन have सदा liked me और I have always liked मेन.
लकिन I like a mannish man, a man who knows how to talk to और treat a woman – नहीं बस a man साथ muscles. ''
Bruce Lee ( traditional : 李小龍 ; born ली Jun-fan ; 27 November 1940 – 20 July 1973 ) was a Chinese American martial कलाकार, actor, martial arts instructor, पारस, and filmmaker.
The founder of Jeet Kune Do, Lee was the son of Cantonese opera स्टार Lee Hoi-Chuen.
He is widely माना by commentators, आलोचकों, media and other martial artists to be one of the most influential martial artists of all time, and a pop संस्कृति icon of the 20th century.
He is often credited with helping to बदलें the रास्ता Asians were presented in American films.
Lee was born in Chinatown, San फ्रांसिस्को on 27 November 1940 to parents from Hong Kong और थी raised in कोलून with his family until उसके late teens.
He थी introduced to the फिल्मी industry by his पिता और appeared in अनेक films as a child कर्ता.
ली moved to the United States at the age of 18 to receive उसके higher शिक्षा, और it was during this time that he began teaching martial arts.
His Hong काँग and Hollywood -produced films elevated the परंपरागत Hong Kong martial कला film to a new level of लोकप्रियता और acclaim, sparking a surge of ब्याज in चाइनीज martial arts in the West in the 1970s.
The direction and टोन of his films changed and influenced martial arts and martial arts films in हांग Kong and the rest of the world.
He is विख्यात for उसके roles in five feature-length films : Lo वेई 's The Big Boss ( 1971 ) and मुट्ठी of Fury ( 1972 ) ; Way of the Dragon ( 1972 ), निर्देशित और लिखा by Lee ; Warner Brothers ' Enter the Dragon ( 1973 ) और The खेल of Death ( 1978 ), both directed by रॉबर्ट Clouse.
Lee became an iconic figure known throughout the संसार, particularly among the Chinese, as he portrayed Chinese nationalism in उसके films.
He initially trained in Wing Chun, लकिन later rejected well-defined martial आर्ट styles, favouring बजाय the use of techniques इससे विभिन्न स्त्रोत, in the स्पिरिट of his निजी martial कला दर्शनशास्त्र, which he dubbed Jeet Kune Do ( The Way of the intercepting Fist ).
Lee held डुअल citizenship of Hong Kong और the United States.
he died in Kowloon Tong on 20 July 1973 at age 32.
Chronic obstructive pulmonary बीमारी ( COPD ), also known as chronic obstructive lung disease ( COLD ), दीर्घकालिक obstructive airway बीमारी ( coad ), chronic airflow limitation ( CAL ) और chronic obstructive respiratory disease ( cord ), is the occurrence of chronic bronchitis or emphysema, a pair of commonly co-existing diseases of the lungs in which the airways narrow over समय.
This limits airflow to and from the lungs, causing shortness of साँस ( dyspnea ).
In clinical practice, COPD is defined by its characteristically कम airflow on lung फलन tests.
In कंट्रास्ट to asthma, इस limitation is poorly reversible and प्रायः gets progressively worse over time.
COPD is caused by noxious अणु or gas, most commonly from tobacco धूम्रपान, which triggers an abnormal जलन response in the lung.
The diagnosis of copd requires lung function tests.
Important management strategies are smoking cessation, vaccinations, पुनर्वास, and ड्रग चिकित्सा ( प्रायः using inhalers ).
Some patients go on to आवश्यकता long-term oxygen therapy or फेफड़ों प्रत्यारोपण.
Worldwide, COPD ranked as the छठे अग्रणी cause of death in 1990.
it is projected to become the चौथी leading cause of death विश्वव्यापी by 2030, due to an बढ़ाएँ in smoking rates and जनसांख्यिकी changes in many countries.
COPD is the third अग्रणी cause of मौत in the U.S., और the आर्थिक बोझ of copd in the U.S. in 2007 was $ 42.6 billion in स्वास्थ्य care costs और lost productivity.
annelies `` ऐनी '' Marie Frank (, ?, ; 12 June 1929early March 1945 ) is one of the सबसे discussed यहूदी victims of the Holocaust.
Her diary has been the आधार for several plays और films.
Born in the city of Frankfurt am Main in वाइमर Germany, वो lived most of उसके जीवन in or near Amsterdam, in the Netherlands.
born a German नेशनल, फ़्रैंक खोया her नागरिकता in 1941.
She gained international कीर्ति posthumously after उसके diary was published.
It दस्तावेज़ उसके experiences छुपाना during the German occupation of the Netherlands in संसार War ii.
The Frank family स्थानांतरित from जर्मनी to एम्सटर्डम in 1933, the साल the nazis gained control over Germany.
By the beginning of 1940, they यहूद trapped in Amsterdam by the Nazi occupation of the Netherlands.
As persecutions of the Jewish जनसांख्यिकी increased in July 1942, the family went into hiding in the hidden कक्ष of ऐनी 's पिता, Otto Frank 's, office building.
बाद two सालो, the group was betrayed and transported to concentration camps.
Anne Frank and उसके sister, margot, were eventually transferred to the Bergen-Belsen concentration camp, where वे died of typhus in March 1945.
ओटो Frank, the only उत्तरजीवी of the family, लौटे to Amsterdam बाद the war to find that Anne 's diary had महरूम saved, और उसके efforts led to its publication in 1947.
It was अनूदित from its original Dutch and पहला published in English in 1952 as the डायरी of a Young Girl.
it has since महरूम translated into many languages.
The डायरी, जिससे was given to Anne on her 13th जन्मदिवस, क्रॉनिकल्स her जीवन from 12 June 1942 until 1 August 1944.
कर्ट 's signature
Kurt Donald Cobain ( फ़रवरी 20, 1967 – April 5, 1994 ) थी an अमरीकी musician and artist, best known as the lead सिंगर, guitarist and primary songwriter of the grunge बैंड Nirvana.
कोबेन formed निर्वाण with Krist Novoselic in Aberdeen, वॉशिंगटन in 1985 and स्थापित it as part of the Seattle music scene, having इसके debut एल्बम Bleach released on the independent record label Sub Pop in 1989.
After हस्ताक्षर with major label DGC रिकॉर्ड, the band found breakthrough success साथ `` खुश्बू जैसे Teen Spirit `` from its दूसरी album nevermind ( 1991 ).
Following the success of nevermind, निर्वाण was labeled `` the flagship band '' of Generation X, and कोबेन hailed as `` the प्रवक्ता of a generation ''.
कोबेन, however, थी often असहज और कुंठित, believing his संदेश and कलाकारी vision to have been misinterpreted by the public, with his निजी मुद्दे प्रायः विषय to media attention.
he challenged Nirvana 's audience साथ its फाइनल studio एल्बम In utero ( 1993 ).
During the last years of his life, Cobain struggled with heroin व्यसन, बीमारी और depression.
he भी had difficulty coping साथ उसके fame and public चित्र, and the professional और lifelong personal pressures surrounding himself and his बीवी, musician Courtney Love.
on अप्रैल 8, 1994, Cobain was found dead at his घर in Seattle, the शिकार of what was officially शासित a suicide by a self-inflicted shotgun wound to the सिर.
The circumstances of his death at age 27 have become a topic of public fascination and बहस.
चूंकि their debut, निर्वाण, with Cobain as a songwriter, has sold over 25 million albums in the u.S., और over 50 million worldwide.
रेडियल engine timing and cam mechanism.
Click for full resolution animation.
Radial engine of a बाईप्लेन
Master rod ( upright ), slaves and balances from a two-row, fourteen-cylinder Pratt & Whitney Twin Wasp
The रेडियल engine is a reciprocating type internal combustion engine configuration in which the cylinders पाइंट outward इससे a सेंट्रल crankshaft like the spokes of a wheel.
it resembles a stylized star when viewed from the सामने, और is called a `` स्टार engine '' ( German sternmotor ) in कुछ languages.
The radial configuration थी very commonly प्रयुक्त in aircraft इंजन पहले turbine इंजन became predominant.
the Golden लड़कियों is an अमरीकी sitcom, created by Susan हैरिस, that originally aired on NBC from September 13, 1985, to May 9, 1992.
Starring Bea Arthur, बेट्टी White, rue McClanahan and Estelle Getty, the show centers on four पुरानी women sharing a home in Miami, फ्लोरिडा.
it थी produced by Witt/Thomas/Harris Productions, in association with touchstone Television, and Paul junger Witt, टोनी थामस, and हैरिस served as the original कार्यपालिका निर्माता.
The सुनहरी Girls received critical acclaim throughout most of its run and won अनेक awards, सहित the Primetime Emmy पुरस्कार for Outstanding Comedy श्रेणी twice.
It also won तीन Golden Globe पुरस्कार for Best टेलीविज़न Series – musical or Comedy.
सब चार stars each received an एमी Award throughout the series ' run and था multiple nominations.
The series also ranked among the top टेन highest-rated कार्यक्रम for six out of इसके सात सीज़न.
Deepwater drilling is the process of oil and gas खोजी और production in depths of अधिक than 500 फीट.
By इस definition, वहीँ are लगभग 600 deepwater wells in the गल्फ of मैक्सिको.
It has been economically infeasible for many years, but with उठती आयल prices, more companies हैं investing in this area.
Major कंपनियाँ working in this सेक्टर शामिल Diamond Offshore, TransOcean, and Baker Hughes.
There हैं basically two kinds of mobile deepwater drilling rigs : semi-submersible खुदाई rigs and drillships.
Drilling can also be performed from a fixed-position installation such as a floating spar ( मंच ) or tension-leg platform.
Recent industry analysis has अनुमानित कि the total व्यय in the वैश्विक deepwater अवसंरचना मार्केट होगा पहुँचें $ 145bn in 2011.
“Not all आयल is accessible on land or in उथले water.
तुम can ढूँढें some oil deposits buried deep under the ocean floor.”... Using sonic equipment, आयल कंपनियाँ determine the drilling साइट सबसे संभावित to produce आयल.
Then they उपयोग a mobile offshore drilling unit ( MODU ) to dig the initial well.
Some units are परिवर्तित into production rigs, meaning वे स्विच इससे drilling for oil to capturing oil once it 's found.
Most of the time, the oil कम्पनी will replace the MODU साथ a अधिक permanent आयल उत्पादन rig to capture oil.”... The MODU 's job is to drill down into the समंदर 's floor to find oil deposits.
The भाग of the ड्रिल that extends नीचे the डेक and through the water is called the riser.
The riser allows for खुदाई fluids to move between the floor and the rig.
Engineers lower a drill string -- a श्रेणी of पाइप designed to drill bas to the oil deposit -- through the riser.”
“The expansion of deepwater खुदाई is happening despite accidents in offshore fields... ”
in 2010 a विशाल explosion occurred हत्या 11 workers and spilling millions of gallons of oil into the Gulf of Mexico while a bp oil rig थी खुदाई in deep waters.
“... Despite the risks, the deepwater drilling trend is spreading in the Mediterranean and बंद the coast of East Africa after a string of विशाल discoveries of natural gas.”
“The reason for the resumption of such drilling, analyst कह, is continuing high demand for energy worldwide.”
America needs the आयल so it is almost necessary to face the high risks that आइये with deepwater drilling in order लिये अमेरिकी to continue to carry on उनके रोज जीवनदान.
“The Energy विभाग recently प्रक्षिप्त that gulf oil उत्पादन would expand इससे its 2011 level of 1.3 million barrels a day, still nearly a क्वार्टर of कुल घरेलू production, to 2 लाख barrels a day by 2020.”
Deepwater खुदाई affects the पर्यावरण in दोनो ऋणात्मक और positive ways.
Although Deepwater drilling rarely causes oil spills it is still a hazardous possible outcome.
Oil spills result in oil डूब to the नीचे of the ocean smothering plant life leaving fish without food और shelter to जीवित.
On the other हाथ deepwater खुदाई effects the environment in a positive ways too.
In time once the deepwater आयल well is नहीं in उपयोग anymore plants होगा grow on and around the well making a cave or cavern जैसे आश्रय ideal लिये animals to thrive in.
Deepwater खुदाई also lets us see the depths of the समंदर मंजिल that are hardly ever seen.
”Cameras on रोवर्स at the नीचे of the wells record footage and लो photos of rare fish that are in there प्राकृतिक habitat, giving scientist a dekh at पशु they rarely seen” ( Chevron Corporation ). ''
Monica Samille lewinsky ( born July 23, 1973 ) is an अमरीकी woman साथ whom संयुक्त States President Bill Clinton admitted to having had an `` improper relationship '' while she worked at the श्वेत House in 1995 and 1996.
the affair और its repercussions ( which included Clinton 's महाभियोग ) became ज्ञात as the Lewinsky कांड.
Francis अल्बर्ट `` Frank '' सिनात्रा,, ( December 12, 1915 – May 14, 1998 ) was an American सिंगर and film actor.
शुरूआत his musical career in the swing era with Harry James और Tommy dorsey, सिनात्रा found unprecedented success as a सोलो कलाकार from the early to mid-1940s बाद होने signed to Columbia रिकॉर्ड in 1943.
Being the आइडल of the `` bobby soxers ``, he released उसके first album, The Voice of Frank Sinatra in 1946.
His पेशेवर career था stalled by the 1950s, but it was पुनर्जन्म in 1953 after he won the Academy Award लिये Best Supporting Actor for his performance in From Here to Eternity.
he signed साथ कैपिटल रिकॉर्ड in 1953 and released अनेक critically lauded albums ( such as In the Wee Small घंटों, Songs for Swingin ' Lovers !, Come Fly with me, तभी the निर्जन और Nice 'n ' Easy ).
सिनात्रा left Capitol to found his own record label, Reprise Records in 1961 ( finding कामयाबी with albums such as Ring-a-Ding-Ding !, Sinatra at the Sands और Francis अल्बर्ट Sinatra & Antonio Carlos jobim ), toured internationally, was a founding member of the चूहा Pack and fraternized साथ हस्तियाँ and कूटनीतिज्ञों, सहित John F. Kennedy.
Sinatra turned 50 in 1965, recorded the retrospective September of My Years, starred in the Emmy -winning television खास फ़्रैंक Sinatra : a Man and His Music, and scored hits साथ `` अजनबी in the रात्रि `` and `` my Way ``.
With sales of his music dwindling और बाद appearing in अनेक poorly received films, Sinatra रिटायर्ड लिये the first समय in 1971.
Two सालो later, however, he आए out of रिटायरमेंट and in 1973 recorded अनेक एल्बम, scoring a Top 40 hit साथ `` ( थीम इससे ) New York, New York `` in 1980.
using his Las Vegas shows as a home आधार, he toured both भीतर the संयुक्त States और internationally, until a short time before his death in 1998.
Sinatra भी forged a highly successful करियर as a film कर्ता.
After winning Best Supporting कर्ता in 1953, he also garnered a nomination लिये बेहतरीन Actor लिये the Man with the Golden Arm, and critical acclaim लिये his performance in The Manchurian Candidate.
he also starred in such musicals as ऊँची समाज, pal Joey, Guys and Dolls and On the Town.
सिनात्रा थी सम्मानित at the कैनेडी Center Honors in 1983 and थी awarded the Presidential पदक of Freedom by रोनाल्ड Reagan in 1985 और the Congressional सुनहरा Medal in 1997.
he was the recipient of eleven Grammy Awards, including the Grammy Trustees पुरस्कार, ग्रैमी लेजेंड Award and the Grammy Lifetime Achievement Award.
Sinatra is also one of world’s best-selling कलाकारों of all time, having sold अधिक than 150 million copies worldwide.
ठेठ cornhole फलक
Cornhole, also known as bean bag toss, corn toss, baggo or बैग, is a लॉन game in which players take turns throwing corn hole bags at a raised platform with a hole in the दूर end.
A bag in the छेद scores 3 points, while एक on the platform scores 1 point.
Play continues until a team or player पहुँच the स्कोर of 21.
The American Gold Eagle is an official सुनहरा bullion coin of the United राज्य.
प्राधिकृत अंतर्गत the सुनहरा Bullion सिक्का अधिनियम of 1985, it was first released by the संयुक्त States मिंट in 1986.
Bikram Yoga is a system of yoga that बिक्रम Choudhury synthesized from traditional hatha yoga तकनीकों and popularized beginning in the early 1970s.
All Bikram Yoga classes चलाएं लिये 90 minutes and consist of the same series of 26 postures और 2 श्वास exercises.
बिक्रम Yoga is ideally practiced in a रूम heated to 105°F ( ≈ 40.6°C ) साथ a humidity of 40 %,.
Christopher माइकल Massey ( born 26 जनवरी 1990 ) is an American actor, हास्य and rapper best ज्ञात लिये starring as Michael barret in Nickelodeon टेलीविज़न series Zoey 101.
Massey has received अनेक awards and nomination including a Young कलाकार पुरस्कार and एमी पुरस्कार nominations.
he is also ज्ञात for appearing in अनेक commercials in the early 2000s.
A conventional teaspoon made of बेदाग steel.
a teaspoon is an item of cutlery and/or a measuring instrument, as खूब as a unit of measurement of volume in some countries and customs.
A fern is any एक or अधिक of a group of about 12,000 species of plants belonging to the botanical समूह known as Pteridophyta.
Unlike mosses, they have xylem and phloem ( बनाना उन्हें vascular plants ).
They have stems, leaves, और roots like other vascular plants.
Ferns reproduce via spores और have neither seeds nor flowers.
by far the largest group of ferns is the leptosporangiate ferns, but ferns as पारिभाषित यहाँ ( also पुकारा monilophytes ) include horsetails, whisk ferns, marattioid ferns, and ophioglossoid ferns.
The term pteridophyte भी refers to ferns and a few other seedless vascular plants ( देखिए classification section below ).
ferns first appear in the fossil record 360 million years ago in the Carboniferous but many of the current families और प्रजाति किया not appear until roughly 145 million सालो ago in the early Cretaceous ( after flowering पौधे came to dominate many environments ).
Ferns are नहीं of major आर्थिक importance, but some are grown or gathered for food, as ornamental plants, for remediating contaminated soils, and have महरूम the विषय of research for their ability to remove कुछ chemical प्रदूषक इससे the air.
Some are significant weeds.
They also play a role in mythology, medicine, और आर्ट.
चपटा roofs in इसराईल
Flat roof in Los Angeles
A चपटा roof is a प्रकार of covering for a भवन.
in contrast to the more sloped form of roof, a चपटा roof is horizontal or nearly horizontal.
the ढलान of a roof is properly known as its pitch : Roofs जिससे हैं nearly चपटा are ज्ञात as low-pitch roofs ( as the angle of slope increases, so the pitch is said to increase ).
Any sheet of सामग्री used to cover a चपटा or low-pitched छत is usually ज्ञात as a झिल्ली और the primary purpose of these membranes is to waterproof the roof area.
Materials that कवर चपटा roofs typically allow the जल to run off इससे a slight inclination or camber into a gutter system.
Water इससे some flat roofs ऐसे as on गार्डन sheds sometimes flows freely off the edge of a छत, though gutter systems are of लाभ in keeping both दीवारें और foundations dry.
Gutters on smaller roofs प्रायः lead water directly onto the ground, or better, into a specially made soakaway.
ड्रेनेज on larger roofs usually lead water into the rainwater drainage system of any built up क्षेत्रफल.
Occasionally flat roofs though are designed to collect water in a pool, usually for aesthetic purposes, or लिये rainwater buffering.
चपटा roofs मौजूद सब over the world and प्रत्येक area has इसके अपना परंपरा or preference for materials प्रयुक्त.
In warmer climes where rainfall is कम और freezing is unlikely to occur, अनेक चपटा roofs are simply built of masonry or कंक्रीट and इस is good at keeping out the heat of the sun और सस्ती और easy to build where timber is नहीं readily उपलब्धियाँ.
in areas where the roof could become saturated by rain और लीक, or जहाँ जल soaked into the brickwork could freeze to बर्फ and thus lead to 'blowing ' ( breaking up of the mortar/brickwork/concrete by the expansion of ice as it forms ) these roofs हैं नहीं suitable.
traditionally most flat roofs in the western world make use of tar or more usually tar paper applied over छत अलंकार to keep a building watertight.
the tar or tarpaper is in turn covered in gravel to रखना the sun 's heat, UV किरणें and मौसम off it and helps protect it from cracking or blistering और degradation.
Roof decking is usually of plywood, chipboard or OSB boards ( OSB = Oriented Strand Board, also ज्ञात as स्टर्लिंग board ) of around 18mm मोटाई.
the tar coating is लागू in one or अधिक coats as a hot liquid, heated in a tar kettle, or as sheets of tar impregnated 'paper ' glued down और sealed together at joints by hot tar - एकबार it has cooled, the बजरी is spread evenly over it.
A main कारण for failure of these परंपरागत roofs is ignorance or कमी of maintenance where people or events cause the gravel to be moved or removed from the tar or tarpaper waterproofing, thus exposing it to मौसम and sun whereupon cracking and blistering occurs over time and आखिरकार जल gets in.
tarpaper is प्रायः a 'paper ' or fibre सामग्री soaked or impregnated in tar.
As बजरी can not protect tarpaper सतहों जहाँ they वृद्धि खड़ा इससे the roof ऐसे as on मुंडेर walls or upstands, tarpaper variants are produced साथ fine gravel लागू to the hot tar दौरान the process of manufacture such that a permanent layer of gravel is stuck to it in अनुक्रम to give it जारी protection.
Tarpapers vary in quality as does the workmanship and training of those applying it to produce more or less कामयाब results.
In some micro climates or shaded areas these rather 'basic ' tarpaper roofs can last well in relation to the लागत of materials खरीदें and cost of laying them, however the cost of modern membranes ऐसे as EPDM has come down over recent years to make उन्हें more and more सस्ती.
There हैं now अधिक firms supplying modern विकल्प और there is generally a growing awareness of उनके performance and उपलब्धता.
If a leak does occur on a flat roof then क्षति often goes unnoticed for long periods of time दौरान which जल penetrates and soaks the decking and any इन्सुलेशन and/or structure beneath it.
This can lead to expensive क्षति from the rot जिससे often develops और if left can weaken the roof structure.
There are also विभिन्न स्वास्थ्य risks to लोगों and पशु breathing the सांचे बीजाणुओं : the गंभीरता of this health रिस्क remains a debated point.
One प्रॉब्लम साथ maintaining चपटा roofs is that if जल does penetrate the barrier covering ( be it traditional or a modern झिल्ली ) it can travel a long way पहले causing visible damage or leaking into a भवन जहाँ it can be seen.
यूँ it is नहीं easy to see where it is टपकती in अनुक्रम to repair it.
Once underlying छत decking is soaked it often sags causing a further collection or puddling of water in that क्षेत्रफल and the problem worsens.
A CD-ROM ( ) is a pre-pressed compact डिस्क which contains आंकड़ा.
The नाम is an acronym जिससे स्टैंड for `` Compact Disc read-only memory ``.
Computers can read cd-roms, but can not write on them.
CD-ROMs हैं popularly प्रयुक्त to distribute computer software, including video खेल and multimedia applications, though any data can be भंडारित ( up to the capacity limit of a disc ).
Some CDs, called enhanced cds, hold दोनो computer आंकड़ा और audio with the latter सक्षम of being played on a CD player, while आंकड़ा ( such as software or digital video ) is only usable on a computer ( ऐसे as ISO 9660 format PC CD-ROMs ).
The Yellow Book is the technical standard that defines the format of CD-ROMs.
One of a set of color-bound books कि contain the technical specifications for सब CD स्वरुप, the पीला Book, निर्मित by सोनी and Philips, was the पहला एक्सटेंशन of Compact Disc Digital ऑडियो.
It adapted the स्वरूप to hold any form of आंकड़ा.
Joanne `` Jo '' Rowling ( ), ( born 31 July 1965 ), कलम name J. K. रोलिंग, is a अंग्रेजों novelist, best known as the author of the Harry Potter fantasy series.
The Potter किताबे have gained विश्वव्यापी attention, won अनेक awards, और sold more than 400 million नक़ल.
वे have become the best-selling book series in history, और been the आधार for a श्रेणी of films which has become the highest-grossing film series in history.
Rowling had overall approval on the scripts as well as maintaining रचनात्मक control by serving as a producer on the final instalment.
Born in Yate, Gloucestershire, Rowling was working as a researcher and दुभाषिया secretary for Amnesty International जब she conceived the idea for the Harry Potter series on a विलम्बित train from मैनचेस्टर to London in 1990.
The seven-year काल कि followed entailed the death of her माँ, तलाक इससे her पहला husband and poverty until Rowling समाप्त the पहला अनोखा in the series, हैरी कुम्हार and the Philosopher 's Stone ( 1997 ).
Rowling subsequently published 6 sequels—the last, हैरी कुम्हार और the Deathly Hallows ( 2007 ) —as खूब as 3 supplements to the श्रेणी.
in 2012, Rowling parted साथ her agency and resumed writing in the form of a tragicomedy novel aimed at adult readership, entitled The Casual Vacancy.
Rowling has said she is currently working on two books—one aimed for वयस्कों, the other for children younger than the हैरी कुम्हार audience, and she expects the latter to be published first.
रोलिंग has led a `` rags to riches `` जीवन स्टोरी, in which वो progressed इससे living on state benefits to multi-millionaire status भीतर five years.
वो is the United किंगडम 's best-selling author चूंकि records began, with sales in excess of £238m.
The 2008 Sunday Times Rich List estimated Rowling 's fortune at £560 million ( $ 798 लाख ), ranking her as the twelfth richest स्त्री in the United Kingdom.
Forbes क्रमित रोलिंग as the forty-eighth most powerful हस्ती of 2007, and समय magazine named उसके as a runner-up लिये its 2007 व्यक्ति of the Year, noting the social, moral, और political inspiration she has given उसके fans.
In October 2010, Rowling थी नामित the `` सबसे Influential स्त्री in ब्रिटेन '' by अग्रणी magazine editors.
She has become a notable philanthropist, supporting ऐसे charities as Comic Relief, One जनक परिवारों, अनेक Sclerosis समाज of Great Britain और Lumos ( formerly the Children 's High Level समूह ).
auburndale is a नगर in Polk County, फ्लोरिडा, United राज्य.
the population was 11,032 at the 2000 जनसांख्यिकी.
According to the U.S Census estimates of 2005, the नगर had a जनसांख्यिकी of 12,381.
it is भाग of the Lakeland – Winter हेवन Metropolitan सांख्यिकीय Area.
Hurricane Isabel ( 2003 ) as seen इससे कक्षा during Expedition 7 of the अंतरराष्ट्रीय Space Station.
The eye, eyewall, and surrounding rainbands, विशेषताएँ of tropical cyclones, are clearly visible in this view from space.
a tropical cyclone is a storm प्रणाली characterized by a low-pressure center घिरी by a spiral arrangement of thunderstorms that produce strong winds and भारी rain.
तीव्र cyclones strengthen when जल काफूर from the समंदर is released as the संतृप्त air rises, resulting in संघनन of water वाष्प contained in the नम air.
They हैं fueled by a different heat mechanism than other cyclonic windstorms such as nor'easters, European windstorms, और polar lows.
The characteristic that separates tropical cyclones from other cyclonic systems is कि at कोई height in the atmosphere, the center of a tropical चक्रवात will be warmer than its surroundings ; a phenomenon called `` गरम core `` तूफ़ान systems.
the term `` tropical '' refers both to the geographical origin of ये प्रणालियों, जिससे usually form in tropical regions of the globe, and to their formation in maritime तीव्र air masses.
The term `` cyclone '' refers to such storms ' cyclonic प्रकृति, with counterclockwise हवा प्रवाह in the उत्तरी Hemisphere and clockwise हवा प्रवाह in the Southern गोलार्ध.
the opposite direction of the हवा प्रवाह is a result of the Coriolis फ़ोर्स.
Depending on its स्थान और शक्ति, a tropical cyclone is referred to by names such as hurricane (, ), typhoon ( ), tropical storm, cyclonic storm, तीव्र अवसाद, और simply cyclone.
जबकि तीव्र cyclones can produce extremely शक्तिशाली winds and torrential बरसात, they are also able to उपज high waves, damaging तूफ़ान surge, and tornadoes.
They develop over large लाशें of गरम water, and lose their strength if they move over जमीन due to increased surface घर्षण and loss of the warm ocean as an energy source.
This is क्यों coastal regions can receive significant क्षति from a तीव्र cyclone, जबकि अंतर्देशीय regions are relatively safe from receiving strong winds.
Heavy rains, however, can produce significant flooding अंतर्देशीय, और storm surges can उपज extensive तटीय बाढ़ up to from the coastline.
हालांकि their effects on human populations can be विनाशकारी, तीव्र cyclones can relieve drought conditions.
वे भी carry heat energy away from the tropics और transport it toward temperate latitudes, which makes उन्हें an important part of the global atmospheric circulation mechanism.
as a परिणाम, तीव्र cyclones help to maintain संतुलन in the Earth 's troposphere, and to maintain a relatively stable and गरम temperature worldwide.
अनेक तीव्र cyclones develop जब the atmospheric शर्तें around a weak disturbance in the atmosphere are अनुकूल.
The background environment is modulated by climatological चक्र और पैटर्न ऐसे as the Madden-Julian oscillation, El niño-southern Oscillation, and the अटलांटिक multidecadal oscillation.
अन्य रूप जब other types of cyclones acquire tropical characteristics.
Tropical systems हैं then moved by steering winds in the क्षोभमण्डल ; if the conditions remain favorable, the tropical disturbance intensifies, and can even develop an eye.
On the other end of the spectrum, if the conditions around the प्रणाली deteriorate or the tropical चक्रवात makes landfall, the system weakens और eventually dissipates.
It is not possible to artificially induce the dissipation of these systems with current प्रौद्योगिकी.
Kirk Douglas ( born Issur Danielovitch, ; December 9, 1916 ) is an American stage and film कर्ता, film producer और लेखक.
His popular films include आउट of the Past ( 1947 ), Champion ( 1949 ), इक्का in the Hole ( 1951 ), The ख़राब and the Beautiful ( 1952 ), 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea ( 1954 ), Lust लिये Life ( 1956 ), Paths of Glory ( 1957 ), Gunfight at the O.K. Corral ( 1957 ), the Vikings ( 1958 ), स्पार्टाकस ( 1960 ), Lonely हैं the Brave ( 1962 ), सात दिनों in May ( 1964 ), the Heroes of Telemark ( 1965 ) and मुश्किल Guys ( 1986 ).
he is No.17 on the American फिल्मी संस्थान 's list of the greatest male American screen legends of all time, making उसे the highest-ranked living व्यक्ति on the सूची.
In 1996, he received the अकादमी Honorary Award `` लिये 50 सालो as a creative and moral force in the motion चित्र community. ''
He is one of the पिछला surviving actors from Hollywood 's `` सुनहरी age ''.
Robert क्लार्क `` Bob '' Seger ( born may 6, 1945 ) is an American चट्टान and roll singer-songwriter, guitarist and pianist.
As a locally successful detroit-area artist, he performed and recorded as bob seger और the पिछला Heard और Bob seger System throughout the 1960s.
By the जल्दी 1970s, he had dropped the `` System '' from his recordings और जारी to strive for broader success with other various bands.
in 1973, he put together The चांदी Bullet Band, a समूह of detroit-area musicians, with whom he became सबसे कामयाब on the national level with the album Live Bullet, recorded live with the Silver Bullet बैंड in 1975 at Cobo Hall in Detroit, मिशिगन.
in 1976, he achieved a नेशनल breakout साथ the studio एल्बम Night चालें.
on his studio albums, he also worked extensively with the Alabama-based Muscle shoals लय Section, which appeared on several of seger 's best-selling singles and एल्बम.
A roots rocker with a classic raspy, चिल्लाना voice, seger wrote and recorded songs कि dealt with love, महिलाओं, blue-collar विषयवस्तु and was an exemplar of heartland rock.
seger has अंकित अनेक हिट्स, सहित `` रात्रि चालें, '' `` Turn the Page, '' `` We 've मिला Tonight, '' `` Against the Wind, '' and Shakedown कि थी written for Beverly Hills Cop II and `` Like a Rock, '' और also co-wrote the Eagles ' number-one hit `` Heartache tonight. ''
His iconic recording of `` Old Time Rock and फेंकें `` was named एक of the गीतों of the Century in 2001.
With a career spanning five decades, Seger continues to perform और record today.
Seger was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 2004 and the Songwriters Hall of Fame in 2012.
Richard milhous Nixon ( जनवरी 9, 1913 – अप्रैल 22, 1994 ) was the 37th President of the United States, सेवारत इससे 1969 to 1974, when he became the only president to resign the office.
निक्सन had previously परोसा as a Republican U.S. representative and सीनेटर इससे California and as the 36th Vice President of the संयुक्त राज्य इससे 1953 to 1961.
Nixon थी born in Yorba Linda, कैलिफ़ोर्निया.
He ग्रैजुएट from Whittier College in 1934 and Duke University स्कूल of विधि in 1937, returning to California to practice law.
He और उसके wife, पैट Nixon, moved to Washington to work for the federal सरकारी in 1942.
he subsequently served in the United States Navy दौरान World War II.
Nixon थी elected in California to the हाउस of Representatives in 1946 and to the सीनेट in 1950.
उसके pursuit of the Alger Hiss मामला स्थापित his प्रतिष्ठा as a leading anti-communist, and elevated him to national prominence.
He was the running mate of Dwight D. Eisenhower, the Republican पार्टी अध्यक्षीय nominee in the 1952 election.
Nixon served लिये eight years as वाइस president.
he waged an unsuccessful अध्यक्षीय campaign in 1960, narrowly खोने to John F. Kennedy, and lost a race for राज्यपाल of California in 1962.
In 1968, he ran again for the प्रेसिडेंसी and was elected.
हालांकि निक्सन initially escalated America 's involvement in the Vietnam War, he subsequently ended u.S. involvement in 1973.
Nixon 's विज़िट to the लोगों 's Republic of China in 1972 opened diplomatic relations between the two nations, और he initiated détente and the Anti-Ballistic मिसाइल सन्धि साथ the Soviet Union the same साल.
domestically, his प्रशासन generally embraced नीतियों that transferred power from वॉशिंगटन to the states.
Among other things, he launched initiatives to fight कर्कट and illegal drugs, imposed wage and दाम नियंत्रण, enforced desegregation of some Southern schools, and established the Environmental सुरक्षा Agency.
हालांकि he presided over the lunar landings beginning साथ Apollo 11, he scaled back manned space exploration.
He थी re-elected by a landslide in 1972.
निक्सन 's second term saw an Arab आयल embargo, the resignation of उसके vice अध्यक्ष, Spiro agnew, and a continuing श्रेणी of revelations परिचय the वाटरगेट कांड and other misconduct by members of the प्रशासन.
The scandal escalated, costing Nixon much of his political support, and on August 9, 1974, he resigned in the face of लगभग certain impeachment and हटाना from दफ्तर.
After उसके इस्तीफा, he controversially received a pardon issued by उसके successor, Gerald Ford.
In रिटायरमेंट, निक्सन 's कार्य as an elder statesman, authoring several किताबे and undertaking many foreign trips, helped to rehabilitate उसके पब्लिक image.
He suffered a debilitating स्ट्रोक on April 18, 1994, और died four days later at the age of 81.
{ { Infobox सीनेटर
the Dominican Republic annexation treaty caused bitter contention between President Grant and Sen. Sumner.
Brady 1869 ] ]
Sen. Sumner, opposed to American साम्राज्यवाद in the caribbean और fearful that annexation होता सीसे to the conquest of the neighboring black republic of हैती, became convinced that corruption lay पीछे the treaty, and कि men बंद to the president shared in the corruption.
As अध्यक्ष of the Senate Foreign संबंध Committee, Sen. sumner initially withheld his opinion on the treaty on जनवरी 18, 1870.
Sen. Sumner had महरूम leaked सूचना इससे सहायक Secretary of राज्य, bancroft डेविस, that u.s. नवल ships were being प्रयुक्त to protect अध्यक्ष Báez.
sen. sumner 's कमेटी voted विरूद्ध annexation and at sen. sumner’s suggestion and quite संभवतः to save the party इससे an भद्दा fight or the president from शर्मिंदगी, the Senate held its debate of the treaty behind closed doors in executive सत्र.
President ग्रान्ट persisted और भेजा messages to Congress in favor of annexation on कूच 14, 1870, और May 31, 1870.
In बंद session, Sen. sumner spoke out against the treaty ; warnng that there होता be difficulty साथ the foreign nationals, noting the chronic rebellion कि took place on the island, and the risk कि the independence of Haiti, पहचाना by the United राज्य in 1862, would be lost.
sumner stated कि Grant 's उपयोग of the U.S. नेवी as a protectorate थी a उल्लंघन of International law and unconstitutional.
Finally, on June 30, 1870 the treaty was voted on by the Senate and विफल to gain the required 2/3 बहुमत for treaty passage.
The following day, President Grant, feeling betrayed by Sen. sumner, retaliated by ordering the dismissal of sumner’s बंद dost J. Lothrop motley, Ambassador to ब्रिटेन.
By पतझड़, Sumner 's निजी दुश्मनी to the president थी public ज्ञान, और he blamed the Secretary of राज्य लिये failing to have resigned, rather than let Grant have his way.
The two मेन, friends until then, cooled into bitter दुश्मनों.
In दिसम्बर, 1870, still fearful that Grant meant to acquire सेंटो Domingo somehow, Sumner gave a fiercely critical speech accusing the president of usurpation and Babcock of unethical conduct.
Already, President Grant, supported by his Secretary of State Hamilton Fish, had initiated a campaign to depose sumner इससे the chairmanship of the Senate विदेशी Relations Committee.
Although Sumner stated he was an `` प्रशासन man '', in जोड to having stopped Grant 's Dominican Republic treaty attempt, Sumner had पराजित Grant 's full repeal of the Tenure of Office Act, अवरोधित ग्रान्ट 's nomination of Alexander Stewart to u.S. Secretary of Treasury, and been a निरंतर harassing force pushing Reconstruction policies faster than ग्रान्ट had महरूम willing to go.
Grant resented sumner 's superiority of manner, as well.
Told एकबार that Sumner किया not मानना in the Bible, the president is supposed to have said that he थी not surprised : `` he did n't write it. ''
as the दरार between Grant and Sumner increased, sumner’s स्वास्थ्य began to decline.
When the 42nd u.S. कॉंग्रेस convened on March 4, 1871, सीनेटरों affiliated साथ अध्यक्ष ग्रान्ट, known as ‘’New radicals’’ voted to oust Sen. Sumner इससे the सीनेट Foreign संबंध कमेटी अध्यक्षता.
Business ethics ( also कॉरपोरेट ethics ) is a form of applied आचार or professional आचार that examines ethical principles and moral or ethical problems that arise in a कारोबार environment.
It applies to all aspects of business conduct और is relevant to the conduct of individuals और संपूर्ण organizations.
कारोबार आचार has both normative और descriptive आयाम.
As a corporate practice and a करियर specialization, the field is primarily normative.
लड attempting to understand business बर्ताव employ descriptive विधि.
The range and quantity of कारोबार ethical issues reflects the interaction of profit-maximizing बर्ताव साथ non-economic concerns.
Interest in कारोबार ethics accelerated dramatically दौरान the 1980s and 1990s, दोनो within प्रमुख corporations और भीतर academia.
For example, today most प्रमुख corporations प्रचार their commitment to non-economic मान under headings such as ethics codes and social जिम्मेदारी charters.
आदम स्मिथ said, `` People of the वही trade seldom मिलें together, even for merriment and diversion, but the conversation ends in a षड्यंत्र विरूद्ध the पब्लिक, or in कुछ contrivance to raise prices. ''
Governments use laws और regulations to point कारोबार behavior in what वे perceive to be beneficial directions.
Ethics implicitly regulates areas and विवरण of बर्ताव that झूठ beyond governmental कंट्रोल.
The emergence of large corporations with limited relationships and sensitivity to the communities in जिससे they operate accelerated the development of formal ethics regimes.
A burn is a प्रकार of injury to flesh or स्किन caused by heat, electricity, chemicals, घर्षण, or radiation.
Most burns affect only the सतही skin ( known as superficial or first degree ) or extend into the deeper skin but do नहीं involve the full thickness of the skin ( known as आंशिक thickness or second degree ).
Rarely सब layers of the skin or deeper ऊतकों, such as मांसपेशी or bone can be injured in which मामला the burn is either full मोटाई ( third उपाधि ) or fourth उपाधि.
the treatment required depends on the गंभीरता of the burn.
सतही burns संभवतः managed with छोटी अधिक than simple पीड़ा हत्यारे while major burns may require prolonged उपचार in specialized burn centers.
Cooling with tap water may सहायता pain and decrease damage however if exposure is prolonged it may result in low body temperature.
आंशिक thickness burns may आवश्यकता सफ़ाई with साबुन and जल followed by dressings.
Blisters चाहिए typically be left unbroken.
Full मोटाई burns usually आवश्यकता सर्जिकल उपचार such as स्किन grafting and extensive burns often require विशाल amount of intravenous fluids.
The most आम complications of burns are related to संक्रमण.
While large burns can be fatal, आधुनिक treatments developed in the पिछला 50 years have significantly improved the outcomes, especially in children और young adults.
Globally परिचय 11 million लोगों तलाश medical treatment and 300,000 लोगों die इससे burns.
in the United States, of those admitted to a burn center, approximately 4 % die from उनके चोटों.
The long पद निष्कर्ष is primarily related to the आकार of burn and the आयु of the person effected.
the अटलांटिक समंदर, not including Arctic and Antarctic regions
This वीडियो was लिया by the crew of expedition 29 on board the ISS.
the pass starts from just north-east of the Island of न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड over the उत्तर Atlantic समंदर to central Africa, over South Sudan.
the Atlantic Ocean is the second-largest of the world 's oceanic divisions.
साथ a कुल area of about, it कवर approximately 20 प्रतिशत of the Earth 's सतह and about 29 प्रतिशत of its water surface area.
The first भाग of its name refers to Atlas of Greek mythology, making the Atlantic the `` Sea of Atlas ''.
the oldest ज्ञात जिक्र of `` Atlantic '' is in The histories of Herodotus around 450 bc ( Hdt. 1.202.4 ) : Atlantis thalassa ( यूनानी : Ἀτλαντὶς θάλασσα ; English : Sea of एटलस ).
The पद Ethiopic Ocean, derived from इथियोपिया, थी applied to the southern Atlantic as late as the mid-19th century.
Before europeans discovered other महासागर, the term `` ocean '' itself was synonymous with the waters beyond the Strait of Gibraltar कि we अभी know as the Atlantic.
The early Greeks believed इस ocean to be a gigantic river encircling the world.
The Atlantic Ocean occupies an elongated, S-shaped जलाशय extending longitudinally between Eurasia और Africa to the ईस्ट, and the americas to the west.
as एक घटक of the interconnected global ocean, it is connected in the north to the Arctic Ocean ( which is sometimes considered a sea of the Atlantic ), to the Pacific समंदर in the southwest, the Indian Ocean in the southeast, and the Southern Ocean in the south.
( Other definitions describe the Atlantic as extending southward to Antarctica. )
the equator subdivides it into the उत्तर Atlantic Ocean and South Atlantic समंदर.
Due to their long-term हठ, and the need for a unique पहचानकर्ता in issuing forecasts और चेतावनियाँ, tropical cyclones and subtropical cyclones are दिए names according to policy ( see Tropical cyclone naming ).
The following are lists from जिससे these तीव्र and उपोष्ण cyclone names are derived.
White light is dispersed by a प्रिज़्म into the colors of the optical वर्णक्रम.
the visible spectrum is the portion of the electromagnetic spectrum कि is visible to ( can be detected by ) the human eye.
Electromagnetic विकिरण in this range of wavelengths is पुकारा visible light or बस light.
A typical human eye will respond to wavelengths from about 390 to 700 nm.
In terms of आवृत्ति, this corresponds to a band in the vicinity of 430–790 THz.
A light-adapted नजर generally रै its maximum sensitivity at around 555 nm ( 540 THz ), in the green region of the optical spectrum ( see : luminosity function ).
the spectrum does not, however, contain all the colors that the human eyes and brain can distinguish.
Unsaturated रंगों such as pink, or जामुनी variations such as magenta, are absent, for example, because वे can be made only by a मिक्सर of multiple wavelengths.
Colors containing तभी एक wavelength हैं also called pure रंगों.
Visible wavelengths pass through the `` optical window ``, the region of the electromagnetic spectrum which allows wavelengths to pass largely unattenuated through the Earth 's atmosphere.
An example of this phenomenon is that साफ air scatters blue light more than रेड wavelengths, और so the midday sky appears blue.
the optical window is भी called the visible खिड़की because it overlaps the इंसान दृश्य response spectrum.
the निकट infrared ( NIR ) window lies बस out of the इंसान vision, as well as the मीडियम Wavelength IR ( MWIR ) window and the Long Wavelength or दूर Infrared ( LWIR or FIR ) window though other animals may experience उन्हें.
अनेक प्रजाति can देखिए लाइट साथ frequencies outside the `` दृश्य spectrum, '' which is defined in terms of इंसान दृष्टि.
Bees और many other कीट can detect ultraviolet लाइट, जिससे helps them find मकरंद in flowers.
Plant species that depend on insect pollination may owe reproductive success to their appearance in ultraviolet light, rather than कैसा colorful they appear to humans.
Birds, too, can देखिए into the ultraviolet ( 300–400 nm ), and some have sex-dependent markings on उनके plumage that are visible only in the ultraviolet range.
Many पशु that can see into the पराबैंगनी दायरा, however, can नहीं देखिए red लाइट or any other reddish wavelengths.
Bees ' visible spectrum ends at about 590nm, just before the नारंगी wavelengths start.
Birds, however, can see कुछ red wavelengths, लकिन not as अनेक as humans.
Zebras ( or ) हैं several species of अफ़्रीकी equids ( horse family ) united by उनके distinctive black and white धारियाँ.
Their धारियाँ आइये in अलग patterns, unique to each individual.
They are generally social animals that सजीव in small harems to विशाल herds.
Unlike उनके closest relatives, horses and asses, zebras have never been truly domesticated.
There हैं three प्रजाति of zebras : the plains जेब्रा, the Grévy 's zebra and the mountain जेब्रा.
The plains zebra and the पहाड़ zebra belong to the subgenus Hippotigris, but grévy 's zebra is the एकमात्र प्रजाति of subgenus Dolichohippus.
the latter resembles an गधा, to which it is closely related, while the पूर्व two are more horse-like.
सब तीन belong to the genus Equus, साथ with other living equids.
The unique stripes of zebras make उन्हें one of the पशु most परिचित to लोगों.
They occur in a variety of habitats, such as grasslands, savannas, woodlands, thorny scrublands, kyu, और coastal hills.
However, विभिन्न anthropogenic factors have had a कठोर प्रभाव on जेब्रा populations, in particular शिकार लिये skins और habitat destruction.
Grévy 's zebra and the पहाड़ zebra हैं endangered.
While मैदान zebras are much अधिक plentiful, one subspecies, the quagga, became extinct in the late 19th century – though वहीँ is currently a योजना, पुकारा the quagga Project, that aims to नस्ल zebras that हैं phenotypically समान to the quagga in a process called प्रजनन back.
Barry White, born बैरी यूजीन Carter ( – ), थी an American composer and singer-songwriter.
A two-time ग्रैमी Award -winner known for his distinctive बास voice and रोमांटिक image, White 's महानतम कामयाबी came in the 1970s as a सोलो singer and साथ the Love Unlimited ऑर्केस्ट्रा, crafting अनेक enduring soul, दुर्गंध, and disco गीतों such as his दो biggest hits, `` You 're the पहला, the Last, My Everything `` and `` Ca n't Get Enough of Your Love, Babe. ''
Along with इसहाक़ Hayes, White is considered by Allmusic.com as a pioneer of disco music in the early 1970s.
दौरान the कोर्स of his career in the music कारोबार, White achieved 106 gold albums worldwide, 41 of which also attained प्लेटिनम status.
श्वेत था 20 gold and 10 platinum singles, with विश्वव्यापी बिक्री in excess of 100 million, according to critics Ed Hogan and वेड Kergan.
उसके influences शामिल रेव. James Cleveland, Ray Charles, एरीथा Franklin प्लस Motown कलाकारों The supremes, The चार टॉप और Marvin Gaye.
Angelina जोली (, born Angelina Jolie वोइट ; जून 4, 1975 ) is an American अभिनेत्री, film director, and screenwriter.
She has प्राप्त an अकादमी पुरस्कार, two Screen अभिनेताओं Guild Awards, and three सुनहरी ग्लोब Awards, and was named हॉलीवुड 's highest-paid अभिनेत्री by फोर्ब्स in 2009 और 2011.
जोली promotes humanitarian causes, and is noted for her work with refugees as a खास Envoy and पूर्व Goodwill Ambassador for the United Nations High कमिश्नर for शरणार्थियों ( unhcr ).
She has प्रायः महरूम cited as the world 's `` most beautiful '' woman, a शीर्षक for which वो has प्राप्त substantial media attention.
Jolie made her screen debut as a child alongside उसके father Jon Voight in Lookin ' to Get Out ( 1982 ), लकिन उसके film करियर began in earnest a दशक बाद साथ the low-budget उत्पादन साइबोर्ग 2 ( 1993 ).
Her first leading role in a प्रमुख फिल्मी was in the cyber-thriller Hackers ( 1995 ).
She स्ट्रक्चर in the critically acclaimed biographical टेलीविज़न films George वालेस ( 1997 ) और Gia ( 1998 ), and won an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress for उसके performance in the drama Girl, बाधित ( 1999 ).
Jolie achieved चौड़ी fame after her portrayal of video खेल heroine Lara Croft in Lara Croft : Tomb Raider ( 2001 ), and स्थापित herself among the highest-paid actresses in हॉलीवुड with the sequel The Cradle of जीवन ( 2003 ).
वो continued उसके action स्टार career साथ mr. & Mrs. Smith ( 2005 ) and Wanted ( 2008 ) —her biggest non-animated वाणिज्यिक successes to date—and received further critical acclaim for उसके प्रदर्शन in the dramas A Mighty Heart ( 2007 ) और Changeling ( 2008 ), जिससे earned her a nomination for an Academy पुरस्कार for Best Actress.
Jolie बना her directorial डेब्यू with the wartime drama in the Land of Blood and मधु ( 2011 ).
तलाक from actors Jonny Lee Miller and Billy bob Thornton, Jolie now lives with actor Brad Pitt, in a relationship notable लिये fervent media ध्यान.
Jolie and Pitt have three biological children and तीन adopted children.
A natural मेहराब उत्पादित by the अपरदन of differentially weathered rock in Jebel Kharaz, जॉर्डन
Erosion is the process by which soil and rock हैं removed इससे the धरती 's surface by exogenetic processes such as wind or water flow, और then transported and deposited in other locations.
जबकि अपरदन is a natural प्रक्रम, इंसान activities have increased by 10-40 times the rate at which erosion is occurring globally.
Excessive erosion causes problems such as desertification, decreases in agricultural उत्पादकता due to जमीन degradation, sedimentation of जलमार्गों, और ecological पतन due to loss of the nutrient rich अपर मृदा layers.
जल and हवा अपरदन are अभी the दो primary कल्याणकारी of land degradation ; combined, they हैं responsible for 84 % of degraded acreage, making excessive erosion one of the most significant global पर्यावरणीय problems.
Industrial कृषि, वनों, roads, anthropogenic climate बदलें और urban sprawl are amongst the most significant human activities in regard to उनके effect on stimulating अपरदन.
however, वहीँ हैं many available alternative जमीन use practices that can काटना or limit erosion, such as छत -building, no-till कृषि, और revegetation of denuded soils.
जर्सी Shore is an American reality television series which ran on MTV from December 3, 2009 to December 20, 2012 in the United राज्य.
The series follows the जीवनदान of आठ housemates spending their गर्मियाँ at the Jersey Shore in the U.S. state of नई Jersey.
Season 2 followed the cast escaping the cold northeast शीत to Miami Beach, with ऋतु 3 returning to the जर्सी shore.
The चौथी season, filmed in Italy, premiered on August 4, 2011.
The show returned लिये a पांचवां season, at seaside Heights on January 5, 2012.
the fifth season finale aired on कूच 15, 2012.
On March 19, 2012, MTV confirmed that the series would वापसी for their sixth season.
On August 30, 2012, MTV घोषित that the series will end बाद the sixth ऋतु, जिससे premiered on October 4.
the श्रेणी finale aired on December 20, 2012.
The show debuted amid विशाल amounts of विवाद regarding the use of the शब्द `` Guido / Guidette, '' portrayals of italian-american stereotypes, and scrutiny from स्थानीय क्युकी the डाल सदस्यों were not residents of the area.
The series garnered रिकार्ड दरजा for MTV, making it the network 's सबसे viewed series telecast ever.
the series ' cast have भी been credited with introducing unique lexicon और वाक्यांश into American popular culture.
The University of शिकागो और the विश्वविद्यालयों of Oklahoma are among the educational institutions that have had classes or conferences परिचय the दिखाएँ.
In 2010, the cast of Jersey shore was नामित on Barbara Walters ' 10 Most Fascinating लोगों list, and the श्रेणी has चूंकि been exported to dozens of देशों विश्वव्यापी.
There are several remakes of the show in अन्य देशों, with two set in the United Kingdom ; the well known Geordie Shore, set in Newcastle upon Tyne, England.
The other is The Valleys, the Welsh equivalent, जिससे is filmed and नियत in Cardiff.
The तभी other आधिकारिक रीमेक of the दिखाएँ is Gandía shore, set in gandía, स्पेन.
right
संयुक्त States territory is any extent of प्रदेश under the jurisdiction of the federal सरकारी of the United States, सहित सब waters ( around islands or महाद्वीपीय tracts ) and सब U.S. Naval vessels.
The United States has traditionally proclaimed the sovereign rights लिये exploring, exploiting, conserving, and managing its territory.
इस extent of territory is all the area belonging to, and अंतर्गत the dominion of, the संयुक्त राज्य federal government ( which includes tracts lying at a अलहदा from the country ) लिये administrative and other purposes.
the United राज्य कुल territory includes a subset of political विभाजन.
the U.S. government is a government with प्रतिनिधित्व शक्तियां अंतर्गत the United States Constitution.
`` the powers नहीं delegated to the United States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the States, are reserved to the राज्य respectively, or to the लोगों '' by the दसवाँ Amendment.
Terminator 3 : Rise of the Machines ( commonly abbreviated as T3 ) is a 2003 science fiction action film directed by Jonathan Mostow and starring Arnold श्वार्ज़नेगर, Nick Stahl, Claire Danes and kristanna Loken.
It is the दूसरी sequel to The टर्मिनेटर ( 1984 ).
बाद स्काईनेट fails to kill Sarah connor पहले her son is born और to kill जॉन खुद as a child, it भेजना back another Terminator, the T-X, in an attempt to wipe out as many Resistance officers as possible.
This includes जॉन 's future wife, but not जॉन himself as his whereabouts are unknown to Skynet.
जॉन 's life is placed in खतरे when the t-x accidentally finds उसे.
A cord of wood
The cord is a unit of measure of dry आवाज़ प्रयुक्त in Canada and the संयुक्त States to माप firewood and pulpwood.
A cord is the amount of wood that, जब `` ranked and खूब stowed '' ( arranged so टुकड़े are aligned, समानांतर, touching and compact ), occupies a volume of.
This corresponds to a खूब stacked woodpile high, long, and deep ; or any other व्यवस्था of linear measurements that yields the same आवाज़.
the name cord probably comes इससे the use of a cord or string to measure it.
The, is an 8-bit handheld वीडियो game यंत्र developed और manufactured by Nintendo.
It थी released in Japan on, in North अमेरिका in, and in यूरोपीय on.
It is the first handheld console in the Game Boy लकीर, और was निर्मित by gunpei Yokoi and Nintendo Research & Development 1 —the same स्टाफ who had designed the Game & Watch series as well as अनेक popular games for the निन्टेंडो Entertainment System.
redesigned versions were released in 1996 and 1998, in the form of Game Boy जेब, and खेल Boy Light ( Japan only ), क्रमशः.
The Game Boy is निन्टेंडो 's second handheld प्रणाली following the Game & Watch series introduced in, और it संयुक्त features from both the निन्टेंडो Entertainment प्रणाली and Game & Watch.
It was originally bundled with the puzzle game टेट्रिस.
As part of the fourth generation of गेमिंग, the Game लड़के competed with the Sega खेल Gear, Atari लिंक्स, and the turboexpress.
despite these other technologically superior handheld consoles, the Game Boy थी a tremendous कामयाबी.
The Game लड़के and its successor, the Game Boy रंग, have both संयुक्त sold 118.69 million इकाई worldwide.
Upon its release in the United States, it sold its entire शिपमेंट of one million इकाई within weeks.
The World व्यापार बीच is a जटिल of buildings अंतर्गत construction in Lower मैनहटन, New York नगर, संयुक्त States, replacing an earlier complex of seven buildings साथ the same नाम on the same साईट.
The original संसार व्यापार Center featured landmark जुड़वा मीनारें, जिससे opened on अप्रैल 4, 1973 and were नष्ट in the September 11 हमले of 2001, along with 7 संसार Trade Center.
the अन्य buildings in the complex were क्षतिग्रस्त in the attacks, and their ruins were eventually demolished.
the site is होने rebuilt with पाँच new skyscrapers and a memorial to those killed in the हमले.
, only one skyscraper has been completed ; the other चार हैं expected to be समाप्त before 2020.
One World Trade Center will be the सीसे building for the new complex, reaching more than 100 stories at its completion.
It became the tallest building in New यॉर्क नगर on April 30, 2012, और is अपेक्षित to be finished by 2013.
a sixth tower is awaiting पुष्टि.
At the time of their completion, the असली 1 World व्यापार Center ( the उत्तर Tower ) and 2 World Trade बीच ( the दक्षिण मीनार ), ज्ञात collectively as the `` Twin Towers '', यहूद the tallest इमारतें in the world.
The other buildings शामिल 3 wtc ( the Marriott संसार Trade Center ), 4 WTC, 5 WTC, 6 WTC, and 7 WTC.
All of ये buildings were निर्मित between 1975 और 1985.
the cost for the construction थी $ 400 million ( $ in dollars ).
The जटिल was स्तिथ in the दिल of नई York City 's downtown financial ज़िला और contained 13.4 लाख square feet ( 1.24 million m2 ) of office space.
The World Trade Center experienced a आग on, 1975, a bombing on, 1993 और a robbery on, 1998.
In 1998, the Port Authority decided to privatize the World Trade Center, leasing the buildings to a private company to मैनेज, and awarded the lease to Silverstein Properties in.
On the morning of सितंबर 11, 2001, Al-Qaeda -affiliated hijackers उड़ाया दो Boeing 767 jets into the complex, one into each tower, in a coordinated terrorist आक्रमण.
After burning for 56 minutes, the South मीनार ( 2 ) collapsed, followed a half-hour बाद by the North Tower ( 1 ), with the attacks on the संसार Trade बीच resulting in 2,753 deaths.
Falling मलबा इससे the towers, संयुक्त with फ़ायर that the debris initiated in several surrounding buildings, led to the partial or पूरा collapse of all the other buildings in the जटिल and caused catastrophic क्षति to ten other विशाल structures in the surrounding क्षेत्रफल.
the process of cleanup and recovery at the World व्यापार Center site took eight months.
Over the following years, plans for a rebuilt World व्यापार बीच took form.
The first new building at the site was 7 World व्यापार Center, which opened in.
the निम्नतर मैनहटन Development Corporation ( LMDC ), स्थापित in to oversee the rebuilding process, organized प्रतियोगिताओं to select a site योजना और memorial डिज़ाइन.
मेमोरी Foundations, designed by Daniel Libeskind, was selected as the master plan, but इस went through substantial changes in design.
The नई संसार Trade Center complex होगा include One World व्यापार Center, तीन other high-rise office मीनारें, and the National सितंबर 11 Memorial & Museum.
San Gabriel kyu
San Bernardino Mountains, with Mt. San Gorgonio in the अग्रभूमि and Big Bear Lake in the background.
the Transverse Ranges are a समूह of mountain ranges of southern California, in the Pacific Coast Ranges physiographic प्रदेश in North अमेरिका.
the Transverse Ranges begin at the southern end of the कैलिफ़ोर्निया Coast Ranges and lie between Santa Barbara and सैन Diego counties.
वे derive the name अनुप्रस्थ सीमाएँ due to their East-West orientation, making them transverse to the general North-South orientation of most of कैलिफ़ोर्निया 's तटीय mountains.
Periodic तालिका with electron shells
An electron shell may be विचार of as an orbit followed by electrons around an atom 's nucleus.
The closest शेल to the केंद्रक is called the `` 1 shell '' ( also called `` K शेल '' ), followed by the `` 2 shell '' ( or `` L shell '' ), तब the `` 3 shell '' ( or `` m shell '' ), and so on farther and farther from the केंद्रक.
The shell अक्षर K, L, M,..., प्रयुक्त in the X-ray संकेतन, हैं alphabetical.
Each shell can contain तभी a fixed number of electrons : The 1st shell can hold up to दो electrons, the 2nd shell can hold up to आठ electrons, the 3rd shell can hold up to 18, और 4th shell can थाम up to 32 and so on.
चूंकि electrons are electrically attracted to the nucleus, an अणु 's electrons will generally occupy बाहरी shells तभी if the अधिक inner shells have already been completely भर by अन्य electrons.
however, this is not a strict requirement : Atoms may have दो or even three incomplete outer शेल.
( See madelung rule for more विवरण. )
For an explanation of why electrons exist in ये शेल देखिए इलेक्ट्रॉन configuration.
the electrons in the outermost occupied shell ( or shells ) determine the chemical गुण of the अणु ; it is called the valence शेल.
Each shell consists of एक or अधिक subshells, और प्रत्येक subshell consists of एक or अधिक atomic orbitals.
Vickie lynn मार्शल ( née Hogan ; नवम्बर 28, 1967 – फ़रवरी 8, 2007 ), known by her moniker anna Nicole Smith, was an American model, अभिनेत्री, and television personality.
स्मिथ first gained लोकप्रियता in Playboy, becoming the 1993 Playmate of the Year.
She modeled for clothing कंपनियाँ, including अंदाज़ा जीन्स and लेन Bryant.
Smith dropped out of ऊँची school and थी married in 1985.
Her highly publicized second विवाह to oil business mogul, J. Howard Marshall, 62 सालो her senior, resulted in speculation that she married the octogenarian for his धन, जिससे she अस्वीकृत.
Following Marshall 's death, स्मिथ began a lengthy विधिक battle over a share of उसके estate.
Her case, Marshall v. मार्शल, पहुँचे the u.S. Supreme Court on a सवाल of संघीय क्षेत्राधिकार, and again on a question of दिवालियापन court authority ( अभी called Stern v. Marshall ).
Smith died on February 8, 2007 in a Hollywood, फ्लोरिडा hotel रूम as a परिणाम of an overdose of prescription drugs.
Within the final six months of उसके life, Smith was the focus of a renewed press coverage surrounding the मौत of her बेटे, Daniel, और the paternity and कस्टडी battle over her नवजात daughter, Dannielynn.
The is one denomination of Japanese yen.
The current design थी first minted in 1959 using जापानी characters known as the `` नई script ``, और यहूद also minted from 1949-1958 using `` old-script '' जापानी characters.
Five-yen coins date to 1870 ( when, due to the much higher value of the yen, they यहूद minted in gold ).
the front of the coin depicts a rice plant growing out of the water, with `` five येन '' written in कांजी ; the वापस is stamped साथ `` जापानी '' and the year of समस्या, भी in kanji, अलग by sprouts of a tree.
The तीन ग्राफिक तत्व of the coin represent agriculture and fisheries, the key elements of the जापानी first-sector अर्थव्यवस्था.
Around a hole, there is a गियर that represents industry.
It is the only Japanese coin in circulation to lack अरबी numerals on either face.
TLC is an American girl group whose repertoire spanned r & B, हिप hop, soul, funk, and नई jack झूले.
Originally consisting of singer tionne `` T-Boz '' वाटकिंस, rapper लिसा `` Left नजर '' lopes और singer Rozonda `` Chilli '' Thomas, the group मिला unprecedented success in the 1990s while भी enduring a series of spats with the law, प्रत्येक other, and the समूह 's रिकार्ड लेबल.
initially, TLC achieved commercial success following the release of उनके debut एल्बम Ooooooohhh...
on the TLC Tip, which sold 6 million copies worldwide.
however, it was their दूसरी एल्बम, CrazySexyCool, that catapulted the group to superstar औकात.
CrazySexyCool went on to be certified diamond by the RIAA — a first for a female group, and आखिरकार बेची 23 million copies विश्वव्यापी.
Five years बाद, the group released their तीसरा album fanmail, which became the group 's first एल्बम to debut at number one and sold more than 11 लाख copies worldwide.
The subsequent tour following FanMails रिलीज became the highest grossing tour of all समय by a मादा band.
In 2002, Lisa `` Left Eye '' Lopes died in a car accident in Honduras.
सात महीने बाद, T-Boz and Chilli released the समूह 's चौथी album 3D, which sold 2 लाख नक़ल विश्वव्यापी, it featured unreleased vocals इससे Left नजर.
Billboard magazine ranked TLC as one of the greatest musical trios.
Between 1992 and 2003, the बैंड accumulated ten top ten singles, four number one singles, चार multi-platinum albums, and चार Grammy Awards.
At the end of 1999, TLC was ranked as the seventh सबसे successful act of the 1990s by बिलबोर्ड.
in 2008, the group was inducted into the All समय hot 100 कलाकार हॉल of Fame by the same magazine, at 56th place.
That year it was also listed as the # 25 r & B/hip-hop artist of the preceding 25 years.
TLC has sold more than 65 लाख रिकॉर्ड विश्वव्यापी और they are क्रमित as the second best selling female group of all समय, और the best selling मादा R & B group of all time.
In 2012, tlc ranked 12th on VH1 's 100 Greatest Women in Music, being ranked the number एक सब girl group on that list.
Tarzan is a 1999 American एनिमेटेड एडवेंचर फिल्मी उत्पादित by Walt डिज़्नी Feature Animation and distributed by वॉल्ट डिज़्नी तस्वीरें.
The 37th film in the Walt Disney Animated क्लासिक, it is आधारित on the स्टोरी टार्ज़न of the Apes by Edgar राइस Burroughs, and is the तभी प्रमुख गति picture संस्करण of the story Tarzan प्रॉपर्टी to be animated.
Directed by Chris buck और Kevin लीमा with a पटकथा by Tab Murphy, Bob Tzudiker, और Noni White, Tarzan सुविधाएँ the voices of Tony Goldwyn, Minnie Driver, Glenn Close, and रोजी O'Donnell साथ Brian धन्य, Lance Henriksen, Wayne Knight, and Nigel Hawthorne.
It was the पिछला bona fide hit before the डिज़्नी slump of the early 2000s grossing $ 171,091,819 domestically and $ 448,191,819 worldwide, outgrossing इसके predecessors Hercules ( 1997 ) and Mulan ( 1998 ).
At the time of इसके release, its production budget of $ 130 लाख made it the most expensive animated film कभी made, जबतक topped by डिज़्नी 's own $ 140 लाख Treasure ग्रह in 2002.
It was also the first Disney animated विशेषता to open at # 1 since Pocahontas.
इस was the last major बक्सा office कामयाबी of the डिज़्नी Renaissance.
Oil मंच P-51 बंद the Brazilian coast is a semi-submersible मंच.
Oil platform Mittelplate in the North sea
An आयल platform, ( offshore platform or colloquially आयल रिग ) is a विशाल structure साथ facilities to ड्रिल कुएं, to extract and process oil and natural gas, and to temporarily store product जबतक it can be brought to shore for शोधन और marketing.
In many cases, the मंच contains facilities to house the workforce as खूब.
Depending on the circumstances, the platform may be फिक्स्ड to the ocean floor, may consist of an artificial द्वीप, or may float.
रिमोट subsea wells may also be connected to a platform by flow lines and by umbilical connections.
These subsea solutions may consist of one or more subsea wells, or of एक or अधिक manifold centres for multiple कुएं.
वध is the killing of पशु, usually that of domestic livestock for food.
The पशु सबसे commonly slaughtered for food are cattle, जल buffalo ( for beef और veal ), sheep, goats ( for lamb और मटन ), pigs ( for pork ), घोड़े ( लिये horse meat ), और fowl, largely chickens, turkeys, and बतखों and increasingly fish from the aquaculture industry ( fish farming ).
The White House, the president 's official निवास and center of the administration
Under the United States Constitution, the President of the संयुक्त States is the head of state and head of सरकारी of the United States.
As मुख्य of the executive branch और head of the संघीय government as a whole, the प्रेसिडेंसी is the highest political office in the United राज्य by influence and recognition.
the अध्यक्ष is also the commander-in-chief of the संयुक्त States Armed Forces.
The president is indirectly निर्वाचित to a four-year term by an Electoral कॉलेज ( or by the House of प्रतिनिधि should the Electoral College fail to पुरस्कार an absolute majority of votes to कोई person ).
Since the ratification of the Twenty-second amendment to the United States Constitution in 1951, no person may be elected President अधिक than twice, and no one who रै served अधिक than two years of a term to which someone else was निर्वाचित may be निर्वाचित अधिक than once.
upon the death, resignation, or हटाना from office of an लाज़िम President, the Vice President assumes the office.
the अध्यक्ष जरूर be at least 35 years of age and a `` प्राकृतिक born '' citizen of the संयुक्त राज्य.
This list includes only those व्यक्तियों जो यहूद sworn into office as president following the ratification of the United States संविधान, which took effect on March 4, 1789.
लिये American leaders before this ratification, see अध्यक्ष of the महाद्वीपीय Congress.
The list does not include any एक्टिंग Presidents under the twenty-fifth Amendment to the United States Constitution.
There have been 43 people sworn into दफ्तर, और 44 presidencies, as Grover क्लीवलैंड served दो non-consecutive शर्तें and is गिने chronologically as both the 22nd and 24th अध्यक्ष.
Of the individuals elected as अध्यक्ष, four died in office of प्राकृतिक causes ( William हेनरी हैरिसन, Zachary टेलर, Warren G. Harding, and Franklin D. Roosevelt ), four were assassinated ( Abraham Lincoln, James A. Garfield, William McKinley, and John F. Kennedy ) और एक resigned ( Richard Nixon ).
George वॉशिंगटन, the पहला president, was inaugurated in 1789 after a unanimous vote of the चुनावी College.
William Henry Harrison spent the shortest समय in office with 32 दिनों in 1841, और Franklin D. Roosevelt spent the longest with over twelve सालो, लकिन died shortly into his चौथी term in 1945.
he is the only president to serve more than two terms, और a संवैधानिक amendment, affecting presidents after हैरी ट्रूमैन, was passed to सीमा the number of times an individual can be elected president.
Andrew Jackson, the seventh president, was the first to be निर्वाचित by men of all classes in 1828 after सबसे कानून barring non-land-owners from voting were repealed.
वारेन Harding was the first elected बाद महिलाओं gained मतदान अधिकारों in 1920.
इतिहास records four presidents – John Q Adams, Rutherford B. Hayes, बेंजामिन हैरिसन and जार्ज W. Bush – जो lost the popular vote लकिन assumed office.
जॉन F. Kennedy has been the only president of Roman कैथोलिक आस्था, and the वर्तमान अध्यक्ष, बराक Obama, is the पहला president of African descent.
अनेक firearms with detachable suppressors, from top to bottom : An Uzi, An AR-15, a Heckler & Koch USP Tactical, a Beretta 92FS, और a SIG मच्छर.
Bolt action rimfire राइफल साथ suppressor
awm-f स्निपर rifle साथ attached suppressor.
A suppressor, sound suppressor, or ध्वनि moderator, is a यंत्र attached to or part of the barrel of a firearm which reduces the amount of noise, and usually the amount of muzzle फ्लैश, generated by firing the हथियार.
A suppressor can be used दोनो with a firearm and with संपीडित air gun.
Though it is sometimes referred to as a silencer, this term is a misnomer popularized by cinematic fiction : the sound of a प्रक्षेप्य, विशेषकर one चलती faster than the speed of sound, through the air can not be eliminated.
using a suppressor in long अलहदा शूटिंग ( i.e. greater than 300 मीटर ) can lessen, or retard, the report at the moment of impact, and बनाएँ the छाप of silence near the target.
The noise heard near the muzzle as a projectile leaves the barrel, though subdued, is not silent at all.
A suppressor is usually a metal cylinder साथ internal mechanisms to reduce the ध्वनि of firing by slowing the escaping propellant गैस and sometimes by reducing the velocity of the bullet.
जल्दी suppressors were created around the शुरूआत of the 20th century by several inventors.
American आविष्कारक Hiram पर्सी Maxim ( not to be confused साथ Hiram Stevens Maxim, Hiram पर्सी 's father, and the inventor of the Maxim Machine गन ), is credited साथ inventing और selling the first commercially कामयाब मॉडल circa 1902 ( patented 30 कूच 1909 ).
Maxim दिया his यंत्र the trademarked नाम Maxim silencer.
The muffler for internal combustion engines was developed in समानांतर साथ the firearm suppressor by कहावत in the early 20th century, using अनेक of the same techniques to provide quieter-running engines ( in many European countries ऑटोमोबाइल mufflers are स्टिल पुकारा silencers ).
The word silencer in reference to gun suppressor remains in फैली उपयोग, हालांकि it रै since fallen out of favor with some, especially among the firearms industry, being replaced with the more वस्तुतः सटीक term sound suppressor or बस suppressor, क्युकी a `` ध्वनि suppressor '' does not `` silence '' any weapon, rather it eliminates muzzle flash and reduces the sonic दबाव of a firearm discharging.
आम usage और U.S. विधान language एहसान the historically earlier पद, silencer.
in U.S. law, the शर्तें `` firearm muffler '' और `` firearm silencer '' हैं synonymous.
suppressors were regularly used by agents of the संयुक्त राज्य Office of Strategic Services, who favored the newly designed High Standard HDM.22 Long राइफल pistol during संसार War ii.
oss निदेशक William Joseph `` Wild Bill '' Donovan demonstrated the pistol for President फ्रैंकलिन D. Roosevelt at the श्वेत House.
according to OSS research मुख्य Stanley Lovell, Donovan ( an old and विश्वसनीय friend of the अध्यक्ष ) was waved into the Oval Office, where Roosevelt was dictating a अक्षर.
While Roosevelt finished his message, डोनोवन turned his back और fired ten shots into a sandbag he had brought with him, घोषित what he था done और handed the smoking गन to the astonished president.
The अंग्रेजों soe ( Special Operations Executive ) Welrod हत्या pistol with an integral suppressor was भी प्रयुक्त by the अमरीकी OSS on clandestine operations in Nazi occupied यूरोपीय during the Second World War.
Beatrice `` bea '' Arthur ( may 13, 1922 – April 25, 2009 ) was an अमरीकी अभिनेत्री, comedienne, and singer whose career spanned seven decades.
Arthur हासिल fame as the character Maude Findlay on the 1970s sitcoms सब in the परिवार और maude, and as डोरोथी Zbornak on the 1980s sitcom the सुनहरी Girls, winning Emmy Awards for both roles.
A stage actress both before and बाद उसके television कामयाबी, वो won the Tony पुरस्कार for Best Featured Actress in a musical for her performance as Vera Charles in the असली डाल of Mame ( 1966 ).
is a 2011 Japanese 3d computer-animated film आधारित on the Tekken video game series, उत्पादित by डिजिटल Frontier and वितरित by Asmik Ace Entertainment in संघ साथ Bandai entertainment.
the film premiered in North अमेरिका by Bandai Entertainment on July 26, 2011, and in Australia on July 27, 2011 in a special विशेष one-off स्क्रीनिंग.
It was released on सितंबर 3, 2011 in Japan.
The film was released on Blu-ray Disc on नवम्बर 22, 2011 for USA, and December 1, 2011 for जापानी.
This फिल्मी थी also released on DVD on November 22, 2011 ( 2D Version only ).
the फिल्मी was additionally included with the PlayStation 3 game, tekken Hybrid, and the निन्टेंडो 3DS शीर्षक, Tekken 3D : प्रधान संस्करण.
For a discussion of nonprofit, voluntary neighborhood advocacy groups, देखिए पड़ोस संघ.
In the संयुक्त States, a homeowner association is a corporation formed by a रियल estate डेवलपर for the purpose of marketing, मैनेजिंग, और selling of homes and lots in a आवासीय subdivision.
It अनुदान the developer privileged मतदान rights in शासी the संघ, while allowing the डेवलपर to निकास financial और विधिक जिम्मेदारी of the संगठन, typically by transferring स्वामित्व of the association to the homeowners after selling off a predetermined क्रमांक of लोट.
Membership in the homeowners संघ by a residential खरीदार is typically a condition of purchase ; a खरीदार is n't given an option to reject it.
सबसे homeowner एसोसिएशन हैं incorporated, and are विषय to state statutes that govern non-profit corporations and homeowner associations.
State oversight of homeowner एसोसिएशन is minimal, and mainly takes the form of कानून जिससे are inconsistent from state to state.
कुछ राज्य, such as Florida और California, have a large देह of homeowner association law, and some राज्य, such as Massachusetts, have virtually no homeowner संघ law.
the fastest growing रूप of housing in the United राज्य आज is common-interest developments ( cids ), a category that includes planned-unit developments of single-family घरों, condominiums, और cooperative apartments.
Since 1964, homeowner associations have become increasingly common in the यूएसए.
the Community Associations Institute व्यापार संघ estimated that HOAs governed 24.8 million American homes और 62 million residents in 2010.
A prize-winning lilac-and-white Silkie
There are अनेक breeds of Guinea सुअर जिससे have महरूम विकसित since इसके domestication ca. 5000 BC.
breeds vary widely in रूप and purpose, ranging from show breeds साथ long, बहती hair to those in use as model organisms by science.
From ca. 1200 AD to the Spanish conquest of the इन्का Empire in 1532, selective प्रजनन by indigenous South अमरीकी peoples resulted in अनेक varieties of घरेलू गिनी सूअर, which form the basis लिये some of the आधुनिक domestic breeds.
Early Andean breeds were primarily kept as agricultural stock लिये food, और efforts at improving the Guinea सुअर as a food source continue to the modern era.
With the निर्यात of Guinea सूअर to Europe in the 15th century, the goal in breeding shifted to focus on the विकास of appealing pets.
To इस end, विभिन्न competitive breeding organizations यहूद संस्थापित by fanciers.
The American Cavy प्रजनक संघ, an adjunct to the American Rabbit प्रजनक Association, is the शासी body in the संयुक्त States and Canada.
The British Cavy Council governs cavy क्लब in the United Kingdom.
Similar organizations exist in Australia ( ऑस्ट्रेलियाई National Cavy Council ) and नई Zealand ( New Zealand Cavy Club ).
Each club publishes its own मानक of Perfection and determines which breeds are eligible लिये प्रर्दशित.
नई breeds continue to emerge in the 21st century.
Though वहीँ are many breeds of Guinea सुअर, तभी a few breeds are commonly found on the दिखाएँ तालिका as pets.
Most Guinea pigs found as pets यहूद either मिला undesirable by breeders or यहूद करवाया to be सुखद pets regardless of how well वे meet the breed मानक of perfection.
the short hair, abyssinian, Peruvian और Sheltie ( उर्फ Silkie ) breeds are those most frequently seen as pets, and the former तीन are the कोर breeds in the इतिहास of the competitive showing of Guinea सूअर.
In addition to उनके standard form, nearly सब breeds come in a Satin variant.
satins, due to their खोखला hair shafts, possess coats of a खास gloss और चमक.
However, there is growing evidence that the जीनों responsible for the Satin कोट also can cause कठोर bone problems, सहित Osteodystrophy and पेजेट 's disease.
Showing साटन variations is prohibited by some cavy breeders ' associations क्युकी of animal welfare reasons.
सब cavy breeds have some साझा सामान्य मानकों : the सिर profile should be rounded, with large आँखें and large, चिकना ears.
The body should be strong and of compact build.
Coat colour should in all variations be clearly defined and thorough from root to tip.
ये standards हैं best मिले by long established, commonly bred breeds, as their breeders have had enough समय और animals to effectively नस्ल for these qualities.
The कोट colour आदर्श of good definition and thoroughness is rarely met by other than the smooth coated breeds, which have had well established, separate breeding lines for different colours.
राज्य स्कूलों ( also known as public स्कूलों or government schools ) generally refer to प्राथमिक or secondary schools mandated लिये or offered to all children without charge सशुल्क for, in whole or in part, by taxation.
the term may भी refer to संस्थानों of post-secondary education funded, in whole or in part, and overseen by government.
The राइबोसोम assembles polymeric protein molecules जिनकी sequence is controlled by the sequence of मेसेंजर rna molecules.
This is जरूरी by all living cells and associated viruses.
the राइबोसोम ( इससे ribonucleic acid और the Greek soma, meaning `` देह '' ) is a विशाल and complex आणविक machine, found within सब living cells, that serves as the primary site of biological protein synthesis ( translation ).
Ribosomes कड़ी अमीनो acids साथ in the order specified by messenger RNA ( mRNA ) molecules.
Ribosomes consist of दो major subunits—the छोटी ribosomal subunit reads the mRNA, while the large subunit joins amino acids to form a polypeptide chain.
प्रत्येक subunit is composed of एक or more ribosomal rna ( rRNA ) अणुओं and a variety of proteins.
The sequence of DNA एन्कोडिंग for a protein may be कॉपी many टाइम्स into messenger RNA ( mrna ) chains of a समान sequence.
Ribosomes can bind to an mRNA chain and उपयोग it as a टेम्पलेट for determining the correct sequence of अमीनो acids in a particular प्रोटीन.
अमीनो acids हैं चयनित, collected and carried to the ribosome by transfer RNA ( tRNA अणुओं ), which डालें one part of the राइबोसोम and bind to the मेसेंजर rna chain.
the संलग्न amino acids हैं then linked together by another part of the ribosome.
Once the protein is उत्पादित, it can then 'fold ' to produce a विशिष्ट functional three-dimensional structure.
A ribosome is बना from देवालय of RNAs and proteins and is therefore a ribonucleoprotein.
प्रत्येक ribosome is divided into two subunits : the smaller subunit binds to the mRNA pattern, जबकि the larger subunit binds to the tRNA and the अमीनो acids.
When a राइबोसोम finishes reading an mRNA अणु, these two subunits विभाजित अलावा.
Ribosomes हैं ribozymes, because the catalytic peptidyl transferase activity कि links अमीनो acids together is performed by the ribosomal rna.
Ribosomes from bacteria, archaea and eukaryotes ( the three domains of life on Earth ) differ in their size, sequence, ढांचा, and the ratio of protein to RNA.
The differences in structure allow कुछ एंटीबायोटिक to kill bacteria by inhibiting उनके ribosomes, जबकि leaving human ribosomes unaffected.
In bacteria and archaea, more than एक राइबोसोम may move साथ a single mRNA कड़ी at one समय, each `` reading '' its sequence and producing a corresponding protein molecule.
The ribosomes in the mitochondria of eukaryotic कोशिकाएं functionally resemble many सुविधाएँ of those in bacteria, reflecting the likely evolutionary उत्पत्ति of mitochondria.
Albert क्लॉड, Christian de Duve, and जार्ज Emil Palade were jointly awarded the Nobel पुरस्कार in Physiology or Medicine, in 1974, लिये the डिस्कवरी of the ribosomes.
The Nobel Prize in रसायन 2009 was awarded to Venkatraman Ramakrishnan, Thomas A. Steitz and Ada E. Yonath for determining the detailed structure और mechanism of the ribosome.
the simplified आतंरिक ढांचा of a chloroplast
अवलोकन of the Calvin cycle and कार्बन fixation
the light-independent reactions of photosynthesis are रासायनिक reactions that convert carbon dioxide and other compounds into glucose.
These प्रतिक्रियाएँ occur in the stroma, the fluid-filled area of a हरितलवक बाहर of the thylakoid membranes.
These reactions take the light-dependent reactions and perform further chemical प्रक्रियाओं on them.
There are three phases to the light-independent reactions, collectively called the Calvin cycle : कार्बन fixation, reduction प्रतिक्रियाएँ, और ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate ( rubp ) regeneration.
Despite its name, this process occurs only जब light is उपलब्धियाँ.
पौधे do नहीं carry out the Calvin साईकिल by रात्रि.
वे, instead, रिलीज sucrose into the phloem from उनके starch reserves.
इस process happens when light is उपलब्धियाँ independent of the kind of photosynthesis ( c3 कार्बन fixation, C4 carbon fixation, and Crassulacean Acid Metabolism ) ; कैम plants स्टोर malic एसिड in उनके vacuoles every रात्रि और release it by day in order to मेक this process कार्य.
In गणित, a square क्रमांक or पूर्ण square is an पूर्णांक that is the square of an integer ; in other शब्द, it is the उत्पाद of some integer with itself.
For example, 9 is a वर्गाकार number, चूंकि it can be written as.
The usual notation for the formula for the square of a क्रमांक is नहीं the product, लकिन the समतुल्य घातांक, प्रायः सुनाया as `` squared ''.
The name square number comes from the name of the shape ; see below.
Square numbers हैं non-negative.
Another रास्ता of saying that a ( non-negative ) number is a वर्गाकार number, is कि its वर्गाकार roots are again integers.
लिये example, = ±3, so 9 is a square number.
A positive पूर्णांक that रै no perfect square divisors except 1 is called square-free.
लिये a non-negative integer, the th square number is, with being the zeroth वर्गाकार.
the अवधारणा of square can be विस्तारित to some अन्य क्रमांक systems.
If तर्कसंगत numbers हैं included, then a वर्गाकार is the ratio of two square integers, और, conversely, the ratio of दो square integers is a square ( e.g., 4/9 = ( 2/3 ) 2 ).
Starting with 1, there are square numbers up to and including, जहाँ the expression represents the floor of the number.
the Era of शुभ Feelings चिह्नित a period in the political history of the United States that reflected a भाव of national purpose और a desire for एकता among Americans in the aftermath of the Napoleonic Wars.
The era saw the collapse of the Federalist पार्टी and an समाप्त to the bitter partisan disputes between it और the dominant Democratic-Republican party during the पहला पार्टी System.
President James Monroe endeavored to downplay partisan affiliation in making उसके nominations, साथ the ultimate goal of national unity and eliminating पार्टियों altogether from national politics.
The period is so closely associated with Monroe 's प्रेसिडेंसी ( 1817–1825 ) and his administrative लक्ष्य कि his नाम and the era हैं virtually synonymous.
The Era of Good Feelings चिह्नित a transition in American politics साथ the end of the Federalist Party as America began to develop after the War of 1812.
जबकि America was experiencing विकास and prosperity बाद the युद्ध with Britain, इस era also marks the पहला instance of आर्थिक troubles in the growing United States.
Mirroring the American प्रणाली proposed by Henry Clay, protective tariffs and the chartering of the Second Bank of the संयुक्त States जटिल the tension between the North and दक्षिण with the coming of the first financial संकट.
जबकि the term “era of Good Feelings” is usually viewed with irony because of the political turmoil, economic factors caused animosity between the North and South.
The designation of the period by historians as एक of “good feelings” is often conveyed with irony or skepticism, as the इतिहास of the era was one in which the political atmosphere was strained and divisive, विशेषकर among गिरोहों within the Monroe administration and the रिपब्लिकन पार्टी.
the phrase “Era of शुभ feelings” was coined by बेंजामिन Russell, in the Boston Federalist newspaper, columbian Centinel, on July 12, 1817, following Monroe 's visit to बोस्टन, मैसाचुसेट्स as भाग of उसके good होगा दौरे of अमेरिका.
Mariel Margaret `` मिया '' Hamm ( born March 17, 1972 ) is a रिटायर्ड अमरीकी professional soccer खिलाड़ी.
hamm played many years as a आगे for the United राज्य women 's नेशनल सॉकर team and was a founding member of the वॉशिंगटन Freedom.
Hamm scored 158 अंतरराष्ट्रीय goals, अधिक than any other खिलाड़ी, male or female, in the history of सॉकर और is the third most capped female player in soccer history पीछे kristine Lilly and Christie Rampone, appearing in 275 international मिलान.
hamm was named the women 's FIFA World Player of the Year the पहला two times that पुरस्कार was given ( in 2001 and 2002 ), and is सूचीबद्ध as one of FIFA 's 125 best living players ( as chosen by pelé ).
She was inducted into the National सॉकर Hall of कीर्ति as well as the अलबामा Sports Hall of Fame and टेक्सास Sports Hall of Fame.
She is the लेखक of Go For the लक्ष्य : a Champion 's मार्गदर्शिका to जीतना in सॉकर और जीवन and appeared in the HBO documentary Dare to Dream : The स्टोरी of the U.S. Women 's सॉकर Team.
Washington Post columnist Michael Wilbon पुकारा hamm, `` Perhaps the सबसे important athlete of the पिछला 15 years. ''
hamm takes a corner लात.
The New York Red Bulls is an अमरीकी professional सॉकर team आधारित in Harrison, New Jersey, representing the नई York महानगर क्षेत्रफल.
the team competes in the Eastern Conference of Major League Soccer ( MLS ).
It is one of the ten charter क्लब of mls, having competed in the लीग चूंकि its inception.
The team was a founding member of MLS ( 1996 ), लकिन has गए through several name changes.
the team was originally known as the New York/New Jersey MetroStars through 1997.
From the 1998 season through the 2005 season, the team was known as the MetroStars.
On कूच 9, 2006, the team was बेची to रेड सांड GmbH, leading to the team 's current नाम.
They are the only original MLS franchise नहीं to have won any significant trophy ( including regular season, playoffs, and knockout competition ) चूंकि inception.
the team 's बेहतरीन परिणाम in the mls was the MLS Cup final in 2008.
in the US खोलें Cup, the MetroStars reached three semifinals ( 1997, 1998, 2000 ), before reaching उनके first फाइनल in 2003, खोने 1–0 to the शिकागो आग.
On August 26, 2000, the metros ' Clint mathis set an mls रिकार्ड by स्कोरिंग five goals in a game against the Dallas Burn.
Some well-known players that have played for the team include Giovanni Savarese, Tim हावर्ड, Tony Meola, Tab Ramos, alexi lalas, Clint Mathis, jozy Altidore, माइकल Bradley, Claudio Reyna, एडी Pope, Roberto Donadoni, Lothar Matthäus, एडोल्फो Valencia, Youri djorkaeff, Amado ग्वेरा, जुआन Pablo Ángel, thierry Henry, Juninho pernambucano, Jan Gunnar Solli, Rafael मार्ख़ेस, and Tim काहिल.
The team has also था well-known coaches, सहित Carlos queiroz, Carlos अल्बर्टो Parreira, बोरा Milutinović, Bob Bradley, Mo Johnston, Bruce एरिना and Hans Backe.
Confucianism, Taoism, और Buddhism are one, a painting in the litang स्टाइल portraying three men laughing by a नदी स्ट्रीम, 12th century, Song Dynasty.
Estimating the क्रमांक of Buddhists in the world, or in many countries, is मुश्किल due to definitional issues as well as practical problems of enumeration.
To begin with, the religious beliefs, practices, and identities of East एशियाइ ( जो comprise the majority of the world 's Buddhists by any measure ) often blend Buddhism with other traditions including confucianism, the चाइनीज folk religion, Daoism, Shinto, और Korean shamanism.
Most followers of buddhism do not belong to structured congregations, or observe a definite अनुष्ठान of adherence such as taking शरण, making it मुश्किल to accurately अनुमान the number of practitioners.
An additional चुनौती is the दुश्मनी of several national governments ( often Communist ones such as चीन or उत्तर कोरियाई ) to religion generally or to buddhism specifically.
सरकारी policies in these countries may encourage the under-reporting or non-reporting of धार्मिक adherence, resulting in आधिकारिक योग that may drastically underestimate the number of धार्मिक practitioners in ये countries.
Estimate of the विश्वव्यापी बौद्ध population range from 350 million to over one billion, but cluster nearer to the first figure.
Adherents.com ( as of 2012 ) suggests a फिगर of 397 million.
by प्रमुख शाखाओं, the numbers हैं as follows:
( 1 ) Mahayana Buddhism, including East Asian buddhism, with no कम than 185 million adherents, and संभवतः several times that many ( again, depending on definitional मुद्दे ).
इस is the predominant रूप of Buddhism practiced in China, South Korea, Japan, ताईवान, Singapore, and वियतनाम.
( 2 ) थेरवाद buddhism, साथ no fewer than 125 लाख adherents.
इस is the predominant form of Buddhism practiced in Cambodia, Thailand, Laos, श्री Lanka, and Burma.
( 3 ) Vajrayana buddhism, साथ लगभग 20 million adherents.
This form predominates in the greater Tibetan and Mongolian regions, as खूब as in the Himalayas.
Besides the independent देशों of Mongolia और Bhutan, और विभिन्न territories within what is now पश्चिमी China, Vajrayana is परंपरागत to निश्चित regions of Russia ( e.g. कालमिकिया, Buryatia ), India ( e.g. लद्दाख, Sikkim ), और नेपाल ( e.g. Khumbu ).
वज्रयान, also known as तिब्बती Buddhism, is प्रायः conflated with Tantric Buddhism, लकिन this is imprecise, as Shingon और other forms of East एशियाई Buddhism भी practice tantra.
At least 7 countries ( Sri Lanka, थाईलैंड, Cambodia, लाओस, Burma, Bhutan, and मंगोल ) have unambiguous Buddhist majorities.
Depending on कैसा one calculates चाइनीज और other East Asian adherents, this फिगर might expand to include several more देशों.
in जोड, Buddhism is the state धर्म of Cambodia and भूटान, and receives prominent mention in the constitutions of थाईलैंड and Sri Lanka.
In उत्तरी India and Nepal, the जमीन where buddhism was born, the religion severely declined during the first millennium.
whether this decline थी due to the Islamic conquest of northern India, or to अन्य factors, remains controversial.
See the आलेख Decline of Buddhism in India.
जेम्स Butler Hickok ( May 27, 1837 – अगस्त 2, 1876 ), बेहतर known as जंगली विधेयक Hickok, थी a folk नायिका of the अमरीकी बूढ़ा West.
His skills as a gunfighter and scout, along साथ his reputation as a lawman, provided the basis for his fame, although some of his reported exploits are fictionalized.
born and raised on a फार्म in rural इलिनोइस, Hickok गई वेस्ट at आयु 18 as a fugitive from justice, first working as a stagecoach driver, before he became a lawman in the frontier territories of कान्सास and नेब्रास्का.
He fought लिये the Union Army during the American Civil War, and gained publicity after the युद्ध as a स्काउट, marksman, actor, and professional gambler.
between his law-enforcement duties and gambling, जिससे easily overlapped, hickok was शामिल in several notable shootouts.
He was shot and killed while playing poker in the Nuttal & Mann 's Saloon in deadwood, Dakota territory ( अभी South Dakota ).
Artist 's conception of the जिज्ञासा रोवर vaporizing rock on मंगल.
The रोवर उतरा on Mars in August 2012.
a Mars rover is an automated motor गाडी जिससे propels itself आरपार the surface of the planet मंगल बाद landing.
Rovers have अनेक advantages over stationary landers : they examine more territory, they can be directed to interesting features, they can place themselves in sunny positions to weather winter months and they can advance the knowledge of how to perform very remote robotic गाडी कंट्रोल.
There have been four successful robotically operated Mars rovers.
the Jet Propulsion प्रयोगशाला managed the Mars Pathfinder mission और its अभी inactive Sojourner rover.
It currently manages the Mars Exploration Rover mission 's क्रियाशील Opportunity rover and निष्क्रिय Spirit, और, as part of the Mars Science प्रयोगशाला mission, the Curiosity rover.
a वित्तीय audit, or अधिक accurately, an audit of वित्तीय कथन, is the verification of the financial statements of a विधिक entity, with a दृश्य to express an ऑडिट opinion.
the audit opinion is intended to provide reasonable परख, but not absolute परख, कि the financial statements are प्रस्तुत fairly, in all material respects, and/or give a true और मेला view in accordance साथ the financial रिपोर्टिंग फ्रेमवर्क.
the purpose of an audit is provide and objective स्वतंत्र examination of the financial statements, which increases the मान and credibility of the financial statements produced by management, यूँ increase user विश्वास in the financial statement, reduce investor risk and consequently reduce the cost of पूंजी of the preparer of the financial statements.
Financial audits are typically performed by firms of practicing accountants जो are experts in वित्तीय reporting.
The वित्तीय audit is one of many परख functions provided by हिसाब firms.
अनेक organizations separately employ or hire internal auditors, who do not attest to financial reports लकिन focus mainly on the internal controls of the organization.
External auditors may choose to place limited रिलायंस on the कार्य of आतंरिक auditors.
Auditing promotes transparency and सटीकता in the financial disclosures made by an संगठन, therefore होता likely to reduce of such corporations to conceal unscrupulous dealings.
Internationally, the International Standards on auditing ( ISA ) issued by the International auditing और Assurance Standards Board ( IAASB ) is considered as the benchmark for ऑडिट process.
Almost सब jurisdictions require auditors to follow the ISA or a local variation of the ISA.
Dollar सिक्के have been minted in the United States in सुनहरा, silver, और base metal versions.
The term silver डालर is often प्रयुक्त for any large श्वेत metal coin जारी by the संयुक्त States with a फेस value of one dollar, although purists insist that a dollar is not चांदी जबतक it contains कुछ of that metal.
Silver डॉलर, the first dollar coin issue, were minted beginning in 1794.
सुनहरा dollars and gold-colored dollars have भी महरूम उत्पादित by the United States.
The Sacagawea और अध्यक्षीय dollars are often referred to as `` golden dollars ''.
in आधुनिक times, dollar coins have नहीं महरूम very popular in the संयुक्त States.
Despite efforts by the government to promote their use, सबसे Americans currently use the one dollar bill rather than dollar coins.
In straight and level उड़ान lift ( l ) बराबरी weight ( W ).
In a banked फेरे of 60°, lift equals double the weight ( L=2W ).
The pilot अनुभवों 2g and a doubled weight.
The steeper the bank, the greater the g-forces.
इस top-fuel dragster can accelerate from zero to in 0.86 seconds.
This is a horizontal त्वरण of 5.3 g. Combined with the vertical g-force in the stationary मामला the Pythagorean theorem yields a g force of 5.4 g.
g-force ( with g इससे गुरुत्वाकर्षक ) is a term for accelerations felt as वज़न और measurable by accelerometers.
It is not a force, per se, but a force per unit mass.
Since such a फ़ोर्स is perceived as a weight, कोई g-force can be described as a `` weight per ईकाई mass '' ( see the synonym विशिष्ट weight ).
The g-force acceleration अधिनियमों as a multiplier of weight-like forces for प्रत्येक unit of an object 's mass, और ( सहेजें लिये certain electromagnetic फ़ोर्स प्रभाव ) is the cause of an object 's त्वरण in relation to free-fall.
This acceleration experienced by an object is due to the vector sum of non-gravitational forces एक्टिंग on an ऑब्जेक्ट free to मूव.
the accelerations that are not produced by गम्भीरता are termed proper accelerations, and it is only these that are measured in g-force इकाई.
वे कारण stresses and strains on objects.
क्युकी of these strains, large g-forces may be destructive.
Gravitation एक्टिंग alone does नहीं produce a g-force, even though g-forces हैं expressed in multiples of the acceleration of a standard gravity.
यूँ, the standard gravitational त्वरण at the धरती 's surface produces g-force तभी indirectly, as a result of प्रतिरोध to it by mechanical forces.
the 1 g-force on an object sitting on the Earth 's surface is caused by mechanical force exerted in the upward direction by the मैदान, keeping the ऑब्जेक्ट इससे going into free-fall.
The upward फ़ोर्स from the ground ensures that an ऑब्जेक्ट at rest on the Earth 's surface is accelerating सापेक्ष to the free-fall कंडीशन, जिससे is the पाथ that the object would follow जब falling freely toward the Earth 's center.
Objects allowed to free-fall in an inertial trajectory under the influence of gravitation-only, feel no g-force.
This is demonstrated by the `` zero-g '' शर्तें अंदर a freely गिरना elevator falling toward the धरती 's बीच ( in vacuum ), or ( to शुभ सन्निकटन ) conditions inside a spacecraft in Earth orbit.
These are उदाहरण of coordinate acceleration ( a change in velocity ) without a sensation of वज़न.
The experience of no g-force ( zero-g ), however it is produced, is synonymous with weightlessness.
In the absence of gravitational fields, or in directions at सही angles to them, उचित and coordinate accelerations हैं the same, and any निर्देशांक acceleration must be produced by a corresponding g-force acceleration.
an उदाहरण here is a rocket in free स्पेस, in जिससे simple परिवर्तन in velocity are produced by the engines, and produce g-forces on the rocket and passengers.
An augur पकड़कर a lituus, the curved wand often used as a symbol of augury on Roman सिक्के
The augur थी a priest and official in the classical world, विशेषकर प्राचीन Rome and etruria.
His main role was to interpret the होगा of the gods by studying the उड़ान of birds : whether they हैं flying in groups or alone, what noises they make as they मक्खी, दिशा of flight and what kind of birds they are.
इस थी ज्ञात as `` लेने the auspices. ''
the ceremony और फलन of the augur was central to any major undertaking in Roman society—public or private—including matters of war, कॉमर्स, and religion.
The Roman historian livy तनावों the महत्व of the augurs : `` Who does not जान कि this city थी founded only after लेने the auspices, that सबकुछ in war and in peace, at home and abroad, was done only बाद लेने the auspices ? ''
Farmington Hills is an affluent community in southeastern Michigan.
it is the दूसरी largest city in Oakland County in the U.S. राज्य of Michigan.
Its जनसांख्यिकी was 79,740 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी.
It is part of the upscale northwestern suburbs of Metropolitan Detroit and is also northeast of downtown Ann Arbor.
farmington Hills consistently बाँधने as एक of the safest cities in the संयुक्त States, as well as in the state of Michigan.
In 2010, the area क्रमित as the 30th safest नगर in America.
Although the two शहरों have पृथक services और addresses, Farmington और Farmington Hills हैं प्रायः thought of as the वही community.
Features of the community include a recently संवर शहर, boutiques, a vintage सिनेमा, numerous restaurants, exotic car dealerships, आर्ट galleries, and public पार्क including Heritage Park.
There are several historical साइट including the Longacre हाउस and the Governor warner Mansion.
Both cities हैं served by Farmington Public Schools.
Farmington पहाड़ियाँ serves as a major business center लिये the greater Detroit क्षेत्रफल.
present-day impression of a लेट Bronze आयु seal
कस्बा मुहर ( मेट्रिक्स ) of Náchod from 1570
A seal is a device for making an छाप in wax, मिट्टी, पेपर, or some other मीडियम, including an embossment on paper, and is also the छाप thus made.
The असली purpose was to authenticate a document, a wrapper लिये one such as a आधुनिक envelope, or the cover of a container or package holding valuables or other objects.
The sealing प्रक्रम is essentially that of a mould, साथ the final image represented on the device लिये बनाना the impression by a mirror-image design, incised in sunken- ( or counter- ) राहत or intaglio.
The seal-making यंत्र is भी referred to as the मुहर matrix or die ; the imprint it creates as the seal impression ( or, more rarely, the sealing ).
If the impression is made purely as a relief resulting from the greater pressure on the paper where the high भाग of the matrix touch, the seal is ज्ञात as a शुष्क seal ; in all अन्य cases a liquid or liquified मीडियम ( such as स्याही or मोम ) is प्रयुक्त, प्रायः in another color than the paper.
For विधिक उद्देश्य, the definition of a seal may be extended to शामिल रबर stamps, or writing specified words ( `` seal '' or `` L.S. `` ).
in the United States, the शब्द `` seal '' is sometimes assigned to a facsimile of the मुहर डिज़ाइन ( in मोनोक्रोम or रंग ), जिससे may be प्रयुक्त in a किस्में of contexts including architectural जमावट, on flags, or on official letterheads.
यूँ, लिये example, the Great Seal of the संयुक्त States, among अन्य uses, appears on the reverse of the one-dollar bill ; और several of the seals of the U.S. states appear on their respective state flags.
In यूरोपीय, although coats of arms और heraldic badges may well विशेषता in such contexts as well as on seals, the seal डिज़ाइन in its entirety rarely appears as an emblem.
the study of seals is ज्ञात as sigillography or sphragistics.
groundhog Day ( Pennsylvania German : Grundsaudaag, Murmeltiertag ) is a day मनाये on फ़रवरी 2.
According to folklore, if it is cloudy जब a groundhog emerges from its burrow on this day, तब spring will come early ; if it is सनी, the groundhog will supposedly देखिए इसके shadow and retreat वापस into its burrow, and the winter weather will continue लिये six अधिक सप्ताह.
Modern customs of the holiday involve जश्न where जल्दी morning festivals are आयोजित to देखें the groundhog emerging इससे its burrow.
In southeastern Pennsylvania, Groundhog Lodges ( Grundsow lodges ) celebrate the अवकाश साथ fersommlinge, social कार्यक्रम in which खाना is served, भाषणों हैं made, and one or more g'spiel ( plays or skits ) हैं performed for entertainment.
The Pennsylvania German dialect is the only language बोला at the event, and those who बोलो English pay a penalty, प्रायः in the form of a nickel, dime, or क्वार्टर प्रति शब्द बोला, with the money put into a कटोरी in the center of the table.
The largest groundhog Day celebration is held in Punxsutawney, Pennsylvania.
Groundhog Day, already a widely recognized and popular परंपरा, received widespread attention as a result of the 1993 film groundhog दिन, which was set in Punxsutawney, pa ( though filmed primarily in वुडस्टॉक, il ) and portrayed punxsutawney Phil.
High resolution image of Tampa Bay region
the tampa Bay area has a humid subtropical climate ( koppen Cfa ), with गरम and आर्द्र summers with frequent thunderstorms and drier winters with जमने temperatures occurring every 2–3 सालो.
The area experiences a significant summer wet ऋतु, as nearly two-thirds of the annual precipitation जलप्रपात in the months of June through September.
The area is सूचीबद्ध by the संयुक्त States Department of Agriculture ( USDA ) as being in hardiness zone 10, जिससे is about the northern सीमा of where coconut हथेलियां and royal palms can be grown.
highs usually range between 65 and 95 °F ( 18 और 35 °C ) year round.
Though ज्ञात for hot ग्रीष्म, tampa 's official ऊँची रै never पहुँचे 100 °F ( 38 °C ) – the city 's all-time रिकार्ड temperature is 99 °F ( 37 °C ).
St. पीटर्सबर्ग 's all-time record ऊँची is exactly 100 °f ( 38 °C ).
Pinellas County lies on a प्रायद्वीप between Tampa Bay और the Gulf of Mexico, and much of the नगर of Tampa lies on a छोटी peninsula jutting out into tampa खाड़ी.
इस proximity to large bodies of water दोनो moderates temperatures and introduces large amounts of आर्द्रता into the atmosphere.
In सामान्य, the local communities farthest from the coast have larger temperature सीमाएँ, both during a single दिन और throughout the seasons of the साल.
a diagram of the electromagnetic spectrum, showing various properties across the range of बारंबारता और wavelengths
The इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक spectrum is the range of all possible frequencies of इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक radiation.
the `` electromagnetic spectrum '' of an object has a अलग meaning, and is instead the characteristic वितरण of electromagnetic radiation उत्सर्जित or absorbed by that particular object.
The electromagnetic spectrum extends from below the low frequencies used for modern radio communication to gamma radiation at the short- wavelength ( high-frequency ) समाप्त, thereby covering wavelengths इससे हज़ारों of kilometers bas to a भिन्न of the आकार of an atom.
The limit for long wavelengths is the size of the universe itself, जबकि it is thought that the short wavelength limit is in the vicinity of the Planck length, although in principle the spectrum is अनन्त और continuous.
Most भाग of the electromagnetic spectrum हैं प्रयुक्त in विज्ञान for spectroscopic और other probing interactions, as तरीके to study और characterize matter.
In addition, radiation इससे various भाग of the spectrum has found many other उपयोग for communications and manufacturing ( see इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक radiation for अधिक अनुप्रयोग ).
Legend
Franklin delano रूज़वेल्ट ( or ; जनवरी 30, 1882 – अप्रैल 12, 1945 ), also ज्ञात by his initials, FDR, was the 32nd President of the United States ( 1933–1945 ) and a सेंट्रल figure in संसार कार्यक्रम during the mid-20th century, leading the United States during a समय of विश्वव्यापी economic अवसाद और total war.
A dominant leader of the Democratic पार्टी and the तभी American अध्यक्ष निर्वाचित to more than दो terms, he निर्मित a नई सौदे Coalition कि realigned American politics after 1932, as उसके domestic policies defined American liberalism for the मध्य third of the 20th century.
With the bouncy popular song `` Happy Days Are Here again `` as उसके campaign थीम, FDR पराजित incumbent Republican हर्बर्ट Hoover in November 1932, at the depth of the Great Depression.
Energized by his निजी victory over पोलियो, fdr 's unfailing optimism and activism contributed to a renewal of the national स्पिरिट.
he worked closely साथ British प्रधान Minister Winston Churchill and सोवियत General Secretary Joseph Stalin in अग्रणी the Allies विरूद्ध Germany and Japan in World War ii, and restoring समृद्धि to the nation 's अर्थव्यवस्था.
In his पहला सौ days in office, which began कूच 4, 1933, Roosevelt spearheaded major legislation और issued a profusion of executive orders कि instituted the New Deal —a variety of programs designed to produce राहत ( सरकारी jobs लिये the unemployed ), रिकवरी ( economic growth ), and reform ( through regulation of वॉल गली, बैंको and transportation ).
The economy improved rapidly इससे 1933 to 1937, लकिन then relapsed into a deep recession.
The bipartisan Conservative Coalition कि formed in 1937 prevented his पैकिंग the Supreme Court or गुजर any considerable विधान ; it abolished many of the राहत कार्यक्रम when बेरोजगारी diminished दौरान World युद्ध ii.
Most of the regulations on कारोबार were ended परिचय 1975–85, except for the regulation of Wall Street by the प्रतिभूति and Exchange आयोग, which still exists.
Along साथ several छोटी programs, major surviving programs शामिल the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, which was created in 1933, and Social Security, जिससे कॉंग्रेस passed in 1935.
as World युद्ध ii loomed बाद 1938, with the Japanese invasion of China and the आक्रामकता of Nazi Germany, FDR gave strong राजनयिक and financial support to China and Great Britain, while remaining officially neutral.
His लक्ष्य was to make America the `` आर्सेनल of Democracy `` which would सप्लाई munitions to the Allies.
In March 1941, Roosevelt, with Congressional स्वीकृति, provided lend-lease aid to the countries fighting against Nazi Germany with Britain.
साथ very दमदार national support, he made युद्ध on Japan and Germany after the जापानी attack on Pearl Harbor on December 7, 1941, calling it a `` date जिससे will live in infamy ``.
he supervised the mobilization of the U.S. अर्थव्यवस्था to support the Allied war effort.
As an active सैन्य leader, रूज़वेल्ट implemented an overall war strategy on दो fronts कि ended in the defeat of the Axis Powers and the development of the world 's first atom बमबारी.
in 1942 रूज़वेल्ट ordered the internment of 100,000 Japanese अमरीकी civilians.
बेरोजगारी dropped to 2 %, relief programs largely ended, and the industrial economy grew rapidly to new हाइट्स as लाखो of people स्थानांतरित to new jobs in war centers, और 16 million मेन and 300,000 women यहूद drafted or volunteered for सैन्य service.
रूज़वेल्ट dominated the American political झाँकी not only during the twelve years of his presidency, लकिन also for decades afterward.
He orchestrated the realignment of voters that निर्मित the Fifth Party प्रणाली.
fdr 's नई Deal Coalition united labor unions, big नगर मशीने, white ethnics, अफ़्रीकी अमेरिकी और rural white Southerners.
he also influenced the later creation of the United Nations and bretton Woods.
Roosevelt is consistently rated by scholars as one of the top three U.S. Presidents, along साथ अब्राहम lincoln and जार्ज Washington.
A liberal Democrat, रूज़वेल्ट पारिभाषित his ideological position as `` a little left of center. ''
A Joint Committee is a term in politics that is used to refer to a committee made up of members of दोनो chambers of a bicameral विधानमंडल.
in other contexts, it refers to a committee with members from अधिक than one संगठन.
the विनियमन of prostitution in the United States is not among the enumerated powers of the federal government ; अंतर्गत the Tenth Amendment to the United राज्य संविधान, it is therefore exclusively the domain of the states to परमिट, prohibit, or otherwise regulate commercial sex, except insofar as कॉंग्रेस may विनियमित it as भाग of interstate कॉमर्स with laws like the मन Act.
In most राज्य, prostitution is माना a misdemeanor in the category of public order अपराधों, a crime that disrupts the order of a community.
It was at one time considered to be a vagrancy crime.
फिलहाल, नेवाडा is the only state to allow brothel prostitution, the शर्तें of which are stipulated in the Nevada Revised statutes.
Only 8 काउंटी currently contain active brothels.
All forms of prostitution हैं illegal in Clark County ( which contains the Las Vegas–Paradise metropolitan area ), Washoe काउंटी ( which contains रेनो ), Carson City, Douglas काउंटी, और lincoln County.
The अन्य काउंटी theoretically allow brothel prostitution, but some of these counties फिलहाल have no active brothels.
Street prostitution, `` pandering, '' and जीना बंद of the proceeds of a prostitute remain illegal under Nevada विधि, as elsewhere in the country.
As साथ other countries, prostitution in the United States can be divided into three broad categories : गली prostitution, brothel prostitution, and escort prostitution.
The नेशनल flag of the United राज्य of America, often बस referred to as the American ध्वज, consists of thirteen बराबर horizontal stripes of red ( top and bottom ) alternating with white, with a blue आयताकार in the canton ( referred to specifically as the `` union '' ) bearing पचास small, white, five-pointed सितारों arranged in nine offset आड़ा rows of छह stars ( top और bottom ) प्रत्यावर्ती with rows of पाँच stars.
The 50 सितारों on the flag represent the 50 states of the United States of America और the 13 stripes represent the thirteen अंग्रेजों colonies that declared स्वतंत्रता from the Kingdom of ग्रेट Britain and became the first राज्य in the संघ.
Nicknames लिये the ध्वज include the `` Stars and धारियाँ '', `` Old महिमा ``, and `` The star-spangled Banner. ''
इण्डिया is a federal union of states comprising twenty-eight states और seven संघ territories.
The states and territories are further subdivided into districts and so on.
Congressional जिले लिये the 113th संयुक्त राज्य Congress
2010 Census change:
बदलें in apportionment of congressional districts, starting in 2013, as a result of the 2010 census.
2000 Census change:
Change in apportionment of congressional districts, इससे 2003 to 2013, as a परिणाम of the 2000 census.
This is a पूरा सूची of congressional जिले लिये प्रतिनिधित्व in the United States House of Representatives.
The quantity ( apportionment ) and boundaries ( redistricting ) of जिले हैं determined after each census, although in कुछ cases states have changed the सीमाएँ more than once per जनसांख्यिकी.
This list includes the 435 current and over 200 obsolete जिले.
For उदाहरण, चूंकि the 2000 census, Nebraska has had three जिले, but it used to have as अनेक as six.
in the first decade of the twenty-first century, टेक्सास had 32 जिले, but रै since added चार due to reapportionment as a result of the 2010 census.
Other states have lost districts since the number of congressional seats has been set at 435 by statute.
Also included यहाँ are non-voting delegations : six current and चार obsolete.
The सीमाएँ of districts often शिफ़्ट with each redistricting.
over time, the प्रदेश and demographics represented in a ज़िला can change substantially.
furthermore, जिले sometimes retain the वही सीमाएँ जबकि changing उनके district संख्याएँ.
Mariah कैरी ( born कूच 27, 1970 ) is an American singer, songwriter, record producer, actress, and philanthropist.
अंतर्गत the guidance of कोलंबिया रिकॉर्ड executive टॉमी Mottola, Carey released her self-titled debut स्टुडियो album Mariah Carey in 1990 ; it गई multi-platinum and spawned four consecutive number one singles on the U.S. Billboard Hot 100 chart.
Following her विवाह to Mottola in 1993 and success with hit records Emotions ( 1991 ), म्यूज़िक बक्सा ( 1993 ), and Merry Christmas ( 1994 ), कैरी was established as कोलंबिया 's highest-selling act.
Daydream ( 1995 ) made म्यूज़िक history when इसके second single `` One Sweet Day ``, a duet with बॉयज ii मेन, खर्च a record सोलह weeks on top of the Billboard Hot 100, and remains the longest-running number-one सोंग in U.S. chart history.
During the recording of the album, Carey began to deviate from उसके R & B and pop beginnings and slowly traversed into hip हॉप.
इस musical बदलें became evident with the release of Butterfly ( 1997 ), at which समय Carey had separated इससे mottola.
Carey left Columbia in 2000, and हस्ताक्षरित a record-breaking $ 100 million रिकॉर्डिंग contract साथ वर्जिन Records.
Before the रिलीज of उसके first विशेषता फिल्मी glitter ( 2001 ), she suffered a physical and emotional विश्लेषण and was hospitalized लिये severe थकावट.
following the film 's poor reception, वो was bought out of her रिकॉर्डिंग अनुबंध for $ 50 लाख, जिससे led to a decline in उसके career.
She signed a multi-million dollar contract deal with Island Records in 2002, and बाद an unsuccessful period, returned to the शीर्ष of म्यूज़िक charts साथ the Emancipation of Mimi ( 2005 ).
इसके second single `` We Belong Together `` became her most कामयाब single of the 2000s, and was later named `` सोंग of the दशक '' by Billboard.
Carey once again ventured into film with a well-received अभिनीत role in ( 2009 ) ; she was awarded the `` भेदन Performance पुरस्कार '' at the ताड़ Springs International Film पर्व, and Black रील and NAACP चित्र Award nominations.
In a career spanning over two decades, Carey has sold अधिक than 200 million records worldwide, बनाना her one of the best-selling music कलाकारों of all समय.
in 1998, वो was honored as the world 's best-selling recording artist of the 1990s at the World Music पुरस्कार.
कैरी was also named the best-selling female artist of the millennium in 2000.
according to the Recording Industry संघ of America, वो is the तीसरा best-selling मादा artist in the United States, with 63.5 लाख certified albums.
साथ the release of `` Touch my Body `` ( 2008 ), कैरी gained her eighteenth number one सिंगल in the United States, more than any other solo कलाकार.
In 2012, Carey was क्रमित second on vh1 's सूची of the `` 100 महानतम Women in Music ''.
Aside इससे उसके वाणिज्यिक accomplishments, Carey has जीती five ग्रैमी पुरस्कार, 17 World Music Awards, 11 American म्यूज़िक Awards, और 31 Billboard Music पुरस्कार.
Referred to as the `` songbird supreme '' by the Guinness World Records, वो is famed for her five-octave vocal range, शक्ति, melismatic style and हस्ताक्षर use of the whistle register.
Stratocumulus stratiformis cumulogenitus
In meteorology, a बादल is a visible mass of liquid droplets or frozen crystals made of water or various chemicals suspended in the माहौल above the surface of a planetary देह.
These suspended अणु are also known as aerosols.
Clouds in Earth 's atmosphere हैं पढ़ाई in the cloud भौतिकी branch of meteorology.
दो processes, possibly acting together, can lead to air becoming संतृप्त ; cooling the एयर or adding जल वाष्प to the air.
in general, वर्षण होगा fall to the surface ; an एक्सेप्शन is virga, जिससे evaporates before reaching the surface.
The international बादल classification system is आधारित on the fact clouds in उनके most basic forms can दिखाएँ free-convective upward विकास like cumulus, appear in non-convective layered sheets such as stratus, or take the form of thin fibrous wisps, as in the मामला of cirrus.
Prefixes are प्रयुक्त in connection with clouds to एक्स्प्रेस विसंगतियाँ or complexities in ये basic forms or to specify middle or high ऊँचाई ranges.
These शामिल strato- for low clouds साथ limited convection कि form mostly in uneven layers, cumulo- लिये जटिल highly-convective storm clouds, nimbo- लिये thick layered clouds of कुछ complexity that can produce मॉडरेट to भारी precipitation, alto- for middle clouds, and cirro- लिये high clouds ; the latter two of जिससे may be of simple or मध्यम complex ढांचा.
Whether or not a बादल is low, middle, or high स्तर depends on how far above the ground its base forms.
Cloud प्रकार with significant लंबवत extent can रूप in the low or middle altitude ranges depending on the moisture content of the air.
Clouds in the troposphere have Latin names due to the लोकप्रिय adaptation of ल्यूक Howard 's cloud categorization system, which began to spread in लोकप्रियता during December 1802.
synoptic surface weather observations use code numbers to रिकार्ड and रपट the types of tropospheric बादल visible at each scheduled observation time based on the height and physical रूप of the clouds.
जबकि a majority of clouds रूप in Earth 's troposphere, there are occasions when बादल in the stratosphere and mesosphere can be observed.
These three प्रमुख परतों of the atmosphere जहाँ clouds may be seen are collectively ज्ञात as the homosphere.
Above this lies the thermosphere and exosphere, जिससे together मेक up the heterosphere that marks the परिवर्तन to outer स्पेस.
Clouds have been observed on अन्य planets and moons भीतर the Solar System, लकिन, due to their different तापमान विशेषताएँ, they are composed of other substances such as methane, ammonia, और sulfuric एसिड.
Galveston County is a county located in the U.S. state of Texas भीतर the houston–sugar Land–Baytown महानगर area.
As of the 2010 census, the population was 291,309.
Its काउंटी seat is Galveston.
League नगर is the largest city in galveston County in terms of जनसांख्यिकी ; url_http between 2000 और 2005 it surpassed Galveston as the county 's largest city.
Galveston काउंटी थी संस्थापित in 1838.
Nassau
Freeport, Bahamas
This is a list of cities in the Bahamas.
The following table सूचियाँ the नगर or town नाम, the भौगोलिक coordinates, the population as of the 1990 census, an estimate of the population as of 2009, and the island name.
the Big Ten Conference, formerly Western Conference and Big Nine Conference, is the oldest Division I college athletic सम्मेलन in the United राज्य.
इसके twelve member institutions ( which हैं primarily flagship research विश्वविद्यालयों in उनके respective states, well-regarded academically, and with relatively विशाल student enrollment ) हैं located primarily in the Midwest, stretching from Nebraska in the west to Penn State in the east.
The सम्मेलन competes in the NCAA 's प्रभाग I ; its फ़ुटबॉल टीमों compete in the Football Bowl subdivision ( fbs ), formerly known as Division I-A, the highest level of ncaa प्रतियोगिता in that sport.
Member schools of the Big Ten ( or, in two मामले, their parent university systems ) also are members of the कमेटी on Institutional Cooperation, a leading शैक्षणिक and research consortium.
despite the conference 's नाम, the बिग टेन actually consists of 12 schools, following the addition of The पेन्सिलवेनिया राज्य विश्वविद्यालयों in 1993 और the University of nebraska–lincoln in 2011.
in 2014, the conference होगा विस्तार to 14 members with the परिवर्धन of the University of मेरीलैंड, College Park and rutgers, The State University of New Jersey.
it is नहीं to be confused with the Big 12 Conference, which रै only टेन schools and represents a different प्रदेश of the देश.
Single Malt Scotch is single malt whisky बना in Scotland using a घट still distillation process at a single डिस्टिलरी, with malted barley as the only अनाज ingredient.
As साथ any Scotch व्हिस्की, a सिंगल malt Scotch must be आसुत in Scotland और matured in oak casks in Scotland लिये at least three years ( most single malts are matured longer ).
`` Malt '' indicates that the whisky is आसुत from a `` malted '' grain.
Several types of दाने can be malted ( for उदाहरण, barley, rye and wheat are all grains which can be malted ) ; however, in the मामला of single malt Scotch, जौ is सदा the only अनाज used.
`` Single '' indicates that सब the malts in the बोतल आइये from a single distillery.
Bottlings containing malt whisky from multiple distilleries हैं पुकारा `` blended malt ``.
Until the Scotch Whisky Regulations 2009 ( SWR 2009 ), the word `` blended '' only appeared ( in the context of Scotch whisky ) on bottles of whisky that contained a mixture of both barley and non-barley grain whisky, but this is no longer the मामला.
Under the शब्दावली स्थापित by the SWR 2009, a `` blended malt Scotch व्हिस्की '' is a mixture of single malt स्कॉच whiskies, not a mixture of malted जौ whisky and non-barley व्हिस्की ; those हैं पुकारा `` blended Scotch व्हिस्की '', without the word `` malt ''.
The term `` blended malt '' replaced `` vatted malt '' used under the prior labelling conventions.
The आयु statement on a बोतल of single malt Scotch is the number of सालो the whisky spent maturing in cask.
As बहुत few whiskies are bottled from a single cask the आयु बयान reflects the आयु of the youngest malt in the मिक्सर.
a texture may be arranged so as to, `` closely दृष्टिकोण the single-object status of fused-ensemble timbres, लिये उदाहरण, the खूबसूरत 'northern lights ' chord..., in a बहुत interesting वितरण of pitches, produces a fused sound supported by a निलंबित झांझ roll `` ( Erickson ( 1975 ), p.166 & 168 ).
in contrast to अधिक traditional musical textures, sound mass composition `` minimizes the महत्व of individual pitches in preference लिये texture, timbre, और डायनामिक्स as primary shapers of gesture and impact. ''
विकसित इससे the modernist tone clusters और स्प्रेड to orchestral writing by the late 1950s और 1960s, sound-mass `` obscures the boundary between sound and noise `` ( एडवर्ड्स 2001, pp. 326–27 ).
Techniques which may बनाएँ or be used with sound द्रव्यमान include विस्तारित techniques ऐसे as muted पीतल or strings, आतुर tonguing, wide vibrato, extreme सीमाएँ, and glissandos.
Composers and works include Barbara Kolb, pauline Oliveros ' Sound पैटर्न for कोरस ( 1961 ), Norma Beecroft 's From Dreams of Brass लिये कोरस ( 1963–1964 ), and नैंसी वैन de vate.
Beecroft `` blurs individual pitches in favor of a collective timbre through the use of गायन और instrumental क्लस्टर, choral speech, narrator, and a wash of sounds from an electronic tape. ''
( ibid )
A very जल्दी example is the opening of jean-féry Rebel 's ballet लेस Elémens ( 1737–38 ), where chaos is represented by a gradually cumulating orchestral क्लस्टर of all सात notes of the d minor scale ( Henck 2004, pp. 52–54 ).
a later example is the third movement of Ruth क्रॉफर्ड seeger 's String Quartet 1931 ( Nonesuch H-71280 ) while more recently Phill Niblock 's multiple ड्रोन based music serves as an example.
the use of `` chords approaching timbres '' begins with debussy and edgard Varèse प्रायः carefully scored व्यक्तिगत instrumental parts so that they होता fuse into one ensemble timbre or sound mass ( Erickson 1975, pp. 18 and 21 ).
Other उदाहरण include European `` textural '' रचनाएं of the fifties और sixties such as krzysztof Penderecki 's Threnody to the पीड़ितों of Hiroshima ( 1959 ) and györgy ligeti 's works featuring micropolyphony in works जैसे Atmosphères ( 1961 ) and his Requiem ( 1963-65 ).
Other composers साथ works using this technique include Henryk górecki, karel Husa, Witold Lutosławski, Kazimierz Serocki, and Steven Stucky.
ध्वनि mass techniques also appear in the music of जार्ज crumb ( Anon. n.d. ).
विद्यार्थी attending a लेक्चर on linear algebra at the Helsinki University of Technology
Pupils in rural Sudan, 2002
A student is a learner, or किसी who attends an educational institution.
In कुछ nations, the English term ( or its cognate in another language ) is reserved for those who attend विश्वविद्यालयों, जबकि a schoolchild अंतर्गत the age of eighteen is पुकारा a pupil in English ( or an equivalent in other languages ), although in the संयुक्त राज्य a person नामांकित in ग्रेड K–12 is often called a student.
in its widest use, student is used लिये anyone who is सीखना.
ऑस्ट्रेलिया is a continent comprising mainland ऑस्ट्रेलिया, Tasmania, New Guinea, Seram, possibly timor, and neighbouring आइलैंड्स.
The continent is sometimes known in तकनीकी contexts by the names Sahul, Australinea or Meganesia, to distinguish it from the Australian mainland.
It is the smallest of the सात traditional continents in the English धारणा.
New Zealand is not part of the continent of Australia, but of the पृथक, submerged continent of zealandia.
zealandia and Australia are both part of the wider regions known as Australasia और महासागरीय.
The महाद्वीप of Australia lies on a continental शेल्फ overlain by shallow seas which divide it into several landmasses — the Arafura समुद्र and Torres Strait between mainland Australia and New Guinea, and बास Strait between mainland ऑस्ट्रेलिया और Tasmania.
When sea levels were lower during the Pleistocene ice आयु, including the last glacial अधिकतम about 18,000 BC, they were connected by शुष्क land.
During the पास्ट टेन thousand years, उठती sea स्तर overflowed the lowlands और separated the continent into today 's low-lying arid to semi-arid mainland and the two mountainous islands of New गिनी and Tasmania.
geologically, a continent extends to the edge of its continental शेल्फ, so the now-separate islands हैं considered भाग of the महाद्वीप.
Due to the स्प्रेड of animals, fungi and पौधे आरपार the single Pleistocene landmass the separate lands have a related biota.
Central पार्क is nearly twice as big as the world 's second-smallest देश, Monaco.
Historically इसके reservoirs यहूद important components of the city 's water सप्लाई.
पर्यावरणीय issues in New York City are प्रभावित by the city 's size, घनत्व, abundant public transportation अवसंरचना, और स्थान at the mouth of the Hudson नदी.
नई यॉर्क 's जनसांख्यिकी density has पर्यावरणीय pros and cons.
It facilitates the highest द्रव्यमान पारगमन उपयोग in the United राज्य, लकिन also concentrates pollution.
Gasoline consumption in the नगर is at the rate the national average was in the 1920s, and greenhouse gas emissions are a fraction of the national average, at 7.1 metric टन per person per year, below San फ्रांसिस्को, at 11.2 metric tons, and the नेशनल औसत, at 24.5 metric टन.
नई York नगर accounts लिये only 1 % of United States greenhouse gas emissions while housing 2.7 % of its population.
in September 2012, नई York थी named the # 1 `` अमेरिका 's Dirtiest नगर, '' by a travel+leisure readership survey that रेटेड the environmental विशेषता of 35 prominent cities in the संयुक्त States.
Atlanta (, stressed, locally ) is the capital of and the most populous नगर in the U.S. state of Georgia, साथ an estimated 2011 population of 432,427.
अटलांटा is the cultural and आर्थिक बीच of the Atlanta metropolitan क्षेत्रफल, home to 5,457,831 लोगों और the ninth largest metropolitan area in the संयुक्त States.
Atlanta is the county seat of Fulton काउंटी, और a छोटी portion of the city extends eastward into dekalb County.
Atlanta was established in 1837 at the intersection of two railroad lines, and the city rose from the ashes of the Civil War to become a national center of commerce.
in the decades following the Civil अधिकारों गति, during which the city earned a reputation as `` too busy to hate '' लिये the प्रगतिशील दृश्य of its citizens and leaders, Atlanta attained international prominence.
Atlanta is the primary transportation हब of the southeastern संयुक्त States, via राजमार्ग, railroad, and एयर, with Hartsfield–Jackson Atlanta अंतरराष्ट्रीय Airport being the world 's busiest विमानक्षेत्र चूंकि 1998.
Atlanta is considered an `` alpha ( - ) world नगर, '' and, with a gross domestic product of US $ 270 billion, atlanta’s economy ranks 15th among संसार cities and sixth in the nation.
Although Atlanta’s economy is considered diverse, dominant sectors include logistics, professional और business services, media operations, सरकारी administration, and higher education.
Topographically, अटलांटा is marked by रोलिंग hills and dense tree coverage.
पुनरोद्धार of अटलांटा 's neighborhoods, initially spurred by the 1996 Olympics, has intensified in the 21st century, altering the नगर 's demographics, politics, और संस्कृति.
A 1947 propaganda comic book published by the Catechetical Guild Educational Society raising the specter of a Communist takeover
McCarthyism is the practice of making accusations of disloyalty, subversion, or treason बगैर proper लिहाज़ for evidence.
It also means `` the अभ्यास of making unfair allegations or using unfair investigative techniques, especially in order to restrict dissent or राजनैतिक criticism. ''
The term has its origins in the period in the संयुक्त States known as the Second Red scare, lasting roughly इससे 1950 to 1956 and characterized by heightened fears of communist influence on American संस्थानों और espionage by सोवियत agents.
originally coined to criticize the anti-communist pursuits of रिपब्लिकन u.s. Senator Joseph McCarthy of Wisconsin, `` mccarthyism '' soon took on a broader meaning, describing the excesses of similar प्रयत्न.
the पद is भी now प्रयुक्त more generally to describe लापरवाह, unsubstantiated accusations, as खूब as demagogic हमले on the character or patriotism of political adversaries.
During the McCarthy era, हज़ारों of अमेरिकी were accused of being Communists or communist sympathizers and became the subject of aggressive investigations and questioning before सरकारी or private-industry panels, समितियों and एजेंसियों.
The प्राथमिक targets of such suspicions were government कर्मचारी, those in the entertainment उद्योग, educators and संघ activists.
Suspicions यहूद प्रायः दिए credence despite inconclusive or questionable evidence, and the level of threat posed by a person 's real or supposed leftist associations or मान्यताओं was often greatly अतिरंजित.
अनेक लोगों suffered loss of employment and/or destruction of उनके careers ; some even suffered imprisonment.
Most of ये punishments आए about through trial verdicts later विकल, laws कि would be declared unconstitutional, dismissals for कारण later declared illegal or actionable, or extra-legal procedures that would come into सामान्य disrepute.
the most famous examples of McCarthyism शामिल the भाषणों, investigations, and hearings of सीनेटर McCarthy himself ; the हॉलीवुड ब्लैकलिस्ट, associated with hearings conducted by the House Un-American Activities Committee ( HUAC ) ; और the various anti-communist activities of the Federal Bureau of छानबीन ( एफबीआई ) under निदेशक J. Edgar Hoover.
McCarthyism was a widespread social and सांस्कृतिक phenomenon that प्रभावित all levels of समाज and was the सोर्स of a great deal of बहस and conflict in the United राज्य.
नेपोलियन is a fictional character and the प्रमुख antagonist in George Orwell 's Animal Farm.
जबकि he is at पहला a common फार्म pig, he gets rid of Snowball, another pig जिससे shares the power.
He then takes लाभ of the animals ' uprising विरूद्ध their masters to आखिरकार become the tyrannical `` President of Animal Farm, '' which he turns into a dictatorship.
वरुण logo
The वरुण Canada प्रोजेक्ट is the world’s पहला regional-scale underwater ocean observatory कि plugs directly into the अंतरजाल.
चूंकि December 2009, it has allowed people to `` surf '' the seafloor while ocean वैज्ञानिकों run deep-water experiments from लैब्स and universities around the world.
Along with its sister प्रोजेक्ट, VENUS, वरुण offers a unique approach to ocean विज्ञान.
traditionally, समंदर वैज्ञानिकों have relied on infrequent जलयान क्रूज़ or space-based satellites to carry out उनके research, while the NEPTUNE project uses a remotely संचालित crawler.
The Coronet थी a full-size car from चकमा in the 1950s, initially the division 's highest trim लकीर but, starting in 1955, the lowest trim line.
In the 1960s, the name was transferred to चकमा 's mid-size प्रविष्टि.
ARM9 is an भुजा वास्तुकला 32-bit risc CPU परिवार.
Commonwealth is a traditional English term लिये a political community संस्थापित for the common good.
Historically, it has sometimes been synonymous with `` republic ``.
More recently it रै been प्रयुक्त लिये fraternal associations of कुछ sovereign nations.
Most notably, the राष्ट्रमंडल of Nations, an association primarily of former members of the British Empire, is often referred to as बस `` the Commonwealth ''.
The September 11 हमले ( also referred to as September 11, सितंबर 11th, or 9/11 ) यहूद a series of four coordinated आतंकवादी हमले शुभारम्भ by the Islamic terrorist group al-Qaeda upon the संयुक्त राज्य in नई York City और the Washington, D.C. क्षेत्रफल on सितंबर 11, 2001.
Four passenger airliners were hijacked by 19 al-Qaeda terrorists so they could be flown into buildings in suicide attacks.
Two of those planes, American एयरलाइंस Flight 11 and United एयरलाइंस Flight 175, were crashed into the North और South towers, respectively, of the World व्यापार Center complex in New York City.
भीतर two hours, दोनो towers collapsed साथ debris and the resulting fires causing आंशिक or पूरा collapse of सब other इमारतें in the WTC complex, as well as major damage to टेन अन्य large surrounding structures.
A third plane, American Airlines उड़ान 77, was crashed into the Pentagon ( the headquarters of the United States Department of Defense ), leading to a partial collapse in its western side.
the fourth plane, United Airlines Flight 93, थी targeted at the United राज्य Capitol in Washington, D.C., but crashed into a field near shanksville, Pennsylvania, after इसके यात्री tried to overcome the hijackers.
In total, almost 3,000 people died in the attacks, including the 227 civilians and 19 hijackers सवार the four planes.
suspicion quickly fell on al-Qaeda.
Although the group 's leader, Osama bin Laden, initially अस्वीकृत any involvement, in 2004 he claimed जिम्मेदारी for the attacks.
Al-Qaeda and bin Laden cited u.S. support of Israel, the presence of U.S. troops in सऊदी Arabia, and प्रतिबंधों against Iraq as motives लिये the attacks.
the संयुक्त States responded to the attacks by शुभारंभ the War on आतंक and invading Afghanistan to depose the Taliban, which had harbored al-qaeda.
Many countries strengthened उनके anti-terrorism legislation and विस्तारित law enforcement powers.
Having evaded capture लिये years, बिन Laden थी स्तिथ and मारे by U.S. शक्तियां in May 2011.
The destruction of the जुड़वा Towers and other properties caused serious क्षति to the economy of निम्नतर Manhattan and had a significant effect on global बाज़ार.
Cleanup of the World Trade Center site थी समाप्त in May 2002, और the Pentagon थी repaired within a year.
numerous memorials have been constructed, सहित the National September 11 Memorial & संग्रहालय in New York, the Pentagon Memorial, and the Flight 93 National Memorial in पेन्सिलवेनिया.
After a lengthy delay, the One World Trade Center is अपेक्षित to be समाप्त at Ground Zero in नई York City in 2013.
Crater झील National Park is a United States National पार्क located in दक्षिणी Oregon.
Established in 1902, Crater Lake नेशनल Park is the पांचवां oldest national park in the United States और the only one in the state of ऑरेगॉन.
The park encompasses the caldera of Crater Lake, a remnant of a destroyed volcano, Mount Mazama, and the surrounding hills और forests.
the lake is गहन at इसके deepest point, which makes it the deepest lake in the United राज्य, the second deepest in North अमेरिका and the ninth deepest in the world.
Crater Lake is प्रायः referred to as the seventh deepest lake in the world, but this former listing excludes the लगभग depth of subglacial Lake वोस्तोक in अंटार्कटिक, जिससे resides अंतर्गत nearly of ice, और the recent रपट of a maximum depth for झील O'Higgins /san Martin, स्तिथ on the border of Chile and Argentina.
However, when comparing its औसत depth of to the औसत गहराई of other गहन lakes, Crater Lake becomes the deepest in the पश्चिमी Hemisphere और the तीसरा deepest in the संसार.
the impressive औसत गहराई of this volcanic lake is due to the nearly सममित deep caldera formed 7,700 years ago during the violent climactic eruptions and subsequent collapse of Mount Mazama and the अपेक्षाकृत नम climate कि is typical of the crest of the cascade Range.
The caldera रिम सीमाएँ in उन्नयन from.
the United States Geological सर्वेक्षण benchmarked उन्नयन of the झील surface itself is.
This National Park encompasses.
crater Lake has no streams flowing into or out of it.
सब जल that enters the झील is eventually lost इससे वाष्पीकरण or subsurface seepage.
The lake 's water commonly has a striking blue वर्ण, and the lake is re-filled entirely from direct वर्षण in the form of हिम and बरसात.
the परम् Court of the United States is the highest court in the संयुक्त States.
It has ultimate ( and largely discretionary ) appellate jurisdiction over all federal courts and over state court cases involving issues of federal law, and असली क्षेत्राधिकार over a छोटी range of cases.
The Court, which meets in the United States परम् Court Building in Washington, d.C., consists of a chief इंसाफ और eight associate justices जो हैं nominated by the President और पुष्टि by the संयुक्त States Senate.
Once appointed, justices have life कार्यकाल जबतक they resign, retire, or are removed after महाभियोग.
conroe is the seat of Montgomery County और falls भीतर the महानगर area.
it is स्तिथ about उत्तर of Houston.
As of July 2011, the city population was 58,973, up इससे 36,811 in 2000.
the Book of Mormon is a sacred text of the latter दिन Saint movement, which adherents मानना contains writings of प्राचीन prophets who lived on the American महाद्वीप from approximately 2200 BC to ad 421.
it थी first प्रकाशित in कूच 1830 by Joseph स्मिथ as the Book of Mormon : An Account लिखा by the Hand of Mormon upon Plates लिया इससे the प्लेटों of nephi.
According to Smith 's account, and also according to the book 's कथा, the किताब of mormon was originally written in otherwise unknown characters referred to as `` reformed Egyptian `` engraved on सुनहरी plates.
Smith claimed that the last prophet to contribute to the book, a man named Moroni, buried it in a हिल in present-day New York और तब returned to earth in 1827 as an देवदूत, revealing the location of the book to Smith and instructing him to translate and disseminate it as evidence of the restoration of मसीह 's true church in the latter days.
the Book of Mormon has a क्रमांक of असली और distinctive doctrinal चर्चाएँ on subjects ऐसे as the fall of Adam and Eve, the nature of the प्रायश्चित, eschatology, मोचन from physical and spiritual death, and the organization of the latter-day गिरिजाघर.
The pivotal event of the किताब is an appearance of यीशु Christ to the americas shortly after his क़यामत.
The Book of mormon is the earliest of the unique writings of the latter Day Saint movement, the denominations of which typically regard the text not only as scripture but also as a historical रिकार्ड of परमेश्वर 's dealings with the ancient inhabitants of the Americas.
The किताब of Mormon is divided into छोटी books, titled बाद the individuals नामित as primary authors and, in सबसे versions, divided into अध्याय and verses.
It is written in अंग्रेज़ी, very similar to the Early आधुनिक English linguistic style of the किंग James संस्करण of the Bible, and has since महरूम fully or partially translated into 108 languages.
An आयोजिक rank ( also ज्ञात as an enlisted grade or आयोजिक रेट ) is, in most militaries, any रैंक below that of a commissioned officer or warrant officer.
The term can also be inclusive of non-commissioned अधिकारियों.
In most मामले, enlisted सेवा personnel perform jobs specific to their own occupational specialty, as opposed to the अधिक generalized कमांड responsibilities of commissioned officers.
`` कया a Wonderful World '' is a song written by Bob Thiele ( as `` जार्ज Douglas '' ) और George David Weiss.
It was first recorded by लुई Armstrong and released as a single in 1967.
thiele और Weiss were both prominent in the music world ( thiele as a producer और Weiss as a composer/performer ).
Armstrong 's recording थी inducted in the Grammy Hall of कीर्ति in 1999.
the publishing for this song is controlled by मेमोरी Lane म्यूज़िक Group, Carlin म्यूज़िक Corp., and Bug Music, inc.
1908 poster विज्ञापन Gaumont 's ध्वनि films.
The Chronomégaphone, designed for large halls, employed संपीडित एयर to amplify the अंकित sound.
a sound film is a motion picture with synchronized sound, or sound technologically coupled to image, as opposed to a मूक film.
The पहला known पब्लिक exhibition of projected sound films took place in पेरिस in 1900, but decades होता pass before ध्वनि motion pictures were made commercially व्यावहारिक.
Reliable synchronization थी मुश्किल to achieve with the जल्दी sound-on-disc प्रणालियों, and amplification and recording quality यहूद भी inadequate.
Innovations in sound-on-film led to the पहला commercial स्क्रीनिंग of छोटी motion pictures using the technology, which took place in 1923.
the primary steps in the commercialization of sound cinema यहूद taken in the mid- to late 1920s.
At first, the ध्वनि films incorporating synchronized dialogue—known as `` talking pictures '', or `` talkies '' —were exclusively shorts ; the earliest feature-length movies साथ recorded sound included तभी म्यूज़िक and effects.
The first feature फिल्मी originally presented as a talkie was The Jazz सिंगर, released in October 1927.
a major hit, it was made with Vitaphone, the leading brand of sound-on-disc प्रौद्योगिकी.
Sound-on-film, however, would जल्द become the standard for talking pictures.
by the early 1930s, the talkies were a global phenomenon.
In the संयुक्त राज्य, वे helped secure Hollywood 's स्थिति as one of the संसार 's सबसे powerful cultural/commercial systems ( see सिनेमा of the United राज्य ).
in Europe ( और, to a lesser degree, elsewhere ) the नई development was treated with suspicion by अनेक filmmakers और critics, who worried that a focus on dialogue would subvert the अद्वितीय aesthetic virtues of soundless cinema.
In Japan, where the popular फिल्मी tradition integrated silent movie and सजीव vocal performance, talking तस्वीरें यहूद slow to take root.
In India, ध्वनि was the transformative तत्व कि led to the रैपिड expansion of the nation 's film industry—the most productive such industry in the world since the early 1960s.
African people हैं natives or inhabitants of Africa और people of African descent.
The Australian Recording उद्योग संघ Music पुरस्कार ( commonly known as aria Music Awards or ARIA Awards ) is an सालाना series of awards nights celebrating the Australian म्यूज़िक industry, put on by the ऑस्ट्रेलियाई रिकॉर्डिंग Industry Association ( ARIA ).
The event has been held annually चूंकि 1987 and encompasses the general genre-specific और popular awards ( these हैं what is usually होने referred to as `` the ARIA awards '' ) as well as Fine Arts Awards और Artisan पुरस्कार ( आयोजित separately from 2004 ), Lifetime उपलब्धि पुरस्कार और ARIA Hall of कीर्ति – held separately इससे 2005 to 2010 but लौटे to the general ceremony in 2011.
For 2010, ARIA introduced public voted पुरस्कार for the पहला time.
जीतना, or भी being मनोनीत लिये, an ARIA award results in a लॉट of media attention on an कलाकार, and usually increases recording sales several-fold – in 2005, for example, after Ben ली won three awards, उसके album Awake Is the New Sleep कूद इससे No. 31 to no. 5 in the aria चार्ट, its उच्चतम position.
for-profit education ( भी known as the education services उद्योग or proprietary education ) refers to educational संस्थानों operated by private, profit -seeking व्यवसायों.
There are three types of for-profit schools.
One type is known as an educational प्रबन्धन organization ( EMO ), and these are primary and secondary educational institutions.
emos work with स्कूल जिले or charter schools, using public funds to finance परिचालन.
The majority of for-profit schools in the K–12 sector in America फलन as EMOs, and have grown in number in the mid-2000s.
The other major श्रेणी of for-profit schools are post-secondary institutions जिससे operate as businesses, receiving fees from each छात्र वे enroll.
A third type of for-profit schools, which is less prevalent in the United States, are K–12 schools which operate as businesses.
EMOs function differently from चार्टर स्कूलों created in order to carry out a particular teaching pedagogy ; सबसे चार्टर स्कूलों are mission-oriented, while EMOs and other for-profit संस्थानों हैं market-oriented.
While समर्थक argue that the लाभ motive encourages efficiency, this arrangement has also drawn controversy and criticism.
केविन Carey, निदेशक of the शिक्षा policy program of the New American न्यास said in a 2010 column in The Chronicle of Higher Education that `` For-profits मौजूद in large part to fix educational मार्केट failures left by traditional institutions, और they profit by serving students कि पब्लिक and private nonprofit institutions too प्रायः ignore. ''
He also विख्यात कि `` वहीँ 's no शक कि the worst for-profits are निर्मम exploiting the commodified कॉलेज degree.
लकिन they किया n't commodify it in the first प्लेस. ''
Amendment XXII in the National Archives
The twenty-second amendment of the United राज्य Constitution sets a term limit लिये election to the office of अध्यक्ष of the United States.
Congress passed the amendment on March 21, 1947.
It was ratified by the requisite number of states on February 27, 1951.
इस is an episode guide for the दुश्मनी series Bobobo-bo Bo-bobo.
इस list encompasses every episode, beginning with the original Japanese-language title as वे aired on TV Asahi, followed by the शीर्षक used in the English dubbed version airing in the संयुक्त राज्य on Cartoon Network.
a छोटी summary will follow, introducing the एपीसोड and referring to some of the gags, but नहीं giving the complete summaries to the episodes.
All names और some of the सन्दर्भ will be the ones used from the english-language version to avoid confusion.
जापानी names may be प्रस्तुत after the डब name in parentheses.
This article is about the public park in New यॉर्क City.
लिये other उपयोग, see Central Park ( disambiguation ).
Central पार्क is a पब्लिक park at the बीच of मैनहटन in New York City.
The पार्क initially opened in 1857, on of city-owned जमीन ( it is 843 acres today ).
in 1858, Frederick Law Olmsted and Calvert Vaux जीती a डिज़ाइन प्रतियोगिता to improve and expand the park with a योजना they entitled the Greensward Plan.
Construction began the वही साल, जारी दौरान the American Civil War, और थी completed in 1873.
Central Park is the most visited urban park in the संयुक्त राज्य.
Designated a National Historic Landmark in 1962, the park is फिलहाल प्रबंधित by the सेंट्रल पार्क conservancy under contract with the नगर government.
The conservancy is a non-profit संगठन कि contributes 83.5 % of Central Park 's $ 37.5 million annual बजट, और employs 80.7 % of the park 's maintenance staff.
tracfone बेतार, Inc. is a prepaid wireless सेवा प्रदाता operating in the United राज्य सहित Puerto Rico and the us Virgin Islands and is a subsidiary of Mexico 's largest telecommunications provider, América Móvil.
As a Mobile Virtual संजाल ऑपरेटर ( MVNO ), TracFone Wireless holds अनेक agreements with the US largest wireless telecommunications companies to utilize उनके networks to provide सेवा including those of Verizon, AT & T, स्प्रिंट, और T-Mobile.
TracFone Wireless offers इसके बेतार products under multiple brands which each also offer distinctive service योजनाएँ, the brands शामिल TracFone, NET10 बेतार, Straight Talk, SafeLink Wireless, Telcel América and सरल Mobile.
A grab dredge
dredging is an excavation activity or operation usually carried out at least partly underwater, in shallow seas or fresh water areas with the purpose of gathering up नीचे sediments and disposing of them at a different स्थान.
इस तकनीक is often प्रयुक्त to रखना waterways navigable.
It is भी प्रयुक्त as a way to replenish sand on some public beaches, where sand has been खोया क्युकी of coastal erosion.
dredging is also used as a तकनीक for fishing for निश्चित species of edible क्लेम and crabs, see fishing dredge.
a dredger ( or “dredge” as is the general उपयोग in the Americas ) is any device, machine, or पोत कि is used to excavate and remove material from the bottom of a body of जल.
For example, a scoop attached to the end of a रस्सी or ध्रुव by which a man can चित्रण sediments up from the bottom of a pond is a dredger.
Developing this idea further, a motorized crane equipped साथ a drag बाल्टी or clamshell ( grabber ) कि is used to स्कूप material from the bottom of a body of जल is also a dredger.
The crane could be located on the bank, or perhaps mounted on a barge.
If the crane is आरोहित on a barge, the संपूर्ण पोत is referred to as a dredger.
the process of dredging creates spoils ( excess material ), जिससे हैं carried away from the dredged area.
dredging can उपज materials लिये land reclamation or other उद्देश्य ( प्रायः construction-related ), और has also historically played a significant role in gold mining.
dredging can create disturbance in aquatic ecosystems, often with adverse impacts.
Cleveland Volcano in the aleutian Islands of Alaska photographed from the International Space स्टेशन, May 2006.
राख plumes reached a height of 19 km during the climactic फटना at Mount Pinatubo, फिलीपीन in 1991.
A volcano is an opening, or rupture, in a planet 's surface or क्रस्ट, which allows hot magma, volcanic ash and गैसों to escape from the magma chamber below the सतह.
ज्वालामुखी are generally मिला जहाँ tectonic प्लेटों are diverging or converging.
a mid-oceanic ridge, लिये उदाहरण the Mid-Atlantic लकीरें, has examples of volcanoes caused by अपसारी tectonic प्लेटों pulling अलावा ; the Pacific Ring of Fire has examples of volcanoes caused by convergent tectonic plates coming together.
by कंट्रास्ट, ज्वालामुखी are प्रायः not created where दो tectonic plates स्लाइड पास्ट एक another.
Volcanoes can also form जहाँ there is stretching and thinning of the Earth 's क्रस्ट in the interiors of plates, e.g., in the East African दरार, the Wells Gray-Clearwater volcanic field and the Rio Grande Rift in North अमेरिका.
This type of volcanism falls under the छतरियाँ of `` Plate परिकल्पना '' volcanism.
volcanism away इससे थाली boundaries has also been explained as mantle plumes.
ये so-called `` hotspots ``, for example Hawaii, हैं postulated to उठता from upwelling diapirs with magma from the core–mantle boundary, 3,000 km गहन in the धरती.
Erupting volcanoes can पोज़ अनेक hazards, नहीं तभी in the तात्कालिक vicinity of the फटना.
Volcanic ash can be a threat to वायुयान, in particular those with जेट engines where ash अणु can be melted by the high operating temperature.
Large eruptions can affect temperature as ash and droplets of sulfuric acid obscure the sun and cool the धरती 's निम्नतर atmosphere or क्षोभमण्डल ; however, they भी absorb heat radiated up इससे the धरती, thereby वार्मिंग the stratosphere.
Historically, so-called volcanic सर्दियों have caused अनर्थकारी famines.
Benedict Arnold ( June 14, 1801 ) was a general दौरान the अमरीकी Revolutionary युद्ध who originally fought for the अमरीकी महाद्वीपीय फौज but defected to the British Army.
While a general on the American side, he प्राप्त command of the फोर्ट at West Point, New York, and नियोजित to surrender it to the British forces.
After the योजना was उजागर in September 1780, he was commissioned into the British Army as a ब्रिगेडियर general.
born in Connecticut, Arnold was a व्यापारी ऑपरेटिंग ships on the Atlantic समंदर when the war broke out in 1775.
बाद joining the growing army बाहर Boston, he distinguished himself through acts of intelligence and वीरता.
His क्रियाएँ शामिल the Capture of Fort Ticonderoga in 1775, defensive और delaying tactics despite losing the बैटल of Valcour Island on Lake Champlain in 1776, the Battle of Ridgefield, Connecticut ( after जिससे he was promoted to major सामान्य ), operations in relief of the घेरा of Fort Stanwix, and key actions दौरान the pivotal लड़ाइयों of Saratoga in 1777, in जिससे he suffered leg चोटों कि ended his combat career for several years.
Despite Arnold 's सफलताओं, he was passed over लिये promotion by the महाद्वीपीय कॉंग्रेस while अन्य officers claimed क्रेडिट for some of his accomplishments.
Adversaries in military and political circles brought charges of corruption or अन्य malfeasance, लकिन most often he थी acquitted in formal inquiries.
कॉंग्रेस investigated his accounts and found he was ऋणी to कॉंग्रेस after spending much of उसके अपना money on the war effort.
Frustrated और कड़वा, अर्नाल्ड decided to change sides in 1779, and opened रहस्य negotiations with the British.
in जुलाई 1780, he थी offered, continued to pursue and was awarded कमांड of West Point.
Arnold 's scheme to आत्मसमर्पण the fort to the British was उजागर when अमरीकी forces captured British प्रमुख John आंद्रे carrying papers that revealed the plot.
upon learning of आंद्रे 's कैप्चर, Arnold fled bas the हडसन River to the British sloop-of-war Vulture, narrowly बचने capture by the forces of George वॉशिंगटन, who था been alerted to the plot.
अर्नाल्ड received a commission as a brigadier general in the अंग्रेजों Army, an annual pension of £360, और a lump sum of over £6,000.
he led British शक्तियां on raids in Virginia, and against नई London and Groton, Connecticut, before the war effectively ended with the American victory at yorktown.
in the winter of 1782, Arnold moved to London with उसके दूसरी wife, मार्गरेट `` पैगी '' shippen अर्नाल्ड.
He was खूब प्राप्त by King George III and the tories but frowned upon by the whigs.
in 1787, he लौटे to the merchant business with his बेटे Richard and हेनरी in संत John, New ब्रंसविक.
He लौटे to London to settle permanently in 1791, where he died ten years later.
Because of the way he changed पहलू, उसके name जल्दी became a in the संयुक्त राज्य लिये देशद्रोह or विश्वासघात.
His conflicting legacy is recalled in the ambiguous nature of कुछ of the memorials that have been लगाई in his honor.
Curtis montague Schilling ( born November 14, 1966 ) is a former American प्रमुख League बेसबॉल right-handed पिचर and वीडियो Game डेवलपर.
He helped lead the फिलाडेल्फिया Phillies to the संसार श्रेणी in और won World Series championships in with the Arizona Diamondbacks and in and साथ the Boston रेड Sox.
schilling retired साथ a करियर postseason record of 11–2.
His.846 postseason winning प्रतिशत is a major-league record among pitchers with at least 10 निर्णय.
After retiring, he founded ग्रीन Monster Games जिससे was renamed 38 studios.
the company released Kingdoms of amalur : हिसाब in February 2012, but बस तीन महीने later, Schilling laid off his entire staff amid severe financial troubles that resulted in the company missing payroll the previous सप्ताह.
स्टार Wars is an American epic स्पेस opera franchise केन्द्रित on a film श्रेणी created by George लुकास.
The फिल्मी series रै spawned a मीडिया franchise outside the फिल्मी series पुकारा the Expanded Universe including books, television series, computer and video games, और कॉमिक किताबे.
These supplements to the film trilogies have resulted in significant विकास of the series ' fictional universe.
These media kept the मताधिकार active in the अंतरिम between the film trilogies.
the franchise portrays a galaxy that is वर्णित as far, far away in the distant past.
it commonly portrays Jedi as a representation of good, in conflict with the सिथ, उनके evil बंटवारा.
उनके हथियार of choice, the lightsaber, is commonly पहचाना in popular culture.
The fictional universe also contains अनेक विषयवस्तु, विशेषकर प्रभाव of philosophy और religion.
the पहला film in the श्रेणी was originally released on May 25, 1977, अंतर्गत the शीर्षक Star युद्धों, by 20th सदी Fox, and became a worldwide pop culture phenomenon, followed by two sequels, released at three-year intervals.
सोलह years after the release of the trilogy 's final film, the first in a new प्रीक्वेल trilogy of films थी released.
the three prequel films were भी released at three-year intervals, साथ the final फिल्मी of the trilogy released on May 19, 2005.
in October 2012, The Walt Disney Company acquired Lucasfilm लिये $ 4.05 billion and घोषित कि it would produce तीन नई films, साथ the पहला film, Star Wars एपीसोड VII, planned for रिलीज in 2015.
20th सदी फॉक्स still retains the distribution rights to the पहला two Star युद्धों trilogies, owning permanent rights for the original film Episode IV : A New Hope, जबकि पकड़कर the rights to Episodes i–iii, v और VI until May 2020.
प्रतिक्रियाएँ to the असली trilogy were mostly positive, साथ the last film being माना the weakest, जबकि the prequel trilogy प्राप्त a more mixed reaction, with most of the praise होने for the final movie, according to most review aggregator websites.
All six of the प्रमुख films in the श्रेणी were भी मनोनीत for or won Academy Awards.
All of the प्रमुख films have महरूम box दफ्तर successes, with the overall box office revenue generated by the स्टार Wars films ( सहित the नाट्य Star Wars : The Clone युद्धों ) totalling $ 4.49 billion, making it the third-highest-grossing film श्रेणी.
The success has also led to अनेक re-releases in theaters for the series.
Plateletpheresis ( अधिक accurately called thrombocytapheresis or thrombapheresis, though ये names are rarely used ) is the process of collecting thrombocytes, more commonly called platelets, a घटक of रक्त शामिल in blood clotting.
The term specifically refers to the method of collecting the platelets, which is performed by a device used in blood donation that separates the प्लेटलेट्स and returns other portions of the blood to the दाता.
Platelet transfusion can be a life-saving कार्यविधि in preventing or treating serious complications from bleeding and hemorrhage in मरीजों जो have disorders manifesting as thrombocytopenia ( low platelet count ) or platelet dysfunction.
This process may also be used therapeutically to treat विकार resulting in extraordinarily ऊँची platelet counts such as अनिवार्य thrombocytosis.
In computer networking, a port is an application-specific or process-specific तन्त्र construct serving as a communications endpoint in a कंप्यूटर 's मेजबान ऑपरेटिंग system.
a port is संबद्ध साथ an IP address of the मेजबान, as well as the type of protocol used for communication.
the purpose of ports is to uniquely पहचानो different अनुप्रयोग or प्रक्रियाओं running on a single computer and thereby enable them to share a single शारीरिक connection to a packet-switched संजाल जैसे the अंतरजाल.
The protocols that primarily उपयोग ports are the हस्तांतरण Layer प्रोटोकॉल, such as the हस्तांतरण Control प्रोटोकॉल ( TCP ) and the उपयोक्ता datagram Protocol ( यूडीपी ) of the Internet Protocol Suite.
A port is identified for each address and protocol by a 16-bit क्रमांक, commonly known as the बंदरगाहों number.
The port number, added to a कंप्यूटर 's IP पता, completes the destination address लिये a संचार सत्र.
कि is, आंकड़ा packets are routed आरपार the संजाल to a specific destination IP पता, और then, upon reaching the गंतव्य computer, are further routed to the विशिष्ट process बंधी to the destination बंदरगाहों number.
नोट that it is the combination of IP address and port number together that जरूर be globally unique.
Thus, अलग ip addresses or प्रोटोकॉल may उपयोग the same port number for communication ; e.g., on a given host or interface UDP and TCP may use the same बंदरगाहों number, or on a host with two interfaces, both पता may be associated with a port having the same number.
Of the thousands of enumerated ports, परिचय 250 well-known पोर्ट are reserved by convention to पहचानो specific service types on a host.
in the client-server model of application architecture, पोर्ट are प्रयुक्त to provide a multiplexing सेवा on प्रत्येक server-side बंदरगाहों number that network clients कनेक्ट to लिये service दीक्षा, after which communication can be reestablished on other connection-specific port numbers.
Area कोड 479 is the telephone क्षेत्रफल कोड serving thirteen counties in northwest Arkansas, including the cities of Fort स्मिथ, fayetteville, Springdale, Rogers and Bentonville : the दूसरी, तीसरा, fourth, eighth and tenth-largest cities in the state, क्रमशः.
It was created in 2002 in a विभाजित इससे area code 501.
Area code 479 serves Benton, Carroll ( split with area code 870 ), Crawford, फ्रैंकलिन, Johnson, Logan, Madison, polk, Pope, Scott, सेबेस्टियन, Washington और चिल्लाते Counties in Arkansas.
Arraignment is a औपचारिक reading of a criminal चार्जिंग document in the उपस्थिति of the defendant to inform the defendant of the charges विरूद्ध him or her.
In response to arraignment, the accused is expected to enter a plea.
Acceptable pleas vary among jurisdictions, but वे generally include `` अपराधी '', `` not guilty '', and the peremptory pleas ( or pleas in बार ) सेटिंग आउट reasons क्यों a trial can not proceed.
Pleas of `` nolo contendere `` ( no contest ) and the `` Alford plea `` are allowed in some हालातों.
In इंग्लैण्ड, वेल्स, Northern आयरलैंड and ऑस्ट्रेलिया, arraignment is the first of eleven stages in a criminal trial, और involves the क्लर्क of the अदालत reading out the indictment.
the defendant is पूछा whether he or वो pleads guilty or not guilty to each charge.
In federal न्यायालयों of the संयुक्त States, arraignment takes place in two stages.
the पहला is called the आरंभिक arraignment and जरूर take place भीतर 48 hours of an individual 's गिरफ़्तार, 72 hours if the individual was arrested on the वीकेंड and not able to go before a न्यायधीश until Monday.
दौरान इस arraignment the defendant is सूचित of the स्थगित legal charges and is informed of his or her right to retain counsel.
the presiding न्यायधीश also decides at what amount, if any, to set जमानत.
During the second arraignment, a post-indictment arraignment or PIA, the defendant is allowed to enter a दलील.
geoffrey Chaucer ( ; c. 1343 – 25 October 1400 ), known as the Father of English साहित्य, is widely माना the greatest English poet of the Middle Ages और was the first poet to have महरूम buried in कवि 's Corner of Westminster Abbey.
जबकि he achieved कीर्ति दौरान his lifetime as an author, philosopher, alchemist और astronomer, composing a scientific treatise on the astrolabe for उसके ten year-old son Lewis, Chaucer भी कायम an active career in the civil service as a bureaucrat, नवरत्नों and diplomat.
Among his many works, जिससे include The किताब of the Duchess, the House of Fame, the Legend of Good Women and Troilus and Criseyde, he is best ज्ञात today for The canterbury Tales.
चासर is a निर्णायक figure in developing the legitimacy of the vernacular, मध्य English, at a time जब the dominant साहित्यिक languages in England were French और लैटिन.
The Chicago Blizzard of 1979 was a major blizzard that प्रभावित northern Illinois and northwest Indiana, u.S. on जनवरी 13 – January 14, 1979.
of snow गिरी on January 13 alone, setting a new record for snow in एक पंचांग day.
by the end of January 14, of हिम had fallen.
The ठंडा मौसम and snowfall throughout the rest of January and February resulted in frozen tracks throughout the शिकागो 'L ' प्रणाली.
commuters crowded onto CTA buses, quickly overwhelming capacity, resulting in usual bus commutes of 30-45 minutes taking up to अनेक घंटों.
To avoid विशाल snowdrifts in the गलियों, the overcrowded buses were obliged to take numerous detours, adding additional समय to the commute.
Deployment of plows was significantly delayed और when they finally appeared वे struggled to keep up with the हिमपात.
Much of the snow remained unremoved throughout the अगला 2 months, causing ongoing पब्लिक transit delays and significant problems with trash collection.
The city 's inadequate response to the blizzard was blamed primarily on mayor Michael Bilandic, जो had assumed the post after the 1976 death of Richard J. Daley.
Newspaper आलेख at the time blasted Bilandic ; Jane Byrne, Bilandic 's main राजनैतिक प्रतिद्वंद्वी in the लोकतांत्रिक primary ( who had previously worked with Bilandic in the Daley administration और महरूम fired by Bilandic when the दो could नहीं get साथ ), capitalized on this and went on to defeat Bilandic in the फ़रवरी 27 प्राथमिक.
The 12-hour clock is a time convention in which the 24 hours of the दिन are विभाजित into दो अवधि : a.m. ( from the Latin ante meridiem, अर्थ `` before midday '' ) and p.m. ( post meridiem, `` after midday '' ).
Each काल consists of 12 hours numbered : 12 ( acting as zero ), 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, and 11.
The 12-hour clock was developed over time इससे the mid-second millennium BC to the 16th century AD.
Health spending प्रति capita, in $ us PPP-adjusted, with the US and Canada compared amongst other first world राष्ट्र.
Comparison of the health परवाह प्रणालियों in कनाडा और the United राज्य are often made by सरकारी, public health and public policy analysts.
the two countries had समान स्वास्थ्य care systems before Canada reformed its system in the 1960s and 1970s.
The United States खर्च much more money on स्वास्थ्य care than कनाडा, on both a per-capita basis and as a percentage of GDP.
In 2006, per-capita बिता for health care in Canada was US $ 3,678 ; in the U.S., us $ 6,714.
The u.S. spent 15.3 % of GDP on health care in that year ; Canada spent 10.0 %.
In 2006, 70 % of स्वास्थ्य care spending in Canada थी financed by सरकारी, बनाम 46 % in the United States.
Total government बिता प्रति capita in the U.S. on health परवाह was 23 % उच्चतर than कनाडाई government spending, and U.S. government expenditure on स्वास्थ्य care थी just under 83 % of total Canadian spending ( public and निजी ) though ये statistics do n't take into account जनसांख्यिकी differences.
Studies have come to different conclusions about the result of this disparity in spending.
A 2007 review of all studies comparing health outcomes in Canada and the us in a Canadian peer-reviewed medical journal found that `` health outcomes may be superior in patients cared for in कनाडा बनाम the United राज्य, but differences are नहीं consistent. ''
Life expectancy is longer in Canada, and its infant mortality rate is lower than that of the U.S., but there is बहस परिचय the underlying causes of these मतभेद.
One commonly cited comparison, the 2000 World स्वास्थ्य Organization 's ratings of `` overall health service performance '', जिससे used a `` कम्पोजिट measure of उपलब्धि in the level of health, the वितरण of health, the level of responsiveness और fairness of financial contribution '', ranked कनाडा 30th and the US 37th among 191 member राष्ट्र.
This पढ़ाई रेटेड the US `` responsiveness '', or quality of सेवा for individuals receiving treatment, as 1st, compared with 7th for Canada.
जबकि the average life expectancy for Canadians was 80.34 सालो compared with 78.6 years for residents of the us, simply comparing the life प्रत्याशा of two समूह with अलग racial makeup and different obesity rates is likely नहीं an प्रभावी way of determining which healthcare system is superior.
the WHO 's पढ़ाई methods यहूद criticized by some analyses.
हालांकि there is a माप of सर्वसम्मति that life-expectancy and infant mortality चिह्नित the most reliable तरीके to compare nation-wide health परवाह, assuming the population मेकअप is similar, a recent report by the Congressional Research Service carefully summarizes some recent आंकड़ा and notes the `` मुश्किल research issues '' facing international comparisons.
Tarantulas comprise a group of often hairy and very large arachnids belonging to the Theraphosidae family of मकड़ियों, of which approximately 900 species have महरूम identified.
This article only describes सदस्यों of theraphosidae, although some other सदस्यों of the वही suborder हैं commonly referred to as `` tarantulas ''.
Most species of tarantulas हैं not dangerous to इंसानो, and some प्रजाति have become popular in the exotic pet trade.
The ton is a unit of measure.
It रै a long इतिहास और has acquired a number of meanings और uses over the years.
It is used principally as a ईकाई of वज़न, और as a unit of volume.
It can also be used as a measure of energy, लिये truck वर्गीकरण, or as a colloquial term.
It is derived इससे the tun, the term applied to a barrel of the largest आकार.
This could contain a आवाज़ between 210 and 256 gallons ( 800 to 1000 L ), which could weigh around 2,000 पाउंड ( 900 kg ) and occupy some of space.
In the संयुक्त किंगडम the ton is पारिभाषित as ( avoirdupois pounds ).
इससे 1965 the UK embarked upon a programme of metrication and धीरे introduced मीट्रिक इकाई, including the tonne ( metric ton ), a non-si metric unit पारिभाषित as 1000 kg.
The UK weights and Measures Act 1985 explicitly excluded from use लिये trade many units और शर्तें, including the ton and the term `` मीट्रिक ton '' लिये `` टन ''
In the संयुक्त States and formerly कनाडा a ton is defined to be.
जहाँ भ्रम is possible, the 2240 lb ton is called `` long ton `` and the 2000 lb ton `` short ton `` ; the टन is distinguished by इसके स्पेलिंग, but usually pronounced the same as ton, hence the US term `` metric ton ''.
In the UK the final `` e '' of `` टन '' can भी be pronounced ( /ˈtʌnɪ/ ), or `` metric ton '' जब it is जरुरी to make the distinction.
जहाँ accuracy is जरूरी the correct term must be used, but for many उद्देश्य इस is not necessary : the metric और long टन differ by only 1.6 %, और the छोटी ton is भीतर 11 % of both.
the ton is the अधिकतम ईकाई of weight referred to in colloquial speech.
The term `` ton '' is भी used to refer to a number of units of आवाज़, ranging from in capacity.
it can also be प्रयुक्त as a ईकाई of उर्जा, expressed as an समतुल्य of coal जले, TNT detonated, or in प्रशीतन, ice melted.
in Britain, ton is used in slang in several contexts to mean `` 100 ''.
as a लागत or a speed, a ton is widely understood to be £100 or 100 mph.
the स्टेनली Cup ( ) is the championship ट्रॉफी awarded annually to the National Hockey League ( NHL ) playoff winner after the निष्कर्ष of the स्टेनली Cup Finals.
originally commissioned in 1892 as the Dominion Hockey Challenge Cup, the ट्रॉफी is named for Lord स्टेनली of Preston, then- Governor General of Canada, who awarded it to कनाडा 's top-ranking amateur ice hockey club, which the संपूर्ण Stanley family supported, साथ the बेटे and daughters playing and promoting the game.
The first Cup was awarded in 1893 to Montreal HC.
In 1915, the दो professional ice hockey organizations, the National Hockey Association ( NHA ) and the Pacific Coast Hockey Association ( pcha ), पहुँचे a gentlemen 's अनुबंध in जिससे उनके संबंधित champions होता face प्रत्येक other लिये the स्टेनली Cup.
After a श्रेणी of league mergers and folds, the स्टेनली `` Presentation कप '' was established as the de facto championship ट्रॉफी of the NHL in 1926 and तब the de jure NHL championship पुरस्कार in 1947.
वहीँ are दरअसल three Stanley Cups : the असली कटोरी of the `` Dominion हॉकी चुनौती Cup '', the authenticated `` Presentation Cup '', and the `` प्रतिरूप कप '' at the Hall of Fame.
the NHL रै maintained effective कंट्रोल over both the trophy itself और its संबद्ध trademarks.
Nevertheless, the NHL does not दरअसल own the trophy, but instead uses it by अनुबंध with the two Trustees of the Cup.
the NHL रै registered trademarks संबद्ध with the नाम and likeness of the स्टेनली कप, although the लीग 's सही to outright own trademarks associated with a trophy it does not अपना has महरूम disputed by some legal experts.
Unlike the ट्राफियां awarded by the अन्य three major professional खेल leagues of North अमेरिका, a new स्टेनली कप is not made प्रत्येक year ; विजेता रखना it until a new champion is पहनाया.
It is unusual among ट्राफियां, in that it रै the names of all of the जीतना players, coaches, प्रबन्धन, and club स्टाफ engraved on its chalice.
Initially, a new band added each year caused the ट्रॉफी to grow in size, earning the nickname `` Stovepipe Cup ''.
in 1958 the modern one-piece Cup थी designed with a five-band बैरल which could contain 13 winning teams per band.
To avoid the Stanley Cup इससे growing, when the नीचे band is full, the oldest band is removed and preserved in the हॉकी हॉल of Fame, and a new blank band added to the bottom.
it has been referred to as The Cup, Lord Stanley 's कप, The पावन Grail, or facetiously ( chiefly by sportswriters ) as Lord Stanley 's मग.
the Stanley Cup is घिरी by numerous महापुरूष and परंपराओं, the oldest of which is the celebratory drinking of champagne आउट of the cup by the जीतना team.
The original bowl was बना of चांदी and is 18.5 सेण्टीमीटर ( 7.28 inches ) in ऊँचाई and 29 centimetres ( 11.42 inches ) in व्यास.
the वर्तमान Stanley कप, अव्वल साथ a copy of the original bowl, is बना of a silver and निकल मिश्रधातु ; it रै a ऊँचाई of 89.54 centimetres ( 35.25 इंच ) and weighs 15.5 kilograms ( 34.5 lb / 2 st 61⁄2 lb ).
चूंकि the 1914–15 ऋतु, the Cup has महरूम won a combined 94 times by 18 active NHL teams and five defunct teams.
Prior to कि, the challenge cup was held by नौ अलग टीमों.
The Montreal Canadiens have won the कप a record 24 times and are फिलहाल the last Canadian-based टोली in the NHL to win the cup after winning it in 1993.
the Stanley Cup was नहीं awarded in 1919 क्युकी of a स्पेनी flu epidemic, and in 2005, as a consequence of the NHL lockout.
The अनानास ( Ananas comosus ) is a तीव्र plant with खाद्य multiple fruit consisting of coalesced berries, and the most economically significant plant in the Bromeliaceae परिवार.
Pineapples may be cultivated from a crown cutting of the फल, possibly flowering in 20–24 months and fruiting in the following six महीने.
Pineapple करता not ripen significantly post-harvest.
Pineapples are consumed भैस, cooked, juiced, और preserved, and are मिला in a चौड़ी array of व्यंजन.
in जोड to consumption, in the Philippines the pineapple 's पत्ते are used to produce the textile रेशा piña - employed as a घटक of वॉल paper and furnishings, amongst अन्य uses.
in computer science, an integer is a datum of अभिन्न data type, a data प्रकार जिससे represents some finite subset of the mathematical integers.
Integral data types may be of different sizes and may or may not be अनुमत to contain ऋणात्मक values.
integers are commonly represented in a computer as a group of binary digits.
the size of the grouping varies so the नियत of integer sizes available varies between different types of कंप्यूटर.
कंप्यूटर हार्डवेयर nearly सदा provides a रास्ता to represent a processor register or memory address as an integer.
The Gordon Dam in Tasmania is a large हाइड्रो facility, with an installed क्षमता of.
Hydroelectricity is the term referring to विद्युत उत्पन्न by hydropower ; the उत्पादन of विद्युत शक्ति through the use of the gravitational force of गिरना or flowing जल.
It is the most widely प्रयुक्त form of बेदर्दी उर्जा, accounting for 16 percent of global electricity पीढी – 3,427 terawatt-hours of electricity production in 2010, and is expected to increase about 3.1 % each year लिये the next 25 years.
Hydropower is produced in 150 देशों, with the asia-pacific region generating 32 percent of वैश्विक hydropower in 2010.
चीन is the largest hydroelectricity निर्माता, with 721 terawatt-hours of उत्पादन in 2010, representing around 17 percent of domestic electricity use.
There हैं now three hydroelectricity plants larger than 10 GW : the तीन Gorges Dam in China, Itaipu बांध across the Brazil/Paraguay border, और Guri Dam in Venezuela.
The लागत of hydroelectricity is अपेक्षाकृत low, बनाना it a competitive source of बेदर्दी electricity.
The औसत cost of electricity इससे a hydro plant larger than 10 megawatts is 3 to 5 U.S. सेंट per kilowatt-hour.
Hydro is also a flexible source of विद्युत since पौधे can be ramped up and down very quickly to adapt to changing उर्जा मांगे.
however, damming interrupts the flow of rivers and can नुक़सान local ecosystems, and भवन large dams and टंकी प्रायः involves displacing people and wildlife.
एकबार a hydroelectric complex is constructed, the प्रोजेक्ट produces no direct waste, and रै a considerably lower output level of the ग्रीनहाउस gas carbon dioxide ( ) than चट्टान fuel powered energy plants.
वाइन boy at a यूनानी symposium
The history of wine spans thousands of years and is closely intertwined with the history of agriculture, भोजन, civilization and humanity itself.
पुरातत्व evidence suggests that the earliest known wine production occurred in कया is now the country of Georgia around 7000 BCE, with other notable sites in Greater Iran dated 4500 bce और अर्मेनिया 4100 bce, क्रमशः.
The world 's oldest ज्ञात winery ( dated to 3000 BCE ) थी discovered in Areni-1 गुफा in a mountainous area of Armenia.
url_http.
Increasingly clear archaeological evidence indicates कि domestication of the grapevine took प्लेस during the Early कांस्य आयु in the निकट East, सुमेर and मिश्र from around the third millennium bce.
Evidence of the earliest वाइन production in Balkans रै महरूम uncovered at पुरातत्व sites in उत्तरी Greece ( Macedonia ), दिनाँक to 4500 BC.
ये same sites also contain remnants of the world 's earliest प्रमाण of crushed अंगूर.
In Egypt, वाइन became a part of अंकित इतिहास, playing an important भूमिका in प्राचीन ceremonial जीवन.
Traces of wild wine dating इससे the second and first millennia BCE have भी been found in China.
मोरक्कन wine Kasher label 1930
the Jewish tradition और use of kosher वाइन is dating back to biblical times.
The long history of the उपयोग और production of वाइन throughout प्राचीन Israel is backed up by archeological evidence.
Within the Jewish diaspora communities सब around the globe, the traditional और religious उपयोग of kosher wine continued to this day.
वाइन, linked in मिथक to Dionysus / Bacchus, was common in ancient Greece और Rome, and many of today 's major wine-producing regions of Western Europe were स्थापित with Phoenician और, later, Roman बागानों.
Winemaking technology improved considerably during the time of the Roman Empire : many अंगूर varieties and cultivation techniques यहूद known ; the design of the wine press advanced ; और barrels were developed for storing और शिपिंग वाइन.
Rashi, a medieval French रब्बी and called the `` पिता '' of all commentaries that followed on the talmud और the Tanakh, earned his living as a vintner.
following the decline of Rome and its industrial-scale wine production for export, the Christian Church in मध्यकालीन Europe भी became a firm supporter of wine, जरुरी लिये celebration of the कैथोलिक Mass. whereas wine was forbidden in medieval Islamic cultures, its use in Christian libation थी widely tolerated.
Geber and other मुस्लिम chemists pioneered the distillation of wine for Islamic medicinal and industrial purposes such as perfume.
Wine production gradually increased, with खपत burgeoning इससे the 15th century onwards.
वाइन उत्पादन survived the devastating Phylloxera जूं of 1887 and eventually spread to numerous regions throughout the संसार.
जिले of वेस्ट Bengal
The भारतीय state of West Bengal borders with Nepal, भूटान, बांग्लादेश and the Indian states of Bihar, झारखण्ड, odisha, Assam और Sikkim.
The हिमालय झूठ in the उत्तर of the state and the Bay of बंगाल is at the दक्षिण.
In between उन्हें, the river Ganges बहती eastwards and its प्रमुख distributary, the Hooghly River, flows south to reach the खाड़ी of बंगाल.
The सिलीगुड़ी Corridor, जिससे connects North-East India with rest of the India, lies in the North Bengal प्रदेश of the राज्य.
Geographically, West Bengal is divided into a variety of regions— दार्जिलिंग Himalayan hill प्रदेश, terai and Doors प्रदेश, North Bengal plains, rarh region, Western plateau and high lands, coastal plains, Sunderbans and the Ganges Delta.
in 1947, जब India gained स्वतंत्रता, the state of वेस्ट Bengal was formed साथ 14 districts, as per partition plan of the तब Bengal province of अंग्रेजों India.
the former princely state Koch Bihar joined as a district in 1950, and the पूर्व French enclave chandannagore joined as भाग of the Hooghly district in 1954.
The States Reorganisation Act of 1956 led to addition of Purulia ज़िला to the राज्य और to enlargement of West Dinajpur ज़िला.
बाद, larger जिले such as West दिनाजपुर, 24 Parganas and Midnapore यहूद bifurcated.
West बंगाल is now divided into nineteen जिले अंतर्गत three विभाजन.
Districts are administered by District Magistrates, and विभाजन are administered by डिवीजनल Commissioners.
Kolkata, the capital of the state, constitutes the कोलकाता ज़िला.
अन्य districts are further divided into administrative इकाई such as subdivisions and ब्लॉक, administered by SDO और bdo, respectively.
The Panchayati Raj रै a three-tier structure in the राज्य.
The atomic ईकाई is called a Gram Panchayat, which is the Panchayat organization for a collection of villages.
the block-level संगठन are called पंचायत Samiti, and the district-level संगठन are named Zilla Parishad.
The Caribbean ( or ; ; ; or more commonly Antilles ) is a प्रदेश that consists of the Caribbean समुद्र, its islands ( some surrounded by the Caribbean Sea and some bordering both the Caribbean Sea और the North अटलांटिक Ocean ), and the surrounding coasts.
the region is southeast of the Gulf of मैक्सिको and the North American मेनलैंड, ईस्ट of Central America, और north of South America.
Situated largely on the Caribbean थाली, the प्रदेश comprises अधिक than 700 आइलैंड्स, islets, reefs, और cays.
( See the list. )
These islands generally form island arcs that delineate the eastern and उत्तरी किनारे of the caribbean Sea.
the caribbean islands, consisting of the Greater Antilles on the north and the Lesser Antilles on the south और east ( सहित the Leeward antilles ), are part of the somewhat larger West Indies grouping, which also शामिल the lucayan Archipelago ( comprising the बहामा and Turks और Caicos Islands ) north of the Greater Antilles and Caribbean समुद्र.
In a wider sense, the mainland countries of बेलीज़ and गुयाना – historically and culturally part of the British West Indies – may be included.
Geopolitically, the Caribbean islands हैं usually regarded as a subregion of North America and are organized into 30 territories सहित sovereign states, overseas विभाग, और dependencies.
From January 3, 1958, to May 31, 1962, there was a short-lived country called the Federation of the वेस्ट Indies composed of ten English-speaking Caribbean territories, सब of which were then uk dependencies.
the वेस्ट Indies क्रिकेट team continues to represent many of those राष्ट्र.
This is a list of the 221 towns and 13 शहरों in the U.S. state of New हैम्पशायर.
For each town/city, the table lists the काउंटी to which it belongs, its तिथि of incorporation, its जनसांख्यिकी according to the 2010 census, इसके रूप of सरकारी, और its principal गांवों.
Cities are indicated in boldface.
Cities और कस्बों are treated identically under राज्य विधि.
Cities are बस कस्बों जिनकी form of government was बदला by a special act of the New हैम्पशायर legislature.
However, towns currently हैं able to change their form of government by simple voter approval of a new municipal charter, with several of the अधिक populous कस्बों having already done so.
The main स्लेव routes in medieval अफ़्रीकी.
This article discusses systems, इतिहास, and effects of slavery भीतर अफ़्रीकी.
See अरब slave trade, Atlantic slave trade, Maafa, और Slavery in contemporary Africa लिये other discussions.
`` Slave transport in Africa ''.
Europeans usually did not enter the interior regions.
Slavery in अफ़्रीकी रै existed throughout the continent लिये many centuries, और continues in the current day.
Systems of servitude and slavery were आम in अनेक भाग of the continent, as they were in much of the ancient world.
in most अफ़्रीकी societies where slavery थी prevalent, the enslaved लोगों यहूद largely treated as indentured servants and not treated as chattel स्लेव.
When the Arab स्लेव व्यापार and अटलांटिक slave व्यापार began, many of the local स्लेव systems बदला और began supplying captives लिये slave markets outside of Africa.
Slavery in ऐतिहासिक Africa was practiced in अनेक different forms and some of these do not clearly fit the definitions of slavery elsewhere in the world.
Debt slavery, enslavement of युद्ध captives, military slavery, and दण्ड गुलामी were all practiced in various parts of Africa.
Although there had महरूम some trans-saharan trade इससे the interior of Sub-Saharan Africa to other regions, slavery was a small part of the economic life of many समाजों in अफ़्रीकी until the introduction of transcontinental slave trades ( Arab और Atlantic ).
स्लेव practices were again transformed with European colonization of Africa और the औपचारिक abolition of slavery in the जल्दी 1900s.
Brett lorenzo Favre ( born अक्तूबर 10, 1969 ) is a former American football quarterback who खर्च the majority of his career with the Green खाड़ी Packers of the नेशनल Football League ( NFL ).
He was a 20-year दिग्गज of the NFL, having निभाई क्वार्टरबैक लिये the अटलांटा falcons ( 1991 ), Green Bay Packers ( 1992 – 2007 ), नई York Jets ( 2008 ) and Minnesota Vikings ( 2009 – 2010 ).
favre is the तभी quarterback in NFL history to throw for over 70,000 yards, over 500 touchdowns, over 300 interceptions, over 6,000 completions, and over 10,000 pass कोशिशें.
Favre started at the क्वार्टरबैक position for the University of Southern मिसिसिपी लिये चार years before being selected in the दूसरी round of the 1991 NFL Draft by Atlanta ( 33rd overall ).
He was traded to Green Bay on February 10, 1992, for the 19th चुनें in the 1992 NFL ड्राफ्ट.
favre became the Packers ' starting quarterback in the fourth game of the 1992 season, stepping in for injured quarterback Don Majkowski, and started every game through the 2007 season.
He थी traded to the New York Jets and started at quarterback लिये the 2008 season पहले हस्ताक्षर साथ the Vikings on अगस्त 18, 2009 as उनके starting quarterback.
He made an NFL record 297 consecutive starts ( 321 including playoffs ).
He is the only player to जीत the ap Most Valuable Player three लगातार टाइम्स ( 1995–97 ).
he has led teams to eight प्रभाग championships ( 1995, 1996, 1997, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2007, 2009 ), पाँच NFC चैंपियनशिप खेल ( 1995, 1996, 1997, 2007, 2009 ), and two Super Bowl appearances ( Super Bowl XXXI, सुपर Bowl XXXII ), जीतना one ( Super Bowl xxxi ).
He holds many NFL records, including सबसे career touchdown passes, सबसे career passing yards, most करियर pass completions, most career pass attempts, most करियर interceptions thrown, most consecutive starts by a player, सबसे consecutive starts by a क्वार्टरबैक, most career victories as a starting quarterback, most sacked, and सबसे fumbles.
He is also referred to by his nickname `` the gunslinger ''.
Salesforce.com Inc. is a वैश्विक enterprise software company headquartered in San Francisco, California.
Though best ज्ञात for its ग्राहक relationship management ( CRM ) product, salesforce रै भी विस्तारित into the `` सोशल enterprise arena '' through acquisitions.
it is currently ranked the सबसे innovative company in अमेरिका by Forbes पत्रिका, as well as number 27 in Fortunes magazine 's 100 Best Companies to Work For in 2012.
As of April 2013, the company is क्रमित छठे in providing सेवाएं in विपणन and customer सेवा स्वचालन.
It is सूचीबद्ध on the New यॉर्क Stock एक्सचेंज and is a constituent of the s & p 500 index.
Seahorse is the शीर्षक दिए to 54 species of समुद्री fish in the genus Hippocampus.
`` Hippocampus '' comes इससे the प्राचीन Greek hippos meaning `` घोड़ा '' and kampos meaning `` sea दानव ''.
धरती is the third ग्रह from the Sun, और the densest and fifth-largest of the eight planets in the सौर प्रणाली.
It is also the largest of the Solar System 's चार स्थलीय planets.
It is sometimes referred to as the world or the Blue Planet.
धरती formed approximately 4.54 billion years ago, and life appeared on its surface within its first billion years.
Earth 's biosphere तब significantly altered the atmospheric और other basic physical conditions, which सक्रिय the proliferation of जीवों as well as the formation of the ozone layer, which साथ साथ Earth 's चुम्बकीय field blocked harmful solar radiation, and permitted formerly ocean-confined जीवन to move safely to जमीन.
The शारीरिक properties of the Earth, as well as its geological history and कक्षा, have allowed life to persist.
estimates on how much longer the ग्रह होगा be able to continue to support जीवन दायरा इससे, to as long as.
Earth 's lithosphere is विभाजित into अनेक rigid segments, or tectonic plates, that migrate आरपार the surface over periods of अनेक लाखो of सालो.
About 71 % of the surface is covered by नमक water महासागर, with the शेष consisting of continents and islands which together have many झीलों and other sources of water that योगदान to the hydrosphere.
Earth 's poles हैं mostly covered with ice कि is the solid बर्फ of the अंटार्कटिक ice चादर and the समुद्र ice that is the polar ice पैक.
the planet 's आंतरिक remains active, with a solid iron inner कोर, a liquid बाहरी कोर that generates the magnetic field, and a thick layer of relatively ठोस mantle.
धरती gravitationally interacts with अन्य objects in space, especially the Sun and the Moon.
During one orbit around the सूर्य, the Earth घुमाता परिचय इसके own axis 366.26 टाइम्स, creating 365.26 solar दिनों, or one sidereal year.
The Earth 's axis of rotation is tilted 23.4° away from the perpendicular of its कक्षीय प्लेन, producing seasonal विसंगतियाँ on the ग्रह 's surface with a काल of one तीव्र year ( 365.24 solar days ).
the Moon is धरती 's only natural satellite.
It began orbiting the Earth about.
The चंद्रमा 's gravitational interaction with Earth stimulates समंदर tides, stabilizes the axial झुकाव, और धीरे slows the planet 's रोटेशन.
The planet is home to millions of species of जीवन, including humans.
दोनो the खनिज resources of the planet और the products of the biosphere योगदान संसाधन that हैं प्रयुक्त to support a global human जनसांख्यिकी.
These inhabitants are grouped into about 200 independent sovereign states, जिससे interact through diplomacy, सफर, trade, और military कार्रवाई.
Human संस्कृतियों have विकसित many views of the planet, including its personification as a ग्रहीय deity, इसके shape as flat, इसके position as the बीच of the universe, and in the modern gaia Principle, as a single, self-regulating सजीव in its अपना right.
The Magician from the Waite-Smith टैरो, who is depicted using the वही टूल्स कि आधुनिक Wiccans उपयोग.
In the neopagan धर्म of wicca, a दायरा of जादुई टूल्स are used in अनुष्ठान practice.
Each of ये tools has different uses और associations, और are used primarily to direct magical energies.
They are प्रयुक्त at an altar, inside a magic वृत्त.
In परंपरागत gardnerian Wicca, the tools are often विभाजित into निजी tools, which are for उपयोग by, and owned by, an व्यक्तिगत Wiccan, और आउटटेक tools, used collectively by the coven.
इस अभ्यास may derive partly from Masonic traditions ( such as the उपयोग of the वर्गाकार and Compasses ), from जिससे Wicca draws कुछ material, and partly इससे the rituals of the hermetic अनुक्रम of the सुनहरी Dawn.
The latter बना much use of सामग्री from medieval grimoires such as the कुंजी of Solomon, which has many illustrations of magical tools and instructions लिये उनके preparation.
Typical eukaryotic कोशिका.
Cellular श्वसन is the set of the metabolic reactions और processes that take place in the cells of organisms to convert biochemical energy इससे nutrients into adenosine triphosphate ( ATP ), and तब रिलीज बर्बाद products.
the reactions involved in respiration हैं catabolic reactions, which break विशाल molecules into smaller ones, releasing energy in the process as weak so-called `` high-energy '' bonds are replaced by stronger bonds in the products.
Respiration is one of the key तरीके a कोशिका gains useful energy to ईंधन सेल्यूलर कार्यकलाप.
सेल्यूलर श्वसन is माना an exothermic redox reaction.
The overall reaction is broken into अनेक smaller ones जब it occurs in the देह, सबसे of which are रेडॉक्स reactions themselves.
Although technically, cellular श्वसन is a combustion प्रतिक्रिया, it clearly does not resemble one जब it occurs in a living cell.
This अंतर is क्युकी it occurs in अनेक separate steps.
While the overall reaction is a combustion प्रतिक्रिया, no सिंगल reaction that comprises it is a combustion reaction.
Nutrients that हैं commonly used by animal and plant कोशिकाएं in श्वसन शामिल sugar, amino acids और वसीय acids, और a आम oxidizing agent ( electron acceptor ) is molecular oxygen ( O2 ).
the energy stored in ATP ( its third फास्फेट group is weakly बंधुआ to the rest of the molecule and is cheaply broken allowing stronger bonds to form, thereby transferring energy for use by the cell ) can then be प्रयुक्त to drive प्रक्रियाओं requiring energy, सहित जैवसंश्लेषण, locomotion or परिवहन of अणुओं across cell membranes.
A stored-pressure fire extinguisher made by amerex
a अंग्रेजों fire extinguisher with ID sign, call पाइंट and आग action चिह्न
a आग extinguisher, flame extinguisher, or बस an extinguisher, is an active आग सुरक्षा device प्रयुक्त to extinguish or control small fires, often in emergency situations.
It is not intended for use on an out-of-control आग, such as one which has reached the ceiling, endangers the user ( i.e., no escape route, smoke, explosion hazard, etc. ), or वरना requires the expertise of a fire department.
Typically, a fire extinguisher consists of a hand-held cylindrical pressure vessel containing an agent which can be discharged to extinguish a fire.
In the United States, fire extinguishers, in सब buildings other than houses, हैं generally required to be सर्विस और inspected by a Fire Protection सेवा company at least annually.
Some jurisdictions require अधिक frequent सेवा for fire extinguishers.
The servicer places a tag on the extinguisher to indicate the प्रकार of service performed ( सालाना inspection, रिचार्ज, new fire extinguisher ) and जब.
There हैं two main प्रकार of आग extinguishers : stored pressure and cartridge-operated.
In stored दबाव units, the expellant is stored in the same chamber as the firefighting agent itself.
depending on the agent used, different propellants are used.
With dry chemical extinguishers, nitrogen is typically used ; जल and झाग extinguishers typically use एयर.
Stored pressure fire extinguishers हैं the most common प्रकार.
Cartridge-operated extinguishers contain the expellant gas in a separate cartridge कि is punctured prior to discharge, exposing the propellant to the extinguishing एजेंट.
This type is not as आम, used primarily in areas such as industrial facilities, जहाँ they receive higher-than-average use.
They have the लाभ of simple और prompt recharge, allowing an operator to निर्वहन the extinguisher, recharge it, and वापसी to the fire in a reasonable amount of time.
नापसंद stored pressure types, ये extinguishers use compressed carbon dioxide instead of nitrogen, although nitrogen cartridges are प्रयुक्त on low temperature ( -60 रेटेड ) models.
Cartridge operated extinguishers are available in शुष्क chemical and शुष्क powder types in the U.S. and in water, wetting agent, झाग, dry chemical ( वर्ग एबीसी and B.C. ), and शुष्क powder ( class d ) प्रकार in the rest of the world.
Fire extinguishers are further divided into handheld and cart-mounted, also called wheeled extinguishers.
Handheld extinguishers तौल from 0.5 to 14 kilograms ( 1 to 30 pounds ), and हैं hence, easily portable by हाथ.
Cart-mounted इकाई typically तौल 23+ kilograms ( 50+ pounds ).
ये wheeled models are most commonly found at construction sites, airport runways, heliports, as well as docks and marinas.
Native अमेरिकी in the संयुक्त States हैं the स्वदेशी peoples in उत्तर America within the boundaries of the present-day महाद्वीपीय United States, Alaska, और the द्वीप state of हवाई.
They are composed of numerous, distinct Native अमरीकी जनजातियों and ethnic groups, many of which जीवित as बरकरार political communities.
The शर्तें प्रयुक्त to refer to देशी Americans have been विवादास्पद.
According to a 1995 U.S. Census Census_Bureau ब्यूरो Census_Bureau set of home interviews, सबसे of the respondents with an expressed preference refer to themselves as American इंडियंस ( or simply Indians ), and this term has been अपनाया by major अखबारों and कुछ academic groups ; however, this term does not typically include देशी Hawaiians or certain अलास्कन natives, ऐसे as Aleut, Yup'ik, or Inuit peoples.
Since the समाप्त of the 15th century, the migration of Europeans to the Americas, and their importation of Africans as slaves, has led to centuries of conflict and समायोजन between बूढ़ा and New World societies.
Europeans created most of the early लिखा historical record about Native Americans बाद the colonists ' आव्रजन to the Americas.
Many Native Americans lived as hunter-gatherer societies and बताई their histories by oral traditions.
In अनेक groups, महिलाओं carried out sophisticated cultivation of numerous किस्में of staple crops : maize, सेम and स्क्वैश.
The स्वदेशी संस्कृतियों were quite different from those of the agrarian, proto-industrial, mostly ईसाई immigrants from western Eurasia.
Many Native cultures were matrilineal ; the people occupied lands for use of the entire जातियाँ, लिये hunting or agriculture.
europeans at that time had patriarchal संस्कृतियों and था developed concepts of individual property अधिकारों with आदर to land that were extremely अलग.
The मतभेद in cultures between the established Native Americans और immigrant Europeans, as खूब as shifting alliances among different nations of each culture through the centuries, caused extensive राजनैतिक टेंशन, ethnic violence and social disruption.
the Native Americans suffered high fatalities from the contact with infectious Eurasian diseases, to जिससे वे had no acquired immunity.
Epidemics after यूरोपीय contact caused the greatest loss of life लिये indigenous populations.
Estimates of the pre-columbian जनसांख्यिकी of कया today constitutes the U.S. vary significantly, ranging from 1 लाख to 18 million.
बाद the colonies revolted against Great Britain and established the United States of America, President George Washington और Henry Knox conceived of the idea of `` civilizing '' Native अमेरिकी in preparation for assimilation as u.S. citizens.
Assimilation ( whether voluntary as with the choctaw, or forced ) became a सतत नीति through American administrations.
दौरान the 19th century, the ideology of manifest destiny became integral to the अमरीकी nationalist movement.
Expansion of European-American populations to the west after the अमरीकी Revolution resulted in increasing pressure on देशी American lands, warfare between the groups, and rising tensions.
In 1830, the U.S. Congress passed the भारतीय Removal Act, authorizing the government to relocate देशी Americans from their homelands भीतर established राज्य to lands west of the Mississippi River, accommodating European-American विस्तार.
The first यूरोपीय Americans to encounter the western interior tribes were generally फर traders और trappers.
There were also Jesuit missionaries क्रियाशील in the उत्तरी Tier.
as संयुक्त राज्य विस्तार पहुँचे into the American वेस्ट, settler और खनिक migrants आए into increasing विरोध with the Great Basin, Great मैदान, and other Western tribes.
These were complex nomadic cultures based on horse culture and seasonal बाइसन hunting.
वे carried out दमदार प्रतिरोध to संयुक्त States incursions in the decades after the American Civil युद्ध, in a श्रेणी of Indian Wars, which were frequent up जबतक the 1890s, but जारी into the 20th सदी.
The transcontinental railroad brought more non-Natives into जनजातीय land in the वेस्ट.
Over time, the u.S. forced a series of treaties and जमीन cessions by the tribes, and established reservations for them in many पश्चिमी राज्य.
U.S. agents encouraged देशी Americans to adopt European-style farming and similar pursuits, but European-American agricultural technology of the time was inadequate for प्रायः dry reservation lands.
In 1924, Native Americans जो were not already U.S. citizens were granted citizenship by Congress.
Contemporary Native Americans have a unique relationship साथ the United States क्युकी वे may be members of nations, जनजातियों, or bands with sovereignty और सन्धि rights.
सेंट्रल अमेरिका ( ) is the सेंट्रल geographic region of the Americas.
It is the southernmost, isthmian portion of the North American continent, जिससे connects with दक्षिण अमेरिका on the southeast.
जब माना part of the एकीकृत continental model, it is considered a उपमहाद्वीप.
Central अमेरिका consists of सात देशों : Belize, कोस्टा रिका, el Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, निकारागुआ, और पनामा.
सेंट्रल अमेरिका is part of the Mesoamerican biodiversity hotspot, which extends इससे उत्तरी Guatemala through central Panama.
it is bordered by Mexico to the north, the Caribbean Sea to the east, the North Pacific समंदर to the west, and कोलंबिया to the south-east.
Central America is an area of, or almost 0.1 % of the Earth 's surface.
As of 2009, its population was estimated at 41,739,000.
It has a घनत्व of 77 people per square kilometer.
scrubs is an American medical comedy-drama television series created by विधेयक Lawrence that aired from October 2, 2001 to March 17, 2010 on NBC and later ABC.
the series follows the lives of employees at the fictional पवित्र Heart teaching hospital.
the title is a play on surgical scrubs और a term for a low-ranking व्यक्ति because at the beginning of the series, most of the प्रमुख characters यहूद medical interns.
The series सुविधाएँ fast-paced screenplay, slapstick, and surreal vignettes presented ज़्यादातर as the daydreams of the central character, Dr. John `` J.D. ''
Dorian, who is निभाई by zach Braff.
Actors अभिनीत alongside Braff in the first आठ सीज़न included Sarah Chalke, Donald faison, Neil Flynn, केन Jenkins, John C. McGinley and जुडी Reyes.
The series has also featured multiple guest दिखावे by film actors, ऐसे as Brendan Fraser, Heather Graham, and Colin Farrell.
In the ninth season, अनेक new डाल members were introduced और the दिखाएँ setting स्थानांतरित from a hospital to a चिकित्सा school.
आउट of the असली cast, only Braff, Faison and McGinley became regular cast members, while the others with the exception of Reyes, made अतिथि appearances.
Braff appeared in छह एपीसोड of the ninth season पहले departing.
Kerry Bishé, Eliza कूप, Dave Franco और माइकल Mosley became series regulars with Bishé बनने the show 's new narrator.
Scrubs premiered on October 2, 2001 on NBC.
The series received a Peabody Award in 2006.
During the seventh season, एनबीसी announced that it would not renew the show.
Shortly बाद the seventh season finale, ABC announced it had picked up the eighth season of the series, which began जनवरी 6, 2009.
The ninth season premiered on दिसम्बर 1, 2009.
On May 14, 2010, ABC announced it had officially canceled Scrubs.
an 1817 boulton & वाट बीम blowing engine, used in Netherton at the ironworks of m W Grazebrook.
Re-erected on the A38 ( M ) in बर्मिंघम, uk
A steam engine is a heat engine that performs mechanical work using steam as its working fluid.
using boiling water to produce mechanical motion goes back about 2,000 years, but early डिवाइस were नहीं practical.
Since the लेट 1700s steam इंजन have become a major source of mechanical power.
the पहला applications were removing जल from mines.
in 1781 James वाट patented a steam engine कि produced निरन्तर rotative motion.
These 10 hp engines enabled a चौड़ी दायरा of manufacturing मशीनरी to be powered.
The इंजन could be sited anywhere that water और कोयले or wood ईंधन could be obtained.
by 1883, engines that could provide 10,000 hp had become feasible.
Steam engines could also be लागू to vehicles such as traction इंजन and the railway locomotives जिससे are commonly just पुकारा steam engines outside अमेरिका.
The stationary steam engine थी a key component of the औद्योगिक क्रान्ति, allowing कारखानों to locate where जल शक्ति was unavailable.
Today steam turbines generate about 90 % of the इलेक्ट्रिक power in the United States using a variety of heat स्त्रोत.
भाप इंजन are external combustion इंजन, where the working fluid is separate from the दहन उत्पाद.
non-combustion heat sources such as solar शक्ति, nuclear शक्ति or geothermal energy may be प्रयुक्त.
The आदर्श ऊष्मागतिक साईकिल used to analyze this process is called the Rankine साईकिल.
In the साईकिल, water is heated into भाप in a boiler जबतक it reaches a high pressure.
जब expanded through pistons or turbines, mechanical कार्य is done.
The reduced-pressure steam is then condensed और उत्तेजित back into the boiler.
In general usage, the term steam इंजन can refer to either the integrated भाप plants ( including boilers etc. ) ऐसे as railway steam locomotives and पोर्टेबल इंजन, or may refer to the पिस्टन or टर्बाइन मशीनरी अलोन, as in the beam engine और stationary भाप engine.
Specialized डिवाइस such as भाप hammers and steam pile drivers are dependent on भाप supplied from a separate बॉयलर.
a mill engine इससे Stott Park Bobbin Mill, cumbria, England
a भाप locomotive in Germany.This class of engine was built in 1942 – 1950 and operated commercially until 1988.
`` Move Bitch '' ( edited version titled `` मूव b***h '' or simply `` Move '' ) is the third official single इससे rapper Ludacris ' album शब्द of Mouf.
The single features Mystikal and I-20.
The single reached # 10 on the बिलबोर्ड Hot 100 बनाना it Ludacris 's first top टेन hit on the chart, it भी reached # 3 on Hot Rap ट्रैक्स और # 3 on hot R & B/Hip-Hop Singles & Tracks.
Puerto Rican reggaeton duo maicol & मैनुएल sampled the song on `` Hoy me Levanté '' on their 2002 release Yakaleo.
The सोंग is also featured in episode 2, Series One of अंग्रेजों teen comedy/drama खालें.
The song थी also used by World कुश्ती entertainment superstar Montel vontavious Porter during his short stint in रिंग of Honor.
It थी also प्रयुक्त लिये April शिकारी in विभिन्न Independent circuits.
It was featured in the फिल्म atl starring T.I., और ' hancock, ' although in the latter, the clean version was used.
A snippet of the song is played during traffic रिपोर्ट्स on many radio stations, usually carrying an urban/hip-hop format.
Retired NBA star and now ESPN analyst Jalen Rose is featured in the music वीडियो.
the सोंग has महरूम covered by चट्टान band Start Trouble, on their एल्बम Every समाधान Has इसके Problem.
it थी featured on अंग्रेजों sitcom The inbetweeners जब the वर्ण Jay and neil took होगा on a 'pussy पैट्रोल ' in Jay 's red Nissan Micra.
It was sampled by लड़की Talk on the पहला track of his album All Day, `` Oh no ''.
Elizabeth II ( एलिज़ाबेथ Alexandra Mary ; born 21 April 1926 ) is the constitutional monarch of 16 sovereign states, known as the Commonwealth realms, और their territories और dependencies, and head of the 54-member Commonwealth of Nations.
She is परम् Governor of the गिरिजाघर of England और, in कुछ of उसके realms, carries the title of defender of the Faith as part of her पूरा title.
on her accession on 6 February 1952, Elizabeth became Head of the Commonwealth and महारानी regnant of सात independent राष्ट्रमंडल countries : the United Kingdom, Canada, ऑस्ट्रेलिया, New Zealand, दक्षिण Africa, Pakistan और Ceylon.
इससे 1956 to 1992, the क्रमांक of her realms varied as territories gained स्वतंत्रता and some realms became republics.
At present, in addition to the पहला four aforementioned countries, Elizabeth is Queen of Jamaica, Barbados, the Bahamas, Grenada, Papua New Guinea, the सुलेमान Islands, Tuvalu, संत Lucia, Saint विंसेंट और the Grenadines, Belize, Antigua and बारबूडा और Saint किट्स and Nevis.
उसके reign of सालो is currently the दूसरी longest लिये a British monarch ; only Queen Victoria has reigned longer at over 63 years.
Elizabeth थी born in London and शिक्षित privately at home.
Her father acceded to the सिंहासन as George VI in 1936 on the abdication of his bhai Edward VIII, इससे which समय she was the heir presumptive.
She began to undertake public duties during the Second संसार युद्ध, in which she served in the Auxiliary territorial Service.
In 1947, वो शादीशुदा Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh, with whom she has four children : Charles, Anne, Andrew, and एडवर्ड.
उसके coronation सेवा took place in 1953 and was the पहला to be televised.
The Queen 's many ऐतिहासिक विज़िट and meetings शामिल a state visit to the Republic of आयरलैंड and reciprocal visits to और इससे the Pope.
The महारानी रै seen major constitutional changes in her realms, such as devolution in the संयुक्त Kingdom and the patriation of the Canadian constitution.
Times of personal significance have included the births and marriages of उसके children, the births of her grandchildren, the प्रतिष्ठापन of the Prince of वेल्स, and the celebration of milestones such as उसके चांदी, सुनहरी, and Diamond jubilees in 1977, 2002, and 2012, क्रमशः.
Major events in the Queen 's शासनकाल have शामिल the परेशानियों in Northern आयरलैंड, the falklands War, wars साथ इराकी and the War in Afghanistan.
There have been times of personal sorrow लिये her which include the death of her father at 56, the हत्या of प्रिंस Philip 's ताऊ, रब Mountbatten, the breakdown of उसके children 's विवाह in 1992 ( a year deemed her annus horribilis ), the मौत in 1997 of her पूर्व daughter-in-law, Diana, Princess of Wales, and the deaths of her mother and sister in 2002.
The महारानी has occasionally faced severe press criticism of the royal परिवार and republican sentiments, but support for the monarchy और her personal popularity remain ऊँची.
Christianity is the largest religion सूचीबद्ध by australians in the national census.
In the 2011 Census, 61.1 % of australians यहूद listed as ईसाई.
Australia रै no official state religion और the Australian Constitution protects स्वतंत्रता of religion.
The presence of Christianity in ऑस्ट्रेलिया began with the आगमन of the First Fleet of British convicts in 1788.
The religion grew to account for 96.1 % of the national population at the समय of the Federation of Australia in 1901.
The Anglican Church of Australia ( formerly ज्ञात as the Church of इंग्लैण्ड in Australia ) remained the largest denomination until 1986, जब it थी surpassed by the Roman कैथोलिक Church in Australia.
Post-war बहुसंस्कृतिवाद and a मनाही in religious observance among some sections of the population have diversified the demographics of religion in Australia.
Of the roughly 61 % identifying as ईसाई in 2011, the largest denominations were either रोमन Catholic ( 25 % ) or Anglican ( 17 % ), with the third largest denomination being the 5 % affiliated with the uniting गिरिजाघर in Australia.
Post-war immigration has grown the numbers belonging to churches like the Greek परंपरागत archdiocese of Australia and वहीँ हैं large और growing Pentecostal groups, such as सिडनी 's Hillsong Church.
The festivals of Easter and Christmas हैं पब्लिक holidays in Australia.
around a क्वार्टर of विद्यार्थी attend church स्कूलों and Christian organisations are अग्रणी non-government providers of स्वास्थ्य और welfare सेवाएं through संगठनों like कैथोलिक Health ऑस्ट्रेलिया, Anglicare, unitingcare ऑस्ट्रेलिया, the Salvation फौज and St विंसेंट de पॉल Society.
Historically significant Australian Christians have included रेव Dr जॉन Dunmore लैंग, Saint Mary MacKillop, कैथरीन हेलेन Spence, Pastor David Unaipon, the Reverend जॉन Flynn and Pastor Sir Doug Nicholls.
High profile contemporary Australian ईसाइयों शामिल : Tim Costello Baptist मंत्री and current CEO of World Vision Australia, Frank Brennan, जेसुइट human अधिकारों lawyer, कार्डिनल George Pell, कैथोलिक archbishop of Sydney, फिलिप aspinall the current anglican Primate और archbishop of Brisbane, Kevin Rudd, former Labor Prime मंत्री, और Tony Abbott, leader for the Federal विपक्ष उदार Party.
Charter creating Collegiate School, जिससे became yale कॉलेज, October 9, 1701
yale University is a निजी Ivy League research university स्तिथ in नई हेवन, Connecticut.
Founded in 1701 in the Colony of Connecticut, the university is the third-oldest institution of higher शिक्षा in the United States.
Originally chartered as the `` Collegiate School '', the institution traces इसके जड़ें to 17th-century clergymen who sought to establish a college to train clergy and political नेताओ for the उपनिवेश.
in 1718, the College was renamed `` Yale College '' to honor a तोहफा from Elihu Yale, a governor of the British East इण्डिया कम्पनी.
In 1861, the Graduate School of कला and Sciences became the first u.S. institution to award the PhD. Yale became a founding सदस्य of the Association of अमरीकी Universities in 1900.
Yale College was रूपांतरित, beginning in the 1930s, through the establishment of आवासीय कॉलेजों : 12 अभी मौजूद and two अधिक are planned.
Yale employs over 1,100 faculty to teach और advise about 5,300 undergraduate और 6,100 graduate and पेशेवर students.
Almost all tenured professors सिखा undergraduate पाठ्यक्रम, more than 2,000 of which हैं offered annually.
the University 's assets include an endowment valued at $ 19.4 billion, the second-largest of कोई अकादमिक institution in the world.
yale 's system of more than two दर्जन पुस्तकालयों holds 12.5 लाख volumes.
49 Nobel Laureates have been affiliated साथ the विश्वविद्यालयों as विद्यार्थी, संकाय, और स्टाफ.
yale has produced many notable alumni, including five U.S. Presidents, 19 u.S. Supreme Court justices, and several विदेशी heads of state.
At the graduate स्तर, Yale Law स्कूल, yale स्कूल of Art, and Yale School of नाटक are consistently ranked the top programs in their field.
Yale Law School is the most चयनात्मक law स्कूल in the संयुक्त States.
Yale students compete intercollegiately as the Yale Bulldogs in the ncaa Division I Ivy League.
The oldest intercollegiate एथलेटिक event in the संयुक्त States is the Yale-Harvard regatta.
Artemisia tridentata ( `` बिग sagebrush '' or `` sagebrush '' ) is an aromatic shrub from the family Asteraceae, which grows in arid और semi-arid conditions, throughout a दायरा of cold desert, स्तान, and mountain habitats in the Intermountain वेस्ट of उत्तर अमेरिका.
The vernacular name `` sagebrush '' is also used for several सम्बन्धित सदस्यों of the genus Artemisia, ऐसे as California Sagebrush ( Artemisia californica ).
Big sagebrush and other artemisia species are the dominant plants आरपार विशाल portions of the Great Basin, covering कुछ 422,000 square miles in 11 western U.S. & Canadian राज्य.
it is the राज्य flower of Nevada.
sagebrush provides food and habitat for a variety of species, ऐसे as sage grouse, pronghorn antelope, gray vireo, pygmy rabbit, and mule deer.
Big sagebrush was used as an herbal medicine by Native Americans throughout the Intermountain West of उत्तर America—especially लिये preventing infection in wounds, stopping internal bleeding, and treating headaches और जुकाम.
Chemically, the active medicinal constituents include camphor, terpenoids, and tannins.
Several major threats मौजूद to ऋषि ब्रश ecosystems, including इंसान settlements, conversion to agricultural जमीन, livestock grazing, invasive संयंत्र species, wildfires, and climate change.
Yahoo ! Mail is a फ़्री email service offered by the American search इंजन company याहू !
It was launched in 1997, and, according to comScore, याहू ! मेल is the third-largest web-based ईमेल सेवा साथ 281 million users as of December 2012.
Currently, Yahoo ! offers three संस्करण of याहू ! मेल.
The traditional `` याहू ! Mail क्लासिक '' continues the availability of the असली interface introduced in 1997.
A version introduced in 2005 included a new Ajax इंटरफ़ेस, drag-and-drop features, improved search functionality, keyboard शॉर्टकट, address auto-complete, tabs, and other updated features.
in October 2010, याहू ! released a beta version of याहू ! Mail, जिससे शामिल improvements to the design, performance, search functionality, and फेसबुक integration.
In May 2011, बीटा testing for the नई version रोका, और it became the default interface for Yahoo ! Mail.
In early 2008, याहू ! began offering unlimited mail भंडार to its उपयोक्ता in response to heated प्रतियोगिता in the फ़्री web-mail market segment.
On जून 27, 2009, Yahoo ! मेसेंजर थी integrated साथ याहू ! Mail.
Tacoma (, ) is a mid-sized urban port city और the काउंटी सीट of Pierce County, Washington, संयुक्त States.
the city is on Washington 's Puget ध्वनि, southwest of Seattle, northeast of the राज्य capital, Olympia, and northwest of माउंट rainier National Park.
The population was 198,397, according to the 2010 census.
Tacoma is the second-largest city in the puget ध्वनि area and the third largest in the state.
टकोमा also serves as the center of कारोबार activity for the दक्षिण Sound region, which has a population of around 1 million people.
Tacoma adopted इसके name बाद the आसपास Mount rainier, originally called Mount Tahoma.
it is known as the `` नगर of Destiny '' because the क्षेत्रफल थी chosen to be the पश्चिमी terminus of the Northern Pacific Railroad in the late 19th century.
the decision of the railroad was बहकावे by Tacoma 's neighboring deep-water harbor, Commencement खाड़ी.
By connecting the bay with the railroad Tacoma 's motto became `` When rails meet sails. ''
Today Commencement Bay serves the Port of टकोमा, a center of international trade on the Pacific Coast and वॉशिंगटन state 's largest port.
Like सबसे central शहरों, टकोमा suffered a prolonged मनाही in the mid-20th century as a परिणाम of suburbanization and divestment.
Since the 1990s, developments in the downtown कोर शामिल the विश्वविद्यालयों of Washington टकोमा ; टकोमा Link, the first modern electric light rail service in the राज्य ; the state 's highest density of art और history museums ; और a लौटी urban waterfront, the Thea Foss Waterway.
साथ a long history of blue-collar labor politics — from the रेलरोड मजदूर of the 19th century, to the longshoremen of the 20th century, to the Labor Ready workers of today — Tacoma has long been known for its rough, gritty image.
A song about टकोमा, `` Thrice All American '', by American singer-songwriter and former resident Neko मामला, describes it as `` a dusty old गहना in the South puget ध्वनि / where the कारखानों निकले / और the timber 's सब cut down ''.
tacoma-pierce County रै been named one of the most livable areas in the country.
Tacoma was also recently सूचीबद्ध as the 19th most walkable नगर in the country.
In contrast, the city is भी ranked as the most stressed-out city in the country in a 2004 survey.
In 2006, women 's magazine स्वः named टकोमा the `` Most Sexually स्वस्थ City '' in the United राज्य.
In 2012, the Advocate gave Tacoma the title of `` Gayest City in अमेरिका '', in भाग क्युकी of the large diversity of पब्लिक offices आयोजित, and Washington राज्य गुजर a विधेयक in 2012 allowing lgbt couples to marry.
Tacoma is famous for the 1940 पतन of the Tacoma Narrows Bridge.
chula Vista ( ; ) is the दूसरी largest city in the सैन Diego महानगर area, the seventh largest city in दक्षिणी कैलिफ़ोर्निया, the fourteenth largest city in the राज्य of कैलिफ़ोर्निया, और the 77th-largest city in the United States.
The जनसांख्यिकी was 243,916 as of the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी.
Located just इससे downtown San डिएगो and from the मैक्सिकन border in the South Bay प्रदेश of the metropolitan area, the नगर is at the center of one of the richest आर्थिक and culturally diverse zones in the संयुक्त राज्य.
Chula Vista is so नामित क्युकी of इसके scenic location between the San Diego Bay और coastal mountain foothills.
Founded in the early 19th सदी, तेज़ जनसांख्यिकी विकास has recently been observed in the city.
As the second largest city in San Diego County, Chula विस्टा has जल्दी become a destination popular to many tourists.
Located in the city is one of America 's few year-round United राज्य Olympic Training centers and popular tourist गंतव्यों include Cricket Wireless Amphitheater, the Chula Vista marina, and the chula विस्टा Nature Center.
Metes and bounds is a प्रणाली or method of describing जमीन, real प्रॉपर्टी ( in contrast to निजी property ) or real estate.
The system has महरूम used in England लिये many सदियां, and is स्टिल used there in the परिभाषा of general boundaries.
By custom, it थी applied in the असली तेरह Colonies that became the United States, and in अनेक other जमीन jurisdictions based on English आम विधि.
Typically the system uses शारीरिक features of the local geography, साथ with directions and distances, to define and describe the boundaries of a parcel of जमीन.
the boundaries हैं described in a कार्यशील गद्य style, working around the parcel in sequence, from a पाइंट of शुरूआत, returning वापस to the वही point ; compare with the oral ritual of beating the bounds.
It may शामिल references to other adjoining parcels ( and their owners ), और it, in फेरे, could also be referred to in later surveys.
At the समय the description is compiled, it may have been marked on the ground with permanent monuments placed जहाँ there were no suitable प्राकृतिक monuments.
The पद `` metes '' refers to a boundary पारिभाषित by the मापन of प्रत्येक straight run, specified by a अलहदा between the टर्मिनल points, and an orientation or direction.
A direction may be a simple compass bearing, or a precise orientation determined by accurate सर्वेक्षण विधि.
The पद `` bounds '' refers to a more सामान्य boundary description, such as साथ a certain watercourse, a stone wall, an adjoining पब्लिक road रास्ता, or an existing building.
the system is प्रायः used to define larger टुकड़े of property ( e.g. farms ), and political subdivisions ( e.g. कस्बा boundaries ) where precise definition is नहीं जरूरी or would be far too expensive, or previously designated सीमाएँ can be incorporated into the description.
Sir Isaac Newton ( 25 दिसम्बर 164220 कूच 1727 ) was an English physicist और गणितज्ञ who is widely regarded as एक of the most influential वैज्ञानिकों of all time and as a key फिगर in the scientific क्रान्ति.
His book Philosophiæ Naturalis Principia Mathematica ( `` Mathematical Principles of प्राकृतिक दर्शनशास्त्र '' ), first published in 1687, laid the foundations लिये most of classical mechanics.
Newton भी made seminal contributions to optics और shares credit with Gottfried Leibniz लिये the invention of the infinitesimal calculus.
Newton 's Principia formulated the कानून of गति and सार्वभौमिक gravitation that dominated scientists ' view of the शारीरिक universe लिये the next तीन सदियां.
It also demonstrated that the गति of objects on the धरती और that of celestial bodies could be described by the same principles.
By deriving Kepler 's laws of planetary motion from his mathematical वर्णन of gravity, Newton removed the last doubts about the validity of the heliocentric मॉडल of the ब्रह्मांड.
Newton built the first practical reflecting दूरदर्शी और developed a सिद्धान्त of colour based on the observation कि a prism decomposes white light into the अनेक रंग of the visible spectrum.
he also formulated an empirical law of cooling and पढ़ाई the speed of sound.
In जोड to his कार्य on the calculus, as a mathematician Newton contributed to the study of power series, generalised the द्विपद theorem to non-integer exponents, and developed Newton 's method लिये approximating the जड़ें of a function.
Newton थी a fellow of Trinity College and the second lucasian Professor of Mathematics at the University of Cambridge.
he was a devout but अपरंपरागत ईसाई and, unusually for a सदस्य of the Cambridge faculty, he refused to take पावन orders in the गिरिजाघर of इंग्लैण्ड, perhaps because he privately rejected the doctrine of trinitarianism.
In जोड to his work on the mathematical sciences, न्यूटन also dedicated much of his time to the study of alchemy and biblical chronology, but most of उसके work in those क्षेत्रों remained unpublished until long बाद उसके death.
in उसके बाद life, Newton became अध्यक्ष of the Royal Society.
He भी served the British सरकारी as Warden and निपुण of the Royal Mint.
Prof. Walter Lewin explains Newton 's law of gravitation in MIT course 8.01
Satellites and projectiles all obey Newton 's law of gravitation
Newton 's विधि of सार्वभौमिक gravitation states that every point mass in the ब्रह्मांड attracts प्रत्येक अन्य पाइंट द्रव्यमान साथ a force that is सीधे proportional to the उत्पाद of their masses and inversely proportional to the square of the अलहदा between उन्हें.
( Separately it was shown that large spherically symmetrical masses attract and are attracted as if सब their द्रव्यमान were concentrated at उनके centers. )
This is a सामान्य physical law निकला इससे अनुभवजन्य observations by what न्यूटन पुकारा प्रेरण.
it is a भाग of शास्त्रीय mechanics and थी formulated in Newton 's work Philosophiæ Naturalis Principia Mathematica ( `` the Principia '' ), first published on 5 जुलाई 1687.
( जब Newton 's book was प्रस्तुत in 1686 to the Royal Society, रॉबर्ट Hooke made a claim that Newton था obtained the inverse square law इससे उसे – देखिए History खण्ड below. )
In modern language, the विधि states the following:
Assuming SI units, F is measured in newtons ( n ), m1 and m2 in गामा ( kg ), r in meters ( m ), and the constant G is approximately equal to.
The value of the constant g was first accurately determined from the results of the कैवेंडिश experiment conducted by the British वैज्ञानिक Henry Cavendish in 1798, although Cavendish did not खुद calculate a numerical मान for G.
इस experiment थी भी the first परीक्षण of Newton 's सिद्धान्त of gravitation between masses in the प्रयोगशाला.
It took प्लेस 111 सालो after the publication of Newton 's प्रिन्सिपिया and 71 years बाद Newton 's death, so none of न्यूटन 's calculations could use the मान of G ; instead he could only calculate a force relative to another force.
Newton 's law of gravitation resembles Coulomb 's law of electrical forces, जिससे is used to calculate the परिमाण of electrical फ़ोर्स between two charged bodies.
Both are inverse-square कानून, in which फ़ोर्स is inversely proportional to the square of the distance between the bodies.
Coulomb 's Law रै the उत्पाद of two charges in प्लेस of the product of the masses, और the electrostatic constant in place of the gravitational constant.
Newton 's law has चूंकि been superseded by Einstein 's theory of general relativity, but it continues to be used as an excellent सन्निकटन of the प्रभाव of गम्भीरता.
Relativity is जरूरी only when there is a need for extreme precision, or when dealing with gravitation लिये extremely massive and घना objects.
White and रेड flags, representing Iraqi and अमरीकी deaths, बैठना in the grass चतुष्कोण of the Valley Library on the Corvallis, ऑरेगॉन, campus of ऑरेगॉन राज्य University.
As भाग of the traveling Iraq Body Count exhibit from 2008 to 2009 ( नहीं related to इराकी देह Count प्रोजेक्ट ), the flags aim to `` उठाएँ awareness of the human cost of the Iraq War. ''
( May 2008 )
हताहत of the conflict in इराकी since 2003 ( beginning with the 2003 invasion of इराकी, और continuing with the ensuing occupation of Iraq, as well as the activities of the विभिन्न armed समूह operating in the country ) have come in अनेक forms, and the accuracy of the सूचना available on different types of Iraq War casualties varies greatly.
The table नीचे summarizes various estimates of the इराकी casualty figures.
For troops in the u.s.-led बहुराष्ट्रीय coalition, the मौत toll is carefully tracked और updated daily, और the names और photographs of those killed in कार्रवाई as well as in दुर्घटनाओं have महरूम प्रकाशित widely.
A total of 4,486 U.S. soldiers यहूद killed in Iraq between 2003 और 2012.
Regarding the Iraqis, however, information on both military and civilian casualties is both less precise and less सतत.
Estimates of casualty levels are available from पत्रकारों on the झाँकी, इससे officials of शामिल संगठन, and इससे समूह that summarize information on incidents reported in the news मीडिया.
The word `` casualties `` in इसके most general sense शामिल the injured as well as the dead.
Accounts of the number of coalition wounded vary widely, partly because it is not स्पष्ट what should be counted : should only those injuries गंभीर पर्याप्त to put a soldier आउट of commission be included ?
Do बीमारियों or चोटों caused by दुर्घटनाओं गिनती, or should the focus be restricted to wounds caused by hostile engagement ?
Sources using different परिभाषाएं may arrive at very different संख्याएँ, and sometimes the precise definition is not clearly निर्दिष्ट.
Asalto al coche ( डकैती of the coach ), by Francisco de Goya
A highwayman थी a चोर और brigand who preyed on travellers.
This type of outlaw प्रायः travelled और robbed by horse, as compared to a footpad who travelled and robbed on पैर.
Mounted लुटेरों were widely considered to be socially superior to footpads.
Such robbers operated in Great ब्रिटेन and Ireland from the Elizabethan era until the early 19th सदी.
The word highwayman is पहला ज्ञात to be used in the year 1617 ; other euphemisms included `` शूरवीरों of the road '' and `` gentlemen of the road. ''
दो terms लागू to 19th-century उत्तर अमरीकी highwaymen were road agents in कुछ instances for पहाड़ bandits while in other मामले the पद is Rlallaala लिये mountain-based ruffians.
In the वही समय period in ऑस्ट्रेलिया, वे यहूद known as bushrangers.
Earvin `` Magic '' जॉनसन, jr. ( born August 14, 1959 ) is a retired American पेशेवर basketball player who निभाई पाइंट guard for the Los Angeles Lakers of the National Basketball Association ( NBA ).
बाद winning championships in ऊँची स्कूल and college, Johnson थी चयनित पहला overall in the 1979 NBA Draft by the Lakers.
He won a championship and an NBA Finals Most Valuable Player Award in उसके रुकी season, and won four more championships with the लेकर्स during the 1980s.
जॉनसन retired abruptly in 1991 बाद announcing that he था contracted hiv, लकिन लौटे to खेल in the 1992 All-Star Game, winning the All-Star MVP Award.
बाद विरोध from उसके fellow खिलाड़ी, he रिटायर्ड again लिये चार सालो, but लौटे in 1996, at age 36, to play 32 games for the लेकर्स पहले retiring for the third और final time.
Johnson 's career achievements include three NBA mvp Awards, नौ एनबीए Finals दिखावे, बारह All-Star games, and टेन All-NBA पहला और Second Team nominations.
He led the लीग in regular-season assists four टाइम्स, और is the NBA 's all-time नेता in average assists per game, at 11.2.
Johnson was a member of the `` Dream Team ``, the U.S. basketball team that won the Olympic सुनहरा medal in 1992.
After leaving the NBA in 1992, Johnson formed the Magic Johnson All-Stars, a barnstorming team कि travelled around the world playing exhibition खेल.
जॉनसन was honored as one of the 50 Greatest खिलाड़ी in NBA इतिहास in 1996, and enshrined in the बास्केट Hall of कीर्ति in 2002.
he थी rated the greatest एनबीए पाइंट गार्ड of all समय by ESPN in 2007.
His friendship और फंसने साथ Boston Celtics star Larry Bird, whom he faced in the 1979 NCAA फाइनल and three NBA championship series, were well documented.
Since his retirement, Johnson रै been an advocate for hiV/ एड्स prevention and सुरक्षित sex, as well as an entrepreneur, philanthropist, broadcaster और motivational speaker.
Johnson was a part-owner of the लेकर्स for अनेक years, and थी part of a group that purchased the लॉस Angeles डॉजर्स in 2012.
allium cells in different phases of the कोशिका cycle
the कोशिकाएं of eukaryotes ( left ) और prokaryotes ( right )
The कोशिका is the basic structural, functional and biological unit of all known living organisms.
It is the smallest ईकाई of life that is classified as a जीना thing ( except वायरस, जिससे consists only from DNA/RNA covered by protein and lipids ), and is often called the भवन block of life.
It consists of a जीवद्रव्य enclosed within a membrane, which contains अनेक biomolecules such as proteins and nucleic acids.
Organisms can be वर्गीकृत as एककोशिकीय ( consisting of a single cell ; including most bacteria ) or बहुकोशिकीय ( including plants and animals ).
While the number of cells in plants and animals varies from species to species, इंसानो contain परिचय 100 trillion ( 1014 ) cells.
सबसे plant और एनिमल cells are between 1 and 100 micrometres और इसलिए are दृश्य तभी under the सूक्ष्मदर्शी.
the cell थी discovered by रॉबर्ट hooke in 1665.
the कोशिका सिद्धान्त, first developed in 1839 by Matthias jakob Schleiden and Theodor Schwann, राज्य that all organisms हैं composed of एक or more कोशिकाएं, that सब कोशिकाएं come from preexisting कोशिकाएं, that vital functions of an organism occur भीतर cells, और that all cells contain the hereditary सूचना necessary लिये regulating cell functions and for transmitting information to the next पीढी of cells.
Cells emerged on ग्रह Earth at least 4.0–4.3 billion years ago.
the शब्द कोशिका आता from the लैटिन cella, meaning `` छोटी रूम ''.
The descriptive term लिये the smallest living biological structure was coined by Robert Hooke in a book he published in 1665 when he compared the cork cells he saw through his microscope to the small rooms भिक्षुओं lived in.
grecian Formula is a मेन 's hair coloring product in the संयुक्त States.
कनाडा और Europe previously banned the product क्युकी of its use of lead एसीटेट.
A मोटर scooter 's सामने साथ an impractical क्रमांक and variety of headlamps, added लिये decorative purposes
A headlamp is a lamp attached to the front of a vehicle to light the road ahead.
Headlamp performance has steadily improved throughout the ऑटोमोबाइल आयु, spurred by the ग्रेट disparity between daytime and nighttime traffic fatalities : the U.S. National Highway Traffic Safety प्रशासन राज्य कि nearly half of सब traffic-related fatalities occur in the dark, despite only 25 % of ट्रैफ़िक travelling during अंधेरा.
जबकि it is आम for the term headlight to be used interchangeably in informal discussion, headlamp is the term for the यंत्र itself, while headlight properly refers to the beam of light produced and distributed by the device.
Other वाहनों, such as trains और वायुयान, are required to have headlamps.
सायकिल headlamps are often used on bicycles, और हैं required in some jurisdictions.
They can be संचालित by a battery or a छोटी electrical सृजनकर्ता on the wheel.
Additionally ऑटोमोटिव रात्रि दृष्टि प्रणालियों work to supplement headlamps.
Women 's अधिकारों are the rights और entitlements claimed लिये women and girls of many societies विश्वव्यापी.
In कुछ places ये rights हैं institutionalized or supported by law, local custom, and behaviour, whereas in others they may be उपेक्षित or suppressed.
They differ from broader धारणाएं of इंसान अधिकारों through claims of an अंतर्निहित historical and traditional पूर्वाग्रह against the कसरत of अधिकारों by women and girls in favour of men and boys.
Issues commonly associated with notions of महिलाओं 's अधिकारों include, हालांकि are not limited to, the सही : to bodily integrity and autonomy ; to vote ( suffrage ) ; to hold पब्लिक office ; to कार्य ; to fair wages or बराबर pay ; to own property ; to education ; to serve in the military or be conscripted ; to डालें into legal contracts ; and to have marital, parental और धार्मिक rights.
caryn ऐलेन Johnson, बेहतरीन known as Whoopi Goldberg (, ( born नवम्बर 13, 1955 ) is an American comedienne, actress, singer-songwriter, political activist, लेखक and talk show host.
Goldberg made her film debut in The Color Purple ( 1985 ), playing Celie, a mistreated black woman in the गहन South.
She प्राप्त a nomination लिये the अकादमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन Actress and won her first Golden Globe Award लिये उसके role in the film.
In 1990, she played Oda Mae Brown, a wacky psychic helping a slain man ( Patrick Swayze ) सहेजें उसके lover ( demi मूर ) in the blockbuster Ghost.
This performance won her a दूसरी Golden Globe और an Academy Award for Best Supporting अभिनेत्री ; इस बना Goldberg तभी the दूसरी ब्लैक स्त्री in the history of the Academy Awards to win an एक्टिंग oscar—the first being Hattie McDaniel who won for गए With the Wind in 1939.
notable later films include Sister अधिनियम और Sister Act 2, The Player, बना in America, How Stella Got Her नाली Back, लड़की, Interrupted और Rat Race.
वो is भी acclaimed for her roles as the bartender Guinan in Star Trek : The Next Generation, as Terry Doolittle in jumpin ' जोकर Flash, और as कार्मेन tibideaux in Glee, as खूब as the voice of shenzi the hyena in The Lion King.
गोल्डबर्ग रै been nominated लिये 13 एमी Awards for her work in television.
She was co-producer of the लोकप्रिय game show हॉलीवुड Squares from 1998 to 2004.
She रै been the moderator of the daytime talk दिखाएँ The View चूंकि 2007.
Goldberg has a Grammy, दो Daytime Emmys, two Golden ग्लोब्स, a Tony ( for production, not acting ), and an Oscar.
In addition, Goldberg has a British Academy Film Award, four People 's Choice Awards, and रै been सम्मानित with a star on the Hollywood चलना of कीर्ति.
She is one of the few मनोरंजनकर्ता who have won an एमी, Grammy, Oscar, and टोनी Award.
The National Hockey लीग ( एनएचएल ; ) is an `` unincorporated not-for-profit association '' which operates a प्रमुख professional ice hockey league of 30 franchised member clubs, of which seven are currently located in Canada and 23 in the United States.
Headquartered in New York City, the NHL is widely माना to be the premier पेशेवर ice hockey लीग in the world, and एक of the major professional खेल leagues in the संयुक्त राज्य और Canada.
The Stanley Cup, the oldest professional sports trophy in North America, is awarded annually to the league playoff चैंपियन at the end of each season.
The league थी organized on November 26, 1917, in Montreal, Quebec, कनाडा, बाद the बर्खास्तगी of operations of its पूर्ववर्ती organization, the National हॉकी संघ ( NHA ), which था been founded in 1909.
It started with four teams and, through a श्रेणी of expansions, contractions, and relocations, the लीग is now रचित of 30 active franchises.
The स्वदेश to which the name of the league originally referred थी Canada, although the league रै now महरूम binational since 1924 when it विस्तारित into the संयुक्त States.
बाद a labour dispute that led to the cancellation of the संपूर्ण 2004–05 season, the league resumed play under a new collective bargaining agreement that included a salary cap.
In 2009, the एनएचएल enjoyed record highs in terms of sponsorships, उपस्थिति, and television audiences.
the NHL draws many highly skilled players from सब over the world और currently has players from about 20 different देशों.
हालांकि Canadians have historically constituted the majority of the players in the NHL, over the past four प्लस दशकों the percentages of US and European players have increased दोनो because of the NHL 's continued expansion इससे छह to thirty clubs चूंकि 1967, and the increased availability of highly skilled European players.
Maggots feeding on carrion.
a maggot is the लार्वा of a मक्खी ( order Diptera ) ; it is लागू in particular to the larvae of Brachyceran flies, such as houseflies, cheese उड़ता, and blowflies, rather than larvae of the nematocera, such as मच्छरों and Crane flies.
`` Maggot '' is नहीं a technical term and चाहिए not be taken as such ; in many standard textbooks of entomology it करता not appear in the index at all.
In many non-technical ग्रन्थ the term is प्रयुक्त लिये insect larvae in general.
अन्य sources have coined their own परिभाषाएं ; for उदाहरण : ``...
The पद applies to a ग्रब जब all ट्रेस of limbs रै disappeared... '' और ``... Applied to the footless लार्वे of Dipters. ''
maggot-like मक्खी larvae are of चौड़ी महत्व in पारिस्थितिकी and medicine ; among अन्य roles, various species are prominent in रीसाइक्लिंग carrion and garbage, attacking crops और foodstuffs, spreading microbial infections, और causing myiasis.
हेरोदेस (, Hordos, यूनानी :, Hērōdēs ), also known as Herod the ग्रेट ( 73/74 BCE – 4 BCE in Jericho ), was a Roman client किंग of Judea.
His epithet of `` the Great '' is widely disputed as he is described as `` a madman who murdered उसके own परिवार and a great many rabbis ``.
He is also known for his colossal building projects in Jerusalem और elsewhere, सहित his विस्तार of the Second Temple in Jerusalem ( sometimes referred to as Herod 's Temple ) and the construction of the port at Caesarea Maritima.
Important details of his जीवनी are gleaned from the works of the 1st century CE Roman–Jewish इतिहासकार josephus Flavius.
The Romans made हेरोदेस 's son, Herod Archelaus, ethnarch of Judea, Samaria, and idumea ( biblical Edom ) इससे 4 BCE to 6 CE, referred to as the tetrarchy of Judea.
archelaus थी judged incompetent by the Roman emperor Augustus who then संयुक्त Samaria, Judea proper और Idumea into Iudaea province under rule of a prefect until age 41.
Herod 's other बेटे Herod Antipas थी tetrarch of galilee from 4 BCE–39 ce.
ABO blood समूह antigens उपस्थित on red blood cells और IgM antibodies present in the सीरम
the ABO blood group प्रणाली is the सबसे important blood type system ( or रक्त group system ) in human रक्त transfusion.
The associated anti-A और anti-B antibodies हैं usually igm antibodies, जिससे are usually produced in the first years of life by sensitization to पर्यावरणीय substances such as food, bacteria, and viruses.
ABO blood types हैं भी उपस्थित in some other animals, for example apes such as chimpanzees, bonobos, और gorillas.
Year 1907 ( mcmvii ) थी a common year starting on Tuesday ( link होगा display the full calendar ) of the Gregorian calendar and a common साल starting on Monday of the 13-day-slower जूलियन calendar.
Northville is an affluent city located in और विभाजित by Oakland और Wayne counties in the U.S. state of Michigan.
The area is a उपनगरीय of Metropolitan Detroit.
The जनसांख्यिकी थी 5,970 at the 2010 census.
Most of the नगर is in Oakland County, और is surrounded by the नगर of Novi.
The Wayne County portion is surrounded by Northville township.
Northville is served by Northville Public Schools.
the नगर is located northeast of ऐन Arbor and northwest of Detroit.
Elaine Stritch ( born फ़रवरी 2, 1925 ) is an American actress और vocalist.
She has appeared in numerous stage plays और musicals, feature films, और many television programs.
वो is ज्ञात लिये her प्रदर्शन of `` the महिलाओं Who Lunch '' in Stephen Sondheim 's 1970 musical कम्पनी, her 2001 one-woman दिखाएँ, Elaine Stritch at Liberty, and recently for उसके role as Jack Donaghy 's mother Colleen on NBC 's 30 Rock.
She has been nominated लिये the Tony पुरस्कार पाँच times in various श्रेणी.
stritch is also a three-time Emmy पुरस्कार विजेता.
misfits is a British विज्ञान fiction comedy-drama टेलीविज़न दिखाएँ about a समूह of young अपराधियों sentenced to work in a community service programme, where वे obtain supernatural powers बाद a strange विद्युत तूफ़ान.
The series opened in 2009 and is फिलहाल ongoing.
Antonia थामस, Iwan Rheon, लॉरेन Socha, नाथन Stewart-Jarrett, and Robert Sheehan हैं introduced as अलीशा Daniels, Simon bellamy, Kelly Bailey, Curtis Donovan, and नाथन Young क्रमशः.
sheehan left after the second series, replaced in the तीसरा by Joseph Gilgun as रूडी Wade.
After the fourth श्रेणी थी announced Rheon, थामस and Socha had left उनके roles and होता be replaced by new वर्ण Karla Crome, Nathan McMullen and Matt Stokoe, as Jess, फिन और Alex respectively.
Midway through the चौथी series, Stewart-Jarrett left while Natasha O'Keeffe joined the cast as Abbey स्मिथ.
On 19 March 2013, चैनल 4 announced at a press event that वे have renewed misfits for a fifth and फाइनल series containing 8 एपीसोड.
ब्रेट Lorenzo favre ( born अक्तूबर 10, 1969 ) is a पूर्व अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल quarterback who खर्च the majority of उसके career with the Green Bay Packers of the National Football League ( NFL ).
he was a 20-year veteran of the NFL, having निभाई quarterback लिये the अटलांटा Falcons ( 1991 ), ग्रीन खाड़ी Packers ( 1992 – 2007 ), New York Jets ( 2008 ) and Minnesota Vikings ( 2009 – 2010 ).
Favre is the only quarterback in NFL history to throw for over 70,000 गज, over 500 touchdowns, over 300 interceptions, over 6,000 completions, और over 10,000 pass attempts.
Favre started at the quarterback position लिये the University of दक्षिणी Mississippi for four सालो before being चयनित in the second round of the 1991 एनएफएल Draft by अटलांटा ( 33rd overall ).
He was traded to Green Bay on फ़रवरी 10, 1992, लिये the 19th pick in the 1992 NFL ड्राफ्ट.
Favre became the Packers ' starting quarterback in the fourth game of the 1992 season, stepping in for injured क्वार्टरबैक Don Majkowski, और प्रारंभ प्रत्येक खेल through the 2007 ऋतु.
He was traded to the नई York Jets and प्रारंभ at quarterback for the 2008 season before signing with the Vikings on August 18, 2009 as their starting क्वार्टरबैक.
He made an NFL record 297 consecutive starts ( 321 including playoffs ).
he is the only player to win the ap Most मूल्यवान खिलाड़ी three लगातार times ( 1995–97 ).
he रै led teams to eight प्रभाग championships ( 1995, 1996, 1997, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2007, 2009 ), five NFC Championship खेल ( 1995, 1996, 1997, 2007, 2009 ), और दो Super Bowl appearances ( सुपर कटोरी XXXI, सुपर Bowl xxxii ), winning एक ( Super कटोरी xxxi ).
he holds many एनएफएल records, including most career touchdown passes, most career passing yards, most career pass completions, most करियर pass कोशिशें, सबसे career interceptions thrown, सबसे consecutive starts by a player, most लगातार starts by a क्वार्टरबैक, most career victories as a starting quarterback, most बर्खास्त, and most fumbles.
He is also referred to by his nickname `` the Gunslinger ''.
The following is a सूची of notable aircraft hijackings around the world.
the World चौड़ी वेब ( abbreviated as www or W3, commonly known as the web ), is a प्रणाली of interlinked hypertext दस्तावेज़ accessed via the Internet.
With a वेब browser, one can view web pages that may contain text, images, videos, and अन्य multimedia, और navigate between them via hyperlinks.
Using concepts from his earlier hypertext systems जैसे ENQUIRE, British engineer, computer scientist और at that समय employee of the cern, Sir टिम Berners-Lee, now निदेशक of the World Wide Web Consortium ( W3C ), लिखा a proposal in March 1989 लिये what होता eventually become the World चौड़ी Web.
At cern, a European research organisation near Geneva straddling the border between France and Switzerland, berners-lee and Belgian computer वैज्ञानिक रॉबर्ट cailliau proposed in 1990 to use hypertext `` to कड़ी and अभिगम सूचना of various kinds as a web of nodes in which the user can browse at होगा '', and they publicly introduced the प्रोजेक्ट in दिसम्बर of the same year.
Wayne Lyman मोर्स ( October 20, 1900July 22, 1974 ) was a politician and attorney इससे Oregon, United राज्य, known for his proclivity for opposing his parties ' leadership, and specifically for उसके opposition to the Vietnam War on constitutional grounds.
Born in मैडिसन, विस्कॉन्सिन, and educated at the University of Wisconsin-Madison and the विश्वविद्यालयों of Minnesota Law स्कूल, Morse स्थानांतरित to Oregon in 1930 और began teaching at the विश्वविद्यालयों of Oregon स्कूल of Law.
During World War II he was निर्वाचित to the संयुक्त States सीनेट as a रिपब्लिकन ; he became an Independent after Dwight D. Eisenhower 's election to the presidency in 1952.
जबकि an स्वतंत्र, he set a record for performing the second longest one-person filibuster in the history of the Senate.
Morse joined the Democratic Party in 1955, और was reelected twice जबकि a सदस्य of that party.
Morse बना a ब्रैड चलाएं for the लोकतांत्रिक Party 's अध्यक्षीय नामांकन in 1960.
A few years later, Morse was one of तभी two Senators जो opposed the Gulf of tonkin रेज़ोल्यूशन, which authorized the president to लो military कार्रवाई in वियतनाम बगैर a declaration of war.
He continued to speak आउट against the war in the ensuing years, and खोया उसके 1968 bid for reelection to Bob packwood, जो criticized उसके strong opposition to the war.
मोर्स बना दो more bids for reelection to the सीनेट before his मौत in 1974.
In parliamentary कार्यविधि, a गति to तालिका रै two different and contradictory meanings:
In the United States, to table usually means the to lay [ the टॉपिक ] on the तालिका or to move for postponement of consideration ; a प्रस्ताव to suspend consideration of a pending motion.
much less often, it अर्थात् a motion to `` put on the तालिका '' : a प्रस्ताव to begin consideration ( or reconsideration ), a usage सतत with the rest of the english-speaking world.
In the rest of the English-speaking world ऐसे as the संयुक्त Kingdom, to table अर्थात् to move to प्लेस [ the टॉपिक ] upon the तालिका ( or to मूव to प्लेस on the तालिका ) : a proposal to शुरू विचार ( or reconsideration ) of a प्रस्ताव.
Both the American and the British dialects have the sense of `` to table '' as to lay [ the topic ] on the तालिका or to cause [ the टॉपिक ] to झूठ on the table.
The अंतर is the विचार of what the table is लिये, that of a shelf बंद to the side, or an क्रियाशील कार्य bench.
the अंग्रेजों meaning has the sense of the table as being an active work बेंच, with the topic being the center of attention, considered and discussed by सब until it can be resolved, at which point it is लिया off the 'table '.
The American भाव is कि the table is जैसे कि of a shelf, archive, or long-term storage device, where the topic has been disposed of by sending it to the 'table ' and leaving it there.
खिलौना Story 3 is a 2010 American 3D कंप्यूटर animated comedy-drama prison film, and the तीसरा किश्त in the Toy Story series.
It थी produced by Pixar Animation Studios and distributed by Walt Disney Pictures.
Directed by Lee unkrich, the film थी released विश्वव्यापी from June through October in डिज़्नी Digital 3-d, RealD, और IMAX 3D.
Toy Story 3 थी also the first फिल्मी to be released theatrically with Dolby घेर 7.1 sound.
the पटकथा was written by Michael arndt, while Unkrich wrote the स्टोरी along साथ John lasseter और Andrew Stanton, क्रमशः director and co-writer of the दो first films.
the plot focuses on the toys Woody, Buzz Lightyear, and their मित्रों dealing with an अनिश्चित future as उनके owner, Andy, prepares to छोड़ for college.
अभिनेताओं tom Hanks, Tim Allen, Joan cusack, Don Rickles, Estelle Harris, John Ratzenberger, वालेस Shawn, जेफ़ Pidgeon, jodi Benson, R. Lee Ermey, John मॉरिस, and Laurie metcalf reprised their voice-over roles इससे the previous films.
Jim varney, जो played slinky Dog in the first दो films, and जो Ranft, जो portrayed Lenny और wheezy, both died before production began on खिलौना Story 3.
The role of Slinky श्वान was लिया over by Blake Clark ( a friend of varney ), while ranft 's characters and various others were written out of the story.
New characters include performances by Ned beatty, टिमोथी Dalton, क्रिस्टन schaal, Bonnie हंट, Whoopi Goldberg, Jeff Garlin, Richard Kind, and Michael Keaton.
The विशेषता broke Shrek the Thirds record as the biggest opening day North अमरीकी सकल for an एनिमेटेड फिल्मी unadjusted for inflation, and a big opening with an unadjusted gross of $ 110,307,189.
it is also the highest-grossing opening weekend for a Pixar film, as well as the highest-grossing opening weekend for a film to have खोली in the month of June.
This is the highest-grossing film of 2010, both in the United States और Canada, and worldwide.
In early August, it became Pixar 's highest-grossing फिल्मी at the उत्तर American box office ( surpassing Finding Nemo ), and the highest-grossing animated फिल्मी of all time worldwide ( surpassing Shrek 2 ) ; later that माह, Toy Story 3 became the पहला ever animated film in इतिहास to make over $ 1 अरब worldwide.
it is currently the 10th-highest-grossing फिल्मी of all time.
Toy Story 3 थी nominated for पाँच Academy Awards, सहित Best चित्र, बेहतरीन Adapted Screenplay, and बेहतरीन Sound Editing.
it was the तीसरा एनिमेटेड film ( बाद Beauty and the Beast और Up ) to be मनोनीत लिये Academy पुरस्कार for Best चित्र.
It won the पुरस्कार for Best एनिमेटेड Feature और Best Original Song.
John levell starks ( born August 10, 1965 ) is an American retired professional बास्केट शूटिंग guard.
Starks was सूचीबद्ध at 6'5 '' and 190 पाउंड दौरान उसके NBA playing career.
हालांकि he was नहीं drafted in the 1988 एनबीए Draft after attending चार colleges in उसके native Oklahoma, सहित Oklahoma State University, he gained fame जबकि playing लिये the New यॉर्क Knicks of the नेशनल बास्केट Association in the 1990s.
सुरक्षित Digital or ( SD ) is a non-volatile memory card format for use in portable devices, such as mobile फोन, डिजिटल कैमरे, GPS navigation devices, और tablet computers.
the Secure Digital मानक is maintained by the sd Card संघ ( SDA ).
SD technologies have been implemented in अधिक than 400 brands आरपार dozens of product categories and more than 8,000 मॉडल.
The सुरक्षित Digital format includes चार कार्ड families उपलब्धियाँ in three different form factors.
the four परिवारों are the original standard-capacity ( SDSC ), the High-Capacity ( SDHC ), the extended-capacity ( sdxc ), and the SDIO, which combines input/output functions साथ data storage.
The three रूप factors हैं the original size, the `` mini '' size, और the `` micro '' size ( see illustration ).
वहीँ are many combinations of रूप factors and यंत्र families.
electrically passive adapters allow the use of a smaller card in a host device built to hold a larger card.
Host devices that comply with newer संस्करण of the specification provide backward compatibility and accept पुरानी sd cards, but this article explains अनेक factors कि can prevent the use of a नए sd card:
A newer card may प्रस्ताव वृहद क्षमता than the host यंत्र can handle.
a newer card may उपयोग a file प्रणाली the host यंत्र can not navigate.
उपयोग of an sdio card requires the host यंत्र be designed for the input/output कृत्यों the card provides.
the organization of the card was changed starting with the SDHC family.
Some vendors उत्पादित SDSC cards above 1 gb before the SDA had standardized a method of doing so.
The SDA उपयोग अनेक trademarked logos to enforce compliance with its specifications and assure उपयोक्ता of संगतता.
Hugh John mungo Grant ( born 9 September 1960 ) is a अंग्रेजों कर्ता and film producer.
He has received a Golden Globe, a BAFTA, और an Honorary césar.
His films have earned more than US $ 2.4 billion from 25 नाट्य releases विश्वव्यापी.
Grant achieved अंतरराष्ट्रीय stardom after appearing in Richard Curtis 's successful चार Weddings and a Funeral ( 1994 ).
He used इस भेदन भूमिका as a बारंबार cinematic persona during the 1990s, delivering comic प्रदर्शन in मुख्यधारा films like Mickey Blue Eyes ( 1999 ) and नॉटिंग Hill ( 1999 ).
by the turn of the 21st century, he था established खुद as a leading man skilled with a satirical comic talent.
Grant has expanded his oeuvre with critically acclaimed turns as a कैड in Bridget Jones 's Diary ( 2001 ), About A Boy ( 2002 ), Love Actually ( 2003 ), and American dreamz ( 2006 ).
He बाद निभाई against type साथ multiple cameo भूमिकाएँ in the epic drama film Cloud Atlas ( 2012 ).
Within the film उद्योग, Grant is cited as an anti-film star who approaches उसके roles जैसे a character कर्ता, और attempts to make his एक्टिंग appear spontaneous.
Hallmarks of his comic कौशल include a nonchalant टच of irony / sarcasm और studied शारीरिक mannerisms as खूब as his precisely-timed dialogue delivery and facial expressions.
The entertainment मीडिया 's coverage of Grant 's life बंद the बिग स्क्रीन has often overshadowed उसके work as a thespian.
He has महरूम vocal about उसके अनादर लिये the profession of acting, and in his तिरस्कार towards the culture of celebrity और दुश्मनी towards the media.
In a career spanning 30 years, Grant has repeatedly claimed that एक्टिंग is not a true calling but just a job he fell into.
The Han राजवंश ( ; ) ( 206 BC – 220 AD ) was an imperial dynasty of China, preceded by the Qin Dynasty ( 221–207 bc ) और succeeded by the Three Kingdoms ( 220–280 AD ).
It was founded by the विद्रोही नेता Liu बंग, ज्ञात मरणोपरांत as Emperor gaozu of Han.
It थी briefly interrupted by the xin Dynasty ( 9–23 AD ) of the former रीजेंट वांग Mang.
This interregnum separates the Han into two अवधि : the Western Han ( 206 bc – 9 ad ) और Eastern Han ( 25–220 AD ).
Spanning over four centuries, the period of the Han Dynasty is considered a सुनहरी आयु in Chinese history.
to this day, China 's majority ethnic group refers to itself as the `` हान लोगों '' and the Chinese स्क्रिप्ट is referred to as `` हान characters ``.
The Han Empire was divided into क्षेत्रों सीधे controlled by the central government, known as commanderies, and a number of semi-autonomous kingdoms.
These kingdoms धीरे lost all vestiges of their independence, विशेषकर following the Rebellion of the सात राज्य.
The Xiongnu, a nomadic confederation which dominated the पूर्वी Eurasian Steppe, defeated the Han फौज in battle in 200 BC.
following the defeat, a political marriage alliance थी negotiated in which the हान became the de facto inferior partner.
When, despite the treaty, the Xiongnu जारी to रेड हान borders, सम्राट Wu of Han ( r. 141–87 bc ) launched several military campaigns विरूद्ध them.
The ultimate Han victory in these युद्धों eventually forced the Xiongnu to accept vassal status as हान tributaries.
ये campaigns विस्तारित Han प्रभुता into the Tarim Basin of Central Asia और helped स्थापित the vast व्यापार संजाल known as the Silk Road, जिससे reached as दूर as the भूमध्यसागरीय संसार.
Han शक्तियां प्रबंधित to divide the xiongnu into two competing nations, the Southern and उत्तरी Xiongnu, and forced the Northern Xiongnu across the Ili River.
Despite these victories, the territories उत्तर of हान 's सीमायें यहूद quickly overrun by the nomadic Xianbei कनफेडरेशन.
After 92 ad, the palace eunuchs increasingly involved themselves in court राजनीती, engaging in हिंसक power struggles between the various consort clans of the empresses and empress dowagers, causing the हान 's ultimate downfall.
इम्पीरियल authority was also seriously challenged by large Daoist धार्मिक societies which instigated the Yellow पगड़ी Rebellion और the Five Pecks of राइस Rebellion.
Following the death of सम्राट ling ( r. 168–189 AD ), the palace हिजड़े suffered wholesale massacre by सैन्य officers, allowing सदस्यों of the aristocracy and सैन्य governors to become warlords and divide the साम्राज्य.
जब Cao pi, King of Wei, usurped the throne from Emperor xian, the Han राजवंश ceased to मौजूद.
The Han Dynasty was an age of economic prosperity और saw a significant growth of the money अर्थव्यवस्था पहला established दौरान the झोऊ राजवंश ( c. 1050–256 BC ).
The coinage issued by the central government मिंट in 119 BC remained the standard coinage of China until the Tang Dynasty ( 618–907 ad ).
To pay लिये its military अभियान और the उपनिवेश of newly conquered frontier territories, the government nationalized the private नमक and iron industries in 117 bc.
These government monopolies यहूद repealed during the Eastern हान period, और the lost revenue was recouped through heavily taxing निजी entrepreneurs.
The emperor was at the pinnacle of हान समाज.
he presided over the Han सरकारी but shared power साथ दोनो the धामों and appointed ministers who came largely from the scholarly gentry class.
इससे the reign of Emperor Wu onward, the Chinese अदालत officially sponsored Confucianism in education and court politics, synthesized with the cosmology of later scholars such as Dong zhongshu.
इस नीति endured until the fall of the Qing Dynasty in 1911 ad.
Science and technology during the Han period saw significant advances, including papermaking, the nautical steering rudder, the use of negative numbers in mathematics, the raised-relief map, the हाइड्रोलिक -powered armillary sphere for astronomy, and a seismometer employing an inverted pendulum.
Tourette syndrome ( भी called Tourette 's syndrome, Tourette 's disorder, गाइल्स de la Tourette syndrome, GTS or, अधिक commonly, simply Tourette 's or TS ) is an inherited neuropsychiatric disorder with onset in childhood, characterized by अनेक physical ( motor ) tics and at तनिक एक गायन ( phonic ) tic.
These tics characteristically wax and wane, can be suppressed temporarily, and are preceded by a premonitory urge.
tourette 's is defined as भाग of a वर्णक्रम of tic disorders, which includes क्षणिक और chronic tics.
tourette 's was once considered a rare और विचित्र सिंड्रोम, most often संबद्ध साथ the exclamation of obscene words or socially inappropriate and derogatory remarks ( coprolalia ), but this लक्षण is present in तभी a small minority of लोगों साथ Tourette 's.
Tourette 's is no longer considered a rare कंडीशन, but it is नहीं सदा correctly identified because most cases are mild और the severity of tics decreases for सबसे children as they pass through adolescence.
Between 0.4 % और 3.8 % of children ages 5 to 18 may have tourette 's ; the prevalence of transient and दीर्घकालिक tics in school-age children is higher, with the more common tics of eye blinking, coughing, throat clearing, सूँघने, and facial movements.
चरम Tourette 's in adulthood is a rarity, और Tourette 's does not adversely affect प्रज्ञा or जीवन expectancy.
जेनेटिक और environmental कारकों play a role in the etiology of tourette 's, लकिन the exact causes are unknown.
in most cases, medication is unnecessary.
There is no effective treatment for every case of tics, but निश्चित medications and therapies can help जब उनके use is warranted.
Education is an important भाग of कोई उपचार plan, and स्पष्टीकरण and reassurance alone हैं often sufficient treatment.
Comorbid conditions ( co-occurring diagnoses other than Tourette 's ) ऐसे as attention-deficit hyperactivity विकार ( adhd ) और obsessive–compulsive disorder ( ओसीडी ) are present in many मरीजों seen in tertiary specialty क्लिनिक.
These other conditions often cause more functional पुतलियों to the individual than the tics that are the hallmark of tourette 's, hence it is important to correctly identify comorbid conditions and treat them.
the eponym was bestowed by Jean-Martin Charcot ( 1825–1893 ) on निमित्त of his resident, जॉर्जेस Albert Édouard Brutus Gilles de la Tourette ( 1859–1904 ), a French physician and neurologist, जो published an खाता of नौ मरीजों with Tourette 's in 1885.
सनबीम badge.
Sunbeam थी a marque पंजीकृत by जॉन Marston Co. Ltd of wolverhampton, इंग्लैण्ड, in 1888.
The company पहला made साइकिल, then मोटरसाइकिल और cars from the late 19th century until परिचय 1936, और applied the marque to सब three फ़ॉर्म of transportation.
The company also manufactured aero engines in the First संसार War and 647 वायुयान during the Second World War.
A Sunbeam थी the first British car to win a ग्रैंड प्रिक्स race, और set a क्रमांक of जमीन speed records.
The company गई into receivership in 1935 और थी purchased by the Rootes Group, जिससे continued to use the सनबीम marque.
Fox News Channel ( FNC ), also known as Fox News, is a cable न्यूज channel owned by the Fox Entertainment Group, a subsidiary of News निगम.
As of April 2009, the channel was available to 102 million households in the United States and to viewers internationally, broadcasting primarily from its New York studios.
the channel was निर्मित by australian-american media mogul Rupert मर्डोक, who hired former NBC executive Roger Ailes as its founding CEO.
it launched on October 7, 1996 to 17 लाख cable subscribers.
it grew during the late 1990s and 2000s to become the प्रबल cable news संजाल in the United राज्य.
Critics have stated that Fox न्यूज चैनल promotes conservative political positions और biased रिपोर्टिंग.
टीकाकारों, news anchors, और reporters at फॉक्स News चैनल have responded that news reporting and political commentary operate independently of each अन्य, and have अस्वीकृत any bias in न्यूज रिपोर्टिंग.
The mandibular first molar or six-year molar is the दाँत स्तिथ distally ( away from the midline of the face ) from both the mandibular second premolars of the मुँह लकिन mesial ( toward the midline of the face ) इससे both mandibular second molars.
It is located on the mandibular ( निम्नतर ) arch of the मुँह, and generally opposes the ऊर्ध्वहनु ( अपर ) first molars और the maxillary 2nd premolar in सामान्य क्लास i occlusion.
the function of this molar is similar to that of सब molars in regard to पीस होने the principal action दौरान mastication, commonly ज्ञात as chewing.
वहीँ हैं प्रायः five well-developed cusps on mandibular first molars : दो on the buccal ( पक्ष nearest the cheek ), दो lingual ( side निकटतम the tongue ), और एक distal.
There हैं great differences between the deciduous ( baby ) mandibular molars और those of the permanent mandibular molars, even though their फलन हैं similar.
the स्थाई mandibular molars हैं नहीं considered to have any दांत that precede it.
Despite being नामित molars, the पतझड़ी molars are followed by स्थाई premolars.
In the universal प्रणाली of संकेतन, the deciduous mandibular पहला molars are designated by a अक्षर लिखा in uppercase.
The right deciduous mandibular पहला molar is known as `` s '', and the left one is known as `` L ''.
The अंतरराष्ट्रीय notation has a अलग system of notation.
Thus, the right deciduous mandibular first molar is known as `` 84 '', and the left one is known as `` 74 ''.
In the universal system of notation, the permanent mandibular पहला molars हैं designated by a क्रमांक.
The right permanent mandibular first molar is ज्ञात as `` 30 '', और the बाएँ one is ज्ञात as `` 19 ''.
The Palmer notation uses a क्रमांक in संयोजन साथ a प्रतीक designating in which quadrant the tooth is मिला.
For इस tooth, the left and right पहला molars होता have the वही क्रमांक, `` 6 '', लकिन the right एक would have the प्रतीक, `` ┐ '', over it, while the left one would have, `` ┌ ''.
The international notation has a different numbering प्रणाली than the previous two, and the सही permanent mandibular first molar is known as `` 46 '', और the left one is known as `` 36 ''.
mandibular प्राथमिक first molars usually have four pulp horns.
The पहला molar is प्रायः the first permanent tooth to erupt and has वयस्क undertones.
anatomy : The mandibular पहला molar has five cusps : the mesiobuccal ( MB, toward midline और गाल ), mesiolingual ( ML, toward midline and tongue ), distolingual ( DL, away from midline और towards tongue ), distobuccal ( DB, दूर from midline and toward cheek ), and distal ( D, दूर from midline ), listed in order of decreasing आकार.
Listed in अनुक्रम of decreasing height they हैं : ML, DL, DF, MF, and D. An eighth cusp was found in a primary second lower molar in an Argentinean child.
Viewed इससे the top of the tooth ( occlusal view ), the mandibular first molar is pentagonal ( five तरफा ) in आकार और tapers toward the lingual, with the sides being the buccal surface, the mesial सतह, the lingual सतह, distal सतह, and the distobuccal surface.
The occlusal सतह has चार grooves.
The central groove is not सीधा but runs down the center of the दाँत mesially to distally and contains four pits ( mesial, central, central, and distal ).
The distobuccal groove रनों from the distal गड्ढे in the central groove distobuccally separating the distal and distobuccal cusps.
the lingual groove runs from the more distal of the central pits in the central नाली toward the lingual सतह between the mesiolingual और distolingual cusps.
The buccal नाली runs इससे the more mesial of the central pits in the central नाली toward the buccal surface between the mesiobuccal and distobuccal पुलिन ending in the buccal गड्ढे.
the portion of the central groove between the central pits is termed the Lewis ऑफसेट and is अनिवार्य to खाता for the स्थितियाँ of the buccal and lingual grooves ( buccal नाली होने अधिक mesial than the lingual groove while वे are parallel ).
From the buccal ( buccal view ), दो roots हैं present.
the distal रूट is generally straighter, although दोनो often have a slight distal curvature.
The heights of रुपरेखा on the mesial and distal contact the adjacent teeth and are located at the junction of the occlusal और मध्य thirds of the crown.
The फ्लोरिडा Legislature is the दो houses कि act as the राज्य legislature of the U.S. state of Florida.
The Florida Constitution states that `` the विधान power of the राज्य shall be vested in a विधानमंडल of the State of Florida, '' composed of a Senate and हाउस of Representatives.
The legislature is seated at the Florida State Capitol in tallahassee.
Stained glass depiction of Daniel interceding साथ arioch, the king 's guard.
arioch had been charged साथ हत्या all the wise men बाद वे यहूद नहीं able to interpret nebuchadnezzar 's dream.
Daniel 2 is the second chapter of the Book of Daniel in the Hebrew Bible.
the chapter 's source टेक्स्ट is predominantly लिखा in Aramaic.
According to the text, nebuchadnezzar is the किंग of Babylon who is troubled by his dreams.
He demands an निर्वचन लिये his सपनो or will have उसके mystic interpreters executed.
Daniel seeks दैवी अक्ल to interpret the किंग 's dreams and praises God साथ a short psalm.
परमेश्वर देता Daniel a vision in the night to खुलासा the किंग 's dream.
समर्थ to satisfy the king, Daniel is promoted over the whole प्रांत of Babylon.
One comcast Center, the मुख्यालय of comcast in Philadelphia, PA.
the old Comcast logo from 1969 to 1999, when it was replaced साथ the crescent logo.
The Comcast निगम is an अमरीकी प्रदाता of entertainment, information and communications उत्पाद and services.
It is the largest cable operator, एक of the biggest mass media, home अंतरजाल सेवा provider, और third largest home telephone service प्रदाता in the संयुक्त राज्य, providing cable टेलीविज़न, broadband Internet, telephone सेवा and in कुछ areas घर security ( including burglar alarms, surveillance cameras, आग alarm systems and home automation ) to दोनो आवासीय और commercial ग्राहक in 40 states and the ज़िला of Columbia.
the company is headquartered in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
In 2011, Comcast acquired a 51 % बहुमत stake in media conglomerate NBCUniversal इससे ge in January 2011, and began the process of purchasing the remaining 49 % on February 12, 2013, at a लागत of $ 16.7 अरब.
it completed the purchase on March 19, 2013.
Comcast also रै significant holding in several केबल networks ( including E !
entertainment टेलीविज़न, Style संजाल, G4, the Golf चैनल and एनबीसी Sports Network ), distribution ( ThePlatform ), और related businesses.
Comcast has been the विषय of criticism for क्रियाएँ including its stance on net neutrality, as well as poor परिणाम on ग्राहक संतोष surveys.
Porcupines are rodents with a coat of शार्प spines, or quills, कि बचाव and camouflage them इससे predators.
They are स्वदेशी to the americas, southern Asia, and Africa.
porcupines are the third largest of the rodents, behind the capybara और the बीवर.
Most porcupines are about long, with an long tail.
Weighing, वे are rounded, विशाल and slow.
porcupines come in विभिन्न shades of brown, gray, and the असामान्य white.
Porcupines ' spiny सुरक्षा resembles कि of the unrelated erinaceomorph hedgehogs और monotreme echidnas.
the आम porcupine is a herbivore.
It eats पत्ते, herbs, twigs and green plants like skunk गोभी and clover and in the winter it may eat bark.
The उत्तर American porcupine often climbs trees to find food.
The अफ़्रीकी porcupine is not a climber and forages on the मैदान.
It is mostly nocturnal, but will sometimes forage for food in the दिन.
Porcupines have become a pest in Kenya और are eaten as a delicacy.
The name porcupine comes from Middle French porc espin ( spined pig ).
A regional अमरीकी नाम for the animal is quill pig.
First page of US patent 129,843 for Improvement in Lubricators लिये Steam-Engines
Elijah J. मैककॉय ( may 2, 1844 – अक्तूबर 10, 1929 ) was a ब्लैक Canadian-American inventor और engineer, who was notable for his 57 U.S. patents, most to do with lubrication of भाप engines.
born free in Canada, he लौटे as a five-year-old child साथ his परिवार to the United राज्य in 1847, where he lived for the rest of his life और became a us citizen.
Honda fcx स्पष्टता, a hydrogen fuel cell demonstration vehicle introduced in 2008
A hydrogen vehicle is a vehicle कि उपयोग हाइड्रोजन as its onboard fuel लिये motive power.
हाइड्रोजन vehicles include hydrogen fueled space rockets, as well as ऑटोमोबाइल and other परिवहन वाहनों.
The शक्ति पौधे of such vehicles बदलें the रासायनिक energy of hydrogen to mechanical energy either by burning hydrogen in an internal combustion engine, or by reacting हाइड्रोजन साथ oxygen in a fuel कोशिका to run electric मोटर्स.
Widespread use of हाइड्रोजन for fueling transportation is a key element of a प्रस्तावित hydrogen अर्थव्यवस्था.
Hydrogen fuel does not occur naturally on Earth and thus is not an energy source ; rather it is an उर्जा carrier.
it is सबसे frequently made इससे मिथेन or other fossil fuels, लकिन it can be उत्पादित using स्त्रोत ( such as हवा, सौर, or nuclear ) that are intermittent, too व्याप्त or too cumbersome to सीधे propel vehicles.
Integrated wind-to-hydrogen plants, using electrolysis of water, are exploring technologies to deliver लागत कम enough, और quantities great enough, to compete with traditional उर्जा sources.
अनेक companies हैं working to develop technologies कि might efficiently exploit the potential of hydrogen energy लिये मोबाईल uses.
The attraction of using hydrogen as an energy currency is कि, if hydrogen is prepared without using चट्टान ईंधन inputs, vehicle propulsion होता not contribute to कार्बन dioxide emissions.
The drawbacks of हाइड्रोजन use are high capital लागत, कम energy content प्रति unit volume, ऊँची tankage weights, very high storage vessel pressures, the storage, transportation और भरना of gaseous or liquid hydrogen in vehicles, the large investment in infrastructure कि होता be required to fuel vehicles, और the inefficiency of production processes.
sacramento is the पूंजी city of the u.S. state of California और the seat of government of Sacramento County.
It is located at the confluence of the Sacramento River और the American नदी in the उत्तरी portion of California 's expansive Central Valley.
With an estimated 2011 population of 477,891, it is the sixth-largest नगर in कैलिफ़ोर्निया and the 35th largest city in the United States.
Sacramento is the core cultural and आर्थिक बीच of the Sacramento metropolitan area जिससे शामिल seven counties with an estimated 2009 population of 2,527,123.
Its महानगर area is the fourth largest in कैलिफ़ोर्निया after the वृहद Los Angeles Area, San Francisco Bay Area, and the San Diego महानगर area, as well as the 25th largest in the संयुक्त States.
Sacramento was cited by Time पत्रिका as America 's सबसे ethnically और racially integrated city in 2002.
Sacramento became a नगर through the प्रयत्न of the Swiss immigrant John Sutter, sr., his son John sutter, Jr., and जेम्स W. Marshall.
Sacramento grew quickly धन्यवाद to the सुरक्षा of sutter 's Fort, जिससे थी स्थापित by Sutter in 1839.
दौरान the California Gold Rush, sacramento थी a major distribution point, a commercial and agricultural बीच, और a टर्मिनस for वैगन trains, stagecoaches, riverboats, the telegraph, the टट्टू Express, and the पहला transcontinental रेलरोड.
California राज्य University, sacramento, more commonly known as Sacramento राज्य or सैक State, is the largest local विश्वविद्यालयों.
It is one of the twenty-three campuses of the California State University system.
Drexel University Sacramento is located in शहर, Sacramento.
विश्वविद्यालयों of the Pacific 's mcgeorge School of Law is located in the Oak पार्क पड़ोस.
In जोड, the University of California, Davis is located in nearby Davis, west of the capital.
the uc Davis Medical बीच, a world-renowned research hospital, is located in the city of sacramento.
The ठहराना स्टोर is a कड़ी of खुदरा stores owned and operated by Apple Inc., dealing in computers and consumer electronics.
The स्टोर्स sell Macintosh personal कंप्यूटर, software, iPods, ipads, iPhones, third-party accessories, and other consumer electronics such as Apple TV.
Some high प्रोफ़ाइल स्टोर्स feature a Theatre for presentations और workshops and a Studio for training with Apple products ; all stores offer a Genius बार लिये technical support और repairs, as well as फ़्री workshops available to the public.
Under the leadership of Ron Johnson, the former Senior Vice President of Retail परिचालन, the Apple Stores have, according to an article in the New York टाइम्स, been responsible लिये `` [ turning ] the boring computer sales floor into a sleek playroom filled साथ गैजेट ''.
, Apple has 405 stores worldwide, with global sales of billion in merchandise in 2011, और they lead the United राज्य खुदरा मार्केट in शर्तें of sales per unit area.
स्टीवन पॉल `` Steve '' Jobs ( ; February 24, 1955 – अक्तूबर 5, 2011 ) was an American entrepreneur and inventor, बेहतरीन known as the co-founder, अध्यक्ष, and सीईओ of ठहराना inc.
Through Apple, he थी widely recognized as a charismatic pioneer of the personal computer क्रान्ति and for उसके influential career in the computer and consumer electronics fields, transforming `` एक उद्योग after another, from computers and smartphones to music and movies... ''
Jobs also co-founded and परोसा as मुख्य executive of Pixar एनिमेशन Studios ; he became a member of the board of directors of The Walt डिज़्नी Company in 2006, when Disney acquired Pixar.
कार्य was among the first to see the commercial संभावित of Xerox parc 's mouse -ड्राइवn graphical उपयोक्ता interface, जिससे led to the creation of the Apple Lisa and, एक साल later, the मैकिंटोश.
He भी निभाई a भूमिका in introducing the LaserWriter, एक of the first widely available laser printers, to the market.
बाद a power struggle with the board of निर्देशकों in 1985, कार्य left ठहराना and founded NeXT, a computer मंच विकास company specializing in the higher-education और business markets.
in 1986, he acquired the computer graphics division of लुकासफ़िल्म, which थी spun off as पिक्चर्स.
He थी credited in Toy स्टोरी ( 1995 ) as an कार्यपालिका निर्माता.
He served as CEO and majority shareholder until डिज़्नी 's खरीदें of Pixar in 2006.
In 1996, after Apple had failed to deliver its operating system, copland, gil Amelio turned to NeXT Computer, and the nextstep platform became the न्यास for the मैक os x.
Jobs लौटे to Apple as an सलाहकार, और took control of the company as an अंतरिम सीईओ.
कार्य brought Apple इससे निकट bankruptcy to profitability by 1998.
As the new CEO of the कम्पनी, Jobs oversaw the विकास of the imac, iTunes, iPod, iphone, and iPad, and on the services side, the company 's ठहराना Retail Stores, itunes Store and the App Store.
the success of these products और services provided several years of stable financial returns, and propelled ठहराना to become the संसार 's most valuable सरेआम traded company in 2011.
The reinvigoration of the कम्पनी is regarded by many commentators as एक of the greatest turnarounds in business इतिहास.
In 2003, Jobs थी diagnosed with a pancreas neuroendocrine tumor.
Though it थी initially treated, he reported a हार्मोन imbalance, underwent a liver transplant in 2009, and appeared progressively thinner as his health declined.
on चिकित्सा leave लिये most of 2011, Jobs resigned in August that year, and was निर्वाचित अध्यक्ष of the Board.
He died of respiratory arrest related to his metastatic tumor on October 5, 2011.
Jobs received a number of honors and पब्लिक recognition for his influence in the technology and music industries.
He रै महरूम referred to as `` legendary '', a `` futurist '' or बस `` visionary '', और रै been described as the `` Father of the Digital Revolution '', a `` निपुण of innovation '', and a `` design perfectionist ''.
प्रवेश to section ( 52 ) of the Colosseum, with numerals still visible
रोमन numerals, the numeric system in ancient Rome, उपयोग combinations of अक्षर from the लैटिन alphabet to signify values.
the numbers 1 to 10 can be expressed in रोमन numerals as follows:
और.
the Roman numeral system is a cousin of etruscan numerals.
Use of Roman numerals continued बाद the decline of the रोमन Empire.
इससे the 14th century on, Roman numerals began to be replaced in सबसे contexts by more convenient Hindu-Arabic numerals ; however this process was gradual, and the उपयोग of Roman numerals in कुछ नाबालिग applications continues to this दिन.
प्रभावी नाभिकीय Charge Diagram
The effective नाभिकीय charge ( often symbolize as or Z* ) is the जाल positive चार्ज experienced by an इलेक्ट्रॉन in a multi-electron अणु.
the term `` प्रभावी '' is प्रयुक्त because the shielding effect of negatively चार्ज electrons रोकता higher orbital electrons इससे experiencing the full nuclear चार्ज by the repelling effect of inner-layer electrons.
The प्रभावी nuclear चार्ज experienced by the बाहरी shell इलेक्ट्रॉन is also called the core charge.
It is possible to determine the शक्ति of the नाभिकीय charge by looking at the ऑक्सीकरण number of the atom.
इस is a list of एपीसोड from the Discovery चैनल series, तूफ़ान chasers.
A rural stretch of I-5, with two lanes in each direction separated by a विशाल grassy मध्य, and with cross-traffic limited to overpasses and underpasses
the ड्वाइट D. Eisenhower National प्रणाली of Interstate and Defense राजमार्गों ( commonly known as the Interstate Highway System, Interstate Freeway प्रणाली, अंतरराज्यीय प्रणाली, or simply the Interstate ) is a network of freeways that फ़ॉर्म a भाग of the National राजमार्ग प्रणाली of the संयुक्त States.
The प्रणाली is नामित for President ड्वाइट D. Eisenhower, जो championed its formation.
Construction was प्राधिकृत by the Federal Aid Highway Act of 1956, और the original portion was completed 35 years बाद.
The network has since been विस्तारित, and, it had a total length of, बनाना it the world 's second longest बाद चीन 's., about one-quarter of सब vehicle मील driven in the country use the Interstate system.
The cost of construction रै been estimated at $ 425 अरब ( in 2006 dollars ), making it the `` largest public works program since the पिरामिडों ``.
the system रै contributed in shaping the संयुक्त राज्य into a world economic superpower और a highly industrialized nation.
.eu is the country कोड top-level domain ( cctld ) for the European Union ( EU ).
शुभारम्भ on 7 December 2005, the domain is available for organisations in and residents of EU सदस्य states.
The tld is administered by eurid, a consortium originally consisting of the national ccTLD registry operators of Belgium, Sweden, and Italy, joined later by the national रजिस्ट्री ऑपरेटर of the Czech Republic.
Trademark owners were able to submit registrations through a सूर्योदय काल, in an effort to prevent cybersquatting.
Full registration प्रारंभ on 7 April 2006.
Meister means निपुण in German ( as in निपुण craftsman, or as an honorific शीर्षक such as Meister Eckhart ).
The word is akin to maestro.
In sports, Meister is used for the current national, European or world चैंपियन ( Deutscher meister, *Europameister, Weltmeister ).
Many modern दिन जर्मनी police forces use the title meister.
During the Second World War, Meister थी the highest आयोजिक रैंक of the ordnungspolizei.
Meister has been borrowed into English slang, जहाँ it is used in compound nouns.
A व्यक्ति referred to as “Meister” is one who रै extensive theoretical knowledge और व्यावहारिक skills in his profession, कारोबार, or some other kind of work or activity.
For उदाहरण, a “puzzle-meister” होता be someone highly skilled at solving puzzles.
These neologisms sometimes have a sarcastic intent ( for उदाहरण, “stubble-meister” for someone with a short, neat beard or “crier-meister” लिये someone जो often cries ).
Mighty Morphin Power Rangers is an अमरीकी live-action children 's television series about teenagers with super-powers, based on the 16th किश्त of the Japanese Super Sentai franchise, Kyōryū Sentai Zyuranger.
Both the show and its related merchandise saw unbridled overnight success, becoming a staple of 1990s पॉप culture in mere months.
अंतर्गत the original नाम, `` Mighty morphin शक्ति रेंजरों '' the series ran from 1993 to 1995 and spawned the feature फिल्मी mighty Morphin Power Rangers : The Movie.
The दूसरी and तीसरा सीज़न of the दिखाएँ drew on footage and elements from the सुपर Sentai श्रेणी Gosei sentai dairanger and Ninja Sentai Kakuranger respectively, though the Zyuranger costumes were स्टिल used लिये the पाँच main Rangers और अनेक regular villains.
तभी the mecha and the Kiba Ranger costume ( worn by the श्वेत रेंजर ) were retained from dairanger लिये the दूसरी season, जबकि only the mecha इससे kakuranger यहूद प्रदर्शित in the third season.
However the Kakuranger costumes were later used लिये the title characters of the mini-series, Mighty Morphin एलियन Rangers.
The series was produced by MMPR Productions, distributed by Saban Entertainment, and aired on Fox Kids.
The show 's merchandise was produced and distributed by Bandai Entertainment.
In 1996, the series was rebranded as the Power Rangers मताधिकार ; renaming the series every year after, और using वेशभूषा, props, और footage from subsequent सुपर sentai series, as well as बदलना the cast and storyline.
While an overarching storyline होता continue until Power रेंजरों Lost Galaxy, subsequent श्रेणी बाद MMPR are not sequels or spin-offs in the traditional sense.
in 2010, a re-version of mighty Morphin Power रेंजरों, with a new लोगो, comic book-referenced graphics, and extra alternative खास प्रभाव, was ब्रॉडकास्ट on ABC बच्चे, and Bandai उत्पादित ब्रांड नई toys to coincide with the series.
एडगर allan पो ( born Edgar Poe ; January 19, 1809 – October 7, 1849 ) was an American लेखक, poet, एडिटर and literary critic, considered part of the American Romantic Movement.
Best known for his किस्से of mystery and the macabre, Poe was one of the earliest American practitioners of the short स्टोरी and is generally considered the inventor of the detective fiction विधा.
he is further credited with contributing to the emerging विधा of science fiction.
he was the पहला well-known American writer to try to earn a जीना through writing अलोन, resulting in a financially मुश्किल जीवन and career.
He was born as एडगर Poe in Boston, Massachusetts ; he was orphaned young when his mother died shortly after his father abandoned the family.
Poe was taken in by John and Frances Allan, of Richmond, वर्जिनिया, but they never formally adopted him.
He attended the University of Virginia लिये one semester but left due to lack of money.
After enlisting in the Army and later failing as an officer 's cadet at West पाइंट, Poe parted ways with the Allans.
उसके प्रकाशन career began humbly, with an anonymous collection of कविताएं, Tamerlane और Other कविताएं ( 1827 ), credited तभी to `` a bostonian ''.
Poe switched his focus to prose and spent the next अनेक सालो working for साहित्यिक journals और periodicals, becoming ज्ञात for his own style of साहित्यिक criticism.
His कार्य मजबूर him to move among अनेक शहरों, including Baltimore, Philadelphia, and New York City.
In बाल्टीमोर in 1835, he married वर्जिनिया clemm, his 13-year-old cousin.
In जनवरी 1845 Poe published उसके poem, `` The Raven ``, to instant कामयाबी.
His wife died of tuberculosis दो years after इसके प्रकाशन.
He began planning to produce his own journal, The Penn ( बाद renamed The स्टाइलस ), हालांकि he died before it could be produced.
on October 7, 1849, at age 40, Poe died in बाल्टीमोर ; the cause of his death is unknown and has महरूम variously attributed to alcohol, दिमाग जमघट, हैजा, drugs, heart disease, rabies, आत्महत्या, tuberculosis, and other एजेंटों.
Poe and his works influenced literature in the संयुक्त States and around the संसार, as well as in specialized fields, such as cosmology और cryptography.
Poe and his कार्य appear throughout popular culture in साहित्य, music, films, और television.
a क्रमांक of उसके homes are dedicated museums आज.
The Mystery Writers of America उपस्थित an annual पुरस्कार known as the Edgar Award लिये distinguished कार्य in the mystery genre.
शेर are obligate carnivores ; वे require up to seven kilograms ( 15 lbs ) of meat प्रति day.
A major component of their diet is the flesh of large mammals, like इस African buffalo.
A carnivore ( ) meaning 'meat eater ' ( लैटिन, caro meaning 'meat ' or 'flesh ' and vorare अर्थ 'to devour ' ) is an organism that derives its energy और nutrient आवश्यकताएँ from a diet consisting मुख्यतः or exclusively of एनिमल tissue, whether through predation or scavenging.
पशु कि निर्भर solely on animal flesh लिये their nutrient आवश्यकताएँ हैं considered carnivores while those that also consume non-animal food हैं माना carnivores.
Omnivores भी consume both animal and non-animal food, और अलावा from the more general definition, वहीँ is no clearly defined ratio of plant to एनिमल material that होता distinguish a facultative carnivore इससे an omnivore.
a carnivore that sits at the top of the foodchain is an apex परभक्षी.
Plants that capture and digest कीट हैं called मांसाहारी plants.
Similarly, fungi that capture microscopic पशु हैं प्रायः called carnivorous fungi.
The फीफा World Cup, often बस the संसार Cup, is an international association football competition लडे by the senior मेन 's national टीमों of the सदस्यों of fédération Internationale de Football संघ ( फीफा ), the खेल 's वैश्विक शासी देह.
The championship has been awarded प्रत्येक four years since the inaugural tournament in 1930, मगर in 1942 and 1946 when it थी not held because of the Second संसार युद्ध.
The current champions are Spain, who won the 2010 tournament.
The current format of the टूर्नामेंट involves 32 teams स्पर्धा for the title at venues within the मेजबान स्वदेश ( s ) over a period of about a month ; this phase is often पुकारा the संसार Cup फाइनल.
A qualification phase, which currently takes place over the preceding three years, is प्रयुक्त to determine which teams qualify for the टूर्नामेंट together साथ the host स्वदेश ( s ).
the 19 संसार Cup tournaments have been won by eight different नेशनल teams.
Brazil have won five times, and they are the only team to have निभाई in every tournament.
The other World Cup winners are Italy, साथ four titles ; Germany, with three titles ; Argentina and inaugural विजेता उरुग्वे, with two शीर्षक each ; and England, फ़्रांस, and Spain, with one title each.
The World Cup is the world 's most widely viewed sporting event ; an estimated 715.1 million people देखी the final मैच of the 2006 FIFA संसार Cup held in Germany.
the next three World cups will be hosted by ब्राज़ील in 2014, Russia in 2018, and क़तर in 2022.
नायक is an American science fiction television drama श्रेणी created by Tim क्रिंग that appeared on एनबीसी for चार सीज़न from September 25, 2006 through February 8, 2010.
The series tells the stories of ordinary लोगों जो discover superhuman abilities, and how these abilities take effect in the characters ' lives.
The series emulates the aesthetic style और storytelling of अमरीकी comic books, using multi-episode स्टोरी arcs that build upon a larger, more encompassing चाप.
The श्रेणी was produced by Tailwind Productions in संघ with Universal Media studios.
It was फिल्माया primarily in Los Angeles, California.
Four complete seasons aired, ending on फ़रवरी 8, 2010.
the critically acclaimed first season had a run of 23 episodes and garnered an average of 14.3 million दर्शक in the United States, receiving the highest rating for an NBC drama premiere in five years.
The दूसरी ऋतु of नायक आकर्षित an average of 13.1 million viewers in the U.S., and marked एनबीसी 's sole series among the शीर्ष 20 ranked programs in total viewership for the 2007–2008 season.
Heroes has earned a क्रमांक of awards और nominations, including Primetime Emmy Awards, सुनहरी Globes, लोगों 's Choice पुरस्कार और British Academy Television Awards.
An online extension of the series, Heroes 360 Experience, later rebranded as Heroes Evolutions, was created to explore the नायक universe and provides इनसाइट into the show 's mythology.
Other आधिकारिक Heroes media include magazines, action figures, tie-in and interactive वेबसाइटों, a मोबाईल game, a novel, clothing and other merchandise.
In the fall of 2008, NBC Digital Entertainment released a series of ऑनलाइन सामग्री for the summer, सहित more original वेब content, wireless iTV interactivity, graphic novels उपलब्धियाँ for mobile देखने and webisodes.
NBC announced Heroes रद्दीकरण on May 14, 2010.
Afterward, the network माना making a television special event to conclude the series ; however, on September 9, 2010, NBC announced the निर्णय to stop कोई further development of the नायक franchise.
Tim क्रिंग तब suggested कि the व्यापक premise of Heroes storylines allowed for the franchise to वापसी for प्रशंसक, but he किया not specify when or in कया media format.
On April 17, 2013, tv Line reported कि एमएसएन थी in talks to revive the श्रेणी साथ a new डाल.
John Pierpont `` J. p. ''
मॉर्गन ( April 17, 1837 – कूच 31, 1913 ) was an American financier, banker, philanthropist और art collector जो dominated कॉरपोरेट finance और औद्योगिक consolidation दौरान उसके time.
In 1892 Morgan arranged the विलय of Edison सामान्य Electric and thomson-houston Electric Company to form General Electric.
बाद financing the सृष्टि of the संघीय Steel Company, he merged in 1901 साथ the कार्नेगी Steel कम्पनी और several other steel और iron businesses, including Consolidated Steel and Wire कम्पनी owned by William Edenborn, to form the संयुक्त States स्टील निगम.
Morgan died in रोम, Italy, in his sleep in 1913 at the age of 75, leaving उसके fortune और business to his son, John Pierpont `` Jack '' Morgan, jr., and bequeathing his mansion and large किताब संग्रहण to The मॉर्गन Library & Museum in New यॉर्क.
At the ऊँचाई of Morgan 's career दौरान the early 1900s, he and उसके साझेदार had financial investments in many large corporations and were accused by आलोचकों of controlling the स्वदेश 's high finance.
He निर्देशित the banking coalition that stopped the दहशत of 1907.
He was the अग्रणी financier of the Progressive Era, और his dedication to दक्षता and modernization helped transform American business.
This is a list of episodes of the television series.
The episodes were directed by Shigeru Ueda और उत्पादित by the yggdrasil Executive Committee which included xebec and Genco.
The plot of the episodes is set in Tokyo और revolves around रिन Asōgi, an अमर private अन्वेषक, as she explores the रहस्य of आधुनिक और near-future world and the supernatural events कि surround the fictional society of immortals like herself.
There हैं large समय gaps in the आतंरिक कालक्रम between the first five episodes, ranging इससे एक to तीस years.
the six episodes यहूद broadcast मासिक on AT-X channel in Japan, between फ़रवरी 3 and जुलाई 6, 2008.
प्रत्येक episode is 45 मिनट्स long.
दो pieces of theme music are used लिये the episodes : the खोलने theme `` Alsatia '' and the समाप्ति थीम `` Cause Disarray ''.
Both were composed and performed by the Japanese metal band galneryus.
The series was produced to commemorate the tenth anniversary of the AT-X network it originally aired on.
Aerial फ़ोटो of fletc, where US digital forensics standards were विकसित in the 1980s और '90s
Digital forensics ( sometimes known as digital forensic science ) is a branch of forensic science encompassing the रिकवरी और छानबीन of material मिला in digital डिवाइस, प्रायः in relation to computer crime.
The term digital forensics थी originally used as a पर्याय लिये कंप्यूटर forensics but has expanded to कवर investigation of सब devices capable of storing डिजिटल आंकड़ा.
With जड़ें in the personal कम्प्यूटिंग क्रान्ति of the late 1970s and early '80s, the discipline evolved in a haphazard manner दौरान the 1990s, and it was not until the early 21st century that national policies emerged.
Digital forensics investigations have a variety of applications.
The most common is to support or खण्डन a परिकल्पना पहले criminal or civil ( as part of the electronic discovery process ) न्यायालयों.
Forensics may also विशेषता in the निजी sector ; such as during आतंरिक कॉरपोरेट investigations or intrusion investigation ( a विशेषज्ञ probe into the nature और extent of an unauthorized network intrusion ).
The technical पहलू of an investigation is divided into several sub-branches, relating to the type of digital devices involved ; कंप्यूटर forensics, network forensics, forensic data analysis and mobile device forensics.
The typical forensic प्रक्रम encompasses the seizure, forensic इमेजिंग ( acquisition ) और analysis of डिजिटल media and the उत्पादन of a report into collected evidence.
As खूब as identifying direct evidence of a crime, digital forensics can be प्रयुक्त to attribute evidence to विशिष्ट suspects, confirm alibis or कथन, determine intent, पहचानो sources ( for उदाहरण, in कापीराइट cases ), or authenticate documents.
investigations are much broader in पैमाना than अन्य areas of forensic analysis ( where the usual aim is to provide answers to a series of simpler सवाल ) often involving जटिल time-lines or hypotheses.
A comparison of the chromaticities enclosed by कुछ रंग spaces.
A color मॉडल is an अमूर्त mathematical मॉडल describing the way colors can be represented as tuples of numbers, typically as three or four मान or color components ( e.g. RGB और CMYK are रंग models ).
However, a color model साथ no associated मानचित्रण फलन to an absolute रंग space is a more or less मनमानी color system with no connection to any globally understood system of color interpretation.
Adding a certain मानचित्रण function between the color model और a certain सन्दर्भ color space results in a definite `` footprint '' भीतर the सन्दर्भ color स्पेस.
This `` footprint '' is known as a gamut, and, in combination with the रंग मॉडल, defines a new रंग space.
For example, Adobe आरजीबी and sRGB are two different absolute रंग spaces, दोनो based on the RGB model.
In the most जेनेरिक sense of the definition above, color spaces can be पारिभाषित बगैर the use of a color मॉडल.
ये spaces, ऐसे as Pantone, are in effect a given set of names or संख्याएँ जिससे are defined by the existence of a corresponding set of physical रंग swatches.
This article focuses on the mathematical model concept.
मजदूर दिन is an अमरीकी federal holiday observed on the first Monday in सितंबर, that celebrates the आर्थिक और social योगदान of workers.
जीवन बीमे is a contract between an insured ( insurance policy holder ) and an insurer, where the insurer वादे to pay a designated लाभार्थी a sum of धन ( the `` benefits '' ) upon the death of the insured person.
Depending on the contract, other कार्यक्रम ऐसे as टर्मिनल illness or critical बीमारी may also ट्रिगर payment.
the policy होल्डर typically pays a प्रीमियम, either regularly or as a lump योग.
Other खर्च ( such as अंत्येष्टि खर्च ) are भी sometimes included in the लाभ.
Life नीतियों are legal contracts and the terms of the अनुबंध describe the सीमाएं of the insured events.
Specific exclusions हैं often लिखा into the अनुबंध to limit the देयता of the insurer ; common examples हैं claims relating to suicide, fraud, war, riot और civil commotion.
Life-based contracts tend to fall into दो प्रमुख categories:
Protection नीतियों – designed to provide a लाभ in the event of specified इवेंट, typically a lump योग payment.
A common रूप of इस design is पद insurance.
Investment policies – where the main objective is to सुकर the growth of capital by regular or single premiums.
Common फ़ॉर्म ( in the us ) are whole life, universal जीवन और परिवर्तनीय life policies.
{ { infobox Holiday
चाइनीज New Year
9 – 12 February ( Vietnam )
Mitzi Gaynor Donahue ( born May 2, 1962 in Yorba Linda, Orange County, California ) is an American अभिनेत्री, also credited and more popularly known as Mitzi kapture.
kapture began her career in films, सबसे of which were not विशाल commercial successes.
She went on to make a few television अतिथि appearances ( MacGyver, 1st & टेन, and as a contestant on the $ 100,000 Pyramid ) before she gained अंतरराष्ट्रीय exposure with उसके first प्रमुख टेलीविज़न role as Sergeant रीता ली Lance in the टेलीविज़न श्रेणी Silk Stalkings.
Kapture 's role as Rita, the other half of the two `` sams '' लिये almost 5 years, cemented उसके popularity.
युग्म with Rob Estes जो निभाई Sergeant Chris Lorenzo, Kapture gained global recognition along साथ her costar since the show थी broadcast in अनेक countries.
सार्जेंट Lance आखिरकार became Lieutenant तलवार by the time kapture बाएँ the श्रेणी in 1995 to have her first चाइल्ड Madison.
During उसके time साथ the श्रेणी, Kapture briefly सत in the director 's कुर्सी, लिये दो episodes.
वो थी interviewed for the Silk Stalkings ऋतु 1 dvd which was वितरित by Anchor खाड़ी Entertainment and released in सितंबर 2004.
बाद a short hiatus from the स्क्रीन following her निकास इससे Silk Stalkings, kapture returned in 1997 to the small screen and USA Network.
She played सीसे roles in two USA तस्वीरें Originals telemovies, पूर्ण अपराधों ( based on a true story, also called छुपा और Seek : the Joanne जेन्सेन Story ), जिससे also starred Jasmine Guy and His Bodyguard.
She बाद starred in a few अन्य स्वतंत्र film projects and theatre productions and had several television guest appearances.
kapture भी था a recurring role on बेवाच as Alexis Ryker.
She played अनीता होजेस on The यंग और the Restless from 2002 through 2004, जहाँ she was credited as Mitzi Kapture Donahue, और starred in the made-for-TV movie Night of Terror जिससे premiered March 26, 2006 on Lifetime Network.
Her latest is a supporting role in God 's कानों, released in 2007.
Kapture is the आधिकारिक हस्ती प्रवक्ता लिये the Xeroderma Pigmentosum Society.
the Xbox 360 is the second video game console developed by and produced for microsoft and the successor to the Xbox.
The Xbox 360 competes with Sony 's प्लेस्टेशन 3 and Nintendo 's वी as part of the seventh generation of video खेल consoles.
As of September 30, 2012, 70 लाख एक्सबॉक्स 360 consoles have been sold worldwide.
The Xbox 360 थी officially unveiled on MTV on May 12, 2005, with detailed launch and game सूचना divulged बाद that माह at the Electronic entertainment Expo ( E3 ).
The console sold आउट completely upon release in all regions except in Japan.
Several major सुविधाएँ of the Xbox 360 हैं its integrated Xbox Live service that allows खिलाड़ी to compete online ; download आर्केड games, game demos, trailers, TV shows, music and movies ; और its खिड़कियाँ Media Center multimedia capabilities.
The Xbox सजीव भी offers access to various ( प्रायः region-specific ) third-party media streaming applications.
At उनके E3 presentation on June 14, 2010, Microsoft announced a redesigned एक्सबॉक्स 360 that would जलयान on the वही day.
The redesigned console is slimmer than the previous Xbox 360 model and features integrated 802.11 b/g/n wi-fi, TOSLINK S/PDIF ऑप्टिकल ऑडियो output, पाँच usb 2.0 पोर्ट ( compared to the three from पुरानी संस्करण ) and a खास AUX port.
Older models of the Xbox 360 have since been discontinued.
The first new कंसोल to be released features a 250 gb hard drive, जबकि a बाद, कम expensive SKU features 4 GB internal storage.
backpack may भी refer to a 2001 novel by Emily Barr
A modern backpack
Swiss army backpack ca. 1960
एकीकृत bearer frame.
A backpack ( also called रूकसाक, knapsack, packsack, pack ) is, in its simplest रूप, a cloth sack carried on एक 's वापस and secured with two straps कि go over the shoulders, but there can be exceptions.
Lightweight types of backpacks are sometimes worn on only one shoulder strap.
Backpacks are often preferred to handbags for carrying heavy loads or carrying कोई sort of equipment, because of the सीमित capacity to carry heavy weights for long periods of time in the hands.
विशाल backpacks, प्रयुक्त to carry loads over 10 kg ( 22 पाउंड ), usually offload the largest part ( up to about 90 % ) of उनके वज़न onto padded hip belts, leaving the shoulder straps mainly for stabilising the लोड.
This improves the potential to carry भारी loads, as the कूल्हों are stronger than the कन्धों, and भी increases agility and balance, since the load rides nearer the wearer 's अपना बीच of mass.
In ancient times, the backpack was प्रयुक्त as a अर्थात् to carry the hunter 's larger game and other प्रकार of prey and as a रास्ता of easier transport लिये other materials.
In the cases of larger hunts, the hunters would dismember their prey and वितरित the pieces of the animal around, each एक packing the मांस into many wrappings and तब into बैग which they placed on to their backs.
the bag itself was made up of different animal hide and स्किन ( depending on what sorts of पशु were in the area ) and sewn साथ by the intestines of said animals, जिससे were woven together tightly to make a sturdy thread-like material.
Mexico ( ; ; ), officially the United मैक्सिकन राज्य ( ), is a संघीय संवैधानिक गणतंत्र in North America.
It is bordered on the north by the United States ; on the south and west by the Pacific Ocean ; on the southeast by Guatemala, Belize, और the Caribbean Sea ; और on the ईस्ट by the गल्फ of Mexico.
Covering लगभग two million वर्गाकार किलोमीटर ( over 760,000 sq mi ), Mexico is the fifth largest देश in the Americas by total area और the 13th largest independent स्वदेश in the world.
With an estimated जनसांख्यिकी of over 113 million, it is the world 's eleventh most populous country और the सबसे populous Spanish-speaking देश.
Mexico is a federation comprising thirty-one राज्य और a Federal District, the capital city.
In pre-Columbian Mexico अनेक संस्कृतियों matured into advanced civilizations such as the Olmec, the toltec, the Teotihuacan, the zapotec, the Maya and the Aztec before पहला सम्पर्क साथ europeans.
in 1521, Spain conquered and colonized the territory from its आधार in méxico-tenochtitlan, which was administered as the Viceroyalty of नई Spain.
This territory would eventually become Mexico following मान्यता of the colony 's independence in 1821.
The post-independence काल थी characterized by economic instability, the Mexican-American युद्ध और territorial cession to the United States, a civil युद्ध, two empires और a घरेलू तानाशाही.
The latter led to the Mexican Revolution in 1910, जिससे culminated with the promulgation of the 1917 संविधान and the emergence of the country 's current राजनैतिक system.
Elections held in जुलाई 2000 चिह्नित the first time कि an opposition party won the presidency from the Institutional Revolutionary पार्टी.
Since 2006 the country has महरूम in the midst of a ड्रग war which has caused 60,000 deaths.
मैक्सिको has one of the संसार 's largest economies, and is considered both a क्षेत्रीय power और middle power.
in addition, Mexico थी the first Latin American member of the संगठन लिये आर्थिक Co-operation and Development oecd ( since 1994 ), और considered an upper-middle income देश by the World Bank.
Mexico is considered a newly industrialized देश और an emerging शक्ति.
It has the fourteenth largest nominal GDP and the eleventh largest जीडीपी by purchasing power parity.
The अर्थव्यवस्था is strongly linked to those of इसके उत्तर American Free Trade अनुबंध ( NAFTA ) partners, विशेषकर the United States of America.
Mexico ranks sixth in the world and पहला in the Americas by number of युनेस्को World Heritage Sites with 31, and in 2007 was the tenth सबसे visited देश in the world with 21.4 million international आमद प्रति year.
Babe Ruth holds the MLB career slugging percentage रिकार्ड (.690 ).
In baseball statistics, slugging percentage ( abbreviated slg ) is a लोकप्रिय measure of the power of a hitter.
It is calculated as कुल bases divided by at bats :
where ab is the number of at-bats for a दिए player, and 1b, 2b, 3B, and HR हैं the क्रमांक of singles, doubles, तिगुना, और home runs, respectively.
सैर are specifically excluded इससे इस गणना.
For example, in 1920, बेब रुथ निभाई उसके पहला season for the New यॉर्क Yankees.
in 458 at bats, Ruth था 172 hits, comprising 73 singles, 36 doubles, 9 triples, and 54 home runs, which brings the कुल आधार गिनती to ( 73 × 1 ) + ( 36 × 2 ) + ( 9 × 3 ) + ( 54 × 4 ) = 388.
His कुल number of bases ( 388 ) विभाजित by his total at-bats ( 458 ) is.847, his slugging प्रतिशत for the season.
The next year he slugged.846, और these रिकॉर्ड went अखंड जबतक 2001, जब Barry Bonds हासिल 411 bases in 476 at-bats, bringing उसके slugging प्रतिशत to.863, unmatched since.
is a role-playing video खेल developed और published by Square ( now Square Enix ) लिये the Super Nintendo Entertainment प्रणाली in 1995.
chrono ट्रिगर 's विकास टोली included three designers कि Square dubbed the `` Dream टोली '' : hironobu Sakaguchi, the creator of Square 's फाइनल Fantasy श्रेणी ; yuji Horii, a freelance designer and creator of एनिक्स 's popular Dragon Quest श्रेणी ; and Akira Toriyama, a freelance manga artist famed लिये his कार्य साथ Dragon Quest और Dragon Ball.
Kazuhiko Aoki produced the game, masato Kato wrote most of the plot, while composer yasunori mitsuda scored most of the game before falling ill and deferring remaining ट्रैक्स to Final Fantasy composer Nobuo Uematsu.
the game 's स्टोरी फ़ॉलो a समूह of adventurers who travel through time to prevent a global प्रलय.
वर्गाकार re-released a ported संस्करण by Tose in Japan लिये Sony 's PlayStation in 1999, later repackaged with a Final Fantasy iv बंदरगाहों as Final Fantasy Chronicles in 2001 for the North अमरीकी market.
A slightly enhanced Chrono ट्रिगर was released for the Nintendo DS on November 25, 2008, in उत्तर America and Japan, and went on sale in ऑस्ट्रेलिया on February 3, 2009 and in Europe on February 6, 2009.
The game was never released in PAL territories before the Nintendo DS version.
Chrono Trigger was a नाजुक and वाणिज्यिक कामयाबी upon release and is माना today to be one of the greatest video games of सब time.
Nintendo शक्ति magazine वर्णित aspects of Chrono Trigger as revolutionary, including its multiple endings, plot-related sidequests focusing on character विकास, unique battle प्रणाली, and detailed graphics.
Chrono ट्रिगर थी the third best-selling खेल of 1995, and the खेल 's SNES and प्लेस्टेशन iterations have shipped 2.65 million नक़ल as of March 2003.
the version for the Nintendo DS sold 790,000 copies as of कूच 2009.
Chrono Trigger was also ported to मोबाईल phones, आभासी कंसोल, the PlayStation Network ( only in the यूएसए ), आईओएस devices, और Android devices.
Goat cheese
Goat cheese, or chèvre ( from the फ्रेंच word for goat ), is चीज made आउट of the milk of goats.
Hyperthermia is elevated देह temperature due to failed thermoregulation that occurs when a body produces or absorbs more heat than it dissipates.
चरम तापमान elevation then becomes a चिकित्सा emergency requiring immediate treatment to prevent विकलांगता or death.
The most common causes शामिल ऊष्मा stroke and adverse प्रतिक्रियाएँ to drugs.
the पूर्व is an acute तापमान उन्नयन caused by exposure to excessive heat, or संयोजन of heat और humidity, that overwhelms the heat-regulating mechanisms.
The latter is a relatively rare side effect of many drugs, विशेषकर those that affect the central nervous system.
malignant hyperthermia is a विरल complication of कुछ types of general anesthesia.
Hyperthermia can also be deliberately induced using drugs or medical डिवाइस and may be used in the उपचार of some kinds of कर्कट and अन्य conditions, सबसे commonly in conjunction साथ radiotherapy.
अतिताप differs from fever in that the देह 's temperature नियत point remains unchanged.
The opposite is hypothermia, which occurs when the तापमान drops below कि required to maintain normal metabolism.
Belize, is a country located on the northeastern coast of Central America.
It is the only देश in the क्षेत्रफल where English is the आधिकारिक language, हालांकि kriol and Spanish are more commonly spoken.
Belize is bordered on the उत्तर by Mexico, to the south and west by Guatemala and to the east by the Caribbean समुद्र.
Its mainland is about long and चौड़ी.
With of land और a जनसांख्यिकी of तभी 312,698 inhabitants ( 2010 जनसांख्यिकी ), Belize possesses the न्यूनतम population density in सेंट्रल America.
The country 's population growth rate of 3.15 % ( 2012 est. ) is the second highest in the region और one of the highest in the western गोलार्ध.
Belize 's abundance of स्थलीय and marine species, and its diversity of ecosystems give it a key प्लेस within the globally significant Mesoamerican Biological corridor.
Belize रै a diverse society, comprising many संस्कृतियों और भाषाएं.
it is the only nation in the region with a अंग्रेजों colonial heritage, लकिन as a part of the Western Caribbean मण्डल, it also साझा a common heritage with the fellow anglophone caribbean countries.
In general, बेलीज़ is considered to be a Central American and Caribbean nation साथ दमदार ties to दोनो the caribbean और लैटिन अमेरिका.
बेलीज़ is a member of the caribbean जातियाँ ( CARICOM ), the जातियाँ of लैटिन अमरीकी and Caribbean States ( CELAC ), और Central American संयोजन System ( SICA ).
Belize is ज्ञात for इसके सितंबर जश्न, और is the birthplace of chewing gum और Punta Rock.
The `` बेट्सी रॉस '' flag
A `` बेट्सी Ross '' flag flying बाहर सैन फ्रांसिस्को City Hall
The बेट्सी Ross flag is an early design of the flag of the United राज्य, popularly attributed to Betsy रॉस, using the common motifs of alternating red-and-white धारीदार फ़ील्ड with five-pointed stars in a ब्लू canton.
The flag थी designed during the अमरीकी Revolution and सुविधाएँ 13 stars to represent the असली 13 colonies.
the distinctive विशेषता of the Ross flag is the arrangement of the stars in a circle.
Although the Betsy Ross स्टोरी is accepted by most अमेरिकी, some flag historians और revisionists do not accept the Betsy Ross design as the first अमरीकी ध्वज.
According to the परंपरागत खाता, the original ध्वज थी made in June 1776, when a small committee—including George वॉशिंगटन, रॉबर्ट Morris and relative George रॉस —visited Betsy और discussed the need for a नई अमरीकी flag.
बेट्सी accepted the job to manufacture the ध्वज, altering the कमेटी 's design by replacing the six-pointed stars with five-pointed सितारों.
जबकि the Betsy रॉस legend is questionable, the flag design is known to have been in use by 1777 ; अल्फ्रेड B. Street described it at the surrender of General burgoyne and समझा the वृत्त of stars to represent समता among the American states.
It is one of the oldest versions of U.S. flags ज्ञात to मौजूद ; while it is not the oldest surviving flag artifact in cloth form, its likeness appears on पुरानी physical relics, namely, the समकालीन रणभूमि paintings by John Trumbull और चार्ल्स willson peale.
They depict the circular star arrangement being flown इससे ship masts और many other places, and thus provide the first ज्ञात ऐतिहासिक documentation of the flag 's रूप.
the मुहर of the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs uses the Betsy रॉस flag to represent service to all veterans इससे the American क्रान्ति to the present day.
the Betsy Ross design of 13-star us flags has महरूम featured in many popular artworks ( sometimes inaccurately, as in Washington क्रासिंग the Delaware ) और films, such as the 1960 version of Pollyanna.
The ध्वज continues to be one of the most popular symbols of the American Revolution.
A purr is a sound बना by सब प्रजाति of felids and is a part of cat communication.
It varies between बिल्लियों ( लिये example by loudness and टोन ), and from species to species, but can be characterized as a tonal गुलजार.
The term `` purring '' has महरूम used liberally in साहित्य, and it has महरूम claimed that viverrids ( civet, नेवला, genet ), bears, badgers, hyaenas ( et cetera ) purr.
Other पशु that have been said to purr are rabbits, squirrels, guinea pigs, tapirs, ring-tailed lemurs, elephants, raccoons and gorillas while eating.
However, using a strict परिभाषा of purring that continuous sound उत्पादन must alternate between pulmonic egressive and ingressive airstream ( and प्रायः go on for minutes ), Peters ( 2002 ), in an exhaustive review of the scientific literature, पहुँचे the निष्कर्ष that until तब only ‘purring cats’ ( Felidae ) और दो प्रजाति of genets, Genetta tigrina, and most likely also Genetta genetta, had महरूम documented to purr.
The platypus ( ornithorhynchus anatinus ) is a semiaquatic स्तनधारी endemic to eastern Australia, including तस्मानिया.
Together with the four प्रजाति of echidna, it is one of the पाँच extant species of monotremes, the only mammals कि lay eggs instead of giving birth.
it is the sole living representative of इसके परिवार ( Ornithorhynchidae ) and genus ( Ornithorhynchus ), though a number of related species have महरूम मिला in the fossil record.
the असामान्य appearance of this egg-laying, बतख -billed, beaver -tailed, otter -footed स्तनधारी मनोरथ European naturalists when वे first encountered it, with some considering it an elaborate fraud.
It is one of the few विषैला mammals, the male platypus having a spur on the हिन्द पैर that delivers a venom capable of causing severe pain to humans.
The अद्वितीय सुविधाएँ of the platypus make it an important subject in the study of विकासवादी biology and a recognisable and iconic प्रतीक of Australia ; it रै appeared as a mascot at नेशनल events and is featured on the reverse of its 20-cent coin.
the platypus is the animal emblem of the state of New South वेल्स.
Until the early 20th century, it was hunted for its फर, but it is now protected throughout its range.
Although captive breeding programmes have था only limited success and the platypus is vulnerable to the प्रभाव of pollution, it is नहीं under any immediate threat.
St. Elizabeth is a village in Miller County, मिसौरी, United States.
The population was 336 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी.
wilton is a census-designated place ( CDP ) in Sacramento काउंटी, California, United States.
It is part of the Sacramento – Arden-Arcade – Roseville महानगर Statistical Area.
the population was 5,363 at the 2010 census, up from 4,551 at the 2000 census.
In human-computer बातचीत, cut and paste and नक़ल और paste are सम्बन्धित commands that offer a user-interface interaction technique for transferring टेक्स्ट, आंकड़ा, files or objects from a source to a destination.
सबसे ubiquitously, users require the ability to cut और paste भाग of plain text.
the काटें कमांड removes the selected data from its original position, जबकि the नक़ल command creates a नकल ; in both मामले the selected data is placed in a clipboard.
The आंकड़ा in the clipboard is later inserted in the स्थिति जहाँ the paste command is issued.
The कमांड names are an इंटरफ़ेस रूपक आधारित on the शारीरिक procedure used in manuscript editing to create a page layout.
इस interaction technique has close associations साथ related techniques in graphical user interfaces that use pointing devices such as a कंप्यूटर mouse ( by drag and drop, for example ).
आर्थिक order quantity is the order quantity कि minimizes total inventory holding costs and ordering costs.
It is one of the oldest शास्त्रीय production scheduling models.
The फ्रेमवर्क used to determine this order मात्रा is also known as Barabas EOQ Model or Barabas Formula.
The मॉडल was developed by Ford W. हैरिस in 1913, but R. H. विल्सन, a सलाहकार who applied it extensively, is given credit for his in-depth analysis.
Stephen `` Stevie '' Ray Vaughan ( October 3, 1954 – August 27, 1990 ) was an American guitarist, singer-songwriter, and record producer.
Often referred to by his initials SRV, Vaughan is बेहतरीन ज्ञात as a founding सदस्य and leader of Double Trouble.
Together with drummer Chris Layton और bassist Tommy Shannon, वे ignited the ब्लूज़ revival of the 1980s.
With a करियर spanning सात years, Vaughan and Double Trouble consistently बेची आउट concerts while their albums frequently went gold.
he थी born and raised in डलास, टेक्सास, and for a short काल of समय lived in ग्राहम, Texas.
As the younger brother of jimmie Vaughan, Vaughan started playing the guitar at age सात and formed several bands that occasionally performed in local nightclubs.
At age 17, he dropped आउट of ऊँची school and moved to Austin to further pursue his musical करियर, joining समूह such as Krackerjack, the nightcrawlers, and the Cobras.
In 1977, he formed Triple Threat Revue, a बैंड that आखिरकार evolved into दोगुना Trouble and regularly performed around Austin.
in 1982, Vaughan and Double Trouble performed at the Montreux Jazz पर्व in Switzerland, catching the ध्यान of musicians David बोवी and Jackson Browne.
Bowie asked vaughan to play on उसके upcoming स्टुडियो album Let 's Dance, while Browne offered the band free उपयोग of his निजी studio in Los Angeles to record an album.
In March 1983, vaughan and Double Trouble were हस्ताक्षरित to एपिक Records by veteran रिकार्ड producer John Hammond Sr. and released their डेब्यू album, Texas Flood in June of that साल.
After successful touring, the समूह released the albums, could n't Stand the Weather ( 1984 ) and Soul to Soul ( 1985 ), the latter of which प्रदर्शित new keyboardist Reese Wynans.
Although उसके career had progressed successfully, vaughan checked into a rehabilitation hospital in Atlanta, Georgia to give up a कोका and alcohol आदत और returned to touring साथ the बैंड.
in June 1989, In Step थी released and अर्जित them a Grammy Award for Best Contemporary Blues Performance.
On अगस्त 27, 1990, Vaughan was killed in a helicopter क्रैश following a performance in East Troy, Wisconsin.
Vaughan 's uniquely eclectic yet तीव्र style was derived इससे a किस्में of musical genres.
he was influenced by ब्लूज़ musicians including Albert किंग, Freddie King, Otis Rush, and Muddy waters, and rock guitarists such as जिमि Hendrix and lonnie Mack.
उसके गिटार playing reflected the classic blues and pentatonic scales.
he has received wide critical मान्यता लिये his गिटार playing, ranking at # 6 on Rolling Stones list of `` 100 महानतम guitarists '' in 2011.
He थी posthumously inducted into the ब्लूज़ Hall of Fame in 2000 और a memorial statue was erected in ऑस्टिन 's Auditorium shores park.
स्टीवी Ray Vaughan is widely considered to be one of the greatest musicians to come from the state of Texas.
The Las Vegas Strip संसार of Coca-Cola museum in 2003
coca-cola is a carbonated soft drink sold in stores, restaurants, and वेंडिंग machines in every country except Cuba and North Korea.
it is produced by the coca-cola Company of Atlanta, Georgia, and is often referred to simply as Coke ( a पंजीकृत ट्रेडमार्क of The coca-cola Company in the संयुक्त States since March 27, 1944 ).
Originally intended as a patent medicine when it was invented in the late 19th century by John Pemberton, coca-cola was bought out by businessman Asa griggs Candler, जिनकी विपणन tactics led Coke to its दबदबा of the संसार soft-drink market throughout the 20th century.
the कम्पनी produces concentrate, which is then sold to licensed coca-cola bottlers throughout the world.
the bottlers, who hold territorially exclusive contracts साथ the company, produce finished उत्पाद in cans and बोतलों from the concentrate in combination with filtered water and sweeteners.
The bottlers तब बेचें, distribute और merchandise coca-cola to खुदरा स्टोर्स and vending मशीने.
Such bottlers include Coca-Cola Enterprises, which is the largest सिंगल Coca-Cola bottler in North America and पश्चिमी यूरोपीय.
The Coca-Cola Company भी बिकता concentrate for सोडा fountains to major restaurants and खाना service distributors.
The Coca-Cola Company has, on अवसर, introduced other cola पेय under the Coke brand name.
The most common of ये is Diet Coke, with अन्य सहित Caffeine-Free Coca-Cola, Diet कोक Caffeine-Free, Coca-Cola Cherry, Coca-Cola Zero, Coca-Cola Vanilla, and खास संस्करण साथ lemon, lime or कॉफी.
Based on interbrand 's best global brand 2011, coca-cola was the world 's most मूल्यवान brand.
बैरी लुई Larkin ( born April 28, 1964 ) is a रिटायर्ड Major लीग Baseball player.
larkin played shortstop for the Cincinnati Reds from 1986 to 2004 and was one of the pivotal players on the 1990 लाल ' संसार श्रेणी चैंपियनशिप team.
larkin was निर्वाचित to the नेशनल Baseball Hall of Fame in जनवरी 2012 and थी inducted on July 22.
Larkin is considered एक of the top players of उसके era, जीतना nine Silver Slugger awards and three सुनहरा Glove पुरस्कार.
He थी selected to the Major लीग All-Star Game twelve times, and थी निर्वाचित the 1995 National League Most Valuable खिलाड़ी.
Brasília ( ) is the संघीय पूंजी of ब्राज़ील and the seat of government of the संघीय District.
Administratively, the city is located in the Federal District which is in the Central-West Region.
Physically, it is located in the Brazilian Highlands.
It has a population of about 2,562,963 ( 3,716,996 in the metropolitan area ) as of the 2008 IBGE estimate, बनाना it the चौथी largest city in Brazil.
however, as a metropolitan area, it ranks lower at sixth in population.
Brasília is the largest city in the world that did not exist at the beginning of the 20th सदी.
Brasília रै the पांचवां largest GDP among Latin American cities and the third in ब्राज़ील.
At around R $ 62,000 ब्राज़ीलियाई reais ( बराबर to approximately $ 30,900 US डॉलर or €23,000 euros ), the नगर 's per capita income is the उच्चतम among Brazil 's largest cities.
as the national capital, brasília is the seat of सब three branches of the federal government of Brazil.
The city also होस्ट the headquarters of many Brazilian कंपनियाँ.
Planning नीतियों ऐसे as the स्थान of residential इमारतें around expansive urban areas, as well as building the नगर around large avenues and dividing it into sectors, have sparked a debate and reflection on life in big शहरों in the 20th century.
The city 's design divides it into गिने blocks as well as sectors for निर्दिष्ट क्रियाएँ, such as the होटल सेक्टर, the बैंकिंग Sector or the Embassy Sector.
brasília होस्ट 124 foreign embassies.
the city was planned and विकसित in 1956 with Lúcio Costa as the principal urban प्लानर, ऑस्कर Niemeyer as the प्रिंसिपल वास्तु और Roberto burle Marx as the landscape पंक्तियां.
Brasilia is in the युनेस्को 's World Hertitage List due to its वास्तुकला.
on April 22, 1960, it formally became Brazil 's national capital.
Viewed from above, the main portion of the नगर resembles an वायुयान or a butterfly.
the city is commonly referred to as पूंजी Federal, or बस BSB.
Residents of brasília हैं ज्ञात as brasilienses or candangos ( the latter referring to those not born in the city but जो migrated there after it was established ).
In लोकल usage, the शब्द `` Brasília '' usually refers only to the First Administrative प्रदेश ( RA I ) within the संघीय District ( distrito संघीय ), where the most महत्वपूर्ण government buildings हैं located.
brasília has a unique status in ब्राज़ील, as it is an प्रशासनिक division बल्कि than a legal नगरपालिका like nearly all शहरों in Brazil.
Nationally, the term is लगभग always used synonymously with the Federal District, which constitutes an indivisible Federative ईकाई, analogous to a राज्य.
Several `` satellite cities '' exist जिससे are also part of the Federal District.
Brasília International Airport is the प्रमुख airport in Brasília, connecting the capital to सब major Brazilian शहरों and many अंतरराष्ट्रीय destinations.
It is the third most महत्वपूर्ण airport in Brazil, in terms of यात्री और aircraft आंदोलनों.
Personifications of जर्मनी, France, Russia, Austria-Hungary, और the United Kingdom attempting to keep the ढक्कन on the simmering cauldron of imperialist and nationalist तनाव in the balkans to prevent a general यूरोपीय war.
They were successful in 1912 and 1913 but did नहीं succeed in in 1914.
The causes of संसार War i, which began in central Europe in लेट July 1914 and समाप्त in 1918, included अनेक factors, such as the विरोध and hostility of the four दशकों leading up to the युद्ध.
Militarism, alliances, साम्राज्यवाद, and nationalism played major भूमिकाएँ in the विरोध as well.
The immediate origins of the war, however, lay in the decisions taken by statesmen and generals during the Crisis of 1914, casus belli लिये जिससे was the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand ( the Archduke of Austria Hungary ) and उसके wife Sophie by Gavrilo princip, an irredentist Serb.
the संकट came after a long और difficult series of राजनयिक clashes between the Great Powers ( Italy, France, जर्मनी, the British Empire, the Austria-Hungarian साम्राज्य और Russia ) over European and colonial issues in the दशक before 1914 that had left तनाव high.
in turn these diplomatic clashes can be traced to changes in the संतुलन of शक्ति in Europe चूंकि 1867.
the more तात्कालिक कारण for the war was तनाव over territory in the Balkans.
Austria-Hungary competed with Serbia and Russia for territory और influence in the प्रदेश and वे pulled the rest of the Great Powers into the conflict through their various alliances and treaties.
हालांकि the कड़ी of events unleashed by the assassination triggered the war, the युद्ध 's origins go deeper, involving national politics, cultures, अर्थशास्त्र, and a जटिल web of alliances and counterbalances that had developed between the various यूरोपीय powers since 1870.
Some of the most महत्वपूर्ण long term or संरचनात्मक causes हैं : the growth of nationalism across Europe, unresolved territorial disputes, an intricate system of alliances, the perceived विश्लेषण of the संतुलन of power in यूरोपीय, convoluted और fragmented governance, the arms races of the previous decades, पिछला military planning, imperial and colonial rivalry for wealth, शक्ति and प्रतिष्ठा, and economic और सैन्य rivalry in industry और trade – e.g., the Pig War between Austria and Serbia.
Other causes that came into खेल during the राजनयिक crisis that preceded the युद्ध शामिल misperceptions of intent ( e.g., the जर्मनी belief कि the United किंगडम होता remain neutral ) and delays and misunderstandings in राजनयिक communications.
The various categories of स्पष्टीकरण for World War I correspond to different historians ' overall methods.
Most इतिहासकारों और popular commentators include causes from more than one category of explanation to provide a rounded account of the causes of the युद्ध.
the deepest distinction among these accounts is between stories कि see it as the inevitable and predictable outcome of निश्चित कारकों, और those that describe it as an arbitrary and unfortunate mistake.
In attributing causes for the युद्ध, historians और academics था to deal with an unprecedented flood of memoirs and आधिकारिक दस्तावेज़, released as each देश involved tried to avoid दोष for starting the युद्ध.
Early रिलीज of information by governments, particularly those released लिये use by the `` Commission on the Responsibility of the Authors of the युद्ध '' यहूद shown to be incomplete और biased.
In addition some documents, विशेषकर राजनयिक cables between Russia and फ़्रांस, were found to have been doctored.
भी in later decades however, when much more information था been released, इतिहासकारों from the same संस्कृति have महरूम दिखाया to come to differing conclusions on the causes of the war.
जॉनसन 's new chart of नेशनल प्रतीक, प्रकाशित c. 1868.
The विशाल flags दिखाया in the corners are the 37-star ध्वज of the United States ( flown 1867-1877 ), the Royal Standard of the United किंगडम, the Russian Imperial Standard, और the French tricolore साथ inset इम्पीरियल Eagle.
Various other flags flown by ships are shown.
the Flag of Cuba is labelled `` Cuban ( so called ) ``.
the Chinese dragon on the Flag of China was drawn mistakenly as a पश्चिमी dragon.
A national flag is a flag that symbolizes a country.
The ध्वज is flown by the सरकारी, but usually can भी be flown by citizens of the country.
Both पब्लिक और private इमारतें such as स्कूलों and courthouses may fly the national flag.
In some देशों, the national flags हैं only flown इससे non-military इमारतें on certain flag days.
वहीँ are तीन distinct प्रकार of नेशनल flag for use on जमीन, और three for उपयोग at sea, though many countries उपयोग identical designs for several ( and sometimes all ) of these प्रकार of flag.
The American Civil युद्ध ( ACW ), also ज्ञात as the War between the States or बस the सिविल War ( see नामकरण ), थी a सिविल war लड़ा from 1861 to 1865 between the United States ( the `` Union '' or the `` उत्तर '' ) and several दक्षिणी slave राज्य that declared their secession और formed the Confederate States of America ( the `` confederacy '' or the `` South '' ).
the युद्ध had इसके उत्पत्ति in the issue of गुलामी, especially the extension of slavery into the पश्चिमी territories.
विदेशी शक्तियां did not intervene.
After चार years of bloody कॉम्बैट that left over 600,000 soldiers dead and destroyed much of the दक्षिण 's infrastructure, the Confederacy collapsed, गुलामी was abolished, and the difficult Reconstruction प्रक्रम of restoring national unity and guaranteeing rights to the freed स्लेव began.
In the 1860 अध्यक्षीय election, republicans, led by अब्राहम lincoln, opposed expanding गुलामी into United States ' territories.
Lincoln won, but before his inauguration on March 4, 1861, सात cotton-based slave states formed the confederacy.
Outgoing Democratic अध्यक्ष James Buchanan और the incoming Republicans rejected secession as illegal.
Lincoln 's inaugural address घोषित his प्रशासन would not initiate civil war.
Eight remaining slave राज्य continued to अस्वीकृत calls लिये secession.
confederate शक्तियां seized numerous federal forts भीतर territory claimed by the Confederacy.
A Peace सम्मेलन विफल to find a compromise, and both sides prepared लिये war.
the confederates assumed कि European countries were so dependent on `` किंग Cotton `` that they would intervene ; none did and none पहचाना the new confederate States of America.
Hostilities began on April 12, 1861, जब Confederate शक्तियां fired upon Fort Sumter, a कुंजी fort held by Union troops in South Carolina.
lincoln called लिये प्रत्येक state to provide troops to retake the फोर्ट ; consequently, four more slave states joined the Confederacy, bringing उनके total to ग्यारह.
The Union soon controlled the किनारा states और established a नवल blockade कि अबोध the southern economy.
The पूर्वी Theater was inconclusive in 1861–62.
the autumn 1862 Confederate campaign into Maryland ( a संघ state ) ended with Confederate रिट्रीट at the Battle of Antietam, dissuading अंग्रेजों intervention.
lincoln issued the emancipation उदघोषणा, which made समाप्ति slavery a war goal.
to the west, by गर्मियाँ 1862 the संघ destroyed the Confederate नदी नेवी, then much of their western सेना, and the Union at Vicksburg विभाजित the confederacy in दो at the Mississippi नदी.
in 1863, Robert E. Lee 's Confederate incursion north ended at the बैटल of gettysburg.
पश्चिमी successes led to Ulysses S. Grant command of सब Union armies in 1864.
in the पश्चिमी Theater, William T. शरमन drove east to कैप्चर Atlanta and marched to the sea, destroying Confederate infrastructure along the way.
the संघ marshaled the संसाधन and manpower to attack the Confederacy इससे all directions, और could afford to लड़ो लड़ाइयों of attrition through the overland Campaign towards Richmond, the confederate capital.
the defending Confederate फौज failed, leading to Lee 's आत्मसमर्पण to Grant at Appomattox Court हाउस on अप्रैल 9, 1865.
The American Civil War was one of the earliest true industrial wars.
Railroads, the telegraph, steamships, and mass-produced weapons were employed extensively.
the mobilization of civilian factories, mines, shipyards, banks, transportation और food supplies all foreshadowed World युद्ध I.
It remains the deadliest war in American इतिहास, resulting in the deaths of an अनुमानित 750,000 soldiers and an undetermined number of civilian casualties.
Historian John Huddleston estimates the मौत toll at ten percent of सब Northern males 20–45 years old, and 30 percent of सब Southern white males aged 18–40.
norrie disease is a genetic विकार कि primarily affects the नजर and almost सदा लीड to blindness.
in addition to the congenital ocular symptoms, कुछ मरीजों suffer इससे a progressive hearing घाटा starting mostly in उनके 2nd decade of जीवन, while another portion may be mentally challenged.
मरीजों with Norrie disease may develop cataracts, leukocoria ( a condition where the pupils appear श्वेत when लाइट is shone on them ), along with अन्य developmental मुद्दे in the नजर, ऐसे as shrinking of the ग्लोब and the बर्बाद दूर of the iris.
around 30–50 % of them will also have developmental डेलाy/ mental retardation, psychotic-like सुविधाएँ, incoordination of आंदोलनों or behavioral abnormalities.
Most patients are born with normal सुनना ; however, the onset of सुनना loss is बहुत आम in early adolescence.
About 15 % of the मरीजों are अनुमानित to develop सब the features of the disease.
The बीमारी affects लगभग तभी male infants at birth or जल्द after birth, because the disease is inherited x-linked recessive.
Only in very rare मामले, females have been diagnosed साथ Norrie बीमारी as well.
The exact incidence number is unknown ; तभी a few hundred मामले have been reported so far.
It is a very विरल disorder that is नहीं associated with any specific ethnic or जातिगत groups.
a contract is an अनुबंध having a lawful ऑब्जेक्ट डाला into voluntarily by two or more पार्टियों, each of जिसको intends to create one or more legal दायित्वों between उन्हें.
the तत्व of a contract are `` offer '' and `` स्वीकृति '' by `` competent व्यक्तियों '' having विधिक capacity who exchange `` विचार '' to create `` mutuality of obligation. ''
Proof of some or सब of these तत्व may be done in writing, though contracts may be made entirely orally or by conduct.
The remedy for breach of contract can be `` damages '' in the form of compensation of money or specific प्रदर्शन enforced through an injunction.
Both of these remedies award the party at loss the `` benefit of the bargain '' or expectation क्षतिपूर्ति, which हैं वृहद than mere reliance damages, as in promissory estoppel.
The पार्टियों may be natural व्यक्तियों or juristic persons.
A अनुबंध is a legally enforceable वादा or undertaking that something will or will नहीं occur.
The word promise can be प्रयुक्त as a legal synonym लिये अनुबंध, हालांकि परवाह is जरूरी as a promise may not have the full standing of a contract, as when it is an agreement without consideration.
Contract विधि varies greatly from one क्षेत्राधिकार to another, including differences in आम विधि compared to civil law, the impact of received law, particularly from England in common विधि countries, और of law संहिताबद्ध in क्षेत्रीय legislation.
Regarding ऑस्ट्रेलियाई अनुबंध Law for example, there are 40 relevant acts which प्रभाव on the interpretation of contract at the राष्ट्रमंडल ( संघीय / national ) level, and an additional 26 अधिनियमों at the level of the state of nsw.
In addition वहीँ are 6 international instruments or conventions which are applicable for अंतरराष्ट्रीय dealings, such as the United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International बिक्री of Goods.
ASP.NET is a server-side Web application framework designed लिये Web development to produce dynamic Web pages.
It was developed by microsoft to allow programmers to build डायनेमिक वेब साइट, वेब अनुप्रयोग and web services.
it थी पहला released in January 2002 साथ version 1.0 of the.NET Framework, and is the successor to microsoft 's क्रियाशील Server Pages ( ASP ) technology.
ASP.NET is built on the आम Language Runtime ( clr ), allowing programmers to write ASP.NET code using कोई supported.NET भाषा.
The ASP.NET साबुन extension framework allows ASP.NET components to प्रक्रम SOAP messages.
Lysergic acid diethylamide, abbreviated एलएसडी or LSD-25, भी ज्ञात as lysergide ( INN ) और colloquially as एसिड, is a semisynthetic psychedelic drug of the ergoline family, well ज्ञात लिये इसके psychological effects which can include altered thinking processes, closed and open eye visuals, synesthesia, an altered sense of time और spiritual experiences, as well as for its कुंजी role in 1960s counterculture.
It is used mainly as an entheogen, recreational drug, and as an agent in psychedelic therapy.
LSD is non-addictive, is not ज्ञात to cause brain damage, और has extremely low toxicity सापेक्ष to dose.
However, adverse psychiatric reactions such as anxiety, paranoia, और delusions are possible.
LSD was पहला synthesized by Albert Hofmann in 1938 इससे ergotamine, a chemical निकला by आर्थर Stoll इससे ergot, a grain कवक कि typically grows on rye.
The short form `` एलएसडी '' comes from its early code name LSD-25, जिससे is an abbreviation for the German `` Lysergsäure-diethylamid '' followed by a sequential number.
एलएसडी is sensitive to oxygen, पराबैंगनी लाइट, और क्लोराइड, especially in solution, though इसके potency may पिछला for years if it is stored दूर from light and moisture at low temperature.
In pure form it is a colorless, गंधहीन, tasteless solid.
LSD is typically delivered orally, usually on a substrate such as absorbent blotter paper, a शुगर cube, or जिलेटिन.
In its द्रव रूप, it can also be administered by intramuscular or intravenous injection.
LSD is very potent, साथ 20–30 μg ( micrograms ) being the threshold dose.
New experiments with LSD started in 2009 for the first time in 40 years.
Introduced by Sandoz Laboratories, साथ trade-name Delysid, as a ड्रग with various psychiatric uses in 1947, LSD जल्दी became a therapeutic agent that appeared to show great promise.
In the 1950s, officials at the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency ( CIA ) विचार the drug might be लागू to दिमाग control and रासायनिक warfare ; the एजेंसी 's MKULTRA शोध कार्यक्रम propagated the drug among young servicemen and विद्यार्थी.
The subsequent recreational use of the drug by youth culture in the Western world during the 1960s led to a राजनैतिक firestorm कि resulted in its prohibition.
फिलहाल, a number of organizations—including the Beckley न्यास, MAPS, heffter Research Institute और the Albert hofmann Foundation—exist to निधि, encourage and coordinate शोध into the medicinal and spiritual uses of एलएसडी और related psychedelics.
The संयुक्त States नेवी 's Sea, Air, Land टीमों, commonly ज्ञात as the Navy SEALs, are the U.S. नेवी 's principal special operations फ़ोर्स and a part of the Naval Special Warfare कमांड and United राज्य Special Operations कमांड.
`` SEAL '' is सदा capitalized in reference to सदस्यों of the Naval खास warfare community.
The acronym is निकला from their capacity to operate at sea, in the air, and on जमीन.
seals are male members of the United States Navy.
An exchange program साथ the Coast गार्ड, which graduated तीन coast Guardsmen as seals, was suspended in 2011.
The सीआईए 's highly गुपचुप Special Activities प्रभाग ( SAD ) and more specifically इसके elite Special परिचालन Group ( SOG ) रंगरूटों operators from the SEAL Teams.
Joint Navy SEALs और CIA परिचालन go वापस to the famed macv-sog during the Vietnam War.
इस सहयोग still exists today and is seen in the युद्धों in Iraq and Afghanistan, and in the finding and killing of Osama bin Laden in Pakistan.
World population estimates from 1800 to 2100, based on un 2010 projections ( रेड, orange, green ) और US Census Bureau historical estimates ( black ).
Actual अंकित population figures are in blue.
According to the highest estimate, the संसार population may rise to 16 अरब by 2100 ; according to the lowest अनुमान, it may मनाही to 6 billion.
The world जनसांख्यिकी is the total number of living humans on धरती.
As of आज, it is अनुमानित to क्रमांक billion by the United States जनसांख्यिकी Bureau ( USCB ).
the uscb estimates that the world जनसांख्यिकी exceeded 7 billion on March 12, 2012.
According to a separate estimate by the United Nations Population Fund, it reached this milestone on October 31, 2011.
the संसार population has experienced continuous growth since the end of the ग्रेट अकाल and the Black मौत in 1350, जब it stood at around 370 million.
The उच्चतम rates of growth – global population increases above 1.8 % प्रति year – were देखी briefly दौरान the 1950s, and for a longer काल during the 1960s and 1970s.
The growth rate peaked at 2.2 % in 1963, और had declined to 1.1 % by 2011.
Total सालाना births were highest in the लेट 1980s at about 138 million, and हैं अभी expected to remain essentially निरंतर at their 2011 स्तर of 134 million, while deaths number 56 लाख per year, और are expected to increase to 80 million per साल by 2040.
Current projections show a continued increase in population in the near भविष्य ( but a steady decline in the population growth rate ), with the global population expected to reach between 7.5 और 10.5 billion by 2050.
Various longer-term estimates predict further growth, stagnation, or even overall decline in the वैश्विक population by 2150.
Some analysts have questioned the sustainability of further संसार population growth, citing the growing pressures on the environment, global food आपूर्तियाँ, और उर्जा resources.
Memphis is a city in the southwestern कोने of the U.S. state of Tennessee, और the county seat of Shelby County.
The city is located on the 4th chickasaw bluff, south of the संगम of the Wolf और मिसिसिपी rivers.
मेम्फिस had a जनसांख्यिकी of 672,277 in 2011 making it the largest नगर in the state of Tennessee, the largest city on the मिसिसिपी River, the third largest in the Southeastern संयुक्त States, and the 20th largest in the United राज्य.
The greater Memphis metropolitan क्षेत्रफल, including adjacent काउंटी in Mississippi and Arkansas, था a 2010 जनसांख्यिकी of 1,316,100.
इस makes Memphis the second largest metropolitan area in टेनेसी, surpassed तभी by metropolitan Nashville, which has overtaken Memphis in recent years.
Memphis is the youngest of Tennessee 's major शहरों.
a resident of Memphis is referred to as a memphian, और the Memphis region is ज्ञात, particularly to media आउटलेट, as `` मेम्फिस & The mid-south ``.
The Cattenom नाभिकीय Power Plant in France.
France produces around three quarters of its विद्युत by nuclear power.
the Grafenrheinfeld Nuclear Power संयंत्र in जर्मनी.
चांसलर एंजेला मार्केल 's गठबन्धन announced on may 30, 2011, कि Germany’s 17 nuclear power stations will be shut down by 2022, in a policy reversal following जापानी 's Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster.
फिलहाल, 68 reactors हैं under construction in 15 countries.
नाभिकीय शक्ति stations operate in thirty countries.
In 2010, पहले the Fukushima daiichi nuclear disaster, it थी reported कि an औसत of about 10 nuclear reactors यहूद अपेक्षित to become operational per year, although according to the World Nuclear Association, of the 17 civilian reactors planned to become operational between 2007 and 2009, only पाँच actually came on stream.
As of जून 2011, Germany and Switzerland हैं phasing-out nuclear power.
As of जून 2011, countries ऐसे as Australia, ऑस्ट्रिया, Denmark, Greece, आयरलैंड, Italy, लातवियाई, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Malaysia, Malta, New Zealand, Norway and Portugal remain opposed to nuclear शक्ति.
Skeletal muscles homo sapiens
This is a तालिका of muscles of the human anatomy.
There are approximately 642 skeletal muscles within the typical human, and लगभग every muscle constitutes one भाग of a pair of identical bilateral muscles, found on both sides, resulting in approximately 320 pairs of muscles, as presented in this article.
Nevertheless, the exact क्रमांक is मुश्किल to define क्युकी different sources group muscles differently, e.g. regarding what is defined as अलग parts of a single muscle or as अनेक muscles.
Examples range इससे 640 to 850.
the muscles of the human देह can be categorized into a number of समूह which include मांसपेशियां relating to the head और neck, मांसपेशियां of the torso or ट्रंक, muscles of the upper limbs, and muscles of the lower limbs.
The action refers to the action of प्रत्येक मांसपेशी from the मानक anatomical position.
In other positions, other actions may be performed.
a reenactment of a बैटल at फोर्ट Foster, 1837 ( at hillsborough River State Park )
The Seminole Wars, also known as the फ्लोरिडा Wars, were three conflicts in Florida between the seminole — the collective नाम given to the amalgamation of various groups of native Americans and Black people who settled in फ्लोरिडा in the early 18th सदी — और the संयुक्त States फौज.
The पहला Seminole War was इससे 1814 to 1819 ( although sources differ ), the Second Seminole War इससे 1835 to 1842, and the Third seminole युद्ध इससे 1855 to 1858.
the first conflict with the Seminoles arose out of tensions relating to General एंड्रयू Jackson 's attack and destruction of Negro फोर्ट in Florida in 1816.
Jackson भी attacked the Spanish at pensacola.
ultimately, the Spanish क्राउन ceded the colony to संयुक्त States rule.
Orono is a town in Penobscot County, maine, United States.
It was first settled in 1774 and नामित in सम्मान of Chief Joseph Orono of the penobscot स्वदेश.
it is घर to The विश्वविद्यालयों of Maine.
The population was 10,362 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी.
View of the pyramid
लक्सर लास Vegas is a hotel and casino on the लास Vegas स्ट्रिप in Paradise, नेवाडा.
the 30-story hotel, owned और operated by MGM Resorts International, रै a casino with over 2,000 स्लॉट machines and 87 table games.
In the 2008 to 2009 नवीकरण, it has a new, highly आधुनिकीकरण, and contemporary डिज़ाइन and contains a total of 4,400 rooms, सहित 442 suites, lining the आंतरिक walls of a pyramid style मीनार and within twin 22-story ziggurat मीनारें that were निर्मित as बाद additions.
The hotel is named बाद the city of Luxor ( ancient Thebes ) in मिश्र.
Luxor is the second largest hotel in Las वेगास ( the largest होने the mgm ग्रैंड ) and the eighth largest in the संसार.
As of 2010, the Luxor has a 4 कुंजी rating from the Green कुंजी eco-rating Program, which evaluates `` sustainable '' होटल परिचालन.
A पायलट प्रयोग, also called a pilot study, is a छोटी scale प्रारंभिक study conducted in order to evaluate feasibility, time, लागत, प्रतिकूल events, और प्रभाव आकार ( statistical variability ) in an attempt to भविष्यवाणी an appropriate sample size and improve upon the study design prior to performance of a full-scale research प्रोजेक्ट.
Pilot studies, therefore, may not be appropriate लिये case studies.
The Los Angeles Fire विभाग ( LAFD ) is the agency कि provides आग protection and emergency चिकित्सा services for the city of Los Angeles.
it may be unofficially referred to as the Los Angeles City आग Department to फर्क it इससे the लॉस Angeles काउंटी Fire Department.
The एकड़ is a unit of area प्रयुक्त in the imperial and u.S. customary systems.
An acre is about 40 % of a hectare – slightly छोटी than an American football फ़ील्ड.
the एकड़ is no longer commonly प्रयुक्त, although a few notable exceptions शामिल the संयुक्त States, Australia, बर्मा and the संयुक्त Kingdom ( as of 2010, the एकड़ is no longer officially प्रयुक्त in the United Kingdom, though is still प्रयुक्त in real estate descriptions ).
It is still used, to some extent, in कनाडा.
the international प्रतीक of the acre is ac, and is defined as 1/640 of a square mile.
the most commonly प्रयुक्त acre today is the international एकड़.
In the United राज्य both the अंतरराष्ट्रीय acre and the slightly different us survey एकड़ are in उपयोग.
The सबसे आम use of the एकड़ is to measure tracts of land.
One अंतरराष्ट्रीय एकड़ is defined as 4046.8564224 square metres.
During the मध्य Ages, an acre was the amount of land that could be plowed in एक दिन with a yoke of oxen.
pawnee initially refers to a Native अमरीकी लोगों and इसके language:
Pawnee people
Pawnee language
Pawnee is also the name of several places in the संयुक्त States:
Pawnee, Illinois
Pawnee, कान्सास
pawnee नगर, Nebraska
Pawnee, ओक्लाहोमा
Pawnee, टेक्सास
Pawnee National Grassland, कोलोराडो
Pawnee Township ( disambiguation )
Pawnee County ( बहुविकल्पी )
Pawnee may also refer to:
पाइपर PA-25 Pawnee, agricultural aircraft
Hiller VZ-1 Pawnee, experimental aircraft
Pawnee, Indiana ( fictional city ) the fictional setting of the NBC television कॉमेडी पार्क and Recreation.
Broca 's and Wernicke 's Areas
भाषा प्रसंस्करण refers to the way human beings उपयोग शब्द to communicate ideas and feelings, और कैसा ऐसे संचार are processed and समझा.
Thus it is how the दिमाग creates and understands language.
सबसे recent theories consider कि this प्रक्रम is carried out entirely by और inside the brain.
This is considered one of the सबसे characteristic abilities of the इंसान प्रजाति - perhaps the most characteristic.
However बहुत little is known परिचय it and there is विशाल scope for research on it.
Most of the knowledge acquired to तिथि on the subject has come इससे patients जो have suffered some प्रकार of significant सिर injury, whether बाह्य ( wounds, बुलेट ) or internal ( strokes, tumors, degenerative रोगों ).
अध्ययन have दिखाया that सबसे of the language processing कृत्यों are carried out in the दिमागी cortex.
the essential function of the cortical language areas is सांकेतिक representation.
Even though language exists in different forms, all of them are based on symbolic representation.
the bugatti Veyron eb 16.4 is a mid-engined grand touring car, designed and developed by the Volkswagen Group और manufactured in Molsheim, फ़्रांस by bugatti Automobiles S.A.S.
The Super Sport version of the Veyron is the fastest street-legal production car in the world, with a शीर्ष गति of.
The original संस्करण has a top speed of.
it was नामित car of the दशक ( 2000–2009 ) by the बीबीसी television कार्यक्रम शीर्ष Gear.
The standard veyron won शीर्ष गियर्स Best car Driven All Year award in 2005.
on 6 April 2013, Bugatti set the record लिये the fastest roadster in the world with the Veyron Grand Sport Vitesse, reaching on औसत a top गति of.
The Veyron 's मुख्य पंक्तियां थी Hartmut Warkuss, and the exterior was designed by Jozef Kabaň of volkswagen, with much of the engineering कार्य being conducted under the guidance of engineering मुख्य Wolfgang schreiber.
a number of खास variants have been produced.
In December 2010, bugatti began offering prospective buyers the ability to customize exterior and इंटीरियर्स colours by using the Veyron 16.4 Configurator application on the marque 's official जालस्थल.
DVD is an optical disc storage format, invented and developed by फिलिप्स, Sony, Toshiba, और Panasonic in 1995.
DVDs प्रस्ताव higher storage क्षमता than कॉम्पैक्ट discs while having the वही आयाम.
Pre-recorded DVDs are mass-produced using molding machines that physically stamp आंकड़ा onto the dvd.
Such discs are known as DVD- rom, because data can तभी be read and not लिखा nor erased.
Blank recordable DVD discs ( DVD-R and DVD+R ) can be recorded once using a DVD recorder and then फलन as a DVD-ROM. Rewritable DVDs ( DVD-RW, DVD+RW, and DVD-RAM ) can be recorded and erased multiple टाइम्स.
DVDs are used in dvd-video consumer digital video format and in DVD-Audio consumer digital ऑडियो format, as खूब as for authoring AVCHD discs.
dvds containing other types of information may be referred to as dvd data discs.
What Chilli wants is an American वास्तविकता series on VH1 starring Chilli, one-third of the Grammy Award -winning R & B trio tlc.
The show chronicles Chilli 's क्वेस्ट to find love with the help of tionna T. Smalls, an author and relationship कोच.
The series premiered on April 11, 2010, and has चूंकि been renewed for a second season.
The second ऋतु premiered on Sunday, जनवरी 2, 2011.
पीटर जीन hernandez ( born October 8, 1985 ), ज्ञात by his stage name ब्रूनो Mars, is an American singer-songwriter और record producer.
Raised in Honolulu, Hawaii, by a family of संगीतकारों, Mars began making music at a young age and performed in various musical venues in his गृहनगर throughout his childhood.
He graduated इससे high स्कूल और तब moved to Los एंजिल्स, California, to pursue a musical career.
मंगल उत्पादित songs for other artists, joining production टोली the Smeezingtons.
Mars था an unsuccessful stint with Motown Records, but then हस्ताक्षरित साथ Atlantic in 2009.
he became recognized as a solo कलाकार after lending his vocals and co-writing the hooks लिये the गीतों `` Nothin ' on You `` by b.o.b, and `` Billionaire `` by travie मैककॉय.
He also co-wrote the हिट्स `` सही Round `` by flo rida featuring ke $ ha, और `` Wavin ' ध्वज `` by K'naan.
in October 2010, he released उसके debut एल्बम, Doo-Wops & Hooligans.
Anchored by the विश्वव्यापी number-one singles `` Just the Way You Are `` and `` Grenade ``, the एल्बम peaked at number three on the बिलबोर्ड 200.
मंगल was nominated लिये seven Grammys at the 53rd Grammy Awards, winning बेहतरीन Male Pop Vocal प्रदर्शन for `` Just the रास्ता You Are ''.
उसके second studio एल्बम, Unorthodox Jukebox, was released on दिसम्बर 11, 2012.
Mars ' music is विख्यात for displaying a चौड़ी variety of styles and प्रभाव, और contains elements of अनेक musical genres.
He has worked with an assortment of artists इससे various genres.
As a child, he थी highly बहकावे by artists such as छोटी रिचर्ड, एल्विस Presley और माइकल Jackson और would प्रायः impersonate ये artists from a यंग age.
Mars भी incorporates reggae - and Motown -inspired sounds into his work.
विश्वव्यापी, Mars became the best-selling डिजिटल कलाकार in 2011.
He had three singles in the top ten, including पहला place with `` Just the Way You हैं '', which sold 12.5 लाख नक़ल.
Mars won Best अंतरराष्ट्रीय पुरूष Solo कलाकार at the 2012 BRIT पुरस्कार.
Bruno Mars has बेची 6 million albums और 40 लाख singles विश्वव्यापी as a singer.
Althought as a song-writer, producer and singer उसके total single डाउनलोड sales surpass 100 लाख worldwide.
Bust of Zeus, Otricoli ( Sala Rotonda, Museo Pio-Clementino, Vatican ).
Greek mythology is the body of मिथकों and teachings that belong to the ancient Greeks, concerning उनके देवताओं और heroes, the nature of the संसार, and the origins and significance of their own cult and ritual practices.
It was a part of the religion in ancient यूनानियों and is part of धर्म in modern Greece और around the world, ज्ञात as Hellenismos.
Modern scholars refer to and पढ़ाई the myths in an attempt to throw light on the religious और राजनैतिक संस्थानों of Ancient Greece और इसके civilization, and to gain समझना of the nature of myth-making itself.
Greek mythology is explicitly embodied in a large collection of narratives, and implicitly in Greek representational कला, ऐसे as vase-paintings and votive gifts.
Greek मिथक attempts to explain the origins of the world, and details the lives and adventures of a चौड़ी किस्में of gods, goddesses, heroes, heroines, and पौराणिक creatures.
These accounts initially were disseminated in an oral-poetic tradition ; today the Greek myths are known primarily from Greek literature.
the oldest known यूनानी literary sources, होमर 's epic poems Iliad and Odyssey, focus on events surrounding the Trojan War.
दो कविताएं by Homer 's near contemporary hesiod, the Theogony and the Works and Days, contain खाते of the genesis of the world, the succession of divine rulers, the succession of human आयु, the origin of इंसान woes, और the origin of sacrificial practices.
Myths are also preserved in the Homeric Hymns, in fragments of epic poems of the एपिक साईकिल, in lyric poems, in the works of the tragedians of the fifth सदी BC, in कृतियाँ of विद्वानों और poets of the Hellenistic Age, and in texts from the समय of the Roman साम्राज्य by लेखक such as Plutarch and Pausanias.
Archaeological निष्कर्षों provide a principal source of detail परिचय यूनानी mythology, साथ gods and heroes प्रदर्शित prominently in the decoration of many artifacts.
Geometric डिजाइन on pottery of the आठवीं century BC depict scenes from the Trojan साईकिल as well as the adventures of Heracles.
in the succeeding Archaic, Classical, और hellenistic अवधि, Homeric and various other mythological scenes appear, supplementing the existing literary evidence.
Greek mythology has had an extensive influence on the संस्कृति, arts, and literature of पश्चिमी सभ्यता and remains भाग of Western विरासत and भाषा.
Poets and artists from ancient टाइम्स to the उपस्थित have derived inspiration इससे यूनानी mythology और have खोजा contemporary significance and प्रासंगिकता in the विषयवस्तु.
Mouth & MacNeal in 1971
मुँह & macneal was a pop duo from the Netherlands.
वे are best known लिये their million selling रिकॉर्डिंग of `` कैसा Do You Do ``.
The Boise राज्य Broncos football कार्यक्रम represents Boise State University in college फ़ुटबॉल and compete in the फ़ुटबॉल Bowl Subdivision ( fbs ) of प्रभाग i as a सदस्य of the पहाड़ West Conference.
वे are currently led by head coach Chris petersen और खेल their घर खेल at bronco Stadium.
The franc ( चिह्न : Fr. or SFr. ; German : Franken, French and Romansh : franc, इतालवी : franco ; code : chf ) is the currency and legal tender of Switzerland and Liechtenstein ; it is also legal टेंडर in the Italian exclave campione d'Italia.
हालांकि नहीं formally legal tender in the German exclave büsingen ( the एकमात्र legal करेंसी is the euro ), it is in wide daily use वहीँ.
The Swiss नेशनल Bank मुद्दे banknotes and the federal मिंट Swissmint issues सिक्के.
the Swiss franc is the only version of the franc still issued in Europe.
the smaller denomination, a hundredth of a franc, is a Rappen ( Rp. ) in German, centime ( c. ) in French, centesimo ( ct. ) in इतालवी, and rap ( rp. ) in Romansh.
The आईएसओ कोड of the currency used by banks और financial संस्थानों is CHF, although `` fr. '' is प्रयुक्त by most businesses and advertisers ; some use sfr. ; the latinate `` CH '' स्टैंड for confoederatio Helvetica.
Given the different भाषाएं प्रयुक्त in Switzerland, लैटिन is used लिये language-neutral inscriptions on the सिक्के.
Sir Charles स्पेंसर `` Charlie '' Chaplin, ( 16 अप्रैल 188925 December 1977 ) was a British comic actor and filmmaker who rose to fame in the मूक era.
Chaplin became a worldwide icon through his स्क्रीन persona `` the Tramp `` and is माना एक of the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण आंकड़े of the film industry.
उसके करियर spanned more than 75 सालो, इससे a child in the Victorian era to बंद to his death at the age of 88, and encompassed both adulation and controversy.
Raised in London, Chaplin 's बाल्यकाल थी defined by गरीबी और hardship.
He was sent to a workhouse twice पहले the age of नौ ; उसके father was अनुपस्थित, and his mother was वचनबद्ध to a दिमागी asylum.
Chaplin began performing from a young आयु, touring म्यूज़िक halls and बाद working as a stage actor and हास्य.
At 19 he was हस्ताक्षरित to the prestigious Fred Karno company, which took him to America.
चैपलिन was scouted by the film industry, and made his first दिखावे in 1914 with Keystone Studios.
he soon विकसित the Tramp persona और formed a large प्रशंसक आधार.
चैपलिन निर्देशित उसके films from an जल्दी stage, और continued to hone his शिल्प as he moved to the essanay, Mutual, और First नेशनल corporations.
By 1918, he was one of the most famous मेन in the world.
In 1919, Chaplin co-founded the distribution company United Artists, giving him complete control over his films.
His first feature-length picture was The Kid ( 1921 ), followed by A स्त्री of पेरिस ( 1923 ), the Gold Rush ( 1925 ), और The Circus ( 1928 ).
He refused to move to sound films in the 1930s, बजाय producing City लाइट्स ( 1931 ) and Modern Times ( 1936 ) without dialogue.
Chaplin became increasingly political और his next film, The ग्रेट Dictator ( 1940 ), satirised Adolf हिटलर.
The 1940s थी a दशक चिह्नित साथ controversy for Chaplin, and उसके popularity अस्वीकृत rapidly.
He was accused of communist sympathies, while his involvement in a paternity suit और विवाह to much younger women were considered scandalous.
An एफबीआई investigation was खोली on चैपलिन, और he थी eventually मजबूर to leave the United States और settle in Switzerland.
He abandoned the Tramp लिये उसके बाद films, which शामिल monsieur Verdoux ( 1947 ), limelight ( 1952 ), a King in नई यॉर्क ( 1957 ), and A Countess From Hong Kong ( 1967 ).
Chaplin लिखा, directed, उत्पादित, संपादित, scored, and starred in most of उसके films.
he was a perfectionist, and उसके financial independence meant he often spent सालो on the development और production of a चित्र.
His films हैं characterised by slapstick combined with pathos, और प्रायः feature the Tramp struggling against adversity.
Many contain सोशल and political themes, as खूब as autobiographical elements.
In 1972, as भाग of a नवीनीकृत appreciation for his work, चैपलिन received an Honorary Academy Award for `` the incalculable effect he has had in making motion तस्वीरें the art form of इस century ''.
He continues to be held in high regard, साथ the सुनहरा Rush, City लाइट्स, Modern Times, and The Great Dictator प्रायः क्रमित among the greatest films of all time.
Planned Parenthood Federation of America ( PPFA ), commonly shortened to Planned Parenthood, is the u.S. affiliate of the International Planned Parenthood संघ ( ippf ) and एक of इसके larger members.
PPFA is a non-profit organization providing reproductive health and maternal and child health services.
the नियोजित Parenthood Action निधि, Inc. ( PPAF ) is a related संगठन जिससे lobbies for pro-choice legislation, comprehensive sex शिक्षा, and access to affordable health care in the United States.
Planned parenthood is the largest U.S. प्रदाता of reproductive health services, including कर्कट screening, HIV screening and counseling, निरोधक, और abortion.
Contraception accounts for 35 % of PPFA 's कुल सेवाएं and abortions account for 3 % ; PPFA conducts roughly 300,000 abortions each साल, among 3 million people परोसा.
The organization has its जड़ें in Brooklyn, नई यॉर्क, जहाँ मार्गरेट Sanger खोली the देश 's first birth-control क्लिनिक.
सैंगर founded the American जनम Control League in 1921, जिससे in 1942 became part of the नियोजित parenthood Federation of America.
Since then, नियोजित Parenthood has grown to have over 820 clinic स्थितियाँ in the U.S., with a कुल budget of US $ 1 billion.
PPFA provides an सरणी of services to over three million people in the United राज्य, और supports सेवाएं for over एक million clients बाहर the United States.
Mens rea is Latin for `` guilty mind ''.
In criminal law, it is viewed as one of the necessary elements of some crimes.
The standard common law test of criminal liability is usually expressed in the लैटिन phrase, actus non facit reum nisi mens बैठना rea, जिससे अर्थात् `` the अधिनियम is not culpable जबतक the mind is guilty ''.
Thus, in jurisdictions with due process, there must be an actus reus, or `` guilty act, '' accompanied by कुछ level of mens rea to constitute the अपराधों साथ which the defendant is charged ( see the technical requirement of concurrence ).
as a सामान्य rule, दण्ड liability करता not attach to a व्यक्ति who acted साथ the absence of दिमागी दोष.
the एक्सेप्शन is strict liability अपराधों.
in civil law, it is usually नहीं जरुरी to prove a subjective दिमागी element to establish liability for breach of contract or tort, for example.
However, if a tort is intentionally committed or a contract is intentionally breached, such intent may बढ़ाएँ the पैमाना of liability as well as the measure of क्षतिपूर्ति payable to the plaintiff.
Therefore, mens rea refers to the दिमागी element of the अपराध that accompanies the actus reus.
In some jurisdictions, the terms mens rea and actus reus have been replaced by वैकल्पिक terminology.
in Australia, for example, the तत्व of the federal offences are now designated as `` fault elements '' or `` mental elements '' ( mens rea ) और `` physical elements '' or `` external elements '' ( actus reus ).
This terminology was अपनाया to बदलें the अस्पष्टता of the लैटिन terms with simple और accurate phrasing.
ulysses S. ग्रान्ट ( born Hiram Ulysses Grant ; April 27, 1822 – July 23, 1885 ) was the 18th President of the United States ( 1869–1877 ) following his अत्यधिक successful भूमिका as a war general in the second half of the Civil युद्ध.
Under ग्रान्ट, the Union Army defeated the confederate military ; having effectively ended the war and secession with the surrender of Robert E. Lee 's army at appomattox.
As president he led the Radical Republicans in उनके प्रयत्न to eliminate all vestiges of Confederate राष्ट्रवाद and slavery.
Upset over uncontrolled violence in the South and having desired to protect African American नागरिकता, President Grant effectively नष्ट the Ku Klux Klan in 1871.
Grant was the पहला President to establish सिविल Service सुधार having निर्मित a two-year federally वित्तपोषित Civil सेवा आयोग in 1871.
In terms of foreign policy, Grant revealed an `` unexpected capacity लिये deliberation and परामर्श '' that प्रचारित the national interest.
His reputation was marred by उसके दोहराया defense of corrupt appointees, and by अमेरिका 's first औद्योगिक आयु economic depression ( called the `` दहशत of 1873 `` ) कि वर्चस्व his second पद.
Although उसके Republican Party split in 1872 with reformers denouncing him, Grant थी easily reelected.
By 1875 the रूढ़िवादी white दक्षिणी opposition regained कंट्रोल of every state in the South और as he left the White House in March 1877 उसके नीतियों were being undone.
a career soldier, he graduated इससे the United राज्य सैन्य Academy at West Point and served in the mexican–american War.
When the सिविल War began in 1861, ग्रान्ट प्रशिक्षित Union volunteer regiments in Illinois.
In 1862, as a general he fought a series of लड़ाइयों and थी promoted to major सामान्य after forcing the आत्मसमर्पण of a विशाल confederate army और gaining control of केंटकी and most of Tennessee.
He तब led Union forces to victory बाद initial setbacks in the Battle of shiloh, earning a reputation as an आक्रामक commander.
In July 1863, after a long, complex campaign, Grant defeated five uncoordinated Confederate armies ( capturing एक of उन्हें ) और seized vicksburg.
This प्रसिद्ध victory दिया the संघ पूरा कंट्रोल of the Mississippi नदी, split off the western Confederacy, और opened the way for more Union triumphs.
After another जीत at the Battle of Chattanooga in late 1863, President अब्राहम Lincoln made him लेफ्टिनेंट general और कमांडर of all of the संघ सेना.
As commanding general of the army, Grant confronted रॉबर्ट E. ली in a series of very खूनी लड़ाइयों in 1864 known as the Overland Campaign that ended with the bottling up of Lee at पीटर्सबर्ग, outside the Confederate capital of Richmond.
During the siege, Grant समन्वित a series of विनाशकारी campaigns launched by विलियम Tecumseh Sherman, Philip Sheridan, and George Thomas.
आखिरकार breaking through ली 's trenches, the संघ Army captured Richmond in April 1865.
Lee surrendered his depleted forces to ग्रान्ट at appomattox as the Confederacy collapsed.
Although pro-Confederate इतिहासकारों attacked Grant as a निष्ठुर butcher who won by brute force, most historians have hailed his military प्रतिभाशाली.
Grant 's two consecutive terms as अध्यक्ष stabilized the स्वदेश after the American Civil युद्ध and दौरान the turbulent पुनर्निर्माण काल that followed.
as अध्यक्ष, he enforced Reconstruction by enforcing civil rights laws and fighting Ku klux क्लान violence.
Grant won ड्योढ़ी of the Fifteenth amendment ; giving constitutional protection लिये African-American voting rights.
he used the फौज to build the रिपब्लिकन पार्टी in the दक्षिण, आधारित on black voters, Northern newcomers ( `` Carpetbaggers `` ) and native white समर्थक ( `` scalawags. '' )
as a परिणाम, African Americans were represented in the u.S. Congress for the first time in American history in 1870.
reformers praised ग्रान्ट 's भारतीय peace नीति by having broken the deadlock on Indian appropriations in Congress, the creation of the Board of Indian Commissioners to make सुधार सुझाव, and his enlistment of quaker Protestants who controlled मिड western Indian agencies, कि effectively curbed congressional patronage.
Grant remained संकल्पित in keeping इंडियंस इससे being exterminated इससे white settler encroachment or by the U.S. military.
Grant 's प्रतिष्ठा as अध्यक्ष by 1875 was at an all-time high for his previous veto of the Inflation विधेयक, the passage of the Resumption of Specie Act, और सचिव Bristow 's कामयाब raids that shut bas the Whiskey Ring.
Grant 's foreign policy, led by Secretary of राज्य Hamilton Fish, implemented International Arbitration, settled the अलबामा दावा साथ Britain and avoided युद्ध with Spain over the Virginius affair.
A ज्यूकबॉक्स is a partially स्वचालित music-playing device, usually a coin-operated machine, that will खेल a patron 's selection इससे self-contained मीडिया.
the classic jukebox has buttons with अक्षर and numbers on उन्हें that, when entered in combination, are प्रयुक्त to खेल a विशिष्ट selection.
A drug परीक्षण is a technical analysis of a biological specimen – for example urine, hair, blood, sweat, or oral fluid / saliva – to determine the presence or absence of निर्दिष्ट जनक drugs or their metabolites.
Major uses of drug testing are to detect the presence of performance बढ़ाना steroids in sport or for drugs निषिद्ध by laws, such as cannabis, कोका and heroin.
A `` 10-panel urine screen '' consists of the following:
amphetamines ( including Methamphetamine )
Barbiturates
Benzodiazepines
Cannabinoids ( thc )
Cocaine
Methadone
methaqualone
Opiates ( codeine, मॉरफीन, Heroin, Oxycodone, Hydrocodone, etc. )
Phencyclidine ( PCP )
propoxyphene
Saturn V प्रक्षेपास्त्र, used for the American manned lunar लैंडिंग मिशन
स्पेस exploration is the discovery और exploration of outer स्पेस by means of स्पेस प्रौद्योगिकी.
Physical exploration of स्पेस is conducted both by human spaceflights और by robotic spacecraft.
जबकि the अवलोकन of objects in स्पेस, known as astronomy, predates विश्वसनीय recorded history, it was the development of large and अपेक्षाकृत efficient rockets दौरान the early 20th century that अनुमत physical space खोजी to become a वास्तविकता.
Common rationales लिये exploring space include advancing वैज्ञानिक research, uniting अलग nations, ensuring the future अस्तित्व of humanity and विकासशील military और strategic advantages against other countries.
Various criticisms of space खोजी are sometimes made.
Space exploration रै प्रायः been used as a proxy competition लिये geopolitical rivalries such as the ठंडा युद्ध.
The early era of स्पेस exploration was चलित by a `` Space Race `` between the Soviet संघ and the संयुक्त States, the launch of the पहला man-made ऑब्जेक्ट to कक्षा the Earth, the ussr 's Sputnik 1, on 4 October 1957, और the पहला Moon landing by the अमरीकी Apollo 11 craft on 20 July 1969 हैं often taken as the boundaries for इस initial period.
The Soviet space कार्यक्रम हासिल अनेक of the first milestones, including the first जीना being in orbit in 1957, the first human spaceflight ( Yuri Gagarin सवार Vostok 1 ) in 1961, the पहला spacewalk ( by Aleksei Leonov ) on 18 March 1965, the पहला automatic लैंडिंग on another celestial body in 1966, और the लॉन्च of the पहला space स्टेशन ( Salyut 1 ) in 1971.
After the first 20 years of खोजी, focus shifted from one-off flights to renewable hardware, ऐसे as the स्पेस Shuttle कार्यक्रम, and from competition to cooperation as साथ the International Space Station ( ISS ).
With the substantial completion of the ISS following STS-133 in कूच 2011, plans for space exploration by the USA remain in flux.
नक्षत्र, a Bush Administration program लिये a वापसी to the चंद्रमा by 2020 was judged inadequately funded and unrealistic by an विशेषज्ञ review panel रिपोर्टिंग in 2009.
the ओबामा Administration proposed a संशोधन of Constellation in 2010 to focus on the विकास of the capability for crewed missions परे low earth orbit ( LEO ), envisioning extending the operation of the ISS परे 2020, transferring the विकास of लॉन्च वाहनों for human क्रू from NASA to the private sector, and developing प्रौद्योगिकी to enable missions to beyond leo, such as Earth/Moon L1, the चंद्रमा, Earth/Sun L2, near-earth asteroids, and Phobos or Mars orbit.
As of March 2011, the us Senate and House of प्रतिनिधि हैं still working towards a सुलह NASA funding bill, जिससे will probably terminate Constellation and निधि development of a heavy lift लॉन्च vehicle ( HLLV ).
In the 2000s, the People 's Republic of China initiated a successful manned spaceflight program, while the European संघ, Japan, और India have भी planned future manned space missions.
China, Russia, जापानी, और India have advocated मानवयुक्त मिशन to the Moon during the 21st सदी, जबकि the European Union रै advocated manned मिशन to दोनो the चंद्रमा और Mars दौरान the 21st सदी.
From the 1990s onwards, private interests began promoting space tourism and तब private space exploration of the Moon ( see Google Lunar X Prize ).
जॉन Calvin कूलिज, jr. ( July 4, 1872january 5, 1933 ) was the 30th President of the United States ( 1923–1929 ).
A Republican lawyer from Vermont, Coolidge worked his way up the सीढ़ियाँ of मैसाचुसेट्स state राजनीती, आखिरकार बनने governor of that राज्य.
His conduct दौरान the बोस्टन Police स्ट्राइक of 1919 thrust him into the नेशनल spotlight and दिया उसे a reputation as a man of decisive कार्रवाई.
Soon बाद, he was निर्वाचित as the 29th Vice President in 1920 और succeeded to the Presidency upon the sudden death of Warren G. हार्डिंग in 1923.
Elected in उसके own सही in 1924, he gained a प्रतिष्ठा as a small-government conservative, और भी as a man जो said very little.
Coolidge restored public confidence in the White हाउस बाद the scandals of his predecessor 's administration, और बाएँ दफ्तर साथ considerable popularity.
As a Coolidge biographer put it, `` he embodied the spirit और hopes of the मध्य class, could interpret उनके longings और express their opinions.
कि he did represent the genius of the average is the most convincing proof of his strength. ''
Some later criticized Coolidge as भाग of a general criticism of laissez-faire सरकारी.
His reputation underwent a renaissance during the Ronald reagan प्रशासन, but the ultimate assessment of his presidency is still विभाजित between those जो approve of his reduction of the size of government programs and those who believe the संघीय government should be अधिक involved in regulating and controlling the अर्थव्यवस्था.
Espresso is a concentrated beverage brewed by forcing a छोटी amount of nearly खौलते जल under pressure through finely मैदान coffee beans.
एस्प्रेसो often has a thicker consistency than कॉफी brewed by other विधि, a higher concentration of निलंबित और dissolved solids, and crema ( meaning cream, लकिन being a reference to the झाग with a creamy बनावट कि forms as a परिणाम of the pressure ).
As a result of the pressurized brewing प्रक्रम the जायका and chemicals in a ठेठ कप of espresso are very concentrated.
Espresso is the आधार for other पेय, ऐसे as a latte, cappuccino, macchiato, mocha, or americano.
Espresso has अधिक caffeine per unit volume than most beverages, लकिन the usual serving size is smaller—a ठेठ 60 mL ( 2 US fluid ounce ) of espresso has 80 to 150 mg of कैफीन, little less than the 95 to 200 mg of a standard 240 mL ( 8 us द्रव औंस ) cup of drip-brewed कॉफी.
Brian कैथ Kelly ( born October 25, 1961 ) is an American football कोच and पूर्व player.
He is currently the सिर फ़ुटबॉल coach for the Notre Dame Fighting Irish, a position he has held चूंकि December 2009.
Kelly was previously head coach at ग्रैंड घाटी State University ( 1991–2003 ), सेंट्रल मिशिगन University ( 2004–2006 ), और University of Cincinnati ( 2006–2009 ).
A अनुबंध is an agreement having a lawful object entered into voluntarily by two or more parties, each of whom intends to create one or more legal obligations between उन्हें.
the तत्व of a contract हैं `` offer '' and `` स्वीकृति '' by `` competent व्यक्तियों '' having विधिक क्षमता who exchange `` consideration '' to बनाएँ `` mutuality of obligation. ''
Proof of some or all of these elements may be done in writing, though contracts may be made entirely orally or by conduct.
The remedy for उल्लंघन of contract can be `` damages '' in the form of compensation of money or specific performance enforced through an injunction.
दोनो of these remedies award the party at घाटा the `` benefit of the bargain '' or expectation damages, which are greater than mere reliance damages, as in promissory estoppel.
the पार्टियों may be प्राकृतिक persons or juristic व्यक्तियों.
A contract is a legally enforceable वादा or undertaking that something will or will नहीं occur.
The word promise can be used as a legal पर्याय for अनुबंध, हालांकि care is required as a promise may नहीं have the पूरा standing of a अनुबंध, as when it is an agreement बगैर विचार.
Contract law varies greatly इससे one jurisdiction to another, including differences in common law compared to सिविल law, the impact of प्राप्त law, विशेषकर from England in common विधि countries, और of law codified in क्षेत्रीय legislation.
Regarding ऑस्ट्रेलियाई Contract विधि लिये example, there are 40 प्रासंगिक acts जिससे प्रभाव on the interpretation of अनुबंध at the राष्ट्रमंडल ( संघीय / नेशनल ) स्तर, and an additional 26 अधिनियमों at the level of the state of nsw.
In addition there are 6 अंतरराष्ट्रीय यंत्र or प्रथाओं which are applicable लिये international dealings, such as the United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International बिक्री of Goods.
Sidney Patrick Crosby, ONS ( born August 7, 1987 ) is a Canadian पेशेवर बर्फ हॉकी player who is captain of the Pittsburgh penguins of the National Hockey League ( एनएचएल ).
crosby was drafted first overall by the penguins out of the क्यूबेक Major जूनियर हॉकी League ( QMJHL ).
During उसके two-year major junior करियर with the Rimouski océanic, he अर्जित back-to-back CHL Player of the Year awards and led his क्लबों to the 2005 Memorial Cup final.
nicknamed `` The अगला One ``, he was एक of the most highly regarded draft picks in hockey history, अग्रणी many to refer to the 2005 ड्राफ्ट लॉटरी as the `` Sidney crosby Sweepstakes ''.
in his first NHL season, Crosby समाप्त sixth in league स्कोरिंग with 102 points ( 39 goals, 63 assists ) and थी a runner-up for the Calder Memorial ट्रॉफी ( won by Alexander ovechkin ).
By his दूसरी season, he led the NHL with 120 points ( 36 goals, 84 assists ) to कैप्चर the आर्ट Ross Trophy, becoming the youngest player और the only teenager to win a scoring शीर्षक in any major उत्तर American sports league.
That same season, Crosby भी won the Hart Memorial Trophy as the Professional Hockey Writers Association 's choice for most valuable खिलाड़ी and the लेस्टर B. Pearson Award as the एनएचएल Players Association 's choice लिये most outstanding player, बनने the seventh खिलाड़ी in NHL history to earn all तीन awards in एक year.
crosby started the 2007–08 ऋतु साथ the टोली 's captaincy and subsequently led them to the 2008 Stanley Cup Finals, where वे were पराजित by the Detroit Red Wings in six games.
the Penguins returned to the Finals विरूद्ध डेट्रॉयट the following year and won in सात games ; crosby became the youngest कप्तान in NHL history to जीत the स्टेनली Cup.
in the 2009–10 season, Crosby scored a career-high 51 लक्ष्य, tying him with Steven Stamkos लिये the Rocket Richard ट्रॉफी as the league-leader ; with 58 assists, he totaled 109 points, second in the NHL.
During the off-season, crosby प्राप्त the चिह्नित मेसियर Leadership Award.
In 2010–11, Crosby sustained a concussion as a परिणाम of hits to the head in back-to-back games.
the injury left him sidelined लिये ten and a half months.
however, after playing आठ खेल in the 2011–12 season, Crosby 's concussion-like symptoms लौटे in दिसम्बर 2011, और he किया not return until mid-March 2012.
Internationally, Crosby रै represented कनाडा in numerous tournaments for the देश 's जूनियर and मेन 's teams.
After स्पर्धा in the 2003 U-18 Junior संसार Cup, he represented Canada in back-to-back IIHF World u20 championships, winning चांदी in 2004 and gold in 2005.
At the 2006 IIHF World Championship, he led the tournament in scoring, while भी कमाई Top Forward and All-Star Team honours.
Four years later, Crosby थी named to Team Canada for the 2010 शीत Olympics in वैंकूवर.
Playing the संयुक्त States in the gold medal game, he scored the game-winning लक्ष्य in overtime.
A United राज्य cent, also ज्ञात as a penny.
`` my two cents '' ( 2¢ ) और its longer version `` put my दो सेंट in '' is an संयुक्त States ( us ) idiomatic expression, लिया from the असली English idiom expression : to put in `` my two pennies worth '' or `` my tuppence worth. ''
it is प्रयुक्त to preface the tentative stating of one’s राय.
By deprecating the राय to follow – suggesting its value is only two cents, a very small amount – the उपयोक्ता of the phrase hopes to lessen the प्रभाव of a possibly statement, showing politeness and humility.
However, it is also sometimes used with विडंबना when expressing a strongly felt राय.
The phrase is भी used out of आदत to preface uncontentious राय.
For example:
the Chinese Civil युद्ध थी a civil war in China fought between forces loyal to the सरकारी of the गणतंत्र of China led by the Kuomintang ( kmt ) and forces of the कम्युनिस्ट Party of China ( cpc ).
The युद्ध began in April 1927, amidst the Northern expedition, and essentially ended when प्रमुख active battles ceased in 1950.
the विरोध eventually resulted in two de facto राज्य, the गणतंत्र of चीन ( ROC ) in ताईवान and the People 's Republic of China ( PRC ) in mainland चीन, दोनो claiming to be the legitimate government of China.
The war represented an ideological विभाजित ( Left vs. सही ) between the Communist CPC, and the KMT 's brand of Nationalism.
The सिविल war जारी intermittently until late 1937, when the two parties formed a Second संयुक्त सामने to counter a Japanese invasion.
China 's full-scale civil युद्ध resumed in 1946, a year बाद the end of hostilities साथ जापानी.
After चार more सालो, 1950 saw the cessation of प्रमुख सैन्य hostilities—with the newly founded People 's Republic of China controlling mainland चीन ( सहित Hainan ), and the Republic of China 's jurisdiction being restricted to ताईवान, Penghu, Quemoy, Matsu और several outlying आइलैंड्स.
The Kuomintang शिकस्त is attributed to several कारकों : Corruption - च्यांग wrote in his diary on June 1948 that the KMT had failed, not because of external दुश्मनों but because of rot from within.
Strong आरंभिक support from the u.S. diminished, and then, रोका.
( partly क्युकी of kmt corruption और anti-democratic regime, and partly क्युकी of the uncertain u.S. foreign policy towards साम्यवादी between 1945 and 1950 ) ; Communist जमीन सुधार नीति promised ग़रीब peasants farmland from their जमींदार.
इस ensured pla popular support.
बाद the surrender of Japan at the end of World War ii, Soviet forces turned over their captured Japanese हथियार to the CPC and allowed the cpc to take control of territory in Manchuria.
to this day, no armistice or peace सन्धि रै कभी महरूम signed, and it is debated as to the whether the Civil War has legally ended.
Cross-Strait relations have been hindered by military threats and राजनैतिक and आर्थिक दबाव, particularly over Taiwan 's राजनैतिक औकात, साथ both governments officially adhering to a `` One-China नीति. ''
the पीआरसी still actively claims Taiwan as भाग of its territory and continues to threaten the ROC with a military invasion if the ROC officially declares independence by changing its name to and gaining अंतरराष्ट्रीय recognition as the Republic of Taiwan.
The आरओसी mutually claims मेनलैंड चीन, और वे both continue the fight over राजनयिक recognition.
Today, the युद्ध as such occurs on the राजनैतिक और economic fronts in the form of cross-strait संबंध ; however, the two separate de facto states have बंद economic ties.
The One Hundred बारहवीं United राज्य Congress थी the बैठक of the legislative शाखा of the United राज्य federal government, from January 3, 2011 until January 3, 2013.
It convened in Washington, d.C. on January 3, 2011, और ended on जनवरी 3, 2013, 17 दिनों पहले the end of the अध्यक्षीय term to जिससे बराक Obama was elected in 2008.
Senators elected to regular शर्तें in 2006 completed those शर्तें in this Congress.
This कॉंग्रेस included the पिछला हाउस of Representatives elected from congressional districts कि यहूद apportioned based on the 2000 census.
In the 2010 midterm चुनावों, the Republican Party won the बहुमत in the हाउस of Representatives.
While the डेमोक्रेट kept उनके सीनेट बहुमत, it was reduced from the previous Congress.
This was the first Congress in जिससे the House and Senate were controlled by different parties चूंकि the 107th कॉंग्रेस ( 2001–2003 ), and the first Congress to शुरू कि way since the 99th Congress ( 1985–1987 ).
In इस कॉंग्रेस, the House of Representatives था the largest क्रमांक of Republican members, 242, since the 80th Congress ( 1947–1949 ).
It was also the first Congress चूंकि 1947 in which no member of the Kennedy family परोसा, as well as the most politically polarized कॉंग्रेस since Reconstruction, with record low approval ratings.
Wealth in the संयुक्त States is commonly measured in terms of net worth, which is the योग of all assets, including home इक्विटी, minus सब liabilities.
The total net worth of US households and nonprofit organizations 1945–2009, unadjusted for महंगाई or population बदलें.
For उदाहरण, a household in कब्ज़ा of an $ 800,000 house, $ 5,000 in परस्पर funds, $ 30,000 in cars, $ 20,000 लायक of भण्डार in their अपना company, और a $ 45,000 ira would have assets totaling $ 900,000.
Assuming कि इस household would have a $ 250,000 mortgage, $ 40,000 in car लोन, और $ 10,000 in क्रेडिट कार्ड debt, its debts would total $ 300,000.
Subtracting the debts from the worth of इस household 's assets ( 900,000 - $ 300,000 = $ 600,000 ), इस household होता have a net लायक of $ 600,000.
जाल worth can vary with fluctuations in value of the underlying assets.
the wealth —more specifically, the median net worth—of households in the संयुक्त राज्य is varied with relation to race, education, भौगोलिक location और gender.
As one would expect, households with वृहद income विशेषता the उच्चतम net worths, though high income can not be लिया as an सदा accurate indicator of net worth.
Overall the क्रमांक of wealthier households is on the rise, साथ baby boomers hitting the highs of their careers.
In addition, wealth is unevenly distributed, with the wealthiest 25 % of US households owning 87 % of the wealth in the United States, which was $ 54.2 trillion in 2009.
Including human पूंजी ऐसे as कौशल, the संयुक्त राष्ट्र estimated the कुल wealth of the संयुक्त राज्य in 2008 to be $ 118 trillion.
इस आलेख सौदे with चयनात्मक Dorsal Rhizotomy ( SDR ) rather than the rhizotomy procedures for pain राहत ; for those procedures, which have begun to take the नाम `` rhizotomy '' in certain instances, see facet rhizotomy और समान.
A rhizotomy ( ) is a पद chiefly referring to a neurosurgical कार्यविधि कि selectively destroys समस्यापूर्ण तंत्रिका roots in the स्पाइनल cord, most प्रायः to relieve the symptoms of neuromuscular शर्तें ऐसे as spastic diplegia and other forms of spastic cerebral palsy.
The चयनात्मक dorsal rhizotomy ( sdr ) for spastic दिमागी palsy रै been the main उपयोग of rhizotomy for neurosurgeons specialising in spastic CP since the 1980s ; in इस surgery, the spasticity-causing nerves are isolated and then targeted और destroyed.
The sensory तंत्रिका roots, where spasticity is located, are first separated from the मोटर ones, and the nerve fibres to be cut are then identified via electromyographic stimulation.
The ones producing spasticity are तब selectively lesioned with tiny electrical pulses.
In spasticity, rhizotomy precisely targets and destroys the क्षतिग्रस्त nerves कि don’t receive gamma amino butyric acid, which is the core problem for people साथ spastic cerebral palsy.
ये over-firing, non-GABA-absorbing nerves generate unusual electrical activity दौरान the EMG testing phase in sdr and are thus considered to be the source of the patient 's hypertonia ; they हैं eliminated with the electrical pulses एकबार पहचाना, while the बाकी nerves and nerve routes carrying the correct संदेश remain fully बरकरार and untouched.
This अर्थात् that the spasticity is permanently dissolved, and कि this is किया बगैर affecting nervous system संवेदनशीलता or फलन in other areas, because the only nerves destroyed हैं the over-firing ones responsible for the muscle tightness.
The terms rhizotomy और neurotomy हैं भी increasingly becoming interchangeable in the उपचार of chronic back pain इससे degenerative डिस्क disease.
This is a procedure called a facet rhizotomy and is not a surgical procedure लकिन is बजाय done on an outpatient basis using a simple probe to apply radiofrequency लहरें to the impinged pain-causing तंत्रिका root lying between the facet joint and the vertebral देह.
Such radio frequency तंत्रिका lesioning results in five to आठ or more months of पीड़ा राहत before the nerve regenerates and another round of the कार्यविधि needs to be performed.
A facet rhizotomy is बस one of many अलग फ़ॉर्म of radiofrequency ablation, और इसके उपयोग of the `` rhizotomy '' name चाहिए not be confused with the SDR procedure.
Migrant workers in California, 1935
The term migrant कार्यकर्ता has different official meanings and connotations in different parts of the world.
The United Nations ' definition is broad, including any people working outside of their home country.
The पद can also be प्रयुक्त to describe someone who migrates भीतर a country, possibly their own, in अनुक्रम to pursue कार्य ऐसे as मौसमी कार्य.
Photograph of लील वेन साथ teardrop टैटू below his आँखें.
The teardrop टैटू or tear tattoo is a symbolic tattoo कि is placed underneath the eye.
It has no fixed अर्थ but almost सब meanings ( see below ) have some connection to थाना.
U.S. रूट 75 is a north–south U.S. राजमार्ग.
The highway 's उत्तरी terminus is in Kittson County, Minnesota, at the Canadian border, where it once continued as Manitoba राजमार्ग 75 on the अन्य पक्ष of the now-closed border crossing.
Its southern terminus is at अंतरराज्यीय 30 और Interstate 45 in डलास, टेक्सास, जहाँ it is ज्ञात as उत्तर सेंट्रल Expressway.
U.S. 75 थी a border-to-border route, from कनाडा to the Gulf of Mexico at galveston, टेक्सास.
However, the संपूर्ण segment south of डलास, Texas रै been decommissioned in एहसान of Interstate 45, a कटऑफ खण्ड of town-to-town सतह road having become राज्य राजमार्ग 75.
Lower Ninth Ward is a neighborhood of the नगर of नई ऑरलियन्स.
As the नाम implies, it is भाग of the Ninth Ward of नई ऑरलियन्स.
the Lower नवीं Ward is प्रायः thought of as the entire area within New Orleans downriver of the औद्योगिक Canal ; however, the City Planning Commission divides this area into the निम्नतर Ninth Ward ( 2 ) और पावन Cross ( 3 ) neighborhoods.
The पद `` Lower '' refers to its स्थान farther towards the mouth of the Mississippi नदी, `` down '' or `` below '' the rest of the नगर in local geographic शब्दावली.
But the 9th वार्ड, like सब Wards in New ऑरलियन्स, is a voting district.
The 9th Ward was added as a voting district in 1852.
The `` lower '' 9th वार्ड is composed of वार्ड 9 जिले 1, 2, 4, and 7 जिससे make up the पावन Cross क्षेत्रफल and Ward 9 जिले 3, 5, 6, and 8.
Higher voting ज़िला numbers in the 9th Ward ( 8-27 ) are on the upriver पक्ष of the Industrial Canal.
the area आए to national attention for इसके devastation in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina in 2005.
हबल views of कोपरनिकस crater ( inset ), which is about 58 miles ( 93 km ) wide
रेड and orange tinted Moon, as seen from Earth during a चंद्र eclipse, जहाँ the Earth comes between the Moon and Sun
The Moon is the only प्राकृतिक satellite of the Earth, and the fifth largest satellite in the सौर System.
It is the largest natural satellite of a ग्रह in the Solar System relative to the size of its primary, having 27 % the diameter और 60 % the density of Earth, resulting in इसके mass.
The Moon is the second densest satellite after io, a उपग्रह of Jupiter.
the चंद्रमा is in synchronous rotation with Earth, सदा showing the same face with इसके near पक्ष marked by अंधेरा volcanic मरिया that भरण between the bright प्राचीन crustal highlands और the prominent impact craters.
It is the brightest object in the आसमान after the सूर्य, although इसके surface is actually very dark, with a reflectance similar to that of कोयले.
Its prominence in the sky and its regular साईकिल of phases have, since ancient times, बना the Moon an important cultural influence on भाषा, calendars, art and mythology.
The Moon 's gravitational influence produces the ocean tides and the minute lengthening of the दिन.
the Moon 's वर्तमान कक्षीय distance, about thirty times the diameter of the Earth, causes it to appear लगभग the वही size in the आसमान as the सूर्य, allowing it to cover the Sun nearly precisely in कुल solar eclipses.
This matching of apparent visual size is a coincidence.
The Moon 's linear distance from the धरती is फिलहाल increasing at a रेट of 3.82±0.07cm per year, लकिन this rate is not constant.
the Moon is thought to have formed nearly 4.5 billion सालो ago, not long after the Earth.
Although वहीँ have been several hypotheses लिये इसके उत्पत्ति in the past, the current most widely accepted explanation is कि the Moon formed इससे the मलबा left over after a giant impact between Earth and a Mars -sized body.
The चंद्रमा is the only celestial देह other than Earth on which इंसानो have नियत पैर.
The Soviet Union 's Luna programme was the first to reach the Moon साथ unmanned spacecraft in 1959 ; the संयुक्त States ' NASA Apollo program achieved the only manned missions to date, शुरूआत with the पहला manned lunar orbiting mission by अपोलो 8 in 1968, and six manned चंद्र landings between 1969 and 1972, साथ the first being Apollo 11.
These missions returned over 380 kg of lunar रॉक्स, which have been used to develop a geological understanding of the Moon 's origins, the formation of its internal structure, and its subsequent history.
After the Apollo 17 mission in 1972, the Moon रै been visited only by unmanned spacecraft, notably by the फाइनल Soviet Lunokhod rover.
Since 2004, Japan, चीन, India, the संयुक्त States, and the European Space एजेंसी have each sent lunar orbiters.
ये spacecraft have contributed to confirming the डिस्कवरी of lunar water ice in permanently shadowed craters at the डंडे and बंधी into the lunar regolith.
भविष्य manned missions to the Moon have been planned, including government as well as privately funded efforts.
the Moon remains, अंतर्गत the बाहरी Space सन्धि, फ़्री to all nations to explore लिये peaceful purposes.
Ronald Wilson reagan ( ; फ़रवरी 6, 1911 – June 5, 2004 ) थी the 40th अध्यक्ष of the United राज्य ( 1981–1989 ).
Prior to कि, he थी the 33rd Governor of कैलिफ़ोर्निया ( 1967–1975 ), and a radio, film और television actor.
Born in tampico, इलिनोइस, और उठाया in डिक्सन, Reagan was educated at यूरेका College, earning a स्नातक of कला degree in economics और समाजशास्त्र.
बाद graduating, reagan स्थानांतरित first to Iowa to work as a रेडियो broadcaster and तब, in 1937, to Los Angeles where he began a career as an actor, first in films and later television.
Some of his most notable films include Knute Rockne, All American ( 1940 ), किंग्स पंक्ति ( 1942 ), और Bedtime for Bonzo ( 1951 ).
Reagan served as President of the स्क्रीन Actors Guild and बाद as a spokesman for General इलेक्ट्रिक ( ge ) ; his start in politics occurred during his work for GE.
Originally a सदस्य of the Democratic Party, उसके स्थितियाँ began shifting rightward in the 1950s, and he switched to the Republican Party in 1962.
After delivering a rousing वाक in support of बैरी Goldwater 's presidential candidacy in 1964, he was persuaded to seek the California governorship, winning दो years बाद and again in 1970.
He was defeated in उसके चलाएं for the Republican अध्यक्षीय nomination in 1968 और in 1976, but won both the nomination और general election in 1980, defeating incumbent Jimmy Carter.
As अध्यक्ष, Reagan implemented sweeping new राजनैतिक and economic initiatives.
His supply-side आर्थिक policies, dubbed `` Reaganomics ``, advocated reducing कर rates to spur economic growth, controlling the धन supply to reduce inflation, deregulation of the economy, and reducing सरकारी spending.
In his पहला पद he survived an हत्या attempt, took a hard लकीर against मजदूर unions, घोषित a नई War on Drugs, and ordered an invasion of Grenada.
He was re-elected in a landslide in 1984, proclaiming that it थी `` Morning in America ``.
His दूसरी term was primarily चिह्नित by foreign matters, such as the ending of the Cold War, the 1986 bombing of Libya, and the revelation of the Iran-Contra affair.
Publicly describing the Soviet Union as an `` evil empire ``, he supported anti-communist movements worldwide और spent his first term forgoing the strategy of détente by ordering a massive military buildup in an arms race with the USSR.
Reagan negotiated with Soviet सामान्य सचिव मिखाइल Gorbachev, culminating in the INF Treaty and the घटी of दोनो देशों ' nuclear arsenals.
Reagan left दफ्तर in 1989.
In 1994, the former president disclosed that he had been diagnosed with Alzheimer 's बीमारी earlier in the साल ; he died टेन years later at the आयु of 93.
A conservative प्रतीक, he ranks highly in public opinion पोल of U.S. राष्ट्रपतियों and is credited for generating an ideological renaissance on the अमरीकी political right.
Complete नियत of scrolls, constituting the entire Tanakh.
The Tanakh (, or ; also Tenakh, Tenak, Tanach ) is a name used in Judaism for the canon of the यहूदी बाइबल.
The Tanakh is भी known as the masoretic Text or the miqra.
The नाम is an acronym formed from the initial Hebrew letters of the Masoretic Text 's three परंपरागत subdivisions : The Torah ( `` Teaching '', also known as the Five किताबे of मूसा ), Nevi'im ( `` नबियों '' ) and ketuvim ( `` कृतियाँ '' ) —hence tanakh.
The नाम `` miqra '' ( מקרא ), meaning `` that which is पढ़ा '', is an alternative Hebrew term for the Tanakh.
the books of the Tanakh यहूद relayed with an accompanying मौखिक tradition passed on by each generation, पुकारा the मौखिक Torah.
The कावासाकी निंजा ZX-6R is a Kawasaki 600 cc class खेल motorcycle.
It was introduced in 1995, और has महरूम constantly updated throughout the years in response to new उत्पाद इससे Honda, suzuki, and यामाहा.
The zx series is what थी known as the Ninja लकीर of कावासाकी motorcycles in the 1980s and still carries the name today.
हत्या attempts and plots on Presidents of the संयुक्त States have been numerous : more than 20 attempts to kill sitting और former presidents, as खूब as the presidents-elect, are ज्ञात.
Four sitting presidents have been killed : Abraham Lincoln ( the 16th President ), James A. Garfield ( the 20th अध्यक्ष ), विलियम McKinley ( the 25th President ) और John F. Kennedy ( the 35th President ).
दो राष्ट्रपतियों were घायल in attempted assassinations : former President Theodore Roosevelt ( the 26th President ), और अध्यक्ष रोनाल्ड reagan ( the 40th अध्यक्ष ).
Although the historian j.w. क्लार्क रै सुझाया that सबसे अमरीकी assassinations were politically motivated actions, carried out by rational men, नहीं all such हमले have महरूम undertaken लिये राजनैतिक reasons.
Some attackers had questionable mental stability, और a few were judged legally insane.
चूंकि the Vice President of the United States has for more than a सदी been elected from the same political party as the President, the assassination of the अध्यक्ष is unlikely to result in major नीति changes.
इस may explain why political groups typically do नहीं make such attacks.
Where the Red फर्न grows is a novel लिखा by Wilson Rawls in 1961 परिचय a लड़के who खरीदता and रेल two Redbone Coonhound hunting dogs.
Oklahoma ( ) ( Pawnee : Uukuhuúwa, cay : Gahnawiyoˀgeh ) is a state स्तिथ in West South Central संयुक्त राज्य.
Oklahoma is the 20th most extensive and the 28th most populous of the 50 United States.
the state 's नाम is निकला इससे the Choctaw words okla और humma, meaning `` red people '', and it is known informally by its nickname, the Sooner State.
formed by the combination of ओक्लाहोमा Territory और Indian Territory on November 16, 1907, ओक्लाहोमा थी the 46th राज्य to enter the union.
इसके निवासियों हैं known as Oklahomans or, informally `` Okies '', and its capital and largest city is Oklahoma नगर.
A major निर्माता of natural गैस, आयल, and agriculture, Oklahoma relies on an economic base of aviation, energy, telecommunications, and जैवप्रौद्योगिकी.
it has one of the तीव्रतम growing economies in the nation, ranking among the शीर्ष राज्य in per capita आय growth और gross domestic product growth.
Oklahoma नगर और Tulsa serve as Oklahoma 's primary economic anchors, साथ nearly two thirds of oklahomans living within their metropolitan सांख्यिकीय areas.
With small mountain ranges, prairie, mesas, और पूर्वी forests, most of Oklahoma lies in the ग्रेट Plains and the U.S. आंतरिक Highlands —a region especially prone to severe weather.
In addition to having a व्यापकता of English, German, स्कॉटिश, Irish and देशी अमरीकी ancestry, अधिक than 25 देशी American भाषाएं हैं spoken in ओक्लाहोमा, second only to California.
Oklahoma is स्तिथ on a confluence of तीन major अमरीकी cultural regions और historically served as a route for चौपायों drives, a गंतव्य for southern settlers, and a government-sanctioned territory लिये Native Americans.
Redwall, by Brian Jacques, is a श्रेणी of children 's fantasy novels.
it is the title of the first book of the series, published in 1986, as well as the नाम of the Abbey प्रदर्शित in the book और the नाम of an animated tv series based on तीन of the novels ( Redwall, Mattimeo, and Martin the योद्धा ), जिससे पहला aired in 1999.
The books are primarily aimed at older children, but have fans of all ages.
वहीँ have been twenty-two novels and two picture books प्रकाशित.
The twenty-second, और final, novel, The दुष्ट Crew, was posthumously released on May 3, 2011.
Natural Gas is usually measured by volume in the संयुक्त States और is stated in cubic feet.
a cubic foot of gas is the amount of गैस needed to fill a आवाज़ of एक cubic foot under set conditions of pressure and temperature.to measure larger amounts of प्राकृतिक gas, a `` therm '' is प्रयुक्त to denote 100 cubic feet, and `` mcf '' is used to denote 1,000 घन फीट.
To provide greater सटीकता in comparing fuels, उर्जा सामग्री is measured in शर्तें of `` अंग्रेजों थर्मल इकाई ( btu 's ). ''
A btu is the amount of ऊष्मा जरूरी to raise one pound of water ( लगभग a pint ), one उपाधि Fahrenheit at or close to इसके point of maximum density.
एक British therm ( प्रतीक thm ) is a non- SI ईकाई of heat energy बराबर to 100,000 British thermal इकाई ( BTU ).
It is लगभग the energy equivalent of burning 100 cubic feet ( प्रायः referred to as 1 CCF ) of प्राकृतिक gas.
Since ( Natural Gas ) meters measure volume और नहीं उर्जा content, a therm फ़ैक्टर is used by ( Natural ) gas companies to convert the आवाज़ of gas used to its ऊष्मा equivalent, and thus गणना the वास्तविक energy use.
The therm factor is usually in the इकाई therms/CCF.
It will vary साथ the मिक्सर of hydrocarbons in the प्राकृतिक gas.
Natural गैस with a higher than औसत concentration of ethane, प्रोपेन or butane होगा have a higher therm factor.
Impurities, ऐसे as carbon डाइऑक्साइड or nitrogen, lower the therm फ़ैक्टर.
The volume of the gas is गणना as if measured at मानक तापमान and pressure ( STP ).
the heat सामग्री of natural गैस is solely dependent on the composition of the gas, and is independent of temperature and दबाव.
One therm is equal to about 105.5 megajoules, 25,200 kilocalories or 29.3 kilowatt-hours.
One therm can also be provided by about of प्राकृतिक gas.
the therm sometimes रै been confused साथ the thermie ( देखिए below ).
The names of both units come from the Greek word लिये heat.
A thermie ( th ) is a metric ईकाई of heat energy, part of the meter-tonne-second प्रणाली sometimes used by European इंजीनियर्स.
the thermie is equal to the राशि of energy जरूरी to उठाएँ the तापमान of 1 tonne of water by 1 °c.
the thermie is समतुल्य to 1,000 kilocalories, 4.1868 megajoules or 3968.3 btu.
The American Civil War ( ACW ), also known as the War between the States or simply the Civil War ( see naming ), थी a civil war fought from 1861 to 1865 between the संयुक्त States ( the `` संघ '' or the `` उत्तर '' ) and several Southern slave states that declared their secession and formed the Confederate States of America ( the `` Confederacy '' or the `` South '' ).
the war had इसके origin in the issue of गुलामी, especially the extension of slavery into the पश्चिमी territories.
विदेशी powers किया not intervene.
After four years of खूनी combat that left over 600,000 soldiers dead and नष्ट much of the South 's अवसंरचना, the Confederacy collapsed, slavery was abolished, and the difficult Reconstruction प्रक्रम of restoring नेशनल एकता और guaranteeing अधिकारों to the freed स्लेव began.
in the 1860 अध्यक्षीय election, Republicans, led by अब्राहम Lincoln, opposed expanding गुलामी into United States ' territories.
Lincoln जीती, but before his उद्घाटन on कूच 4, 1861, सात cotton-based स्लेव राज्य formed the confederacy.
Outgoing Democratic President James Buchanan और the incoming Republicans rejected secession as illegal.
lincoln 's inaugural पता declared उसके administration would not initiate सिविल war.
Eight बाकी स्लेव states जारी to reject calls for secession.
Confederate forces जब्त numerous संघीय forts within territory claimed by the Confederacy.
a Peace सम्मेलन failed to find a compromise, and both sides prepared लिये war.
The Confederates assumed that European countries यहूद so dependent on `` King Cotton `` that they would intervene ; none did and none recognized the नई Confederate States of अमेरिका.
hostilities began on April 12, 1861, when Confederate forces fired upon फोर्ट Sumter, a key fort held by संघ सैनिकों in South Carolina.
Lincoln पुकारा for प्रत्येक state to provide troops to retake the फोर्ट ; consequently, four more slave states joined the Confederacy, bringing their total to eleven.
the Union soon controlled the border states and established a naval नाकेबंदी कि crippled the southern अर्थव्यवस्था.
The Eastern थिएटर was inconclusive in 1861–62.
the autumn 1862 Confederate campaign into Maryland ( a संघ state ) ended साथ Confederate retreat at the Battle of Antietam, dissuading British intervention.
Lincoln issued the Emancipation Proclamation, which made ending slavery a war लक्ष्य.
to the west, by summer 1862 the संघ destroyed the Confederate river नेवी, तब much of their western सेना, और the संघ at Vicksburg split the Confederacy in two at the Mississippi River.
In 1863, Robert E. Lee 's Confederate incursion north ended at the Battle of Gettysburg.
Western successes led to Ulysses S. ग्रान्ट command of all Union armies in 1864.
In the पश्चिमी Theater, विलियम T. शरमन drove east to कैप्चर Atlanta और marched to the समुद्र, destroying confederate infrastructure along the way.
The Union marshaled the resources और manpower to attack the Confederacy इससे all दिशानिर्देश, and could afford to fight battles of अपघर्षण through the Overland अभियान towards Richmond, the confederate capital.
The defending Confederate army failed, leading to Lee 's surrender to Grant at appomattox Court House on April 9, 1865.
the American Civil युद्ध थी one of the earliest true industrial wars.
Railroads, the टेलीग्राफ, steamships, और mass-produced weapons were employed extensively.
The mobilization of civilian factories, mines, shipyards, banks, transportation and food आपूर्तियाँ all foreshadowed संसार War i.
It remains the deadliest युद्ध in American history, resulting in the मौतों of an estimated 750,000 soldiers और an undetermined number of civilian casualties.
Historian जॉन Huddleston estimates the मौत टोल at ten प्रतिशत of all Northern males 20–45 years old, और 30 percent of all दक्षिणी white males aged 18–40.
William ब्रूस Jenner ( born October 28, 1949 ) is a former U.S. track and field athlete, motivational स्पीकर, socialite, television personality और businessman.
He won the gold medal for decathlon in the मॉन्ट्रियल 1976 Summer ओलंपिक.
Following his ओलम्पिक win and the सम्बन्धित मान्यता, he शादीशुदा क्रिस Kardashian, और his professional career evolved into being a television celebrity.
By 1981, he had starred in अनेक made-for-TV फिल्मों और was Erik Estrada 's replacement on the top रेटेड TV series चिप्स.
he रै six children : Burt, Casey, Brandon, ब्रोडी, केंडल and Kylie.
Since उसके 1991 marriage to Kris Jenner, he is the stepfather to Kourtney, Kim, Khloe और Rob Kardashian.
Since 2007, he has appeared साथ his blended family on Keeping Up साथ the Kardashians.
Escherichia coli ( ; commonly abbreviated E. कोलाई ) is a gram-negative, rod-shaped bacterium that is commonly found in the निम्नतर intestine of warm-blooded जीवों ( endotherms ).
सबसे E. कोलाई strains are harmless, but कुछ serotypes can कारण serious खाना poisoning in humans, and are occasionally responsible for product recalls due to food contamination.
The harmless strains are part of the normal फ्लोरा of the gut, और can benefit their होस्ट by producing vitamin K2, और by preventing the establishment of pathogenic bacteria within the आंत.
E. coli and related bacteria constitute about 0.1 % of gut flora, and fecal–oral transmission is the major रूट through which pathogenic strains of the bacterium cause disease.
Cells हैं समर्थ to survive outside the देह for a limited amount of time, जिससे makes them ideal indicator organisms to test पर्यावरणीय नमूने लिये fecal contamination.
वहीँ is, however, a growing देह of शोध that रै examined environmentally persistent E. कोलाई which can survive for extended periods outside of the host.
The bacterium can भी be grown easily and inexpensively in a laboratory setting, और has महरूम intensively investigated for over 60 सालो.
E. coli is the सबसे widely पढ़ाई prokaryotic model organism, and an important species in the fields of biotechnology और सूक्ष्मजैविकी, where it रै served as the host organism लिये the बहुमत of work with recombinant DNA.
Area code 217 is the North American टेलीफोन area कोड लिये much of पश्चिमी and सेंट्रल Illinois.
the 217 क्षेत्रफल includes इलिनोइस ' पूंजी, springfield, प्लस Champaign, urbana, decatur, Danville, क्विंसी, और Rantoul.
217 was एक of the असली area कोड, which were created in 1947.
the only significant बदलें in 217 's सीमाएँ थी in 1957, when its northern portion was combined with भाग of area code 815 to form area code 309.
चित्र of the largest Antarctic ओज़ोन hole ever recorded ( September 2006 ), over the Southern pole
Layers of the atmosphere ( नहीं to स्केल )
ओज़ोन depletion describes दो distinct but related phenomena observed चूंकि the late 1970s : a steady decline of about 4 % per दशक in the कुल volume of ओज़ोन in Earth 's stratosphere ( the ओज़ोन layer ), and a much larger springtime घटी in stratospheric ozone over Earth 's polar regions.
The latter घटना is referred to as the ozone hole.
in addition to ये well-known stratospheric phenomena, there are भी springtime ध्रुवीय tropospheric ozone depletion events.
the विवरण of ध्रुवीय ozone hole formation differ from कि of mid-latitude thinning, but the most important process in both is catalytic destruction of ozone by atomic halogens.
The main source of these halogen atoms in the stratosphere is photodissociation of man-made halocarbon refrigerants ( cfcs, freons, halons ).
ये compounds are transported into the stratosphere बाद being उत्सर्जित at the surface.
दोनो प्रकार of ozone depletion यहूद observed to बढ़ाएँ as emissions of halo-carbons increased.
CFCs और other contributory substances are referred to as ozone-depleting substances ( ods ).
Since the ozone परत prevents most harmful UVB wavelengths ( 280–315 nm ) of पराबैंगनी light ( uv लाइट ) from गुजर through the धरती 's माहौल, observed and projected decreases in ozone have generated worldwide concern अग्रणी to अपनाना of the Montreal Protocol that bans the production of CFCs, halons, and other ozone-depleting रसायन such as carbon tetrachloride and trichloroethane.
It is suspected कि a किस्में of biological consequences such as increases in स्किन cancer, cataracts, damage to plants, and reduction of plankton populations in the ocean 's photic मण्डल may परिणाम from the increased uv exposure due to ozone depletion.
The Preamble to the संयुक्त States संविधान is a brief introductory statement of the Constitution 's आधारभूत purposes and guiding principles.
it राज्य in सामान्य शर्तें, और न्यायालयों have referred to it as reliable evidence of, the Founding Fathers ' intentions regarding the Constitution 's meaning और what they hoped the Constitution would achieve as it pertains to all of the people of the United States.
As the phrase, `` we the people '' suggests that the नई government originates इससे the people of the संयुक्त States and it sets into motion a question as it pertains to कि vast population concerning the individual rights and समता among all people ; this can be seen most broadly in the divide between republicanism and social democracy.
Czechoslovakian शॉट putter Plihan at the 1957 East German Indoor Athletics Championships
the शॉट put ( pronounced ) is a track and field event involving `` throwing '' / '' putting '' ( फेंकना in a pushing गति ) a heavy spherical object —the shot—as दूर as possible.
the शॉट put competition for मेन has been a part of the modern ओलंपिक since their revival in 1896, women 's competition began in 1948.
Map of the United Nations ( un ) member राज्य, with उनके territories ( including निर्भर territories ) recognized by the UN in blue
There are United राष्ट्र ( un ) member राज्य, and प्रत्येक of them is a member of the United Nations General Assembly.
The मापदण्ड लिये admission of नई सदस्यों are नियत out in the संयुक्त Nations Charter, Chapter ii, Article 4:
A अनुशंसा for admission from the सुरक्षा Council requires affirmative votes from at least nine of the council 's fifteen members, साथ none of the five स्थाई members मतदान against.
The Security Council 's recommendation जरूर तब be subsequently स्वीकृत in the General Assembly by a two-thirds majority vote.
In principle, only sovereign states can become UN members, and currently all un members are sovereign राज्य ( although a few members यहूद not sovereign when वे joined the UN ).
क्युकी a राज्य can तभी be admitted to the UN by the approval of the सुरक्षा Council and the General Assembly, a number of states कि may be considered sovereign states according to the Montevideo सम्मेलन criteria are not members because the un does नहीं consider उन्हें to possess प्रभुता, mainly due to the कमी of international recognition or opposition इससे certain members.
In जोड to the member राज्य, the UN भी आमंत्रण non-member states ( currently two : the Holy देखिए and फिलिस्तीन ), intergovernmental संगठन, and अन्य international organizations और entities whose statehood or sovereignty हैं not precisely defined, to become observers at the सामान्य Assembly, allowing them to participate और speak, but not vote, in General सभा meetings.
the एफिल मीनार (, ) is an आयरन lattice मीनार located on the champ de Mars in Paris, named after the engineer gustave Eiffel, जिनकी कम्पनी designed and built the tower.
Erected in 1889 as the प्रवेश arch to the 1889 World 's Fair, it रै become दोनो a global सांस्कृतिक icon of France and एक of the सबसे recognizable structures in the world.
the tower is the tallest structure in Paris and the most-visited सशुल्क स्मारक in the संसार ; 7.1 million लोगों ascended it in 2011.
the third level observatory 's upper platform is at the उच्चतम accessible to पब्लिक in the European Union and the उच्चतम in Europe as long as the platform of the ostankino मीनार, at, remains closed as a result of the fire of August 2000.
The tower received its 250 millionth आगंतुक in 2010.
the tower स्टैंड tall, about the same height as an 81-storey building.
दौरान its construction, the एफिल Tower surpassed the वॉशिंगटन स्मारक to assume the title of the tallest man-made structure in the संसार, a title it held for 41 सालो, until the Chrysler भवन in New यॉर्क City थी built in 1930.
Because of the जोड, in 1957, of the antenna atop the Eiffel Tower, it is now taller than the क्रिसलर Building.
Not सहित broadcast antennas, it is the second-tallest structure in France, after the Millau Viaduct.
The tower has three स्तर लिये visitors.
Tickets can be purchased to ascend, by सीढ़ियाँ or लिफ्ट ( elevator ), to the first और दूसरी स्तर.
The walk इससे ground level to the पहला level is over 300 steps, as is the walk from the first to the दूसरी level.
the तीसरा और highest level is accessible तभी by lift—stairs do मौजूद लकिन are usually बंद to the पब्लिक.
The first and second levels have restaurants.
The tower रै become the most prominent symbol of दोनो पेरिस and फ़्रांस, often in the establishing shot of films set in the city.
Kenneth वेन `` केन '' जेनिंग्स III ( born May 23, 1974 ) is an अमरीकी खेल show प्रतियोगी और लेखक.
Jennings is विख्यात for holding the record for the longest जीतना streak on the u.S. syndicated game show jeopardy !
और as होने the all-time leading money winner on American game shows.
in 2004, Jennings जीती 74 Jeopardy !
खेल before he थी defeated by challenger Nancy zerg on उसके 75th appearance.
His total earnings on Jeopardy !
हैं $ 3,172,700, consisting of $ 2,520,700 over उसके 74 wins, a $ 2,000 second-place prize in his 75th रूप, a $ 500,000 second-place पुरस्कार in the Jeopardy !
Ultimate Tournament of Champions, as खूब as हाफ of a $ 300,000 पुरस्कार in the IBM Challenge.
During उसके पहला run of Jeopardy !
दिखावे, Jennings अर्जित the record for the highest American खेल show winnings.
His कुल was surpassed by ब्रैड Rutter, who पराजित Jennings in the फाइनल of the jeopardy !
Ultimate Tournament of champions ( first aired on May 25, 2005 ), adding $ 2,000,000 to Rutter 's existing jeopardy !
winnings.
Jennings regained the record after appearing on several अन्य game shows, culminating in an appearance on हैं You होशियार than a 5th grader ?
( first aired on October 10, 2008 ), though Rutter retains the jeopardy !
record.
बाद his success on Jeopardy !, Jennings wrote about उसके experience and explored American trivia history and culture in his किताब Brainiac : Adventures in the जिज्ञासु, Competitive, Compulsive World of Trivia Buffs, प्रकाशित in 2006.
The Canadian Football League or CFL ( ' [ lcf ] in French ) is a professional खेल league located in Canada.
The cfl is the highest स्तर of competition in कनाडाई football, a रूप of gridiron football closely related to American football.
Its eight current teams, which हैं located in eight पृथक cities, are divided into two विभाजन of four teams each — the East Division and the West Division.
The league 's 19-week नियमित season runs from late जून to जल्दी November ; each team plays 18 खेल with एक bye सप्ताह.
Following the regular ऋतु, the three teams with the best records in their division ( except if the fourth प्लेस team in one प्रभाग has a better रिकार्ड than the third place team in the अन्य प्रभाग, when the टोली with the बेहतर record makes the playoffs and `` crosses over '' to the अन्य प्रभाग 's playoff ) compete in the league 's three-week divisional playoffs, which culminate in the late-november Grey Cup championship, the country 's largest annual sports and television event.
the CFL was officially founded on जनवरी 19, 1958, making it the second oldest gridiron football league in North अमेरिका still in आपरेशन, although all its teams long predate the modern गठन of the league.
it is the उच्चतम level of play in कनाडाई फ़ुटबॉल, the most popular football league in Canada, and the second-most popular major sports लीग in Canada, after the National Hockey लीग.
Although ice hockey is Canada 's most लोकप्रिय sport, the CFL रै increased the popularity of Canadian football in Quebec and Western कनाडा.
Canadian football is also played at amateur levels ( i.e. युवावस्था, high school, CJFL, qjfl, CIS and वरिष्ठ leagues such as the अलबर्टा Football League ).
The 2010s will be a significant दशक for the CFL in terms of विकास, as teams have renovated, expanded stadiums, or plan to build entirely new स्टेडियम.
The मॉन्ट्रियल Alouettes accomplished this first, adding 5,000 सीटे to पर्सिवल molson Memorial Stadium in time लिये the 2010 CFL season.
The एडमॉन्टन Eskimos and Calgary Stampeders also renovated उनके respective stadiums and सुविधाएं लिये the 2010 season.
In 2011, the bc Lions निभाई under a new, retractable छत in BC Place बाद spending one and a half सीज़न at Empire Field.
Then the Winnipeg Blue Bombers होगा खेल in an entirely new stadium at the University of मनिटोबा, scheduled to खोलें in time for the 2013 season.
the हैमिल्टन tiger-cats, Saskatchewan Roughriders और the new ओटावा franchise are also looking at नई or extensively-renovated stadiums in the following years.
There are भी hopes of expanding the लीग to Atlantic Canada ( ideally basing a team in either the more populated halifax, or the more centralized Moncton ), as 2010 and 2011 had regular season games hosted in moncton.
according to sports historian Douglas Brei, the कनाडाई फ़ुटबॉल League holds the distinction of होने the only पेशेवर sports league in North अमेरिका, major or minor लीग, in which प्रत्येक existing franchise रै won at least one league title while in their वर्तमान location.
प्रत्येक antibody binds to a विशिष्ट antigen ; an interaction similar to a lock and key.
an एंटीबॉडी ( Ab ), also known as an immunoglobulin ( Ig ), is a large Y-shaped प्रोटीन produced by b-cells that is used by the immune system to identify and neutralize foreign objects ऐसे as bacteria and वाइरस.
The antibody recognizes a unique भाग of the विदेशी निशाना, पुकारा an प्रतिजन.
प्रत्येक tip of the `` y '' of an antibody contains a paratope ( a structure analogous to a lock ) कि is specific for one particular epitope ( similarly analogous to a key ) on an antigen, allowing these दो structures to bind together with precision.
using this binding mechanism, an antibody can tag a microbe or an infected कोशिका for attack by other parts of the immune system, or can neutralize its निशाना directly ( for example, by ब्लॉकिंग a part of a microbe that is essential लिये its invasion और survival ).
The production of antibodies is the main फलन of the humoral प्रतिरक्षा प्रणाली.
Antibodies हैं secreted by a type of white blood cell पुकारा a प्लाज्मा cell.
antibodies can occur in two शारीरिक forms, a soluble form कि is secreted from the cell, and a membrane -bound form that is attached to the surface of a B कोशिका and is referred to as the b कोशिका receptor ( BCR ).
The BCR is तभी found on the surface of B कोशिकाएं and facilitates the activation of these cells and their subsequent differentiation into either antibody factories पुकारा plasma cells, or memory B cells that will survive in the body and remember कि same antigen so the b cells can respond faster upon future exposure.
In most cases, बातचीत of the b कोशिका with a T हेल्पर कोशिका is necessary to उपज full activation of the b cell and, इसलिए, antibody generation following antigen binding.
Soluble antibodies हैं released into the blood और tissue fluids, as well as many secretions to continue to सर्वेक्षण for invading microorganisms.
antibodies हैं glycoproteins belonging to the immunoglobulin superfamily ; the शर्तें antibody और immunoglobulin हैं often used interchangeably.
Antibodies are typically made of मौलिक structural units—each साथ two large heavy जंजीरों and दो small light chains.
There are अनेक different प्रकार of एंटीबॉडी भारी chains, and several different kinds of antibodies, which are grouped into different isotypes based on which heavy chain they possess.
पाँच different antibody isotypes are known in mammals, which perform अलग भूमिकाएँ, and सहायता सीधा the appropriate प्रतिरक्षा response for each अलग प्रकार of foreign object they एनकाउंटर.
Though the general structure of सब antibodies is very similar, a small प्रदेश at the टिप of the प्रोटीन is अत्यधिक variable, allowing millions of antibodies with slightly different tip structures, or antigen binding साइट, to exist.
This region is known as the hypervariable region.
प्रत्येक of ये variants can bind to a different प्रतिजन.
इस विशाल diversity of antibodies allows the प्रतिरक्षा system to recognize an equally wide किस्में of antigens.
The large and diverse जनसांख्यिकी of antibodies is generated by random combinations of a set of gene खण्ड that encode different antigen binding sites ( or paratopes ), followed by यादृच्छिक mutations in इस area of the एंटीबॉडी जीन, जिससे create further diversity.
Antibody genes also re-organize in a process पुकारा class switching that changes the base of the भारी chain to another, creating a different isotype of the antibody that retains the antigen विशिष्ट परिवर्तनीय region.
इस allows a single एंटीबॉडी to be used by अनेक अलग parts of the immune system.
the symbol used by the zodiac Killer to sign his correspondence
The Zodiac कातिल was a सीरियल कातिल who संचालित in Northern California in the late 1960s और जल्दी 1970s.
the killer 's identity remains unknown.
the Zodiac murdered victims in Benicia, Vallejo, Lake Berryessa, और सैन फ्रांसिस्को between December 1968 and October 1969.
Four men and three women between the ages of 16 and 29 were targeted.
The कातिल originated the name `` Zodiac '' in a series of taunting letters sent to the local Bay क्षेत्रफल press.
These अक्षर शामिल four cryptograms ( or ciphers ).
Of the four cryptograms sent, only एक रै been definitively हल.
Suspects have been नामित by विधि enforcement और amateur investigators, लकिन no conclusive evidence has surfaced.
In April 2004, the San Francisco पुलिस Department marked the case `` inactive '', yet re-opened the case at some point prior to March 2007.
The case भी remains खोलें in the नगर of Vallejo, as well as in Napa County and solano County.
The कैलिफ़ोर्निया Department of Justice has कायम an open case file on the Zodiac murders चूंकि 1969.
जेनिंग्स is a small नगर in और the parish seat of जेफरसन डेविस Parish, Louisiana, United States, near झील चार्ल्स.
the जनसांख्यिकी थी 10,383 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी, a small मनाही from the 2000 tabulation.
The city is 68 percent white.
Jennings is the principal city of the Jennings Micropolitan Statistical Area, जिससे includes all of जेफरसन Davis Parish.
it is also part of the larger Lake Charles-Jennings Combined सांख्यिकीय Area.
Nanotechnology ( sometimes shortened to `` nanotech '' ) is the हेरफेर of matter on an परमाणु और molecular scale.
the earliest, widespread description of nanotechnology referred to the particular technological goal of precisely manipulating atoms and अणुओं for fabrication of macroscale उत्पाद, also now referred to as आणविक nanotechnology.
A more generalized description of nanotechnology was subsequently established by the National Nanotechnology पहल, जिससे defines nanotechnology as the हेरफेर of matter with at तनिक one dimension sized from 1 to 100 nanometers.
This परिभाषा reflects the fact that क्वांटम mechanical effects are महत्वपूर्ण at इस quantum-realm scale, and so the definition shifted इससे a particular technological goal to a शोध श्रेणी समावेशी of all प्रकार of research and technologies that deal साथ the special properties of matter that occur below the given size threshold.
It is therefore आम to see the बहुवचन form `` nanotechnologies '' as well as `` nanoscale technologies '' to refer to the व्यापक range of research and अनुप्रयोग whose common trait is size.
Because of the variety of potential applications ( including industrial and military ), governments have invested billions of dollars in nanotechnology research.
Through इसके National Nanotechnology पहल, the USA रै invested 3.7 billion डॉलर.
the यूरोपीय Union रै invested 1.2 billion and Japan 750 million डॉलर.
Nanotechnology as defined by आकार is naturally very व्यापक, सहित fields of science as diverse as सतह science, organic chemistry, molecular जीवविज्ञान, सेमीकंडक्टर physics, microfabrication, etc.
The associated शोध और applications हैं equally विविध, ranging from एक्सटेंशन of conventional यंत्र भौतिकी to completely new approaches आधारित upon आणविक self-assembly, from developing new materials with dimensions on the nanoscale to direct कंट्रोल of matter on the atomic स्केल.
Scientists currently बहस the future implications of nanotechnology.
nanotechnology may be able to create many नई materials and डिवाइस साथ a विशाल range of applications, such as in medicine, electronics, biomaterials और energy production.
On the other hand, nanotechnology raises अनेक of the वही मुद्दे as any new प्रौद्योगिकी, सहित concerns about the toxicity and environmental impact of nanomaterials, and their संभावित effects on global अर्थशास्त्र, as खूब as अटकलें about विभिन्न doomsday scenarios.
These concerns have led to a debate among advocacy groups और governments on whether खास विनियमन of nanotechnology is warranted.
Map of the Eastern Bloc
The पद Eastern Bloc or Communist Bloc refers to the former कम्युनिस्ट states of Central and Eastern Europe, generally the Soviet Union and the देशों of the वॉरसॉ Pact.
The शर्तें Communist bloc and Soviet bloc यहूद भी प्रयुक्त to denote groupings of राज्य aligned with the Soviet Union, although these terms might include राज्य बाहर सेंट्रल and पूर्वी यूरोपीय.
the New Jersey gubernatorial election of 2009 took place on नवम्बर 3, 2009.
लोकतांत्रिक Governor Jon Corzine थी running लिये a second term and was being challenged by Republican क्रिस क्रिस्टी, Independent क्रिस्टोफर Daggett और नौ others, in addition to several write-in candidates.
Christie won the चुनाव, साथ about 48.5 प्रतिशत of the vote, to 44.9 प्रतिशत for Corzine and 5.8 percent for Daggett.
Christie won the largest margin लिये a पहला term रिपब्लिकन since 1969.
Christie assumed दफ्तर on January 19, 2010.
इस was the first election to भरण the newly निर्मित office of लेफ्टिनेंट Governor.
The candidates for governor और लेफ्टिनेंट governor were joined together as a सिंगल choice, so that मतदाता did नहीं have the opportunity to विभाजित the टिकट.
Kim guadagno, Christie 's running mate, became New जर्सी 's पहला लेफ्टिनेंट राज्यपाल following उसके inauguration.
Health care in the संयुक्त States is provided by अनेक distinct संगठन.
Health परवाह facilities are largely owned and संचालित by निजी सेक्टर businesses.
Health insurance लिये पब्लिक sector employees is primarily provided by the government.
60-65 % of healthcare provision and spending comes from कार्यक्रम such as Medicare, medicaid, tricare, the Children 's Health Insurance Program, और the Veterans Health Administration.
सबसे of the जनसांख्यिकी under 65 is insured by their or a family सदस्य 's employer, some buy स्वास्थ्य बीमे on their अपना, and the remainder हैं uninsured.
Of 17 high-income countries studied by the नेशनल Institutes of Health in 2013, the United States was at or near the bottom in infant mortality, heart and lung disease, sexually transmitted infections, adolescent pregnancies, injuries, homicides, और rates of विकलांगता.
Together, ऐसे issues place the U.S. at the bottom of the list लिये जीवन प्रत्याशा.
on average, a U.S. male can be expected to live almost four fewer सालो than those in the top-ranked देश.
According to the संसार स्वास्थ्य Organization ( जो ), the United राज्य खर्च more on health care per capita ( $ 7,146 ), and अधिक on health परवाह as percentage of इसके GDP ( 15.2 % ), than any other nation in 2008.
The Commonwealth Fund क्रमित the United राज्य last in the quality of स्वास्थ्य care among similar countries, and टीप u.S. care costs the most.
The U.S. Census ब्यूरो reported that 49.9 million निवासियों, 16.3 % of the population, were uninsured in 2010 ( up इससे 49.0 million residents, 16.1 % of the population, in 2009 ).
A 2004 Institute of Medicine ( iom ) रपट कहा : `` The United राज्य is among the few industrialized राष्ट्र in the world that करता not गारंटी अभिगम to health care लिये its population. ''
A 2004 oecd report said : `` With the एक्सेप्शन of मैक्सिको, Turkey, and the United राज्य, all OECD countries था achieved सार्वभौमिक or near-universal ( at least 98.4 % insured ) coverage of their populations by 1990. ''
A 2010 report observed that कमी of health बीमे causes roughly 48,000 अनावश्यक मौतों every साल in the संयुक्त राज्य.
in 2007, 62.1 % of filers for bankruptcies claimed high चिकित्सा expenses.
A 2013 study found कि about 25 % of all senior नागरिकों declare bankruptcy due to medical expenses, and 43 % are मजबूर to mortgage or बेचें उनके primary निवास.
On कूच 23, 2010, the Patient Protection और Affordable Care अधिनियम ( PPACA ) became law, providing for major changes in health insurance.
In physiology, body जल is the water सामग्री of the human body.
A significant fraction of the human body is water.
आर्थर Guyton 's Textbook of चिकित्सा Physiology states कि `` the कुल राशि of water in a man of average वज़न ( 70 kilograms ) is approximately 40 litres, averaging 57 percent of उसके total body weight.
in a newborn infant, this may be as ऊँची as 75 percent of the body weight, but it progressively decreases from birth to old age, most of the घटी occurring दौरान the first 10 years of life.
भी, obesity decreases the percentage of water in the देह, sometimes to as low as 45 percent ''.
These figures are सांख्यिकीय averages, so हैं illustrative, and like सब biostatistics, होगा vary with बाते जैसे type of जनसांख्यिकी, age and number of people sampled, और methodology.
so there is not, और can नहीं be, a फिगर कि is exactly the same for all लोगों, for this or कोई अन्य physiological measure.
लिये example, Jackson 's ( 1985 ) anatomy & Physiology for नर्स gives a फिगर of 60 % for the proportion of body-weight attributable to जल, which approximates Guyton 's 57 %.
In diseased states where body water is प्रभावित, the compartment or compartments that have changed can दे clues to the nature of the प्रॉब्लम.
Body water is regulated by hormones, including anti-diuretic hormone ( अध ), aldosterone and अलिंदी natriuretic पेप्टाइड.
Per Netter 's एटलस of Human Physiology, body जल is broken down into the following compartments:
Intracellular fluid ( 2/3 of देह water ).
Per Guyton, in a देह containing 40 लीटर of fluid, about 25 litres is intracellular, which amounts to 62.5 % ( 5/8 ), बंद enough to the 2/3 rule of thumb.
जैक्सन 's texts states 70 % of body fluid is intracellular.
Extracellular fluid ( 1/3 of body water ).
प्रति Guyton 's illustration, for a 40 litre body, about 15 litres is extracellular, which amounts to 37.5 % Again, this is close to the 1/3 नियम of thumb cited यहाँ.
Plasma ( 1/5 of extracellular द्रव ).
प्रति guyton 's उदाहरण, of the 15 लीटर of extracellular fluid, plasma आवाज़ averages 3 litres.
This amounts to 20 %, the same as per Netter 's एटलस.
Interstitial द्रव ( 4/5 of extracellular द्रव )
Transcellular द्रव ( a.k.a. `` तीसरा space, '' normally उपेक्षित in calculations )
contained inside organs, ऐसे as the gastrointestinal, cerebrospinal, peritoneal, and ocular fluids.
Self-esteem is a पद प्रयुक्त in psychology to reflect a person 's overall emotional मूल्यांकन of his or her अपना worth.
It is a निर्णय of oneself as खूब as an attitude toward the self.
Self-esteem encompasses beliefs ( for example, `` i am competent, '' `` i am worthy '' ) and emotions such as triumph, despair, pride और shame.
Smith और mackie define it by saying `` the self-concept is what we think परिचय the self ; self-esteem, is the positive or negative evaluations of the self, as in how we feel परिचय it. ''
self-esteem is भी known as the evaluative आयाम of the self that शामिल feelings of worthiness, prides and discouragement.
एक 's self-esteem is also closely associated with self-consciousness.
Self-esteem is a disposition that a person has which represents their judgements of their own worthiness.
In the mid-1960s, मॉरिस rosenberg and social-learning theorists defined self-esteem as a personal worth or worthiness.
Nathaniel Branden in 1969 defined self-esteem as `` the अनुभव of होने competent to cope साथ the basic challenges of जीवन and being worthy of happiness. ''
According to Branden, self-esteem is the sum of self-confidence ( a अहसास of निजी क्षमता ) and self-respect ( a अहसास of निजी worth ).
It exists as a consequence of the implicit judgement that प्रत्येक person has of उनके ability to face life 's challenges, to understand and solve problems, and their right to achieve सुख, and be given respect.
as a social psychological construct, self-esteem is attractive क्युकी शोधकर्ताओं have conceptualized it as an influential predictor of relevant outcomes, ऐसे as अकादमिक उपलब्धि ( दलदल 1990 ) or कसरत behavior ( Hagger et al. 1998 ).
In addition, self-esteem has also महरूम treated as an महत्वपूर्ण निष्कर्ष due to its close संबंध with मनोवैज्ञानिक well-being ( Marsh 1989 ).
self-esteem can apply specifically to a particular dimension ( for example, `` I believe I am a शुभ writer और I feel प्रसन्न परिचय कि '' ) or a global extent ( for example, `` I मानना i am a bad person, and feel bad about myself in general '' ).
psychologists प्रायः लिहाज़ self-esteem as an enduring personality characteristic ( `` trait '' self-esteem ), though normal, short-term विसंगतियाँ ( `` state '' self-esteem ) also मौजूद.
Synonyms or near-synonyms of self-esteem शामिल : self-worth, self-regard, self-respect, और self-integrity.
A masonic आवास, often termed a Private Lodge or Constituent Lodge, is the basic organisational unit of freemasonry.
प्रत्येक नई Lodge must be warranted or chartered by a Grand आवास, but is subject to its दिशा only in enforcing the published Constitution of the क्षेत्राधिकार.
by एक्सेप्शन the three surviving lodges that formed the world 's first known Grand आवास in लंदन ( today called the संयुक्त Grand Lodge of England ) have the unique विशेषाधिकार to operate as समय immemorial i.e. without such वारंट ; only one other आवास operates without a warrant - this is the ग्रैंड Stewards ' आवास in London, although it is not also हकदार to the `` time immemorial '' शीर्षक.
A freemason is generally हकदार to visit any Lodge, in कोई क्षेत्राधिकार ( i.e. अंतर्गत any ग्रैंड Lodge ) in amity with उसके own.
In कुछ jurisdictions this privilege is restricted to Master masons ( that is, Freemasons who have attained the अनुक्रम 's तीसरा उपाधि ).
He is पहला usually जरूरी to check, और certify, the regularity of the relationship of the Lodge - and be समर्थ to satisfy that Lodge of his नियमितता of सदस्यता.
freemasons gather together as a आवास to work the three मौलिक Degrees of Entered Apprentice, fellowcraft and Master Mason.
Pilkington समूह Limited is a multinational glass manufacturing company headquartered in St हेलेन्स, संयुक्त Kingdom और a wholly स्वामित्व subsidiary of the Japan-based NSG Group.
Prior to its acquisition by एनएसजी in 2006 it was an independent company listed on the London Stock Exchange and लिये a समय was a constituent of the ftse 100 Index.
A quotation is the repetition of one expression as भाग of another one, particularly when the कोटेड expression is well-known or explicitly attributed by citation to इसके original source, and it is indicated by ( punctuated with ) quotation marks.
a quotation can also refer to the repeated use of units of any other रूप of expression, especially भाग of artistic works : elements of a painting, scenes from a फिल्म or sections from a musical संयोजन.
Year 1877 ( mdccclxxvii ) was a common साल starting on सोमवार ( link will प्रदर्शक the full calendar ) of the gregorian पंचांग और a common year starting on Saturday of the 12-day slower Julian पंचांग.
ब्लैक pepper ( Piper nigrum ) is a flowering बेल in the परिवार Piperaceae, cultivated लिये इसके fruit, which is usually सूखी and used as a मसाला and seasoning.
The fruit, known as a peppercorn जब dried, is approximately in diameter, dark red जब fully वयस्क, और, like सब drupes, contains a single seed.
Peppercorns, and the ground pepper निकला इससे them, may be वर्णित simply as pepper, or more precisely as black pepper ( cooked and dried unripe fruit ), ग्रीन pepper ( सूखी unripe फल ) and white pepper ( dried पके बीज ).
ब्लैक pepper is native to south India, and is extensively cultivated there और elsewhere in तीव्र regions.
Currently वियतनाम is the world 's largest producer और निर्यातक of pepper, producing 34 % of the संसार 's Piper nigrum crop as of 2008.
Dried ground pepper has महरूम used चूंकि प्राचीनता for both its flavour और as a medicine.
Black pepper is the world 's most traded spice.
It is one of the most आम spices added to European भोजन and its descendants.
The spiciness of ब्लैक pepper is due to the chemical piperine, not to be confused with the capsaicin कि देता मांसल मिर्च theirs.
It is in the modern संसार, प्रायः paired with salt.
Fire hydrant in Charlottesville, Virginia, यूएसए
A आग hydrant ( भी known colloquially as a fire plug in the संयुक्त राज्य or as a johnny pump in नई York City ), is an active आग protection measure, and a source of water provided in most urban, suburban and rural क्षेत्रों with municipal water service to enable firefighters to tap into the नगरपालिका जल supply to assist in extinguishing a fire.
Buildings near a hydrant may qualify for an insurance छूट since अग्निशमन should be able to अधिक rapidly बुझा a fire on the insured property.
the concept of आग plugs dates to at least the 17th century.
This थी a time जब firefighters responding to a call would खुदाई down to the wooden water मेन्स and hastily bore a hole to secure water to लड़ो fires.
The water would fill the hole creating a अस्थाई well, and be transported from the खूब to the fire by bucket brigades or, later, by hand-pumped fire इंजन.
The holes were then plugged with stoppers, सामान्यतः redwood, which over समय came to be known as आग plugs.
The स्थान of the plug would प्रायः be recorded or चिह्नित so कि it could be reused in future fires.
This is the सोर्स of the colloquial term fire plug स्टिल प्रयुक्त for fire hydrants today.
After the Great Fire of London in 1666, the city installed जल mains with holes drilled at intervals, equipped with risers, allowing an access point to the wooden fire plugs from street स्तर.
The आविष्कार of a post- or pillar-type fire hydrant is generally credited to Frederick Graff sr., Chief Engineer of the फिलाडेल्फिया Water Works around the year 1801.
it had a combination hose/faucet outlet and was of `` wet बैरल '' डिज़ाइन साथ the valve in the top.
it is said that graff held the पहला पेटेंट for a fire hydrant, but this can नहीं be verified because the patent office in Washington D.C. caught on fire in 1836 destroying many patent records from that period in the process.
the President of the गणतंत्र of South अफ़्रीकी is the head of राज्य and head of सरकारी under South अफ़्रीकी 's Constitution.
From 1961 to 1994, the head of state थी called the राज्य President.
the President is elected by members of the National Assembly, the lower house of Parliament, और is प्रायः the leader of the largest पार्टी, which रै been the African National कॉंग्रेस चूंकि the पहला non-racial elections were आयोजित on 27 अप्रैल 1994.
The role थी originally संस्थापित to be distinct from the अभी defunct role of prime minister, but the दो roles यहूद merged in the 1983 constitution which specified a four-year term of दफ्तर.
The 1993 और later constitutions limits the president 's time in office to two five-year शर्तें.
the first अध्यक्ष to be elected अंतर्गत the नई संविधान थी Nelson Mandela, and the incumbent president is Jacob Zuma.
अंतर्गत the interim Constitution ( valid from 1994 to 1996 ), there was a Government of नेशनल एकता, in which an MP from the largest opposition पार्टी was entitled to a स्थिति as Deputy President.
Along with thabo Mbeki, the last State President, f.w. De Klerk also served as डिप्टी अध्यक्ष, in उसके क्षमता as the leader of the National Party जिससे थी the second-largest party in the new Parliament.
But De Klerk later resigned और went into opposition with his party.
A voluntary गठबन्धन सरकारी continues to मौजूद अंतर्गत the new संविधान ( adopted in 1996 ), although there have been no appointments of opposition politicians to the post of डिप्टी president.
खास education or special needs education is the education of students with special needs in a way कि पता the students ' व्यक्तिगत differences and needs.
ideally, इस process involves the individually planned and systematically monitored arrangement of teaching प्रक्रियाओं, adapted equipment और सामग्री, accessible settings, and other interventions designed to सहायता learners साथ खास needs achieve a उच्चतर level of personal self-sufficiency and कामयाबी in school and जातियाँ than would be available if the student were तभी दिए access to a typical कक्षा education.
Common खास needs include challenges with learning, संचार challenges, emotional and behavioral disorders, शारीरिक disabilities, and developmental disorders.
विद्यार्थी with these kinds of special needs are likely to benefit from additional शैक्षणिक services such as different approaches to शिक्षण, use of technology, a specifically adapted शिक्षण area, or resource रूम.
बौद्धिक giftedness is a difference in सीखना and can भी benefit from specialized teaching techniques or different educational programs, but the term `` खास education '' is generally प्रयुक्त to specifically indicate instruction of विद्यार्थी whose special needs reduce their क्षमता to learn independently or in an ordinary classroom, और gifted शिक्षा is संभाला separately.
In most developed countries, educators हैं modifying teaching methods और environments so that the maximum क्रमांक of विद्यार्थी are परोसा in general education environments.
Special शिक्षा in developed देशों is often regarded less as a `` प्लेस '' and more as `` a range of services, available in every school. ''
Integration can reduce सोशल stigmas and improve academic achievement लिये अनेक students.
The विपरीत of खास education is general education.
सामान्य education is the मानक curriculum presented with मानक teaching methods और without additional supports.
George Soros ( or ; ; ; born August 12, 1930, as schwartz György ) is a Hungarian-American business महारथी, investor, और philanthropist.
he is the chairman of Soros Fund Management.
सोरोस supports progressive-liberal causes.
He is ज्ञात as `` The Man Who Broke the Bank of इंग्लैण्ड `` क्युकी of his in investment profits during the 1992 ब्लैक Wednesday UK currency crisis.
Between 1979 and 2011, Soros दिया दूर over $ 8 billion to human rights, public स्वास्थ्य, and शिक्षा causes.
he निभाई a significant भूमिका in the peaceful transition from communism to capitalism in Hungary ( 1984–89 ) and provided one of यूरोपीय 's largest higher education endowments to सेंट्रल European University in बुडापेस्ट.
Soros is भी the अध्यक्ष of the Open समाज संस्थान.
An actor portraying Alexander Graham घंटी speaking into an जल्दी मॉडल टेलीफोन.
The आविष्कार of the टेलीफोन is the culmination of work done by many individuals, the history of which involves a collection of claims and counterclaims.
The विकास of the आधुनिक विद्युत टेलीफोन शामिल an array of lawsuits founded upon the patent claims of several individuals और numerous कंपनियाँ.
This आलेख covers the early years from 1844 to 1898, from धारणा of the विचार of an electric voice-transmission device, to failed attempts to उपयोग `` make-and-break '' current, to successful प्रयोग साथ electromagnetic telephones by सिकंदर Graham Bell and Thomas Watson, and आखिरकार to commercially successful telephones in the late 19th सदी.
A निपुण of Fine Arts ( MFA, M.F.A. ) is a ग्रैजुएट उपाधि typically requiring 2–3 years of postgraduate study beyond the स्नातक 's degree ( BFA ), although the term of पढ़ाई will vary by country or by university.
The MFA is a creative उपाधि usually awarded as a terminal उपाधि in विज़ुअल कला, रचनात्मक लिखने, filmmaking, dance, or theatre and other performing कला.
Coursework is primarily of an applied or performing nature साथ the program often culminating in a major work or प्रदर्शन.
Master of Fine कला programs have generally required a bachelor 's degree prior to admission, लकिन अनेक do not आवश्यकता कि the undergraduate प्रमुख be the same as the MFA field of study.
The most महत्वपूर्ण admissions आवश्यकता has प्रायः been a नमूना portfolio or a performance audition.
The Master of Fine Arts differs from the निपुण of कला in कि the MFA, while an academic program, centers around practice in the particular फ़ील्ड, whereas programs leading to the ma usually center on the scholarly, अकादमिक, or नाजुक study of the field.
Additionally, in the United States, an MFA is recognized as a टर्मिनल degree for practitioners of Visual Art, डिज़ाइन, नृत्य, थिएटर, Film/Video, नई Media, and Creative Writing - meaning that it is माना to be the उच्चतम उपाधि in its field, और is used as a न्यूनतम qualification to be able to apply to become a Full-Time प्राध्यापक teaching at the विश्वविद्यालयों level in these disciplines.
There हैं exceptions to this मानक in the Arts, notably in the case of music performance, जहाँ the MFA is not seen as a terminal degree in the context of the more standardized dma degree.
It is भी critical to note that in the interest of extending the कनेक्शन between रचनात्मक production and जारी academic research, कुछ विश्वविद्यालयों have established practice-based Ph.D कार्यक्रम in fields ऐसे as रचनात्मक लिखने, visual arts, नई media, design and थिएटर.
While इस रै had an effect in Creative Writing, और to a lesser extent in डिज़ाइन and new media, the influx of graduates from practice-based PhD programs has not appreciably changed the standard for the mfa as the टर्मिनल degree in सबसे Arts disciplines yet.
This is an जारी contentious टॉपिक, and is the बारंबार subject of अकादमिक panels, especially at the सालाना कॉलेज आर्ट संघ सम्मेलन.
the CAA 2008 guidelines regarding the mfa strongly re-affirms that the phd is नहीं required as a terminal उपाधि in the visual arts.
The atomic bombings of the cities of Hiroshima and Nagasaki in जापानी were conducted by the संयुक्त States दौरान the final stages of World War II in 1945.
The two events हैं the only use of nuclear weapons in युद्ध to date.
Following a firebombing campaign कि destroyed many जापानी शहरों, the Allies prepared लिये a costly आक्रमण of Japan.
The war in Europe ended when Nazi जर्मनी signed इसके instrument of surrender on 8 May, लकिन the Pacific युद्ध continued.
Together with the United Kingdom and the Republic of China, the संयुक्त States पुकारा for a surrender of Japan in the Potsdam घोषणा on 26 जुलाई 1945, threatening Japan with `` prompt and utter विनाश ''.
The Japanese government ignored इस ultimatum, और the United States deployed two नाभिकीय weapons developed by the Manhattan Project.
American airmen dropped Little लड़के on the city of हिरोशिमा on 6 August 1945, followed by मोटे man over Nagasaki on 9 अगस्त.
Within the पहला two to चार months of the bombings, the acute effects killed 90,000–166,000 people in Hiroshima and 60,000–80,000 in Nagasaki, with roughly half of the deaths in प्रत्येक city occurring on the first day.
The Hiroshima prefecture health department estimated कि, of the people who died on the day of the explosion, 60 % died इससे flash or flame burns, 30 % from falling debris and 10 % इससे other कल्याणकारी.
During the following months, large numbers died from the effect of burns, radiation sickness, and other injuries, compounded by illness.
in a us estimate of the total तात्कालिक and short पद cause of death, 15–20 % died from radiation sickness, 20–30 % इससे burns, and 50–60 % from अन्य injuries, compounded by illness.
In both शहरों, most of the मुर्दे were नागरिकों, हालांकि Hiroshima had a sizeable garrison.
on 15 August, six days after the bombing of Nagasaki, जापानी announced its surrender to the allies, signing the Instrument of Surrender on 2 सितंबर, officially ending World War ii.
The bombings led, in part, to post-war Japan 's adopting Three non-nuclear Principles, forbidding the nation from nuclear armament.
the भूमिका of the bombings in Japan 's आत्मसमर्पण and their ethical justification हैं still debated.
मोहनदास करमचंद Gandhi ( ; 2 October 1869 – 30 January 1948 ), commonly known as Mahatma गांधी, was the preeminent leader of Indian nationalism in British-ruled India.
employing non-violent सिविल disobedience, Gandhi led India to independence और प्रेरित आंदोलनों for non-violence, civil rights and स्वतंत्रता across the world.
The son of a senior government official, Gandhi थी born and उठाया in a हिन्दू Bania जातियाँ in तटीय Gujarat, and trained in law in लंदन.
गांधी became प्रसिद्ध by fighting लिये the civil rights of Muslim and Hindu इंडियंस in South अफ़्रीकी, using new तकनीकों of non-violent civil disobedience कि he विकसित.
Returning to इण्डिया in 1915, he set about organising peasants to protest excessive land-taxes.
A lifelong प्रतिद्वन्दी of `` सांप्रदायिकता `` ( i.e. basing राजनीती on धर्म ) he reached out widely to सब धार्मिक groups.
he became a leader of Muslims protesting the declining औकात of the खिलाफत.
Assuming leadership of the Indian National कॉंग्रेस in 1921, गांधी led nationwide campaigns for easing poverty, expanding women 's rights, building धार्मिक and जातीय सौहार्द, समाप्ति untouchability, increasing economic self-reliance, and above all लिये achieving स्वराज —the independence of India from अंग्रेजों domination.
Gandhi led Indians in protesting the national नमक tax with the Dandi Salt March in 1930, and बाद in demanding the British to तत्काल Quit इण्डिया in 1942, during संसार War II.
He थी imprisoned for that and लिये numerous अन्य राजनैतिक offenses over the years.
गांधी sought to practice non-violence and truth in all situations, and advocated that अन्य do the same.
he देखी the villages as the core of the true India और प्रचारित self-sufficiency ; he did not support the industrialization programs of his disciple Jawaharlal Nehru.
He lived modestly in a self-sufficient आवासीय community and पहना the traditional भारतीय धोती और shawl, woven with धागे he था hand spun on a charkha.
His मुख्य political enemy in Britain was Winston Churchill, who ridiculed him as a `` half-naked fakir. ''
He was a dedicated vegetarian, and undertook long fasts as means of both self-purification और राजनैतिक mobilization.
In his last साल, unhappy at the partition of India, गांधी worked to stop the carnage between Muslims, Hindus and Sikhs that raged in the border area between इण्डिया and Pakistan.
He was assassinated on 30 जनवरी 1948 by Nathuram Godse who thought गांधी was too sympathetic to India 's Muslims.
30 जनवरी is observed as Martyrs ' Day in इण्डिया.
The honorific Mahatma ( `` Great Soul '' ) थी लागू to उसे by 1914.
in India he थी भी called Bapu ( `` पिता '' ).
He is known in इण्डिया as the Father of the स्वदेश ; his birthday, 2 October, is commemorated there as Gandhi Jayanti, a national holiday, and world-wide as the International Day of Non-Violence.
Gandhi 's philosophy was not theoretical but एक of pragmatism, कि is, practicing his principles in the moment.
Asked to दे a message to the लोगों, he would respond, `` My life is my संदेश. ''
Joan क्रॉफर्ड ( कूच 23, ca. 1904 – May 10, 1977 ), born Lucille Fay LeSueur, was an अमरीकी actress in film, television और थिएटर.
Starting as a नर्तकी in traveling theatrical कंपनियाँ before debuting on Broadway, Crawford was हस्ताक्षरित to a motion picture अनुबंध by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer in 1925.
Initially कुंठित by the आकार and विशेषता of her भाग, Crawford began a campaign of self-publicity and became nationally known as a flapper by the end of the 1920s.
In the 1930s, क्रॉफर्ड 's fame rivaled, and बाद outlasted, MGM colleagues norma शियर्र and Greta Garbo.
क्रॉफर्ड प्रायः played hardworking young women who find romance and वित्तीय कामयाबी.
ये `` rags-to-riches '' stories यहूद खूब received by अवसाद -era audiences and were popular with महिलाओं.
Crawford became एक of Hollywood 's सबसे prominent movie stars and one of the उच्चतम paid women in the संयुक्त राज्य, but her films began खोने money and by the end of the 1930s she थी labeled `` box दफ्तर poison ''.
बाद an absence of nearly two years from the screen, Crawford मंचन a वापसी by starring in Mildred पियर्स ( 1945 ), for which she won the अकादमी Award for Best अभिनेत्री.
In 1955, she became involved with the pepsi-cola Company through her marriage to company Chairman Alfred Steele.
After his death in 1959, Crawford was निर्वाचित to भरण उसके vacancy on the board of निर्देशकों लकिन was forcibly retired in 1973.
She जारी acting in फिल्मी and television regularly through the 1960s, when उसके performances became fewer ; after the release of the British horror फिल्मी Trog in 1970, Crawford retired from the screen.
Following a public appearance in 1974, after which unflattering छायाचित्र were published, Crawford withdrew from public life and became increasingly reclusive until her मौत in 1977.
Crawford married four times.
Her first three marriages ended in divorce ; the last ended with the death of husband Alfred Steele.
She अपनाया five children, one of whom was reclaimed by उसके जनम माँ.
क्रॉफर्ड 's relationships with her two older children, Christina और Christopher, were acrimonious.
Crawford disinherited the two and, बाद Crawford 's death, क्रिस्टीना लिखा a `` tell-all '' संस्मरण, Mommie Dearest, in जिससे she कथित a lifelong pattern of physical and emotional गाली perpetrated by Crawford.
She was voted the tenth महानतम female star in the history of American cinema by the American Film संस्थान.
1910 Buick tonneau without tonneau cover
1903 Ford Model A rear-door Tonneau
1903 Lanchester rear-door Tonneau
Tonneau cover ( or ) describes a मुश्किल or soft cover used to protect unoccupied passenger seats in a convertible or roadster, or the कार्गो bed in a pickup ट्रक.
मुश्किल tonneau covers open by a hinging or folding यांत्रिकी while नरम covers open by रोलिंग up.
the tonneau कवर is प्रयुक्त to छिपाते cargo.
When the cover is pulled आउट, it keeps वस्तुएं आउट of the सूर्य and provides extra सुरक्षा by keeping निजी वस्तुएं out of sight, as खूब as shielding the driver इससे दृश्य.
Twitter is an online social नेटवर्किंग सेवा and microblogging service that enables its users to send and read text-based messages of up to 140 characters, known as `` tweets ''.
ट्विटर was created in March 2006 by Jack dorsey and by July, the social networking site was launched.
The सेवा rapidly gained विश्वव्यापी popularity, with over 500 लाख registered users as of 2012, generating over 340 million tweets daily और handling over 1.6 billion search queries per day.
Since its launch, Twitter रै become one of the ten most visited websites on the अंतरजाल, और has महरूम described as `` the SMS of the Internet. ''
Unregistered उपयोक्ता can read tweets, जबकि पंजीकृत users can पोस्ट tweets through the जालस्थल interface, SMS, or a दायरा of apps लिये mobile devices.
Twitter Inc. is based in San फ्रांसिस्को, साथ अतिरिक्त servers और offices in New यॉर्क City, Boston, and San Antonio.
the Hangover is a 2009 American comedy film, co-produced and directed by Todd phillips and written by Jon Lucas and Scott Moore.
It is the first फिल्मी of the Hangover franchise.the film stars Bradley कूपर, Ed Helms, Zach Galifianakis, Heather ग्राहम, जस्टिन bartha, और जेफरी Tambor.
The hangover tells the story of Phil Wenneck, Stu Price and Alan Garner, जो सफर to Las Vegas for a स्नातक पार्टी to celebrate their friend Doug Billings ' impending marriage.
however, फिल, Stu और एलन have no memory of the previous रात्रि 's events और must find Doug before the wedding can लो place.
Lucas and मूर wrote the script after executive producer Chris Bender 's dost disappeared and had a large bill बाद being sent to a strip club.
After Lucas और Moore बेची it to the studio for $ 2 लाख, Philips and जेरेमी garelick rewrote the स्क्रिप्ट to शामिल a बाघ as well as a subplot involving a baby और a police cruiser, and also including boxer माइक Tyson.
Filming took प्लेस in Nevada for 15 दिनों, और दौरान filming, the three main actors ( कूपर, helms and Galifianakis ) formed a friendship.
The hangover was released on June 5, 2009, becoming a critical and commercial success.
It became the tenth-highest-grossing film of 2009, with a worldwide gross of over US $ 467 लाख.
Critics praised the film 's comedic approach but criticized it लिये इसके vulgarity.
The फिल्मी won the सुनहरी ग्लोब पुरस्कार for Best गति Picture – Musical or Comedy, and received multiple other accolades.
It is the tenth-highest-grossing फिल्मी of 2009 in the world, as well as the second highest-grossing R-rated कॉमेडी ever in the United States, surpassing a रिकार्ड previously held by Beverly Hills cop for लगभग 25 years और बाद being surpassed by टेड in 2012.
आउट of all r-rated films, it is the third highest-grossing ever in the U.S., behind only The Passion of the मसीह and The मेट्रिक्स Reloaded.
a sequel, The Hangover Part ii, was released in 2011, and a तीसरा and फाइनल फिल्मी, the Hangover Part III, is नियत लिये release in 2013.
Events involving meiosis, showing chromosomal crossover
Meiosis ( ) is a खास type of कोशिका division necessary for यौन जनन in eukaryotes.
the कोशिकाएं उत्पादित by meiosis हैं gametes or बीजाणुओं.
In अनेक जीवों, सहित सब animals and land plants ( but नहीं कुछ other groups such as fungi ), gametes हैं called sperm and अंडा cells.
Whilst the process of meiosis bears a क्रमांक of similarities with the 'life-cycle ' cell division process of mitosis, it differs in two important respects:
the chromosomes in meiosis undergo a recombination which shuffles the genes producing a different genetic संयोजन in each gamete, compared with the co-existence of प्रत्येक of the two separate pairs of each chromosome ( one received इससे प्रत्येक parent ) in each cell which परिणाम from mitosis.
the outcome of meiosis is potentially four ( genetically unique ) haploid कोशिकाएं, compared साथ the two ( genetically identical ) diploid cells produced from mitosis.
Meiosis begins with एक diploid cell containing two copies of each chromosome —one इससे the organism 's mother और one from इसके पिता.
the cell divides twice, potentially producing up to four haploid cells containing एक नक़ल of each chromosome.
( `` potentially '' क्युकी in some cases, ऐसे as the formation of oocytes in स्तनधारियों, only one of the संभावित four haploid cells survives. )
in पशु the haploid cell resulting from meiosis is a पुरूष or female gamete.
Each of the resulting chromosomes in the gamete cells is a unique मिश्रण of maternal and पैतृक DNA, resulting in औलाद that हैं genetically distinct from either parent.
This gives rise to जेनेटिक विविधता in sexually reproducing populations.
This जेनेटिक विविधता can provide the विभिन्नता of शारीरिक और behavioural attributes ( phenotypes ) upon which natural selection can act, but, as described below in Section 6, उत्पत्ति and फलन of meiosis, the genetic विविधता may be largely a by-product of the समजात recombination कि is primarily employed for its DNA मरम्मत function दौरान meiosis.
It is also noteworthy कि during meiosis, specific जीनों are more highly transcribed, और ये हैं पुकारा the meiome, the पद used in कार्यात्मक जीनोमिक्स for the meiotic transcriptome.
Meiosis is a कुंजी विशेषता लिये सब sexually reproducing eukaryotes in which homologous chromosome pairing, synapse और recombination occur.
In जोड to strong meiotic stage-specific expression of mrna ( the meiome ), however, there are भी pervasive translational नियंत्रण ( e.g. चयनात्मक usage of preformed mRNA ), regulating the ultimate meiotic stage-specific protein expression of genes दौरान meiosis.
Thus, both the meiome and translational controls determine the broad restructuring of meiotic cells needed to carry out meiosis.
prior to the meiosis process the cell 's गुणसूत्रों हैं duplicated by a गोलाकार of DNA replication, creating इससे the maternal और पैतृक versions of each chromosome ( homologs ) two exact नक़ल, sister chromatids, संलग्न at the centromere region.
in the beginning of meiosis the मातृ and paternal homologs pair to each अन्य.
Then they typically exchange parts by homologous recombination leading to crossovers of DNA between the मातृ and पैतृक versions of the chromosome.
Spindle मछली bind to the centromeres of each pair of homologs and arrange the pairs at the spindle equator.
तब the मछली खींचो the recombined homologs to opposite poles of the cell.
As the chromosomes move away इससे the center the कोशिका divides into two daughter कोशिकाएं, प्रत्येक containing a अगुणित number of गुणसूत्रों रचित of two chromatids.
After the recombined maternal और paternal homologs have separated into the दो बेटी cells, a दूसरी गोलाकार of कोशिका division occurs.
वहीँ meiosis ends as the दो सिस्टर chromatids making up प्रत्येक homolog are अलग और move into one of the चार resulting gamete कोशिकाएं.
Upon fertilization, for उदाहरण when a शुक्राणु enters an egg कोशिका, two gamete cells उत्पादित by meiosis fuse.
the gamete from the mother and the gamete from the पिता each contribute one half of the नियत of chromosomes that make up the new offspring 's genome.
meiosis uses many of the वही mechanisms as mitosis, a type of cell division used by eukaryotes जैसे plants and पशु to split one cell into two identical daughter कोशिकाएं.
In all पौधे and in many protists meiosis results in the formation of spores : haploid कोशिकाएं कि can divide vegetatively without undergoing fertilization.
मुक्केबाज़ी ( pugilism, prize लड़, the sweet science or in यूनानी pygmachia ) is a martial art and combat खेल in which दो लोगों engage in a contest of strength, speed, reflexes, endurance and will by फेंकना punches with gloved hands.
Amateur मुक्केबाज़ी is an Olympic और राष्ट्रमंडल खेल and is a आम fixture in most of the प्रमुख international खेल - it also has its own World championships.
Boxing is पर्यवेक्षित by a रेफरी over a series of one- to three-minute intervals called rounds.
the result is decided when an प्रतिद्वन्दी is deemed incapable to continue by a रेफरी, is disqualified for breaking a rule, resigns by फेंकना in a towel, or is pronounced the विजेता or loser based on the न्यायाधीशों ' scorecards at the समाप्त of the contest.
The birth hour of boxing as a sport may be its acceptance by the प्राचीन Greeks as an Olympic game as early as 688 bc.
Boxing विकसित from 16th- और 18th-century prizefights, largely in Great Britain, to the forerunner of modern मुक्केबाज़ी in the mid-19th century, again initially in Great Britain and later in the United राज्य.
in 2004, ईएसपीएन क्रमित मुक्केबाज़ी as the most difficult sport in the world.
अनुबंध or concord happens when a word changes रूप depending on the other words to which it relates.
It is an instance of inflection, and usually involves making the value of कुछ grammatical category ( such as लिंग or person ) `` सहमत '' between different words or parts of the sentence.
For example, in मानक अंग्रेज़ी, एक may say i am or he is, but नहीं `` I is '' or `` he am ''.
इस is because the व्याकरण of the language requires कि the verb and its subject सहमत in person.
The pronouns I and he हैं पहला and third व्यक्ति क्रमशः, as are the क्रिया forms am और is.
The verb form must be selected so that it has the same person as the subject.
The agreement based on overt grammatical categories as above is औपचारिक agreement, in contrast to notional अनुबंध, which is based on अर्थ.
लिये instance, the phrase The संयुक्त States is treated as singular for purposes of agreement, even though it is formally plural.
इस is a list of places below mean sea level that हैं on land.
Places in tunnels, खानों, basements, dug holes ( भी with open sky ), under water, under ice, or existing temporarily as a result of ebbing of sea tide इत्यादि. are नहीं शामिल.
सब figures are in meters नीचे समुद्र level:
डिब्बी Macomber ( born अक्तूबर 22, 1948 in Yakima, वॉशिंगटन ) is a best-selling American author of over 150 romance novels and contemporary women 's fiction.
over 140 million copies of her books are in छपाई throughout the world, और चार have become made-for-TV-movies.
Macomber थी the inaugural winner of the fan-voted quill पुरस्कार for romance in 2005 and रै been awarded both a रोमांस लेखक of America RITA and a lifetime achievement award by the Romance Writers of अमेरिका.
Catonsville is a census-designated place ( CDP ) in Baltimore County, Maryland, संयुक्त राज्य.
The population was 41,567 at the 2010 census.
The community lies to the वेस्ट of Baltimore along the city 's border.
Catonsville is the home of the University of Maryland, बाल्टीमोर काउंटी ( umbc ), a public research university with over 12,000 विद्यार्थी.
A lawyer, according to Black 's Law शब्दकोष, is `` a व्यक्ति learned in the law ; as an attorney, counsel or solicitor ; a व्यक्ति who is practicing विधि. ''
विधि is the system of rules of conduct स्थापित by the sovereign government of a समाज to correct wrongs, maintain the stability of राजनैतिक और social authority, and deliver justice.
Working as a lawyer involves the practical application of abstract विधिक theories and knowledge to solve विशिष्ट individualized problems, or to advance the interests of those जो retain ( i.e., hire ) lawyers to perform legal services.
the role of the lawyer varies significantly across legal jurisdictions, and so it can be treated here in तभी the most सामान्य शर्तें.
Vector विपणन is the domestic sales भुजा of Cutco Corporation, an olean, New York आधारित cutlery manufacturer.
The परिवार and Medical Leave Act of 1993 ( FMLA ) is a United States federal विधि requiring covered employers to provide employees job-protected and unpaid leave for qualified medical and family reasons.
Qualified medical और परिवार reasons include : निजी or family illness, family military छोड़, pregnancy, adoption, or the foster परवाह अवस्थिति of a child.
the FMLA is administered by the मजदूरी and Hour प्रभाग of the United States Department of Labor.
The विधेयक थी a प्रमुख part of अध्यक्ष Bill Clinton 's agenda in his first term.
अध्यक्ष क्लिंटन signed the विधेयक into विधि on February 5, 1993 ( ; 29 u.s.c. sec. 2601 ; 29 CFR 825 ) और it took प्रभाव on अगस्त 5, 1993, six महीने later.
The FMLA थी intended `` to संतुलन the demands of the workplace with the needs of families. ''
the Act allows योग्य employees to लो up to 12 work weeks of unpaid leave during any 12-month काल to attend to the serious health कंडीशन of the कर्मचारी, parent, spouse or child, or for pregnancy or care of a नवजात चाइल्ड, or for adoption or foster परवाह of a child.
In order to be eligible for FMLA leave, an कर्मचारी must have महरूम at the कारोबार at तनिक 12 months, and worked at least 1,250 hours over the पास्ट 12 महीने, and work at a location where the company employs 50 or अधिक employees within 75 miles.
The fmla covers both public- and private-sector कर्मचारी, but certain श्रेणी of कर्मचारी are excluded, including निर्वाचित officials and their personal स्टाफ members.
The Vietnam War ( ) was a Cold War -era सैन्य conflict that occurred in Vietnam, Laos, and कंबोडिया from 1 November 1955 to the fall of Saigon on 30 April 1975.
This war followed the First इंडोचायना War और was fought between North Vietnam, supported by इसके कम्युनिस्ट allies, and the सरकारी of South Vietnam, supported by the United States और अन्य anti-communist देशों.
The Viet cong ( also known as the National Liberation Front, or NLF ), a हलके हथियारबंद South Vietnamese communist common सामने निर्देशित by the North, largely fought a guerrilla युद्ध against anti-communist forces in the region.
The Vietnam लोगों 's Army ( North वियतनामी फौज ) engaged in a more conventional war, at times committing large units into battle.
u.S. and दक्षिण Vietnamese forces relied on air superiority and overwhelming firepower to conduct search और destroy परिचालन, involving मैदान forces, artillery, and airstrikes.
The U.S. सरकारी viewed involvement in the युद्ध as a way to prevent a communist takeover of South Vietnam as part of their wider रणनीति of containment.
The उत्तर वियतनामी government and Viet cong were लड़ to reunify Vietnam under communist rule.
They viewed the विरोध as a colonial युद्ध, लड़ा initially against France, समर्थित by the U.S., and बाद against दक्षिण वियतनाम, जिससे it regarded as a U.S. puppet राज्य.
अमरीकी सैन्य advisors arrived in कया was तब French इंडोचायना beginning in 1950.
u.S. involvement escalated in the early 1960s, with troop levels tripling in 1961 and tripling again in 1962.
U.S. combat units were तैनात beginning in 1965.
Operations spanned international borders, साथ Laos and Cambodia heavily bombed.
American भागीदारी in the war peaked in 1968, at the time of the Tet अप्रिय.
After this, U.S. मैदान forces यहूद धीरे withdrawn as part of a policy ज्ञात as Vietnamization.
Despite the Paris Peace accords, हस्ताक्षरित by all parties in January 1973, fighting जारी.
U.S. सैन्य involvement ended on 15 August 1973 as a परिणाम of the case–church Amendment passed by the u.S. Congress.
The capture of Saigon by the Vietnam People 's Army in April 1975 चिह्नित the end of the war, and North और South Vietnam were reunified the following year.
the war exacted a huge human लागत in terms of fatalities ( देखिए वियतनाम War हताहत ).
estimates of the number of वियतनामी soldiers and नागरिकों killed vary from 800,000 to 3.1 million.
Some 200,000–300,000 Cambodians, 20,000–200,000 laotians, and 58,220 U.S. service members also died in the विरोध.
Cleveland Volcano in the Aleutian Islands of Alaska photographed from the अंतरराष्ट्रीय Space स्टेशन, May 2006.
Ash plumes reached a height of 19 km during the climactic eruption at माउंट Pinatubo, फिलीपीन in 1991.
a volcano is an opening, or rupture, in a ग्रह 's surface or क्रस्ट, जिससे allows hot magma, volcanic ash and gases to escape from the magma chamber below the surface.
Volcanoes are generally found where tectonic प्लेटों हैं diverging or converging.
A mid-oceanic ridge, for example the Mid-Atlantic Ridge, रै उदाहरण of volcanoes caused by divergent tectonic plates pulling apart ; the Pacific Ring of आग has उदाहरण of ज्वालामुखी caused by convergent tectonic प्लेटों coming together.
by contrast, volcanoes are usually not created where दो tectonic plates slide past एक another.
ज्वालामुखी can also रूप where there is stretching and thinning of the Earth 's क्रस्ट in the इंटीरियर्स of plates, e.g., in the ईस्ट अफ़्रीकी Rift, the Wells gray-clearwater volcanic field और the Rio ग्रांडे Rift in North America.
This type of volcanism falls under the umbrella of `` Plate hypothesis '' volcanism.
volcanism दूर from plate boundaries has also महरूम explained as mantle plumes.
ये so-called `` hotspots ``, for उदाहरण Hawaii, हैं postulated to arise from upwelling diapirs with magma from the core–mantle boundary, 3,000 km deep in the Earth.
Erupting volcanoes can पोज़ many hazards, नहीं तभी in the तात्कालिक vicinity of the eruption.
Volcanic राख can be a threat to aircraft, in particular those with jet engines जहाँ ash अणु can be melted by the high operating temperature.
Large eruptions can affect तापमान as ash and droplets of sulfuric acid obscure the sun and कूल the धरती 's lower atmosphere or troposphere ; however, they also absorb heat radiated up इससे the Earth, thereby warming the stratosphere.
historically, so-called volcanic सर्दियों have caused catastrophic अकाल.
A गहन pothole on New York नगर 's Second एवेन्यू
a pothole ( sometimes called a kettle and known in parts of the Western संयुक्त States as a chuckhole ) is a type of disruption in the सतह of a roadway where a portion of the road material has broken away, leaving a hole.
Renal cell carcinoma ( RCC, also ज्ञात as hypernephroma ) is a गुर्दा cancer कि originates in the अस्तर of the proximal convoluted tubule, the very small tubes in the गुर्दा that transport GF ( glomerular filtrate ) इससे the glomerulus to the descending limb of the nephron.
RCC is the most आम type of kidney cancer in वयस्कों, responsible for लगभग 80 % of मामले.
it is also known to be the most lethal of सब the genitourinary tumors.
Initial treatment is सबसे commonly a radical or आंशिक nephrectomy और remains the mainstay of curative treatment.
जहाँ the ट्यूमर is confined to the renal parenchyma, the 5-year अस्तित्व rate is 60-70 %, लकिन this is lowered considerably where metastases have spread.
It is relatively resistant to radiation चिकित्सा and कीमोथेरेपी, हालांकि some cases respond to immunotherapy.
Targeted cancer therapies such as sunitinib, temsirolimus, bevacizumab, interferon-alpha, and sorafenib have improved the outlook लिये rcc.
Estée lauder Companies, Inc. is a manufacturer and marketer of prestige skincare, makeup, fragrance and बाल care उत्पाद.
The company has इसके मुख्यालय in Midtown Manhattan, New York City.
The peritoneum ( ) is the serous membrane कि forms the अस्तर of the abdominal cavity or the coelom —it कवर most of the intra-abdominal ( or coelomic ) organs—in amniotes and some invertebrates ( annelids, for instance ).
It is रचित of a layer of mesothelium supported by a thin परत of connective tissue.
The peritoneum both supports the abdominal organs और serves as a conduit for their रक्त and lymph vessels and nerves.
The abdominal cavity ( the space bounded by the vertebrae, abdominal मांसपेशियां, diaphragm and श्रोणि मंजिल ) should not be उलझन साथ the intraperitoneal स्पेस ( स्तिथ within the abdominal cavity, लकिन लपेटा in peritoneum ).
The structures within the intraperitoneal space हैं called `` intraperitoneal '' ( e.g. the stomach ), the structures in the abdominal cavity कि हैं located behind the intraperitoneal space हैं पुकारा `` retroperitoneal `` ( e.g. the kidneys ), और those structures below the intraperitoneal space are called `` subperitoneal '' or `` infraperitoneal '' ( e.g. the bladder ).
आधुनिक 2.5 '' ssd used in उपभोक्ता laptops and desktop computers.
DDR SDRAM आधारित SSD.
Max और.
PCI attached io Accelerator ssd
PCI-E, DRAM, and नन्द based SSD.
It uses an external शक्ति supply to make the dram non-volatile.
a solid-state drive ( ssd ) ( also known as a solid-state disk or इलेक्ट्रॉनिक डिस्क, though it contains no actual `` डिस्क '' of कोई kind ) is a data storage device using integrated circuit assemblies as memory to स्टोर आंकड़ा persistently.
SSD technology uses इलेक्ट्रॉनिक interfaces compatible with traditional block input/output ( I/O ) hard डिस्क ड्राइव.
SSDs have no चलती mechanical components, which distinguish them from traditional electromechanical चुम्बकीय डिस्क such as मुश्किल disk drives ( HDDs ) or floppy disks, which contain spinning disks and movable read/write heads.
Compared साथ electromechanical डिस्क, SSDs are typically less susceptible to physical shock, much quieter, have निम्नतर access time, and less latency.
however, while the price of SSDs has continued to मनाही in 2012, SSDs हैं still about 7 to 8 times अधिक expensive per ईकाई of भंडार than HDDs.
Many SSDs उपयोग I/O अंतरफलक developed लिये hard disk drives, thus permitting simple replacement in common अनुप्रयोग.
, सबसे SSDs उपयोग NAND-based flash मेमोरी, which retains data without शक्ति.
For अनुप्रयोग requiring fast access, लकिन नहीं necessarily data persistence बाद power loss, SSDs may be constructed from random-access memory ( राम ).
ऐसे devices may employ पृथक power sources, ऐसे as batteries, to maintain आंकड़ा after शक्ति घाटा.
Hybrid drives or ठोस राज्य hybrid drives ( SSHD ) combine the features of ssds and hdds in the वही ईकाई, containing a large hard disk drive and an ssd cache to improve performance of frequently पहुँचा आंकड़ा.
These devices may offer near-SSD performance लिये many applications.
Salmon roe ( left ) और sturgeon caviar ( सही ) served साथ mother of pearl caviar spoons to avoid tainting the taste of the caviar.
ossetra caviar, सामन creme fraiche, potato shallot croquette, बेसिल oil, egg whites और yolks
Caviar, according to the खाना and Agriculture Organization, is a product बना from salt-cured fish-eggs of the Acipenseridae family.
The roe can be `` भैस '' ( non-pasteurized ) or pasteurized, with pasteurization reducing its culinary और economic मान.
Traditionally the term caviar refers तभी to roe इससे wild sturgeon in the कैस्पियन और Black Seas ( बेलुगा, ossetra and Sevruga caviars ).
depending on the country, caviar may also be used to describe the roe of other fish such as salmon, steelhead, ट्राउट, lumpfish, whitefish, and other प्रजाति of sturgeon.
Caviar is considered a luxury delicacy और is eaten as a गार्निश or a spread.
In 2012, caviar बेची for $ 2,500 per पाउंड, or $ 3,000 to $ 5,500 per kilo.
the SEC संजाल is a टेलीविज़न syndication संजाल featuring सजीव broadcasts of कॉलेज football and बास्केट events from the southeastern सम्मेलन.
It is owned and operated by ईएसपीएन Plus and is दिखाया in अधिक than 50 percent of households in the संयुक्त States, mostly Southeastern United States markets.
The SEC संजाल typically airs in the noon eastern slot that was former home to the Raycom खेल SEC game of the week.
Games हैं shown locally on broadcast स्टेशन, regional sports संजाल, as well as on ESPN gameplan, ESPN Full Court, and ESPN3.com.
The SEC संजाल is also available in Canada via Atlanta 's WPCH-TV.
the SEC Network uses the वही on-screen graphics फिलहाल used by ESPN on ABC, a version of ईएसपीएन 's ग्राफिक्स पैकेज.
SEC Network 's football programming still उपयोग a title safe area because most of its affiliates do not Letterbox their Standard परिभाषा फ़ीड्स, while ईएसपीएन 's television संजाल have allowed their graphics to abandon the शीर्षक safe, but letterbox for SD दर्शक.
Starting with the SEC 2012 Basketball ऋतु, SEC Network 's graphics have been converted to a 16:9 widescreen-only format.
This is also being used for the 2013 बास्केट ऋतु, but had still adapted the former 4:3-safe graphics format लिये the 2012 SEC football ऋतु.
The 1990s, pronounced and भी known as `` the Nineteen-Nineties '' or abbreviated as `` the Nineties '' or `` the '90s '', थी a decade that began on जनवरी 1, 1990, and ended on December 31, 1999.
It was the 10th and last दशक of the 20th century और the 100th और पिछला decade of the 2nd millennium.
The decade is best known for the end of the ठंडा War at the beginning of the decade and the expansion और व्यावसायीकरण of the अंतरजाल during the second half of the decade.
In much of the West the 1990s is remembered as a काल of unprecedented peace और समृद्धि, though अनेक parts of the so-called Third संसार faced various problems सहित नरसंहार, AIDS और new or continuing ethnic tensions और सिविल युद्धों.
Culturally speaking the decade थी characterized by the rise of multiculturalism and alternative media.
आंदोलनों such as grunge, the rave scene and हिप hop स्प्रेड around the world to young people दौरान the दशक, aided by then-new technology such as cable television and the Internet.
A संयोजन of factors, सहित the mass mobilization of पूंजी बाज़ार through neoliberalism, the beginning of the फैली अप्रसार of नई media such as the Internet, और the dissolution of the सोवियत Union led to a realignment and reconsolidation of आर्थिक and राजनैतिक power across the world, and भीतर देशों.
Income inequality among countries in the संसार rose sharply between the 1980s and the mid-1990s, before levelling बंद and then falling after 2000.
New जातीय conflicts emerged in Africa, the Balkans and the काकेशस, the former two जिससे led to the Rwandan genocide और Bosnian genocide, क्रमशः.
the United States began its current military occupation of the Middle East दौरान the summer of 1990 with Desert शील्ड after it cut off a large portion of the संसार 's petroleum सप्लाई.
Signs of कोई resolution of tensions between Israel and the Arab संसार remained elusive, though the Irish परेशानियों came to a standstill in 1998 साथ the Good शुक्रवार अनुबंध बाद 30 years of violence.
The gray wolf or grey wolf ( Canis lupus ) is a species of canid native to the wilderness and remote areas of उत्तर America, यूरेशिया, और North Africa.
it is the largest member of इसके family, with males averaging, और females.
it is similar in general appearance और proportions to a German shepherd, or sled dog, but रै a larger head, narrower छाती, longer legs, straighter tail और bigger पंजे.
Its शीत fur is long और bushy, and predominantly a mottled धूसर in colour, although nearly pure white, red, or भूरा to black also occur.
Within the genus Canis, the gray भेड़िया represents a अधिक specialised और progressive रूप than its छोटी cousins ( the coyote and golden jackal ), as demonstrated by its morphological adaptations to शिकार विशाल prey, its more मिलनसार nature and its highly उन्नत expressive behavior.
It is a social animal, यात्राएं in nuclear परिवारों consisting of a पन्द्रहवें pair, accompanied by the जोड़ी 's adult offspring.
the gray भेड़िया is typically an apex predator throughout इसके दायरा, साथ तभी humans and टाइगर्स posing a serious threat to it.
It फ़ीड्स primarily on large ungulates, though it also eats smaller animals, livestock, carrion, and garbage.
the gray भेड़िया is one of the संसार 's most खूब researched animals, with संभवतः more किताबे written परिचय it than any other wildlife प्रजाति.
It रै a long इतिहास of association with humans, having been despised and hunted in most agricultural समुदायों due to इसके attacks on livestock, while conversely being आदरणीय by some Native अमरीकी tribes.
It is the sole पूर्वज of the श्वान, जिससे was first domesticated in the Middle ईस्ट.
Although the fear of wolves is prevalent in many इंसान societies, the बहुमत of recorded हमले on people have been attributed to animals कष्ट from rabies.
non-rabid wolves have attacked और मारे लोगों, मुख्यतः children, but this is असामान्य, as wolves are relatively few, सजीव दूर from people, and have been taught to भय humans by hunters and shepherds.
शिकार and trapping रै reduced the species ' दायरा to, हालांकि इसके still relatively widespread range and stable population means that the प्रजाति is नहीं threatened at a global स्तर, and is इसलिए वर्गीकृत by the आईयूसीएन as तनिक Concern.
the Roman Empire ( ) was the post- Republican period of the ancient रोमन civilization, characterised by an निरंकुश रूप of government और large territorial holdings around the Mediterranean in Europe, Africa, and Asia.
The 500-year-old Roman गणतंत्र, which preceded it, had महरूम destabilized through a श्रेणी of civil युद्धों.
Several events चिह्नित the transition from Republic to साम्राज्य, including Julius Caesar 's appointment as perpetual dictator ( 44 BC ) ; the Battle of actium ( 31 BC ) ; and the granting of the honorific augustus to octavian by the Roman सीनेट ( 27 BC ).
The first two centuries of the Empire were a period of unprecedented stability and prosperity known as the pax romana ( `` रोमन सलाम '' ).
It reached its greatest expanse दौरान the शासनकाल of Trajan ( 98–117 ad ).
In the 3rd century, the साम्राज्य underwent a crisis that threatened its existence, but was reunified and stabilized under the emperors aurelian and Diocletian.
Christians rose to power in the 4th century, during जिससे time a प्रणाली of डुअल rule थी विकसित in the Latin West and Greek East.
बाद the collapse of central सरकारी in the West in the 5th सदी, the पूर्वी half continued as what would later be known as the Byzantine साम्राज्य.
क्युकी of the Empire 's vast extent and long सहनशीलता, the institutions and culture of Rome had a profound और lasting influence on the development of language, religion, architecture, philosophy, law, and forms of government in the territory it governed, विशेषकर Europe, and by means of European expansionism throughout the modern world.
Education in the संयुक्त States is mainly provided by the public सेक्टर, with कंट्रोल and funding coming from three levels : local, राज्य, and संघीय, in that order.
Child education is compulsory, and there are also a large क्रमांक and wide variety of higher education institutions throughout the देश कि one can choose to attend, both publicly और privately administered.
पब्लिक education is universally available.
स्कूल curricula, funding, teaching, नियुक्ति, and other policies are set through locally elected school boards साथ jurisdiction over school districts with अनेक directives इससे state विधानमंडलों.
School districts हैं usually separate from other local jurisdictions, with independent officials और budgets.
Educational standards and मानकीकृत testing decisions are usually made by state सरकारें.
The ages for compulsory education vary by राज्य.
It begins from आयु पाँच to eight and ends इससे ages चौदह to अठारह.
अनिवार्य education requirements can generally be satisfied by educating children in public schools, state-certified private schools, or an स्वीकृत home स्कूल program.
in सबसे public और private schools, education is divided into तीन स्तर : elementary स्कूल, middle school ( sometimes पुकारा junior high school ), and ऊँची स्कूल ( sometimes referred to as secondary education ).
In almost सब schools at these स्तर, children हैं divided by age समूह into ग्रेड, ranging from किंडरगार्टन ( followed by first grade ) लिये the youngest children in elementary school, up to twelfth grade, the फाइनल साल of high school.
The exact age range of students in these ग्रेड levels varies slightly from क्षेत्रफल to क्षेत्रफल.
Post-secondary education, better known as `` college `` in the United राज्य, is generally governed separately from the elementary and high स्कूल system, and is वर्णित in a separate खण्ड below.
Government supported, free public स्कूलों for all started being स्थापित बाद the revolution, and expanded in the 19th century, as the results of प्रयत्न of men जैसे Horace मन and Booker T. Washington.
by 1870, all states had free elementary schools, albeit only in शहरी centers.
as the 20th century खींचा nearer, states प्रारंभ passing laws to मेक schooling अनिवार्य, and by 1910, 72 percent of children attended school.
निजी schools जारी to spread during this time, as well as colleges and—in the ग्रामीण centers— जमीन grant colleges.
The year of 1910 also saw the first true high schools.
दौरान the बाकी of the 20th century, educational efforts centered on reducing the inequality of the schooling प्रणाली.
The landmark परम् Court case Brown v. Board of Education made the desegregation of elementary and high schools a national priority, while the pell Grant program helped poor minorities gain access to college.
Special शिक्षा was made into federal विधि in 1975.
the Elementary और द्वितीयक शिक्षा Act of 1965 made standardized testing a requirement, and in 1983, a आयोग was स्थापित to evaluate their results and propose a कोर्स of action.
The resulting No Child Left Behind Act of 2001 was controversial and its goals proved to be unrealistic.
a commission established in 2006 evaluated higher शिक्षा, लकिन its recommendations have yet to be fully implemented.
पॉल ब्रैग ( February 6, 1895 – December 7, 1976 ), nutritionist, was a pioneer in America’s wellness movement.
Health spending per capita, in $ US PPP-adjusted, with the us and Canada compared amongst other first संसार nations.
तुलना of the health care systems in Canada और the संयुक्त States are often made by सरकारी, public स्वास्थ्य and पब्लिक नीति विश्लेषकों.
The दो देशों had समान health care systems पहले Canada reformed its प्रणाली in the 1960s and 1970s.
The संयुक्त राज्य खर्च much more money on health care than कनाडा, on both a per-capita basis और as a percentage of जीडीपी.
In 2006, per-capita spending लिये health care in Canada was US $ 3,678 ; in the U.S., us $ 6,714.
the U.S. spent 15.3 % of GDP on health care in that year ; कनाडा spent 10.0 %.
In 2006, 70 % of health care spending in Canada was financed by सरकारी, versus 46 % in the United States.
कुल government बिता per capita in the U.S. on health परवाह was 23 % higher than Canadian सरकारी spending, and u.S. government expenditure on health care was बस अंतर्गत 83 % of कुल कनाडाई spending ( public and private ) though ये statistics do n't take into account population मतभेद.
Studies have come to अलग conclusions about the result of this disparity in बिता.
A 2007 पुनर्विलोकन of all studies comparing स्वास्थ्य outcomes in Canada and the US in a Canadian peer-reviewed medical journal मिला that `` स्वास्थ्य outcomes may be superior in patients cared for in Canada versus the United राज्य, but differences are not सतत. ''
जीवन expectancy is longer in Canada, and its शिशु mortality rate is निम्नतर than कि of the U.S., लकिन there is बहस about the underlying causes of ये differences.
One commonly cited तुलना, the 2000 World स्वास्थ्य संगठन 's ratings of `` overall health service performance '', जिससे प्रयुक्त a `` कम्पोजिट माप of achievement in the स्तर of स्वास्थ्य, the distribution of health, the स्तर of responsiveness and fairness of financial contribution '', ranked Canada 30th और the US 37th among 191 सदस्य nations.
This study rated the US `` responsiveness '', or quality of सेवा for individuals receiving उपचार, as 1st, compared with 7th for कनाडा.
While the average life प्रत्याशा लिये Canadians was 80.34 years compared with 78.6 years for residents of the US, simply comparing the life expectancy of two groups with अलग racial makeup and अलग मोटापा rates is likely नहीं an effective way of determining which healthcare system is श्रेष्ठ.
The जो 's study methods यहूद criticized by some analyses.
Although वहीँ is a measure of सर्वसम्मति that life-expectancy and infant mortality चिह्नित the सबसे reliable तरीके to compare nation-wide health care, assuming the population makeup is similar, a recent report by the Congressional Research सेवा carefully summarizes some हाल data और notes the `` difficult research मुद्दे '' facing international comparisons.
The sound source has now broken through the sound speed barrier, and is traveling at 1.4 times the गति of ध्वनि, ( Mach 1.4 ).
Since the source is moving faster ( with a speed ) than the ध्वनि waves it creates, it दरअसल leads the advancing तरंगाग्र.
The ध्वनि source होगा pass by a stationary निरीक्षक ( with a speed ) पहले the observer actually hears the sound it creates.
As a result, an observer in सामने of the source will detect
और an observer behind the सोर्स.
A सोनिक बूम produced by an aircraft moving at M=2.92, calculated from the cone angle of 20 degrees.
An observer hears the बूम when the shock wave, on the edges of the cone, crosses his or her location.
Mach कोन कोण
a सोनिक boom is the sound associated साथ the शॉक waves created by an object traveling through the एयर faster than the speed of ध्वनि.
Sonic booms generate enormous amounts of sound energy, sounding much like an विस्फोट.
The crack of a सुपरसोनिक bullet गुजर ओवरहेड is an उदाहरण of a sonic बूम in miniature.
the Tonight Show with Jay Leno is an American late-night talk दिखाएँ hosted by Jay Leno that initially aired from May 25, 1992 to May 29, 2009, और resumed उत्पादन on March 1, 2010.
The fourth अवतार of the Tonight Show मताधिकार made its डेब्यू on May 25, 1992, three days following जॉनी Carson 's रिटायरमेंट as मेजबान of the program.
The program originates from NBC Studios in burbank, California, and is broadcast Monday through शुक्रवार at 11:35 PM in the Eastern and प्रशांत time zones ( 10:35 PM सेंट्रल / Mountain time ).
नापसंद कार्सन or his predecessor Jack Paar, Leno only एकबार utilized a guest मेजबान, preferring to मेजबान the series by himself.
On April 26, 1999, the show began broadcasting in 1080i hdtv, बनने the first American nightly बात दिखाएँ to be shot in high परिभाषा.
the show is shot in 16:9 पहलू ratio.
The series, which followed the same basic स्वरूप as that of his पूर्ववर्तियों ( an opening monologue followed by comedy दिनचर्या, साक्षात्कार and performances ), ran जबतक may 29, 2009, after which Leno was succeeded by Conan O'Brien.
एनबीसी signed Leno to a नई deal for a nightly talk दिखाएँ in the 10:00 pm ET timeslot.
the primetime series, titled the Jay Leno Show, debuted on September 14, 2009, following a similar format to the Leno incarnation of tonight.
Neither O'Brien 's version of the program, which premiered June 1, 2009, nor The Jay Leno दिखाएँ generated the ratings कि NBC had expected.
the network decided to move a condensed 30-minute संस्करण of Leno 's show to O'Brien 's समय slot, and O'Brien 's Tonight Show a half-hour बाद.
इस decision met with opposition from O'Brien, whose stint on The Tonight दिखाएँ ended January 22, 2010, after जिससे he began his अपना talk show on TBS.
the Tonight दिखाएँ साथ Jay Leno then began its दूसरी और वर्तमान अवतार, the sixth of the franchise, on March 1, 2010.
rfid chip next to a grain of rice.
This chip contains a radio-frequency electromagnetic फ़ील्ड coil that modulates an बाह्य magnetic फ़ील्ड to transfer a coded पहचान क्रमांक when queried by a reader device.
इस छोटी type is incorporated in consumer products, and implanted in pets, for पहचान purposes.
Radio-frequency identification ( RFID ) is the बेतार non-contact उपयोग of radio-frequency electromagnetic fields to transfer आंकड़ा, लिये the purposes of automatically identifying and ट्रैकिंग tags attached to वस्तुएँ.
the tags contain electronically stored information.
Some tags हैं संचालित और पढ़ा at छोटी सीमाएँ ( a few meters ) via चुम्बकीय fields ( electromagnetic induction ).
Others उपयोग a लोकल power source such as a battery, or else have no battery but collect energy from the interrogating em फ़ील्ड, and then act as a passive transponder to emit microwaves or uhf radio waves ( i.e., इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक radiation at high बारंबारता ).
Battery powered टैग may operate at hundreds of मीटर.
Unlike a bar कोड, the टैग करता not necessarily need to be भीतर line of sight of the reader, and may be अंतःस्थापित in the tracked object.
rfid tags are प्रयुक्त in अनेक उद्योग.
an rfid टैग attached to an ऑटोमोबाइल during production can be used to track its progress through the assembly line.
दवाएँ can be tracked through warehouses.
पशुधन and pets may have tags injected, allowing positive identification of the animal.
Since RFID tags can be attached to clothing, possessions, or even implanted within people, the possibility of reading personally-linked सूचना without सहमति has raised privacy concerns.
Id, अहंकार and super-ego are the three parts of the मानसिक apparatus defined in Sigmund फ्रायड 's structural मॉडल of the psyche ; they are the three theoretical constructs in terms of whose कार्यकलाप and बातचीत mental life is वर्णित.
According to this मॉडल of the psyche, the id is the set of uncoordinated instinctual trends ; the super-ego plays the critical and moralizing भूमिका ; and the अहंकार is the organized, realistic भाग that mediates between the इच्छाओं of the id और the super-ego.
The super-ego can stop you from doing निश्चित things कि अपना id may want you to do.
Even हालांकि the मॉडल is संरचनात्मक और makes सन्दर्भ to an apparatus, the id, अहंकार and super-ego हैं functions of the दिमाग बल्कि than भाग of the brain और do नहीं correspond one-to-one साथ वास्तविक somatic structures of the kind dealt with by neuroscience.
The concepts themselves arose at a late stage in the development of Freud 's thought : the `` structural model '' ( which succeeded his `` economic model '' और `` topographical मॉडल '' ) थी first discussed in his 1920 essay `` Beyond the Pleasure principle `` and थी formalized and elaborated upon तीन years later in his `` The Ego और the Id ``.
Freud 's प्रस्ताव was influenced by the ambiguity of the term `` unconscious `` और इसके many conflicting उपयोग.
Air Force ROTC emblem
The एयर Force Reserve अधिकारी Training Corps ( afrotc ) is one of the three primary commissioning sources for officers in the United States Air Force, the other two होने the संयुक्त States Air फ़ोर्स Academy ( usafa ) and Air Force Officer Training स्कूल ( OTS ).
a अधीनस्थ command of the Air University भीतर the एयर Education and प्रशिक्षण Command ( AETC ), AFROTC is aligned under the Jeanne M. Holm बीच for अधिकारी Accessions and Citizen Development at Maxwell AFB, Alabama.
The holm Center, formerly ज्ञात as the Air Force Officer accession और Training Schools ( AFOATS ), retains direct जिम्मेदारी लिये both AFROTC और ots.
AFROTC is the largest और oldest source of commissioned officers लिये the u.S. Air Force.
AFROTC 's stated मिशन is to उपज विशेषता leaders for the U.S. Air Force.
AFROTC units हैं located on 144 कॉलेज and विश्वविद्यालयों campuses साथ 984 अतिरिक्त संस्थानों of higher learning participating in cross-town agreements that allow उनके students to attend afrotc classes at a आसपास `` मेजबान '' कॉलेज or विश्वविद्यालयों.
According to afoats hq, in 2006, afrotc commissioned 2,083 USAF दूसरी lieutenants, साथ AFROTC enrollment ranging from 23,605 in 1985 to 10,231 in 1993, और around 13,000 नामांकित today.
AFROTC units at colleges और universities are पुकारा `` detachments, '' और are typically headed by an active duty USAF अधिकारी in the रैंक of colonel or lieutenant colonel who functions as both the Detachment कमांडर लिये USAF purposes and with the nominal title of प्राध्यापक of Aerospace Studies ( PAS ) within the institution 's अकादमिक community.
सबसे कॉलेजों and universities will designate the afrotc detachment as the Department of Aerospace Studies.
the pas is assisted by three to four Assistant Professors of Aerospace अध्ययन ( APAS ), all क्रियाशील ड्यूटी USAF officers in the बाँधने of प्रमुख or captain.
तीन USAF non-commissioned अधिकारियों and one senior non-commissioned officer will typically provide military administrative support and हैं प्रायः augmented by one to two civilian स्टाफ support कर्मचारी of the अकादमिक institution.
Within afrotc detachments, the विद्यार्थी ( referred to as `` cadets '' ) are व्यवस्थित into wings, समूह, squadrons, and flights, mirroring the USAF functional wing structure.
the AFROTC detachment 's cadet wing or cadet group is separated into दो विभाजन : the सामान्य Military कोर्स ( GMC ) consisting of the first two years of प्रशिक्षण, and the Professional Officer Course ( POC ) consisting of the last दो years of प्रशिक्षण.
the AFROTC program is also divided into two प्रशिक्षण functions : the अकादमिक Classroom Program ( aerospace Studies classes ) and cadet Activities ( i.e., नेतृत्व Laboratory, Physical Training, and other प्रशिक्षण ).
Paper घनत्व ( also known as basis weight and grammage ) is a पद used in the गूदा और पेपर industry and also लिये fabric industry to denote a measure of mass of the उत्पाद per unit of area लिये a type of fabric, paper or paperboard.
the term `` घनत्व '' is not used in its traditional sense of mass per unit volume.
`` Paper density '', बल्कि, is a measure of the क्षेत्रफल density.
Paper products कि let little or no लाइट pass through ( e.g. poster board ) are considered घना or heavy.
Paper products कि allow some लाइट to pass through ( e.g. tissue paper ) are considered lightweight.
In the pulp and पेपर industry, it is common to set a commercial paper machine to उपज paper to a target पेपर घनत्व.
Paper घनत्व can also be used to फर्क पेपर इससे paperboard as the latter प्रायः has a grammage वृहद than 134 g/m2.
Two तरीके of expressing पेपर density are commonly उपयोगd:
expressed in गामा per square meter ( g/m2 ), paper घनत्व is also ज्ञात as grammage.
This is the माप used in most parts of the world.
Expressed in terms of the mass ( expressed as वज़न ) per number of sheets, it is known as basis weight.
The convention used in the United States and a few other countries using US paper sizes is पाउंड of a ream of 500 ( or in some मामले 1000 ) sheets of a given ( कच्चा, still uncut ) आधार size.
Japanese paper is expressed as the weight in kg of 1000 चादरें.
candace निकोल Parker ( born April 19, 1986 ) is an American basketball player for the wnba 's Los Angeles Sparks और ummc Ekaterinburg of रूस.
She is the younger sister of NBA player Anthony पार्कर.
वो attended the University of Tennessee and was drafted by the Sparks in 2008.
She may be best known for being the first woman to डंक in an NCAA टूर्नामेंट game और the first स्त्री to डंक twice in a college game—she set both माइलस्टोन as a redshirt freshman on March 19, 2006.
She also became only the second player to dunk in a WNBA खेल on June 22, 2008.
a versatile player, she is mainly a forward, but थी listed on टेनेसी 's roster as a आगे, बीच, and guard.
She was a starter on the महिला Vols basketball टोली, winners of the 2007 and 2008 ncaa championships.
Parker won the 2009 Nickelodeon Kids ' चुनाव पुरस्कार as the favorite मादा athlete in the sports category.
And वो थी a अतिथि स्टार on Figure It Out.
a food guide pyramid is a pyramid तराशा guide of healthy foods divided into sections to show the recommended intake for each food समूह.
The first खाना pyramid was प्रकाशित in Sweden in 1974.
the सबसे widely ज्ञात food pyramid थी introduced by the United States विभाग of Agriculture in the year 1992, थी अद्यतनीकृत in 2005, and then replaced in 2011.
Over 25 अन्य countries and संगठनों have also published food pyramids.
hans Christian Andersen ( ; often referred to in Scandinavia as H. C. andersen ; अप्रैल 2, 1805august 4, 1875 ) थी a डैनिश लेखक and poet.
Although a सफल लेखक of plays, travelogues, novels, and poems, Andersen is best remembered for उसके fairy tales, a literary genre he so mastered that he himself रै become as mythical as the tales he wrote.
Andersen 's popularity is नहीं limited to children ; his stories—called, or `` fantastic किस्से '' —express विषयवस्तु कि transcend age and राष्ट्रीयता.
दौरान his आजीवन he थी acclaimed for having delighted children worldwide और थी feted by रॉयल्टी.
andersen 's fairy tales, जिससे have been translated into more than 125 languages, have become culturally embedded in the वेस्ट 's collective चेतना, readily accessible to children, but presenting lessons of virtue and resilience in the face of adversity लिये mature पाठक as well.
They have inspired motion pictures, plays, ballets, and animated films.
Two figures locking eyes in caravaggio 's The सौभाग्य Teller
Eye contact occurs when `` दो people dekh at each other 's eyes at the same time. ''
In human beings, eye contact is a form of nonverbal संचार और is thought to have a large influence on सोशल behavior.
Coined in the जल्दी to mid-1960s, the term has come in the West to प्रायः define the अधिनियम as a meaningful and महत्वपूर्ण sign of विश्वास and social communication.
The customs and significance of नजर contact vary widely between cultures, with religious and social मतभेद प्रायः altering its अर्थ greatly.
The पढ़ाई of eye contact is sometimes ज्ञात as oculesics.
Bed bugs are parasitic insects of the cimicid family that feed exclusively on blood.
The term most commonly refers to members of the genus Cimex of which Cimex lectularius, the आम bed कीड़ा, is the best known as it prefers to feed on इंसान blood although other Cimex species are specialized to अन्य animals, e.g., चमगादड़ bugs, C. pipistrelli ( Europe ), C. pilosellus ( western US ), और C. adjunctus ( entire eastern US ).
the name of the `` bed कीड़ा '' is derived इससे the preferred habitat of Cimex lectularius : warm houses and especially nearby or inside of beds and bedding or other sleep क्षेत्रों.
Bed बग are mainly क्रियाशील at night, but are नहीं exclusively nocturnal.
वे usually फीड on their hosts बगैर being noticed.
A number of प्रतिकूल health प्रभाव may परिणाम from bed कीड़ा bites, सहित skin rashes, मनोवैज्ञानिक effects, and allergic symptoms.
निदान involves दोनो finding bed bugs and the occurrence of compatible symptoms.
bed bugs have महरूम known as human परजीवी for thousands of years.
At a पाइंट in the early 1940s, they were ज़्यादातर eradicated in the developed संसार, but have increased in prevalence since 1995.
Because infestation of इंसान habitats रै been on the increase, bed bug bites and related conditions have been on the rise as खूब.
the Book of Isaiah ( ) is the पहला of the Latter Prophets in the Hebrew Bible, preceding ezekiel, यिर्मयाह and the Book of the बारह.
( The order of the subsequent किताबे differs somewhat in the Christian बूढ़ा वसीयत ).
the first 39 अध्याय prophesy doom for a sinful Judah and for all the nations of the world that oppose God, while the last 27 prophesy the restoration of the nation of Israel and a new creation in God 's glorious भविष्य kingdom ; this section शामिल the Songs of the कष्ट Servant, four separate passages referring to the nation of Israel, interpreted by ईसाइयों as prefiguring the coming of Jesus Christ.
Tradition ascribes authorship of the book to यशायाह बेटे of Amoz, लकिन now विद्वानों widely agree कि the किताब is the कार्य of three different authors - few scholars deny this दृश्य, and those that do, do so लिये theological कारण.
the first, termed proto-isaiah ( अध्याय 1–39 ), contains the words of the 8th-century BCE prophet with 7th-century BCE expansions ; the second, deutero-isaiah ( chapters 40–55 ), is the work of a 6th-century bce author writing near the end of the babylonian captivity ; and the third, the poetic Trito-Isaiah ( chapters 56–66 ), was composed in जेरूसलम shortly after the return from निर्वासन, probably by multiple authors.
ऑरेगॉन State University ( OSU ) is a coeducational, पब्लिक research university located in corvallis, Oregon, संयुक्त राज्य.
The university offers undergraduate, graduate and डॉक्टरेट degrees and a multitude of शोध अवसर.
वहीँ are more than 200 academic degree programs offered through the university.
OSU 's कार्यक्रम in microbiology, nuclear engineering, ecology, forestry, public health, biochemistry, zoology, oceanography, food science and pharmacy are पहचाना nationally as शीर्ष टियर programs.
the osu 's liberal arts कार्यक्रम have also grown significantly और the department is considered a `` cornerstone '' of the institution.
More than 200,000 people have attended osu since its founding.
The Carnegie न्यास classifies Oregon राज्य University as भाग of its शीर्ष tier of research institutions.
as of 2008, OSU is एक of only seventy-three land-grant universities.
The school is also recognized as a sea-grant, space-grant and sun-grant institution, making it एक of only two us संस्थानों to retain सब four designations and the only public विश्वविद्यालयों to do so ( कॉर्नेल is the only अन्य साथ समान designations ).
As one of the two फ्लैगशिप universities of the ऑरेगॉन University System, osu receives more funding for research, annually, than सब other public उच्चतर शिक्षा institutions in ऑरेगॉन संयुक्त.
Female ejaculation is the expulsion of fluid by human females इससे the paraurethral ducts through and around the female urethra दौरान or before an orgasm.
It is also known colloquially as gushing or squirting, although these are considered to be different phenomena in some research publications.
The सटीक source and प्रकृति of the fluid continue to be a टॉपिक of debate among medical professionals, जिससे is also related to doubts over the existence of the G-Spot.
the Kanab ambersnail, वैज्ञानिक नाम Oxyloma haydeni kanabensis or oxyloma kanabense, is a critically endangered subspecies or species of छोटी, air-breathing land snail, a स्थलीय pulmonate gastropod mollusc in the परिवार Succineidae, the amber snails.
the common name of the amber snails is आधारित on the shell, which is translucent और जब empty usually resembles amber in color.
This प्रजाति is endemic to the संयुक्त राज्य, specifically the state of Arizona and Utah, where it was पहला एकत्रित in the early 20th century.
It रै been listed as endangered on the United States Fish and Wildlife Service सूची of endangered species चूंकि 8 August 1991.
This snail जीवनदान in वेटलैंड्स, स्रोतों, और seeps, और only two of its प्राकृतिक habitats हैं known to exist : Three झीलों, a meadow near Kanab, Utah, and Vasey 's Paradise, a spring along the Colorado River within Grand Canyon National Park.
In its प्राकृतिक habitat it is बल्कि polyphagous, feeding mainly on bacteria, plants और fungi, and reproduces during the summer.
Now माना a critically Endangered species on the आईयूसीएन Red सूची of Threatened Species due to a series of कारकों ( including influence ), the kanab ambersnail रै been reintroduced to three springs above the historic high water level along the Colorado नदी.
The स्पेनी language is the second सबसे used भाषा in the संयुक्त States.
There हैं more Spanish speakers in the United States than there are speakers of Chinese, French, German, Italian, Hawaiian, and the Native अमरीकी languages combined.
According to the 2010 अमरीकी जातियाँ सर्वेक्षण conducted by the u.S. Census Bureau, Spanish is the प्राथमिक भाषा spoken at घर by लगभग 37 लाख people aged five or older, a figure more than double that of 1990.
There हैं 45 million Hispanophones who speak Spanish as a first or दूसरी language, as well as six million Spanish language students, composing the largest national Spanish-speaking जातियाँ outside of Mexico और बनाना स्पेनी the Romance language और the Indo-European भाषा साथ largest number of देशी speakers in the संसार.
Roughly half of all U.S. Spanish speakers भी speak English `` very well, '' based on the self-assessment Census question respondents.
The language आए to the देश since the 16th and 17th centuries साथ the आगमन of स्पेनी colonists in areas कि होता बाद become the राज्य of फ्लोरिडा, Texas, Colorado, नई Mexico, Arizona, Nevada, Utah, और California and of the स्पेनी explorers - who छान क्षेत्रों of 42 states-.
Also west of Louisiana territory was Spanish between 1763 - 1800 ( year of the French रिकवरी of territory ), बाद the French और Indian युद्ध.
बाद of the incorporation of these states to the U.S. in first हाफ of 19th सदी, the Spanish language थी बाद reinforced by the अधिग्रहण of Puerto रीको in 1898 और by later waves of the हिस्पैनिक करणों, basically from Hispanic America, to the United राज्य beginning in the दूसरी half of 19th century until आज.
is a लैटिन word that means `` thus '' or, in writing, `` it was thus in the source material ''.
sic may also refer to:
sic, cluj, a commune in रोमानिया
SIC, the regional code for सिसिली
Sic ( noise artist ), styled as [ sic ], स्टेज name of जेनिफर Morris, a Canadian रव कलाकार
Sic ( बैंड ) is a modern hardcore/thrash metal बैंड from Torshavn, the capital of the Faroe Islands
`` ( sic ) '', a song by American band Slipknot on the एल्बम slipknot
SIC, the initial of मार्को Simoncelli.
sic as an acronym may stand for:
sic, सिलिकॉन carbide, a semiconducting सामग्री, also used to make धातुकर्म टूल्स
sic ( cyclecar ) ( Società इटालियाना Cyclecars )
मानक Industrial Classification, a 20th-century U.S. प्रणाली लिये classifying industries
International Standard औद्योगिक वर्गीकरण a UN system for economic activities
शेटलैंड आइलैंड्स Council
the Swiss Interbank clearing system
San Isidro Club, an अर्जेंटाइन rugby union क्लबों
खड़ा Interpretation कमेटी, a कमेटी dedicated to the निर्वचन of international हिसाब standards IFRS
schwarz सूचना मानदंड in the field of statistics
second-in-command in the field of aviation
Sistema interconectado Central power grid in Chile
Sociedade Independente de Comunicação ( SIC ), a टेलीविज़न channel in Portugal
Sea Isle City, नई Jersey, a coastal town in the संयुक्त States
Segmented Integer Counter विधि, a mode of आपरेशन in क्रिप्टोग्राफी
Sepang अंतरराष्ट्रीय Circuit, a high-end racetrack that hosts the Malaysian गोलाकार of Formula 1
Shanghai International सर्किट, a मोटर रेसिंग स्थान in Shanghai, China
Simplified निर्देशात्मक कंप्यूटर, a hypothetical computer used in systems programming
sic ( बेटे idées Couleurs ), an early twentieth-century art magazine produced by French author Pierre Albert-Birot
Southeastern Illinois College, a two year Junior College in Harrisburg, Illinois, United States
Specific आगमनात्मक capacity, abbreviated to sic, which is अधिक commonly known as the relative permittivity or the dielectric constant
St ignatius ' College, Riverview, a Jesuit school in सिडनी, ऑस्ट्रेलिया
alt=Five मुस्कुराना young girls in various poses wearing white smocks over thigh-length dresses of समान color to their बाल.
The टोकियो Mew mew manga and anime श्रेणी features a cast of characters designed by Mia Ikumi.
The series takes place in टोकियो, Japan, where five adolescent girls, called Mew Mews, हैं infused with the DNA of endangered प्रजाति to कॉम्बैट एलियंस attempting to take over the धरती.
The manga श्रेणी is followed by a छोटी sequel श्रेणी, Tokyo Mew mew a la विधि, which introduces a new mew Mew और a new threat.
The mew Mews हैं led by the प्रमुख character, ichigo momomiya, whose पहला task is to gather the other four mew Mews : Mint Aizawa, सलाद Midorikawa, Pudding Fong, and Zakuro Fujiwara.
As the श्रेणी progresses, Ichigo goes from having a crush on Masaya Aoyama to बनने उसके girlfriend while trying to hide उसके secret double life from him.
the series antagonists include three aliens, Kish, Pie, और Tart, और उनके नेता, Deep ब्लू.
Originally from Earth, the aliens were forced to छोड़ long ago due to deadly environmental changes.
वे have returned to kill the humans, जो वे feel हैं destroying उनके planet, and reclaim the planet.
In a la विधि, मध्य school student Berry Shirayuki is introduced as the sixth Mew mew और, in the absence of ichigo, the temporary नेता of the mew Mews.
A la Mode also introduces new set of antagonists, the Saint Rose Crusaders, a समूह of human teenagers with various psychic abilities साथ a desire to create their अपना utopia.
Led by ड्यूक, they make several कोशिशें to kill Berry, आखिरकार turning the local populace against the Mew Mews.
Ikumi 's initial vision for Tokyo Mew mew was a story पुकारा Tokyo ब्लैक Cat लड़की कि featured a cat-girl battling alien invaders.
After the story was transitioned to a more upbeat story of five female superheroes, the अक्षर designs were redone to have a lighter, अधिक colorful महसूस.
the प्रमुख series characters were praised for being a perfect fit for the overall story, as well as लिये their cute appearances.
The characters introduced in a la विधि यहूद also praised लिये उनके visual दिखावे, but criticized as being repeats of the original series.
The character Duke थी also criticized for having a design reminiscent of the श्वेत supremacy group, the Ku Klux Klan.
Middle Triassic marginal marine अनुक्रम of siltstones ( below ) and limestones ( above ), वर्जिन Formation, southwestern Utah, USA
Sedimentary rocks are types of rock that are formed by the deposition of material at the धरती 's सतह और within bodies of जल.
Sedimentation is the सामूहिक name for processes that cause खनिज and/or organic अणु ( detritus ) to settle and accumulate or खनिज to precipitate from a solution.
Particles that form a sedimentary rock by accumulating हैं पुकारा sediment.
Before being deposited, sediment was formed by weathering and erosion in a सोर्स area, and then transported to the place of deposition by जल, हवा, ice, द्रव्यमान गति or glaciers जिससे are called एजेंटों of denudation.
The sedimentary rock cover of the continents of the Earth 's क्रस्ट is extensive, but the कुल contribution of sedimentary रॉक्स is estimated to be only 8 % of the कुल volume of the crust.
Sedimentary rocks हैं only a पतला veneer over a crust consisting mainly of igneous and metamorphic rocks.
sedimentary rocks हैं deposited in परतों as strata, forming a structure पुकारा bedding.
the study of sedimentary rocks and चट्टान strata provides information about the subsurface that is उपयोगी for civil engineering, for उदाहरण in the निर्माण of roads, घरों, tunnels, canals or other constructions.
Sedimentary rocks are also important sources of natural resources जैसे coal, चट्टान fuels, drinking जल or ores.
the study of the sequence of sedimentary rock strata is the main source for scientific knowledge about the Earth 's इतिहास, including palaeogeography, paleoclimatology and the history of life.
the वैज्ञानिक discipline that studies the properties and origin of sedimentary rocks is called sedimentology.
Sedimentology is both part of geology और physical geography और overlaps partly साथ other disciplines in the Earth sciences, ऐसे as pedology, geomorphology, geochemistry or संरचनात्मक geology.
350px
Humans are born with over 270 bones, some of जिससे fuse together into a longitudinal axis, the axial skeleton, to which the appendicular कंकाल is attached.
संत Patrick ( ; ; Modern ; ; c. 387 – 17 कूच c. 460 or c. 492 ) was a romano-british Christian missionary and बिशप in Ireland.
ज्ञात as the `` Apostle of Ireland '', he is the primary संरक्षक संत of the द्वीप along साथ Saints Brigid और Columba.
Two प्रामाणिक letters इससे him survive, इससे which come the तभी generally स्वीकृत details of his life.
When he was about 16, he was captured from his home and taken as a slave to Ireland, where he lived for छह सालो before escaping और returning to his family.
After becoming a मौलवी, he returned to northern and western आयरलैंड as an ordained बिशप, but little is ज्ञात about the स्थान where he worked.
By the seventh century, he had already come to be revered as the संरक्षक saint of Ireland.
सबसे available details of his life are from subsequent hagiographies, and these हैं now not accepted without detailed criticism.
the Annals of Ulster state that he arrived in आयरलैंड in 432, ministered in Ulster around 443, and died in 457 or 461.
The text, however, distinguishes between `` Old पैट्रिक '' ( विचार to mean Palladius ) and `` पैट्रिक, archapostle of the स्कॉट्स, '' who died in 492.
The वास्तविक तिथियाँ of Patrick 's life can not be fixed साथ certainty but, on a widespread interpretation, he थी active as a मिशनरी in Ireland during the दूसरी half of the 5th century.
He is generally credited with होने the पहला बिशप of Armagh, Primate of All आयरलैंड.
Saint पैट्रिक 's Day is observed on March 17, the date of his death.
It is celebrated both inside and outside Ireland, as दोनो a religious और, especially outside Ireland, secular अवकाश.
In the dioceses of Ireland, it is both a solemnity and a पावन day of obligation ; बाहर Ireland, it can be a celebration of Ireland itself.
Line segments in the सुनहरी ratio
A golden rectangle with longer side a and shorter side b, when placed adjacent to a square with sides of length a, will produce a similar golden rectangle with longer पक्ष a + b और shorter side a.
This illustrates the relationship.
In mathematics और the arts, two quantities are in the golden अनुपात if the अनुपात of the sum of the quantities to the larger मात्रा is equal to the ratio of the larger quantity to the smaller एक.
The figure on the right illustrates the ज्यामितीय relationship.
Expressed algebraically:
where the Greek letter phi ( ) represents the golden ratio.
Its value is:
The golden ratio is भी पुकारा the golden section ( लैटिन : sectio aurea ) or golden mean.
अन्य names include चरम and mean ratio, medial section, divine proportion, divine section ( Latin : sectio divina ), सुनहरी proportion, golden काटें, and सुनहरी number.
अनेक 20th century artists and आर्किटेक्ट have proportioned their works to सन्निकट the सुनहरी ratio—especially in the form of the सुनहरी आयताकार, in which the अनुपात of the longer side to the shorter is the golden ratio—believing इस proportion to be aesthetically pleasing ( देखिए Applications and observations below ).
Mathematicians since Euclid have studied the properties of the सुनहरी अनुपात, including its appearance in the dimensions of a नियमित pentagon and in a golden आयताकार, जिससे can be cut into a वर्गाकार और a छोटी rectangle साथ the same aspect अनुपात.
the सुनहरी अनुपात has also महरूम used to analyze the proportions of natural objects as well as man-made systems such as वित्तीय markets, in some cases based on संदिग्ध fits to data.
North Myrtle Beach is a coastal रिज़ॉर्ट नगर in Horry काउंटी, South Carolina, संयुक्त States.
it थी created in 1968 इससे four existing municipalities उत्तर of myrtle Beach, और serves as one of the primary tourist कस्बों साथ the ग्रैंड Strand.
The population was 13,752 at the 2010 census.
संसार War i ( WWI ) was a global war केंद्रित in Europe that began on 28 July 1914 and lasted until 11 नवम्बर 1918.
It थी predominantly पुकारा the संसार युद्ध or the Great युद्ध from its occurrence until the start of संसार युद्ध II in 1939, and the पहला World War or संसार War i thereafter.
It involved सब the संसार 's great powers, जिससे were assembled in two opposing alliances : the Allies ( based on the Triple Entente of the United Kingdom, फ़्रांस and Russia ) और the सेंट्रल Powers ( originally the Triple Alliance of Germany, Austria-Hungary and इटली ; but, as Austria–Hungary था लिया the offensive against the अनुबंध, Italy किया not डालें into the युद्ध ).
ये alliances were both reorganised and expanded as अधिक nations entered the युद्ध : Italy, Japan and the United States joined the Allies, और the उस्मानी साम्राज्य and Bulgaria the सेंट्रल Powers.
Ultimately, more than 70 million military personnel, including 60 लाख Europeans, were mobilised in एक of the largest युद्धों in history.
More than 9 million combatants were killed, largely because of technological advancements कि led to enormous increases in the lethality of weapons without सम्बन्धित improvements in protection or mobility.
It was the fifth- deadliest विरोध in world history, subsequently paving the रास्ता for various political changes, such as revolutions in many of the nations involved.
एक of the long-term कल्याणकारी of the war थी the resurgence of imperialism in the foreign policies of the great powers of यूरोपीय.
More immediately, the assassination of archduke फ्रांज Ferdinand of Austria, the heir to the throne of Austria-Hungary, on 28 जून 1914 by Yugoslav राष्ट्रवादी Gavrilo Princip in Sarajevo triggered a diplomatic crisis when Austria-Hungary subsequently delivered an ultimatum to the किंगडम of Serbia.
Several alliances formed over the previous दशकों यहूद invoked.
Within weeks, the प्रमुख powers यहूद at war और, via their colonies, the विरोध soon स्प्रेड around the world.
On 28 जुलाई, the austro-hungarians fired the पहला गोलियाँ of the युद्ध as preparation लिये the invasion of Serbia.
While the russians mobilised, the Germans invaded neutral बेल्जियम and Luxembourg on the way to France, providing a casus belli for ब्रिटेन 's declaration of युद्ध against Germany.
After the German march on Paris was brought to a halt—the so-called Miracle of the Marne —the पश्चिमी Front settled into a स्थिर battle of attrition with a trench line that बदला little until 1917.
On the Eastern सामने, the Russian army थी कामयाब against the Austro-Hungarians, लकिन was stopped in इसके invasion of East Prussia by the germans.
In November the Ottoman Empire joined the war, opening up fronts in the Caucasus, Mesopotamia और the sinai.
इटली and बुल्गारिया went to war in 1915 and Romania in 1916.
In Russia, the tsar 's government collapsed in कूच 1917 और a subsequent revolution in नवम्बर brought the Russians to शर्तें साथ the सेंट्रल Powers.
After a 1918 German offensive साथ the पश्चिमी front, the Allies drove back the Germans in a श्रेणी of कामयाब offensives और American forces began entering the trenches.
Germany, which था इसके own trouble with revolutionaries, agreed to an armistice on 11 November 1918.
The war ended in victory लिये the Allies.
Events on the home fronts were as tumultuous as on the बैटल fronts, as the participants tried to mobilize their manpower and economic resources to लड़ो a total युद्ध.
By the end of the war, four major imperial powers—the German, Russian, Austro-Hungarian and Ottoman empires—ceased to मौजूद.
The successor states of the former two खोया a great amount of territory, while the latter two were dismantled entirely.
the मैप of सेंट्रल Europe was redrawn into several छोटी राज्य.
The League of Nations was formed in the hope of preventing another such विरोध.
the European nationalism शाखित by the war and the breakup of empires, the परखना of Germany 's शिकस्त and problems with the Treaty of Versailles are सहमत to be कारकों contributing to World War II.
camden is a city in Camden County, नई जर्सी, संयुक्त States.
It is the county seat, स्तिथ आरपार the डेलावेयर River from Philadelphia.
As of the 2010 United राज्य Census the city had a total जनसांख्यिकी of 77,344, representing a decline of 2,560 ( 3.2 % ) from the 79,904 निवासियों enumerated दौरान the 2000 Census, which had in turn declined by 7,588 ( 8.7 % ) इससे the 87,492 counted in the 1990 Census.
Camden क्रमित as the 12th-most populous municipality in the राज्य in 2010 after having महरूम ranked 10th in 2000.
camden थी originally incorporated as a city on फ़रवरी 13, 1828, from portions of the now-defunct न्यूटन Township, जबकि the क्षेत्रफल was स्टिल part of gloucester County.
on March 13, 1844, camden became part of the newly formed Camden County.
Although एकबार a thriving center लिये निर्माण and industry, Camden is perhaps बेहतरीन known for its struggles with urban dysfunction.
Three Camden mayors have been jailed for corruption, the सबसे recent being Milton मिलान in 2000.
चूंकि 2005 the स्कूल system और police department have been operated by the state of New जर्सी ; the takeover expired in 2012.
In 2008, Camden had the उच्चतम crime rate in the U.S. with 2,333 violent अपराधों प्रति 100,000 people while the national average was 455 प्रति 100,000.
Camden पब्लिक schools spent $ 23,770 प्रति student ( $ 19,118 on a budgetary per-pupil basis ) in the 2009–10 school year और two-thirds of the students graduate.
Two out of every पाँच निवासियों are नीचे the national poverty line.
Amitriptyline ( Tryptomer, elavil, Tryptizol, Laroxyl, Saroten, Sarotex, Lentizol, Endep ) is a tricyclic antidepressant ( TCA ).
It is the सबसे widely used TCA and has at least बराबर efficacy against अवसाद as the नए class of SSRIs according to a पढ़ाई इससे early 2001.
As खूब as reducing depressive symptoms, these प्रकार of tricyclics also ease migraines, tension headaches, anxiety attacks and some schizophrenic symptoms.
It is also ज्ञात to reduce आक्रामकता और violent behavior.
A computer is a सामान्य purpose यंत्र that can be programmed to carry out a finite नियत of arithmetic or logical operations.
चूंकि a अनुक्रम of operations can be readily बदला, the कंप्यूटर can solve more than one दयालु of problem.
Conventionally, a computer consists of at least one processing element, typically a central processing unit ( CPU ) and some रूप of मेमोरी.
The processing element carries out arithmetic और logic operations, और a sequencing and control ईकाई कि can change the order of operations based on भंडारित information.
Peripheral devices allow information to be retrieved from an external सोर्स, और the result of operations saved और पुनर्प्राप्त.
the first इलेक्ट्रॉनिक digital computers were developed between 1940 और 1945 in the संयुक्त किंगडम and संयुक्त राज्य.
originally they यहूद the आकार of a large room, consuming as much power as अनेक hundred modern personal कंप्यूटर ( pcs ).
In इस era mechanical analog कंप्यूटर were used लिये military applications.
Modern computers आधारित on integrated circuits are millions to अरबों of times more capable than the early मशीने, and occupy a भिन्न of the space.
Simple computers are small enough to अनुरूप into mobile डिवाइस, and मोबाईल computers can be powered by छोटी batteries.
Personal कंप्यूटर in their various फ़ॉर्म are प्रतीक of the Information आयु and हैं what most people think of as “computers.”
However, the अंतःस्थापित computers found in अनेक devices from mp3 खिलाड़ी to सेनानी aircraft और इससे खिलौने to industrial robots हैं the most numerous.
`` Barefoot and pregnant '' is a phrase most commonly associated with the controversial विचार that women should not work outside the home and should have many children दौरान their reproductive years.
It रै several other meanings as खूब.
It is a फिगर of speech.
The phrase `` barefoot and pregnant '' was probably first used sometime पहले 1950.
an article from 1949 states, `` By early 1949, TWA was—in the words of its new अध्यक्ष, ralph S. Damon—both 'barefoot और pregnant. ' ''
Its usage may date as early as the 1910s.
An article published in 1958 states the phrase was first प्रयुक्त by a `` Dr. Hertzler '' 40 years पहले.
`` कुछ forty years ago, Dr. Hertzler advanced a परिकल्पना which यंग women of today seem bent on proving correct. '
The only way to keep a woman happy, ' he कहा, 'is to keep her barefoot और गर्भवती. ' ''
Oakhurst is a census-designated place and unincorporated community भीतर Ocean Township, in Monmouth County, नई जर्सी, संयुक्त States.
As of the 2010 संयुक्त राज्य Census, the CDP 's जनसांख्यिकी was 3,995.
University of Phoenix Stadium, खोली August 1, 2006, is a बहुउद्देशीय football stadium स्तिथ in Glendale, एरिज़ोना.
it is the घर of the एरिज़ोना Cardinals of the National Football लीग ( NFL ) और the annual Fiesta Bowl.
The स्टेडियम is located next द्वार to the jobing.com Arena and it features the पहला fully retractable natural grass playing surface built in the United States on top of an एयरफील्ड प्रणालियों drainage system.
an opening on one पक्ष of the stadium allows the playing field to move to the exterior of the building, allowing the entire natural turf playing surface to be exposed to daylight.
The stadium रै hosted Super Bowl xlii, and the 2011 bcs National Championship Game, a game that it hosts every four years, which set the स्थान 's entertainment attendance रिकार्ड of 78,603 on जनवरी 11, 2011.
It होगा again host Super Bowl XLIX in 2015.
The University of फीनिक्स acquired the नामकरण rights in सितंबर 2006, shortly बाद the stadium had opened अंतर्गत the name Cardinals Stadium.
The `` University of Phoenix `` नाम is applied as a corporate sponsor, और not as the घर stadium of the विश्वविद्यालयों ( which रै no intercollegiate athletics program ).
The स्टेडियम has also hosted the डब्ल्यूडब्ल्यूई event रेसलमेनिया XXVI साथ 72,219 fans in attendance.
The event was held in the स्टेडियम on March 28th 2010.
Joshua Lawrence चेम्बरलेन ( सितंबर 8, 1828 – February 24, 1914 ), born as लॉरेंस जोशुआ Chamberlain, was an अमरीकी कॉलेज professor from the State of Maine, who volunteered दौरान the अमरीकी Civil War to join the Union फौज.
Although having no earlier education in military strategies, he became a highly respected and decorated Union अधिकारी, reaching the rank of brigadier general ( and brevet प्रमुख general ).
लिये his gallantry at gettysburg, he was awarded the Medal of Honor.
He was given the सम्मान of commanding the Union सैनिकों at the surrender ceremony लिये the infantry of Robert E. Lee 's फौज at Appomattox, Virginia.
After the war, he entered politics as a रिपब्लिकन and served चार one-year terms of office as the 32nd Governor of maine.
He परोसा on the संकाय, and as president, of his alma mater, Bowdoin कॉलेज.
An inning, or innings, is a fixed-length खण्ड of a खेल in कोई of a variety of sports – most notably cricket and baseball दौरान which one team attempts to score while the अन्य team कोशिशें to prevent the first from scoring.
In क्रिकेट, the पद पारी is both singular and बहुवचन and is always spelled और pronounced with the टर्मिनल `` s ''.
in बेसबॉल and softball, the singular form is inning and only the plural takes an `` s ''.
in many other sports, the length of the खेल is dictated by a clock and teams swap offensive and defensive roles dynamically by taking possession of a ball or समान item.
in baseball और क्रिकेट, however, एक team, said to be `` batting '', attempts to स्कोर `` runs '' —see चलाएं ( बेसबॉल ) and run ( cricket ) —while the अन्य team, said to be `` fielding '', attempts to prevent the scoring of runs and get सदस्यों of the batting team आउट.
The टीमों switch places बाद the fielding team रै succeeded in getting a fixed क्रमांक of players out, बनाना a clock unnecessary.
In क्रिकेट, the term पारी is भी used to refer to the खेल of one particular खिलाड़ी ( Smith had a poor innings, scoring तभी 12 ).
by extension, this term can be used in British अंग्रेज़ी लिये almost any कार्यकलाप जिससे takes a period of time ( The Liberal सरकारी had a good innings, लकिन आखिरकार lost दफ्तर in 1972, or You 've had a fair innings, अभी it 's my फेरे, meaning `` तुम have spoken for long enough, now let me speak '' ).
it is also प्रयुक्त in reference to someone who रै died at a reasonably old आयु or जिया a समृद्ध and rewarding life ( Ah, खूब.
John थी 89.
at least he had a good पारी ).
The baseball-derived parallel to इस in American अंग्रेज़ी is the term at चमगादड़.
according to the Oxford English शब्दकोष, the term innings रै been used in reference to cricket चूंकि at least 1735.
as cricket was a mature, highly organized sport in the 1600s in England, the पद 's उत्पत्ति could well precede this first अंकित usage.
The word inning meaning 'a gathering in ' is first recorded in 1522, और could be related.
Adenosine deaminase deficiency, भी called एडीए deficiency or ada-scid, is an autosomal recessive metabolic विकार that causes immunodeficiency.
It occurs in fewer than one in 100,000 live births worldwide.
It accounts लिये about 15 % of सब cases of कठोर combined immunodeficiency ( SCID ).
it is very विरल, तुम have a 3 % मौका of getting this gene.
एडीए deficiency may be present in शैशव, childhood, adolescense, or adulthood.
Age of onset and गंभीरता is related to कुछ 29 known genotypes संबद्ध with the disorder.
An example of urban poverty in this slum in Jakarta, Indonesia
Poverty is the राज्य of one who lacks a निश्चित amount of material possessions or money.
Absolute poverty or destitution refers to the deprivation of मौलिक इंसान needs, which commonly शामिल food, water, sanitation, कपडे, shelter, health care and education.
सापेक्ष poverty is defined contextually as आर्थिक inequality in the स्थान or society in which लोगों live.
लिये much of history, poverty was considered largely unavoidable as परंपरागत मोड्स of उत्पादन were insufficient to give an entire population a आरामदायक standard of जीना.
बाद the industrial क्रान्ति, द्रव्यमान production in factories made wealth increasingly more inexpensive and accessible.
Of more importance is the modernization of agriculture, such as fertilizers, in order to provide enough yield to फीड the जनसांख्यिकी.
the supply of मौलिक needs can be restricted by constraints on सरकारी services such as भ्रष्टाचार, tax avoidance, debt and loan conditionalities and by the brain नाली of health care and शैक्षणिक professionals.
Strategies of increasing income to make basic needs अधिक सस्ती typically include welfare, आर्थिक freedoms, and providing वित्तीय सेवाएं.
Poverty reduction is a major goal and issue for many international संगठन such as the United राष्ट्र and the संसार Bank.
The World Bank अनुमानित 1.29 billion लोगों यहूद जीना in निरपेक्ष गरीबी in 2008.
Of these, about 400 million people in absolute poverty जिया in India and 173 million people in China.
In USA 1 in 5 children lives in गरीबी.
In terms of percentage of क्षेत्रीय populations, sub-Saharan Africa at 47 % had the highest incidence rate of absolute गरीबी in 2008.
Between 1990 and 2010, about 663 लाख लोगों स्थानांतरित ऊपर the absolute poverty स्तर.
Still, extreme poverty is a global challenge ; it is observed in सब parts of the world, including the विकसित economies.
Mushroom विषाक्तता ( also known as mycetism ) refers to नुकसानदेह effects इससे ingestion of toxic substances present in a मशरूम.
These symptoms can vary इससे slight gastrointestinal discomfort to death.
The toxins present हैं secondary metabolites उत्पादित in specific biochemical pathways in the fungal cells.
मशरूम poisoning is usually the result of ingestion of wild mushrooms after misidentification of a विषाक्त mushroom as an edible प्रजाति.
The most common कारण for this misidentification is close प्रतिरूप in शर्तें of colour and सामान्य morphology of the toxic mushrooms species साथ edible species.
भी very experienced wild mushroom gatherers हैं upon rare occasion poisoned by eating विषाक्त प्रजाति, despite being खूब जागरूक of the risks, through carelessness.
To prevent mushroom poisoning, mushroom gatherers need to be बहुत familiar with the mushrooms they intend to collect as खूब as with any similar-looking toxic प्रजाति.
In addition, edibility of मशरूम may depend on विधि of preparation for cooking.
collectors भी need to be खूब aware that edibility or toxicity of some प्रजाति varies साथ geographic स्थान.
Human height is the अलहदा इससे the bottom of the feet to the शीर्ष of the head in a human body, standing erect.
When populations share genetic background and environmental factors, average height is frequently characteristic within the समूह.
Exceptional height विभिन्नता ( around 20 % deviation इससे average ) भीतर ऐसे a जनसांख्यिकी is sometimes due to gigantism or dwarfism, जिससे हैं medical conditions caused by विशिष्ट genes or अंतःस्रावी abnormalities.
In regions of extreme poverty or prolonged warfare, पर्यावरणीय factors जैसे दीर्घकालिक malnutrition during बाल्यकाल or adolescence may account for विलम्बित growth and/or ( in severe मामले ) marked reductions in adult stature even without the presence of any of these medical शर्तें.
अपोलो 11 was the spaceflight कि उतरा the first humans, अमेरिकी Neil Armstrong और बज़ Aldrin, on the Moon on जुलाई 20, 1969, at 20:18 UTC.
Armstrong became the पहला to step onto the चंद्र surface 6 hours बाद on July 21 at 02:56 UTC.
Armstrong spent परिचय दो and a half hours outside the spacecraft, Aldrin थोड़ा कम ; और साथ they एकत्रित of चंद्र material लिये return to धरती.
a third member of the mission, माइकल कॉलिन्स, piloted the कमांड spacecraft alone in चंद्र कक्षा until आर्मस्ट्रांग और एल्ड्रिन returned to it just under a day later लिये the trip back to Earth.
Launched by a Saturn V प्रक्षेपास्त्र from कैनेडी Space Center in Merritt Island, Florida on July 16, Apollo 11 was the पांचवां manned mission of NASA 's Apollo program.
the Apollo spacecraft था three parts : a Command मोड्यूल साथ a cabin for the three astronauts जिससे थी the तभी part which landed back on Earth ; a Service मोड्यूल जिससे समर्थित the Command Module साथ नोदन, विद्युत power, ऑक्सीजन and जल ; and a चंद्र मोड्यूल for landing on the चंद्रमा.
After being भेजा to the Moon by the Saturn V 's upper stage, the astronauts separated the spacecraft इससे it और travelled for three days until they entered into lunar orbit.
Armstrong और Aldrin then moved into the चंद्र Module and landed in the Sea of tranquility.
They stayed a total of about 21 and a हाफ hours on the lunar सतह.
बाद उठाने off in the upper भाग of the Lunar Module and rejoining कॉलिन्स in the Command Module, they लौटे to धरती and उतरा in the प्रशांत समंदर on July 24.
ब्रॉडकास्ट on live tv to a world-wide audience, Armstrong stepped onto the lunar surface और described the इवेंट as `` एक small step for [ a ] man, one दानव leap for mankind. ''
Apollo 11 effectively ended the स्पेस Race and fulfilled a national goal प्रस्तावित in 1961 by the late u.S. President जॉन F. Kennedy in a वाक before the United States Congress, `` before this decade is out, of लैंडिंग a man on the चंद्रमा and returning him safely to the धरती. ''
The FIFA World Cup, प्रायः simply the संसार कप, is an अंतरराष्ट्रीय association football competition contested by the senior मेन 's national teams of the members of Fédération Internationale de Football Association ( फीफा ), the sport 's global governing body.
The championship has महरूम awarded every चार सालो चूंकि the inaugural टूर्नामेंट in 1930, except in 1942 and 1946 when it थी not आयोजित क्युकी of the Second World War.
The current champions हैं Spain, who won the 2010 tournament.
The current स्वरूप of the tournament involves 32 teams स्पर्धा for the title at venues भीतर the host nation ( s ) over a period of परिचय a month ; this phase is प्रायः called the World Cup Finals.
a qualification phase, जिससे currently takes place over the preceding three years, is used to determine which teams qualify for the tournament साथ with the host nation ( s ).
The 19 World कप tournaments have been जीती by eight different नेशनल teams.
ब्राज़ील have जीती five times, और they are the only team to have played in every tournament.
the other World कप winners are Italy, with four titles ; जर्मनी, साथ three शीर्षक ; अर्जेंटीना and inaugural winners Uruguay, with two titles प्रत्येक ; और England, France, and Spain, with one title प्रत्येक.
The World Cup is the संसार 's most widely viewed sporting event ; an estimated 715.1 million लोगों watched the फाइनल match of the 2006 FIFA World Cup held in Germany.
The next तीन संसार Cups will be hosted by Brazil in 2014, Russia in 2018, and Qatar in 2022.
Genocide is a पद coined in 1944 by Raphael lemkin to describe the deliberate and systematic destruction, in whole or in भाग, of an ethnic, racial, religious, or national group.
It is defined in आलेख 2 of the सम्मेलन on the रोकथाम and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide ( CPPCG ) of 1948 as `` any of the following अधिनियमों committed with intent to destroy, in पूरे or in part, a national, ethnical, जातिगत or religious group, as such : हत्या members of the group ; causing गंभीर bodily or mental harm to members of the समूह ; deliberately inflicting on the groups conditions of life, calculated to bring about its शारीरिक destruction in whole or in part ; imposing measures intended to prevent births within the समूह ; [ and ] forcibly transferring children of the group to another group. ''
Skulls of victims of the Rwandan Genocide
The प्रस्तावना to the CPPCG not only राज्य कि `` genocide is a crime under अंतरराष्ट्रीय law, contrary to the स्पिरिट और aims of the United Nations and condemned by the civilized world '', लकिन also that `` at सब periods of history genocide has inflicted great losses on मानवता ''.
Determining what historical events constitute a genocide और which हैं merely दण्ड or अमानवीय behavior is not a clear-cut पदार्थ.
in nearly every मामला where accusations of genocide have circulated, partisans of विभिन्न sides have fiercely विवादित the निर्वचन और details of the event, often to the पाइंट of promoting wildly different versions of the तथ्य.
an accusation of genocide is certainly not taken lightly and होगा almost always be controversial.
The following सूची of genocides and alleged genocides should be understood in this context and can नहीं be regarded as the final शब्द on these subjects.
A timing बेल्ट is a non-slipping mechanical drive belt और the term may refer to either:
toothed belt, a flexible belt साथ teeth moulded onto its inner सतह
Timing belt ( camshaft ), a toothed बेल्ट used to drive the camshaft ( s ) भीतर an आतंरिक combustion engine
The culture of the United राज्य is primarily a Western संस्कृति, लकिन is भी influenced by Native American, African, Asian, Polynesian, and Latin अमरीकी संस्कृतियों.
American संस्कृति प्रारंभ its गठन over 10,000 years ago with the migration of Paleo-Indians from Asia into the region that is today the महाद्वीपीय United राज्य.
It has its अपना unique सोशल and cultural characteristics such as dialect, music, कला, सोशल habits, cuisine, and folklore.
The United राज्य of अमेरिका is an ethnically and racially diverse country as a परिणाम of large-scale immigration from many different countries throughout its history.
Its chief early European influences came from English, Scottish, वेल्श and Irish settlers of औपनिवेशिक America during British rule.
British culture, due to औपनिवेशिक ties with Britain कि स्प्रेड the English language, legal system and other cultural inheritances, had a formative influence.
Other important influences came from other parts of पश्चिमी Europe, especially Germany, France, and Italy.
Original elements also play a strong role, ऐसे as the आविष्कार of Jeffersonian democracy.
थामस Jefferson 's Notes on the राज्य of Virginia was perhaps the पहला influential domestic cultural critique by an अमरीकी and a reactionary piece to the prevailing European consensus that America 's domestic originality was degenerate.
Prevalent ideas and ideals that evolved domestically, ऐसे as नेशनल छुट्टियाँ, uniquely American sports, military tradition, और innovations in the arts and entertainment give a strong sense of national pride among the जनसांख्यिकी as a whole.
American culture शामिल both conservative and liberal elements, scientific and religious competitiveness, political structures, रिस्क लेने और फ़्री expression, materialist और moral elements.
Despite certain consistent ideological principles ( e.g. व्यक्तिगत, समतावाद, और आस्था in स्वतंत्रता and democracy ), American culture रै a variety of expressions due to its भौगोलिक स्केल and demographic विविधता.
The flexibility of u.S. culture और its highly symbolic nature lead some researchers to categorize American संस्कृति as a mythic identity ; others see it as अमरीकी exceptionalism.
It also शामिल elements कि evolved इससे Indigenous अमेरिकी, and other जातीय cultures—most prominently the संस्कृति of African अमेरिकी, cultures इससे Latin America, and Asian American संस्कृतियों.
Many American cultural तत्व, especially from लोकप्रिय संस्कृति, have spread across the globe through modern mass media.
The संयुक्त राज्य रै often been विचार of as a melting pot, but beginning in the late 1990s and early 2000s, it रुझान towards सांस्कृतिक विविधता, pluralism and the चित्र of a salad कटोरी instead.
Due to the extent of American culture, there are many एकीकृत but unique social subcultures भीतर the United States.
The cultural affiliations an individual in the संयुक्त States may have commonly निर्भर on social class, political अभिविन्यास and a multitude of demographic विशेषताएँ such as religious background, occupation और ethnic group सदस्यता.
samoan ( Gagana fa'a Sāmoa or Gagana Sāmoa — आईपीए : ) is the language of the samoan Islands, comprising the independent country of Samoa and the United States territory of अमरीकी समोआ.
it is an official language—alongside English —in both jurisdictions.
Samoan, a पोलिनेशियाई भाषा, is the first language for most of the Samoa Islands ' population of about 246,000.
साथ many Samoan people living in other देशों, the total क्रमांक of speakers worldwide is estimated at 370,000.
The language is notable for the phonological differences between formal and अनौपचारिक वाक as well as a ceremonial रूप प्रयुक्त in Samoan छाये.
a glucose tolerance test is a चिकित्सा test in जिससे glucose is दिए and blood samples taken afterward to determine how quickly it is साफ इससे the blood.
The परीक्षण is usually used to test for diabetes, इंसुलिन resistance, and sometimes प्रतिक्रिया hypoglycemia and acromegaly, or rarer disorders of carbohydrate metabolism.
In the most commonly performed संस्करण of the test, an मौखिक glucose सहिष्णुता परीक्षण ( OGTT ), a मानक dose of ग्लूकोज is ingested by मुँह and blood स्तर are checked two hours later.
अनेक variations of the GTT have महरूम devised over the years लिये various उद्देश्य, with different standard doses of ग्लूकोज, different routes of administration, different intervals और durations of sampling, and various substances measured in addition to blood glucose.
`` What About me '' is a सोंग written by गैरी तुषार और Frances Swan, first अंकित by Australian rock band Moving Pictures from उनके album Days of Innocence.
It was the band 's first number-one सिंगल in Australia spending six consecutive weeks on the शीर्ष ; there, it was the second-highest selling सिंगल of 1982.
the success of the सोंग led उन्हें to अमेरिका where it became a hit, reaching # 29 on the U.S. Billboard hot 100 चार्ट.
The song stayed in the U.S. चार्ट for ऐसे a long time that it managed to मेक billboards top 100 Pop Singles of 1983, at # 88, a विरल feat for a single साथ such a low peak स्थिति.
The song made an unusual comeback in 1989, peaking at # 46.
on the left a मुर्गा egg, the egg सबसे commonly खाया by humans, and on the right two quail eggs
Eggs are रखी by females of अनेक different species, including birds, reptiles, amphibians, and मछली, and have been eaten by mankind for thousands of सालो.
बर्ड और reptile eggs consist of a सुरक्षात्मक eggshell, albumen ( egg white ), and vitellus ( egg yolk ), contained भीतर various पतला membranes.
Popular चुनाव for egg consumption are chicken, duck, quail, roe, and caviar, but the अंडा most often consumed by humans is the मुर्गा egg, by a चौड़ी margin.
Egg yolks and whole eggs स्टोर significant amounts of protein और choline, और are widely used in cookery.
Due to their protein content, the United States विभाग of कृषि ( USDA ) categorizes eggs as Meats within the Food Guide पिरामिड.
Despite the nutritional मान of अंडे, there are some potential health issues arising from egg विशेषता, भंडार, और individual allergies.
Chickens and other egg-laying creatures हैं widely kept throughout the world, and mass production of मुर्गा अंडे is a वैश्विक उद्योग.
In 2009, an estimated 62.1 लाख मीट्रिक tons of eggs were produced worldwide from a total laying झुण्ड of approximately 6.4 billion hens.
There हैं issues of regional विभिन्नता in माँग और expectation, as well as current debates concerning methods of mass उत्पादन, with the European Union 's बैन on battery farming of chickens.
प्रमुख League Soccer ( mls ) is a professional सॉकर league representing the sport 's highest level in the United राज्य and कनाडा.
मंजूर by the संयुक्त राज्य Soccer संघ ( u.S. सॉकर ), the league is composed of 19 टीमों — 16 in the U.S. और 3 in Canada.
Seasons presently चलाएं from कूच to December, with each टोली playing 34 games in the regular season.
Ten teams compete in the postseason mls कप playoffs culminating in the championship game, the mls Cup.
Major League Soccer थी founded in 1993 as part of the United States ' बोली to host the 1994 FIFA संसार कप.
The first ऋतु took प्लेस in 1996 beginning with ten teams.
Instead of operating as an association of independently owned teams, MLS is a single entity जहाँ each team is owned and controlled by the league 's investors.
The लीग 's closed membership makes it one of the संसार 's few soccer लीग नहीं using promotion और relegation.
The legality of cannabis varies इससे country to country.
Possession of cannabis is illegal in most countries और रै been since the beginning of widespread कैनबिस prohibition in the लेट 1930s.
However, many देशों have decriminalized the possession of small quantities of cannabis, particularly in North America, South America and Europe.
Furthermore, possession is विधिक or effectively legal in the Netherlands, North Korea and would be in the U.S. राज्य of Colorado और वॉशिंगटन if it were not for federal विधि, which governs व्यक्तियों in all states.
The medicinal use of कैनबिस is legal in a क्रमांक of countries, including Canada, the Czech Republic and इसराईल.
जबकि संघीय law in the संयुक्त राज्य bans all sale and कब्ज़ा of cannabis, प्रवर्तन varies widely at the राज्य स्तर and कुछ राज्य have established औषधीय मारिजुआना programs in that contradict federal law ; दो states ( Colorado and Washington ) have repealed their laws prohibiting the recreational use of कैनबिस and replaced them with a नियामक शासन, also contrary to federal statute.
कुछ countries have laws that हैं not as vigorously prosecuted as अन्य लकिन, apart from the countries that offer अभिगम to medical marijuana, most countries have various penalties ranging from lenient to बहुत severe.
Some infractions are taken more seriously in कुछ countries than others in लिहाज़ to the cultivation, उपयोग, कब्ज़ा or transfer of cannabis लिये recreational use.
a few jurisdictions have lessened penalties for possession of small quantities of cannabis, making it punishable by confiscation and a fine, rather than imprisonment.
Some क्षेत्राधिकारs/ drug courts उपयोग mandatory treatment कार्यक्रम for young or frequent users, with freedom from narcotic दवाएँ as the goal and a few jurisdictions permit कैनबिस use for medicinal purposes.
There हैं also changes in a more restrictive दिशा as in Canada.
ड्रग tests to detect कैनबिस हैं increasingly common in many countries और have resulted in jail वाक्य and people losing their कार्य.
However, simple कब्ज़ा can carry long jail sentences in some countries, particularly in भाग of East Asia and southeast Asia where the sale of cannabis may सीसे to a वाक्य of जीवन in prison or भी execution.
in cardiovascular physiology, ejection भिन्न ( ef ) represents the volumetric भिन्न of blood pumped out of the ventricle ( heart ) with each heart ताल or cardiac साईकिल.
it can be applied to either the right ventricle which ejects via the pulmonary valve into the pulmonary circulation or the left ventricle जिससे ejects via the aortic valve into the systemic परिसंचरण.
Imaging of the physiology of the mammalian दिल is the आर्ट that allows meaningful mathematical अभिव्यक्ति defining EF.
noninvasive हृदय इमेजिंग has become a worldwide utility enabling study of हृदय performance reproducibly and inexpensively.
Simplified, Ejection fraction is a mathematical product allowed by cardiac imaging.
As a mathematical term, Ejection Fraction is an एक्सटेंशन of the work of Adolph Fick in हृदय output.
Dedicated technology such as Echocardiography, Computed Tomography, चुम्बकीय Resonance इमेजिंग और MUGA स्कैनिंग have definitively अनुमत clinically प्रासंगिक mathematics regarding Ischemia, Congenital दिल बीमारी और Heart Failure.
State Route 14 ( SR 14 ) is a north–south state highway in the U.S. state of कैलिफ़ोर्निया, largely in the Mojave मरुस्थल.
The दक्षिणी portion of the highway is हस्ताक्षरित as the Antelope Valley Freeway.
the रूट connects अंतरराज्यीय 5, or Golden State Freeway, निकट Santa Clarita and साथ U.S. Route 395 निकट Inyokern.
Legislatively, the रूट extends दक्षिण of I-5 to राज्य रूट 1 in the Pacific Palisades क्षेत्रफल of Los Angeles, however the portion south of the जंक्शन with i-5 has नहीं been constructed.
The southern part of the constructed route is a busy commuter freeway serving and connecting the communities of Santa Clarita, palmdale and lancaster with the rest of the वृहद Los Angeles area.
The उत्तरी portion, from Vincent ( south of Palmdale ) to रूट 395, is legislatively named the Aerospace Highway, as the highway serves एडवर्ड्स Air फ़ोर्स Base, once one of the प्राथमिक landing स्ट्रिप्स for NASA 's Space शटल.
इस खण्ड is rural, following the line between the hot mojave desert and the forming सिएरा Nevada mountain range.
Most of Route 14 is loosely paralleled by a प्रमुख लकीर of the दक्षिणी Pacific Railroad, used for the antelope Valley लकीर of the metrolink commuter rail प्रणाली as well as a connection between Los Angeles and the California सेंट्रल घाटी via Tehachapi Pass.
Linked with US 395, this road connects Los Angeles साथ such places as Mammoth Mountain, Mono Lake, Yosemite नेशनल पार्क and रेनो, Nevada.
रूट 14 was भाग of u.S. रूट 6 prior to truncation in 1964, when U.S. 6 थी a coast-to-coast रूट from Long बीच to Provincetown, मैसाचुसेट्स.
The non-freeway खण्ड of SR 14 इससे Silver Queen सड़क north of Rosamond to Mojave is known as Sierra Highway, as is the old routing between Interstate 5 और Silver Queen Road where SR 14 has been moved to a newer freeway alignment.
Portions of रूट 14 remain हस्ताक्षरित साथ names संबद्ध with us 6, सहित मिडलैंड Trail, Theodore Roosevelt Highway और Grand फौज of the Republic Highway.
This route is part of the California Freeway और एक्सप्रेसवे प्रणाली.
दृष्टिहीनता is the कंडीशन of lacking visual perception due to physiological or neurological factors.
विभिन्न scales have been developed to describe the extent of vision loss and define दृष्टिहीनता.
Total blindness is the complete lack of रूप और visual लाइट बोध and is clinically recorded as nlp, an abbreviation for `` no light perception. ''
Blindness is अक्सर used to describe severe visual पुतलियों with दृष्टि.
Those वर्णित as having only light perception have no more sight than the क्षमता to tell light इससे dark and the general direction of a light source.
To determine which लोगों may need special assistance because of उनके विज़ुअल disabilities, विभिन्न governmental jurisdictions have formulated more complex definitions referred to as legal blindness.
in North America and most of Europe, legal blindness is defined as विज़ुअल तीक्ष्णता ( दृष्टि ) of 20/200 ( 6/60 ) or less in the better नजर with best correction संभावित.
This अर्थात् that a legally blind individual would have to स्टैंड from an object to देखिए it—with corrective lenses —with the वही उपाधि of clarity as a normally sighted person could इससे.
In many क्षेत्रों, people with average तीक्ष्णता who nonetheless have a visual field of less than 20 डिग्री ( the norm being 180 degrees ) हैं भी classified as being legally blind.
लगभग ten percent of those deemed legally अँधा, by any measure, have no vision.
The rest have some दृष्टि, from लाइट बोध alone to relatively good acuity.
Low vision is sometimes used to describe visual acuities from 20/70 to 20/200.
By the 10th Revision of the WHO अंतरराष्ट्रीय Statistical वर्गीकरण of रोगों, चोटों और Causes of Death, low vision is defined as visual तीक्ष्णता of less than 20/60 ( 6/18 ), but बराबर to or बेहतर than 20/200 ( 6/60 ), or सम्बन्धित visual फ़ील्ड loss to less than 20 डिग्री, in the बेहतर eye with best possible सुधार.
Blindness is defined as visual acuity of कम than 20/400 ( 6/120 ), or corresponding visual field घाटा to कम than 10 degrees, in the better eye with best possible correction.
अँधा लोगों साथ undamaged eyes may still register light non-visually for the purpose of circadian entrainment to the 24-hour light/dark साईकिल.
लाइट signals लिये this purpose travel through the retinohypothalamic ट्रैक्ट and are not affected by ऑप्टिक nerve damage परे where the retinohypothalamic tract exits.
Earl Simmons ( born December 18, 1970 ), better known by his stage names DMX and अंधेरा man X, is an American rapper and actor.
In 1999, DMX released उसके best-selling एल्बम... And Then There Was x, which प्रदर्शित the hit single `` Party Up ( Up in यहाँ ) ``.
He has acted in films such as पेट, Romeo जरूर Die, Exit Wounds, Cradle 2 The Grave, and Last घंटा.
In 2006, he starred in the वास्तविकता television series, which थी primarily aired on the BET केबल television संजाल.
In 2003, DMX published a किताब of his memoirs entitled, E.A.R.L. : The Autobiography of dmx.
DMX released a mixtape The तौल In as a prelude/promotion towards his एल्बम Undisputed ( 2012 ).
dmx रै sold over 30 million records विश्वव्यापी, making him one of the best-selling hip-hop artists of all time.
Professional certification, व्यापार certification, or professional designation, often पुकारा simply certification or योग्यता, is a designation earned by a person to assure qualification to perform a job or task.
Not all certifications that use post-nominal letters हैं an acknowledgement of educational उपलब्धि, or an एजेंसी appointed to safeguard the पब्लिक interest.
Bugs Bunny is a funny एनिमल cartoon character, best remembered लिये his starring roles in the Looney Tunes and merrie Melodies series of theatrical short films produced by warner Bros. during the सुनहरी आयु of American animation.
His popularity during इस era led to his becoming a कॉरपोरेट mascot of Warner भाईs. Entertainment.
Bugs is an anthropomorphic gray hare or खरगोश who is प्रसिद्ध for his flippant, personality, a pronounced नई York accent, उसके portrayal as a trickster, and his catch phrase `` Eh...
What 's up, दस्तावेज़ ? ''
( प्रायः said जबकि chewing a carrot ).
Bugs रै appeared in अधिक films than any other cartoon अक्षर and is the ninth सबसे portrayed film व्यक्तित्व in the world.
According to his 1990 `` biography '' Bugs बनी : 50 सालो and तभी एक Grey हरे, Bugs was born on July 27, 1940 in ब्रुकलीन, New York in a वारेन under Ebbets Field, home of the Brooklyn डॉजर्स.
In वास्तविकता, he was brought to life by the animators and staff of Leon schlesinger Productions ( बाद Warner Bros. Cartoons ) : including Tex Avery, who directed बग ' early definitive छोटी A Wild Hare ( 1940 ) ; रॉबर्ट McKimson, who created Bugs ' definitive character design ; and Mel Blanc, who originated the voice of Bugs.
the mucous झिल्लियों ( or mucosae or mucosas ; एकवचन mucosa ) हैं linings of mostly endodermal origin, covered in epithelium, which are involved in absorption and secretion.
They line cavities कि हैं exposed to the बाह्य environment and आतंरिक अंगों.
वे हैं at several स्थान संलग्न with skin : at the nostrils, the होठ of the mouth, the eyelids, the कानों, the genital area, और the गुदा.
The sticky, thick द्रव secreted by the mucous membranes and glands is termed mucus.
The term mucous झिल्ली refers to where they are found in the body and नहीं every mucous membrane secretes mucus.
The glans clitoridis, glans penis ( head of the शिश्न ), along साथ the inside of the अग्रत्वचा and the clitoral hood, are mucous membranes.
The urethra is भी a mucous झिल्ली.
the secreted mucus फंदा the pathogens in the body, preventing any further activities of diseases.
A master सार्जेंट is the military rank लिये a senior non-commissioned officer in some हथियारबंद forces.
Cake is a form of bread or bread-like food.
In its modern फ़ॉर्म, it is typically a sweet baked मिठाई.
In इसके oldest forms, cakes यहूद सामान्यतः fried breads or cheesecakes, and सामान्यतः had a disk shape.
Determining whether a दिए food should be classified as bread, केक, or pastry can be difficult.
Modern cake, especially layer cakes, normally contain a combination of flour, शुगर, अंडे, and butter or oil, with some varieties also requiring liquid ( typically milk or जल ) और leavening एजेंटों ( such as yeast or baking powder ).
Flavorful ingredients like fruit purées, nuts, dried or candied fruit, or extracts are प्रायः added, and numerous substitutions लिये the primary ingredients are possible.
Cakes are प्रायः भर with fruit preserves or dessert sauces ( जैसे पेस्ट्री मलाई ), iced with buttercream or अन्य icings, and decorated with marzipan, piped borders or candied fruit.
केक is प्रायः the मिठाई of चुनाव लिये meals at ceremonial अवसरों, particularly विवाह, anniversaries, and जन्मदिन.
There are अनगिनत cake व्यंजनों ; some are bread-like, some rich and elaborate, और many are centuries old.
केक making is no longer a complicated procedure ; while at one time considerable labor गई into केक बनाना ( particularly the whisking of egg foams ), baking equipment and directions have been simplified so that even the सबसे amateur cook may bake a cake.
Tamara Faye LaValley Bakker messner ( March 7, 1942 – July 20, 2007 ) was an American Christian सिंगर, इंजीलवादी, उद्योगों, author, talk show host, and television personality.
She थी married इससे 1961 to 1992 to televangelist, and later convicted felon, Jim bakker.
वो co-hosted with him on The PTL क्लबों ( 1976–1987 ).
वो was a participant in the 2004 season of the reality show The surreal Life.
cambria is a village in कोलंबिया County, Wisconsin, United States.
The population थी 767 at the 2010 census.
It is part of the Madison Metropolitan Statistical Area.
Public policy is the principled guide to action taken by the administrative executive शाखाओं of the state साथ regard to a क्लास of issues in a manner consistent साथ law and संस्थागत customs.
In general, the foundation is the pertinent नेशनल and substantial संवैधानिक law and implementing legislation ऐसे as the us Federal कोड.
Further substrates include both judicial interpretations और regulations which are generally authorized by legislation.
अन्य scholars define it as a system of `` courses of action, regulatory उपायों, laws, और funding priorities concerning a given टॉपिक promulgated by a सरकारी entity or its representatives. ''
पब्लिक policy is commonly embodied `` in constitutions, legislative acts, और judicial decisions. ''
In the United राज्य, इस concept refers नहीं only to the result of policies, लकिन अधिक broadly to the decision-making और विश्लेषण of सरकारी decisions.
As an academic अनुशासन, पब्लिक policy is studied by professors और विद्यार्थी at public policy schools of major universities throughout the देश.
The U.S. पेशेवर association of public नीति practitioners, researchers, scholars, और students is the Association for पब्लिक Policy Analysis and Management.
Digestion is the mechanical and रासायनिक विश्लेषण of food into smaller components that are more easily absorbed into a रक्त stream, लिये instance.
Digestion is a form of catabolism : a breakdown of large food molecules to smaller ones.
When food enters the mouth, digestion of the food starts by the action of mastication, a रूप of mechanical digestion, and the wetting contact of saliva.
Saliva, a liquid secreted by the salivary glands, contains salivary amylase, an एंजाइम which starts the digestion of starch in the खाना.
बाद undergoing mastication and starch पाचन, the food होगा be in the form of a small, round slurry द्रव्यमान called a bolus.
It होगा तब सफर down the ग्रासनाल और into the पेट by the कार्रवाई of peristalsis.
Gastric juice in the stomach starts protein पाचन.
Gastric रस मुख्यतः contains hydrochloric acid and pepsin.
As these दो रसायन may damage the stomach वॉल, mucus is स्रावित by the stomach, providing a slimy layer that अधिनियमों as a shield against the damaging effects of the chemicals.
At the same time प्रोटीन digestion is occurring, mechanical mixing occurs by peristalsis, which are waves of muscular contractions that move along the पेट wall.
This allows the mass of food to further मिक्सर with the digestive enzymes.
After कुछ time ( typically an hour or दो in इंसानो, 4–6 hours in कुत्तो, somewhat shorter duration in house cats ), the resulting thick liquid is पुकारा chyme.
When the pyloric sphincter valve opens, chyme enters the duodenum where it mixes with digestive एंजाइमों from the pancreas, and then गुजरता through the small intestine, in जिससे digestion continues.
When the chyme is fully digested, it is अवशोषित into the blood.
95 % of absorption of nutrients occurs in the small intestine.
जल और खनिज are reabsorbed वापस into the रक्त in the colon ( large intestine ) जहाँ the pH is थोड़ा acidic परिचय 5.6 ~ 6.9.
Some विटामिन, such as biotin और विटामिन K ( K2MK7 ) उत्पादित by bacteria in the colon are also absorbed into the blood in the colon.
बर्बाद material is eliminated इससे the मलाशय during defecation.
Henry VIII ( 28 June 1491 – 28 January 1547 ) was king of England इससे 21 April 1509 जबतक उसके death.
he was रब, and बाद king, of आयरलैंड, as खूब as continuing the नाममात्र claim by the English monarchs to the Kingdom of France.
Henry थी the second monarch of the ट्यूडर dynasty, succeeding उसके father, Henry सात.
Besides उसके six marriages, हेनरी viii is ज्ञात for his role in the विरह of the Church of England from the Roman कैथोलिक Church.
Henry 's struggles with Rome led to the विरह of the गिरिजाघर of इंग्लैण्ड from papal authority, the विच्छेद of the Monasteries, and his अपना establishment as the Supreme सिर of the Church of England.
Yet he remained a believer in core Catholic theological teachings, even after his excommunication from the रोमन Catholic गिरिजाघर.
Henry oversaw the legal union of England and Wales with the कानून in वेल्स Acts 1535 and 1542.
In 1513, the new किंग allied साथ the Holy Roman सम्राट, maximillian I, and invaded फ़्रांस in 1513 साथ a large, well-equipped army, लकिन हासिल छोटी at a considerable वित्तीय cost.
Maximillian, for his part, used the English invasion to उसके अपना ends, और इस prejudiced England 's क्षमता to defeat the फ्रेंच.
इस foray would prove the start of an obsession लिये Henry, जो invaded again in 1544.
This time, Henry 's forces captured the महत्वपूर्ण city of Boulogne, लकिन again the Holy Roman Emperor, Charles v, supported Henry only as long as he needed to और England, strained by the enormous cost of the war, ransomed the city back लिये peace.
His contemporaries considered हेनरी in his prime to be an attractive, educated and accomplished king, and he has महरूम वर्णित as `` one of the most charismatic rulers to बैठना on the English सिंहासन ''.
Besides ruling साथ absolute शक्ति, he also सगाई himself as an author और composer.
His desire to provide England साथ a पुरूष heir – जिससे stemmed partly from personal vanity and partly क्युकी he believed a daughter होता be unable to consolidate the Tudor राजवंश और the नाजुक peace that existed following the Wars of the Roses – led to the two things for जिससे Henry is most remembered : his six marriages और the अंग्रेज़ी Reformation.
Henry became रुग्ण obese and his स्वास्थ्य suffered, contributing to उसके मौत in 1547.
He is frequently characterised in his later जीवन as a lustful, egotistical, हर्ष, और insecure king.
Bongos ( Spanish : bongó ) are an Afro-Cuban percussion यंत्र.
The ड्रम हैं of different size : the larger drum is पुकारा in स्पेनी the hembra ( female ) and the smaller the मर्दाना ( male ).
वे are membranophones, or instruments that create sound by a vibration of a stretched झिल्ली.
Different religious groups include different books in their Biblical canons, in varying आदेश, and sometimes divide or combine books, or incorporate additional material into canonical किताबे.
ईसाई Bibles range इससे the sixty-six books of the प्रोटोस्टेंट canon to the eighty-one books of the Ethiopian परंपरागत Tewahedo Church canon.
The यहूदी बाइबल, or Tanakh, contains twenty-four किताबे divided into three parts ; the five books of the Torah ( `` teaching '' or `` law '' ), the nevi'im ( `` prophets '' ), and the ketuvim ( `` writings '' ).
the पहला भाग of Christian Bibles is the बूढ़ा Testament, which contains, at न्यूनतम, the twenty-four books of the Hebrew Bible divided into thirty-nine books और ordered differently इससे the Hebrew Bible.
The Catholic Church and Eastern Christian churches भी थाम certain deuterocanonical books and passages to be part of the Old वसीयत canon.
The दूसरी भाग is the नई वसीयत, containing twenty-seven किताबे ; the चार canonical gospels, अधिनियमों of the रसूलों, twenty-one Epistles or letters and the Book of Revelation.
the Eastern Orthodox, Oriental Orthodox and Eastern कैथोलिक चर्च may have नाबालिग differences in उनके lists of accepted books.
The सूची given here for ये चर्च is the most inclusive : if at least एक पूर्वी गिरिजाघर स्वीकृत the book it is included here.
The नेशनल flag of the United राज्य of अमेरिका, प्रायः simply referred to as the American flag, consists of thirteen equal horizontal stripes of red ( शीर्ष और नीचे ) alternating with श्वेत, साथ a ब्लू आयताकार in the कैण्टन ( referred to specifically as the `` संघ '' ) bearing fifty small, श्वेत, five-pointed सितारों arranged in nine offset horizontal rows of six stars ( top और bottom ) alternating with rows of five सितारों.
The 50 stars on the flag represent the 50 राज्य of the United राज्य of America and the 13 stripes represent the thirteen British colonies that declared independence from the किंगडम of ग्रेट Britain and became the पहला राज्य in the Union.
Nicknames लिये the flag include the `` सितारों and धारियाँ '', `` Old Glory ``, और `` the Star-Spangled Banner. ''
Dred Scott v. Sandford,, भी known as the Dred Scott Decision, was a landmark निर्णय by the U.S. Supreme अदालत.
It बना दो प्रमुख rulings.
The first ruling was that african-americans were not नागरिकों, and therefore had no standing to sue in संघीय अदालत.
The दूसरी ruling थी that the federal government had no शक्ति to regulate गुलामी in any territory acquired subsequent to the creation of the संयुक्त राज्य.
दिए the first ruling, most विद्वानों और many समकालीन political आंकड़े ( सहित the leadership of the then-new Republican Party ) considered that the दूसरी ruling was नहीं binding precedent, but mere कहावत.
The rationale of the Supreme Court regarding the jurisdictional सत्ताधारी implied that people of African descent ( both slave and फ़्री ) were नहीं protected by the Constitution and were नहीं u.S. citizens.
Since passage of the 14th Amendment to the u.S. Constitution, both rulings are superseded and no longer मान्य precedent.
Nonetheless, the case retains historical significance as it is widely regarded as the worst decision कभी made by the Supreme Court.
The राय of the अदालत, written by मुख्य Justice Roger B. taney, stirred debate.
The decision was 7–2, और every Justice besides Taney लिखा a separate concurrence or dissent.
For the पहला time चूंकि Marbury v. मैडिसन, the Court held an Act of Congress to be unconstitutional.
Dred स्कॉट, an African-American स्लेव, had पूछा a United राज्य सर्किट Court to पुरस्कार him his freedom because he and his निपुण had resided in a state ( Illinois ) और a territory ( Wisconsin territory ) where slavery had been banned.
Chief Justice Roger Taney, लिखने for the अदालत, held that Scott, as a person of African ancestry, थी not a citizen of the संयुक्त States और therefore had no right to मुकदमा in federal court.
This पकड़कर थी contrary to the practice of numerous states at the समय, particularly Free राज्य, जहाँ फ़्री अश्वेतों किया in fact आनंद the rights of citizens, such as the right to vote and hold public दफ्तर.
in what is sometimes considered mere obiter कहावत, the Court गई on to hold कि कॉंग्रेस had no authority to prohibit slavery in federal territories because slaves are निजी property and the Fifth Amendment to the संविधान protects property owners विरूद्ध deprivation of their property without due प्रक्रम of law.
In reaching इस decision, taney had hoped to settle the growing controversy surrounding slavery in the संयुक्त States, but it had the opposite effect.
The निर्णय was fiercely debated across the country, as perhaps best सरंचनाओं by the Lincoln–Douglas debates of 1858.
अब्राहम Lincoln, the second-ever Republican nominee for President, was able to win the अध्यक्षीय election in 1860 ; the stopping of the further विस्तार of गुलामी was a key रिपब्लिकन party plank.
The decision निभाई an important role in the timing of state secession and the सिविल युद्ध, although it is extreme to कह the decision `` caused '' the युद्ध.
the decision is acknowledged for the influential role it played in altering the national राजनैतिक landscape : it is credited साथ launching Abraham Lincoln’s national political career and ultimately allowing for his election.
Although the परम् अदालत has never explicitly overruled the dred Scott मामला, the Court stated in the Slaughter-House मामले कि at तनिक one part of it था already been overruled by the Fourteenth amendment in 1868, which begins by stating, `` All persons born or देशीयकृत in the United राज्य, और विषय to the jurisdiction thereof, हैं citizens of the संयुक्त States और of the State wherein they reside. ''
To which the Court noted:
the first अवलोकन we have to make on this clause is, कि it puts at rest दोनो the सवाल जिससे we stated to have been the subject of मतभेद of opinion.
It declares that persons may be citizens of the United राज्य without regard to their citizenship of a particular राज्य, and it overturns the Dred स्कॉट निर्णय by making सब व्यक्तियों born within the United States and subject to its क्षेत्राधिकार citizens of the United States.
वहीँ are दर्जनों of पड़ोस in Columbus, Ohio.
कुछ are मुश्किल to define, as they encompass विशाल areas developed at different times—often with sub-neighborhoods within them.
Borders can also change based on लोकप्रिय समझना of the area, as खूब as the whims of the residents.
इस article uses data from the Datasourcecolumbus Web site, Spotcrime.com, HelloColumbus.com, as well as the various Columbus Area Commissions to define the various areas.
Excerpts and border information are drawn directly from the प्रमुख आलेख.
a biologist is a scientist who studies जीना organisms and their relationship to their environment.
biologists शामिल in basic research attempt to discover underlying mechanisms कि govern how जीवों work.
biologists involved in applied research attempt to develop or improve medical, industrial or agricultural processes.
Martinus विलेम Beijerinck, a botanist और microbiologist
Base jumping from a cliff in a wingsuit.
आधार कूद, also sometimes written as b.a.s.e. कूद, is an activity जहाँ भागीदार jump from फिक्स्ड objects और use a पैराशूट to break their fall.
`` BASE '' is an एक्रोनिम that stands for चार categories of fixed objects from which एक can jump : इमारतें, antennas, spans ( पुलों ), और धरती ( cliffs ).
The British Shorthair is a domesticated बिल्ली whose सुविधाएँ make it a popular breed in cat shows.
it has been the most popular breed of cat registered by the uk 's Governing Council of the Cat फैंसी ( GCCF ) since 2001, when it overtook the पारसी breed.
The USA Basketball Men 's Senior National Team, commonly known as the संयुक्त राज्य मेन 's नेशनल basketball team, represents the United States of America in international men 's बास्केट.
the USA is the most कामयाब team in international प्रतियोगिता, जीतना medals in all सत्रह Olympic tournaments it has डाला, coming दूर with चौदह golds.
Two of its gold medal-winning squads were inducted to the Naismith Memorial बास्केट हॉल of Fame as teams in August 2010—the 1960 टोली, which प्रदर्शित six Hall of Famers ( 4 players, 2 coaches ), and the 1992 `` सपना Team '', featuring 14 Hall of famers ( 11 players, 3 coaches ).
The संयुक्त States is फिलहाल क्रमित first in the FIBA World rankings.
Traditionally रचित of amateur players, a 1989 rule change by fiba allowed USA Basketball to field टीमों with पेशेवर players.
The first such team, ज्ञात as the `` सपना Team '', won the gold medal at the 1992 गर्मियाँ ओलंपिक in Barcelona, स्पेन, playing in the फाइनल against Croatia.
With the परिचय of professionals, the टोली was able to spark a second run of dominance after capturing तभी a कांस्य medal in 1988.
A team of पेशेवर players competed at the 1994 fiba World चैंपियनशिप, finishing first.
in 1996, 2000, 2008, and 2012 the USA again captured सुनहरा medals.
Facing increased प्रतियोगिता, the यूएसए failed to win a पदक at the 2002 FIBA World Championship, finishing sixth.
The 2004 गर्मियाँ ओलम्पिक टोली खोया three खेल on its way to a bronze medal, a रिकार्ड that represented more नुकसान in a single year than the country 's Olympic teams था suffered in all previous Olympiads combined.
संकल्पित to put an end to these failures, USA Basketball initiated a long-term project aimed at creating better, अधिक cohesive teams.
The USA जीती its first seven खेल at the 2006 FIBA World Championship in Japan before losing विरूद्ध यूनानियों in the semi-finals, ending the competition with the bronze medal.
The USA जीती gold two सालो later, though, at the 2008 Summer Olympics with a प्रबल performance.
This success was followed up at the 2010 FIBA World Championship, where despite fielding a roster featuring no खिलाड़ी from the 2008 Olympic टोली, the USA did not lose a single game en रूट to defeating मेजबान Turkey for the gold medal.
The USA जारी this streak of दबदबा by going undefeated और capturing gold once अधिक at the 2012 गर्मियाँ Olympics.
the Steelers Super Bowl XL रिंग
जो theismann 's Super Bowl Ring ( right )
the Super Bowl ring is an award in the National फ़ुटबॉल लीग given to the winners of the league 's annual World चैंपियनशिप game, the Super Bowl.
Since only one विंस Lombardi Trophy is awarded to the team ( ownership ) itself, the Super Bowl ring offers a collectible memento लिये the वास्तविक players and team members to keep for themselves to symbolize the विजय.
Image showing the six most आम speleothems साथ labels.
to view labels.
The Witch 's उंगली in the Carlsbad Caverns
A stalagmite ( or ; from the Greek σταλαγμίτης - stalagmitês, from σταλαγμίας - stalagmias, `` dropping, trickling '' ) is a प्रकार of speleothem that rises इससे the मंजिल of a limestone cave due to the टपकता of mineralized समाधान और the deposition of calcium carbonate.
इस stalagmite formation occurs तभी under निश्चित pH conditions भीतर the भूमिगत cavern.
The corresponding गठन on the छत of a गुफा is known as a stalactite.
if these formations grow together, the परिणाम is known as a कालम.
The Hall of Giants in the carlsbad caverns
Stalagmites should normally not be touched, since the rock buildup is formed by minerals precipitating out of the water solution onto the old surface ; skin oils can alter the surface where the mineral जल will cling, thus affecting the growth of the formation.
oils and dirt इससे human contact can also stain the formation and change इसके color permanently.
Similar structures can also form in lava tubes, associated with some types of lavacicles, although the mechanism of formation is very different.
Stalactites and stalagmites can भी form on concrete ceilings and floors, हालांकि they form much more rapidly वहीँ than in the natural cave environment.
The largest stalagmite in the world is ऊँची and is located in the cave of Cueva Martin Infierno, क्यूबा.
In the Zagros kyu of south इरान, approximately from the प्राचीन city of Bishapur, in the Shapur cave on the fourth of five terraces स्टैंड the 3rd century CE statue of Shapur I, second ruler of the Sassanid Empire.
The statue, carved from एक stalagmite, is nearly high.
How I Met Your माँ is an American sitcom that premiered on CBS on सितंबर 19, 2005.
The show was created by Craig Thomas और कार्टर bays.
How I Met Your Mother is framed by the साल 2030, when Ted Mosby ( voiced by Bob Saget ) gathers his daughter ( lyndsy fonseca ) and son ( David Henrie ) to बताना them the story of how he met their mother.
We flashback to where it begins in 2005 with Ted Mosby ( Josh radnor ) as a सिंगल, 27-year-old architect living साथ his दो best friends from Wesleyan विश्वविद्यालयों, Marshall Eriksen ( Jason Segel ), a law student, and Lily Aldrin ( alyson Hannigan ), a kindergarten teacher, who have been dating for लगभग नौ years जब Marshall proposes.
Their engagement कल्याणकारी Ted to think परिचय finding उसके own soul mate, much to the disgust of his friend बार्नी stinson ( Neil पैट्रिक Harris ), a womanizer with an unnamed corporate job.
और thus, Ted begins his search लिये his perfect mate, और meets रोबिन Scherbatsky ( कोबी Smulders ), whom he also befriends.
the 100th episode of How I Met Your Mother aired on जनवरी 11, 2010.
On दिसम्बर 21, 2012, the series थी renewed for a नवीं season.
On January 30, 2013, it was announced कि Season 9 will be इसके फाइनल ऋतु.
Gringo (,, ) is a कठबोली स्पेनी and पुर्तगाली word used in Ibero-America, to denote foreigners, प्रायः from the United States.
The term can be applied to someone who is दरअसल a foreigner, or it can denote a strong association or assimilation into foreign ( particularly us ) समाज and culture.
In Spanish it does नहीं have a negative connotation.
Roger Axtell, a travel etiquette expert, notes कि `` [ t ] he शब्द gringo is नहीं necessarily a bad word.
It is slang but is derogatory only in its use और context. ''
The word was used in Spain long before it crossed the Atlantic to denote foreign, non-native speakers of Spanish.
the great white shark, carcharodon carcharias, also known as the great white, white pointer, white shark, or श्वेत death, is a species of large lamniform shark which can be found in the coastal सतह waters of all the major oceans.
The great श्वेत shark is mainly ज्ञात for इसके size, with the largest individuals ज्ञात to have approached or exceeded in length, and in वज़न.
This shark पहुँच its परिपक्वता around 15 सालो of आयु और can have a जीवन स्पैन of over 30 years.
The ग्रेट white shark is arguably the world 's largest known extant macropredatory fish, and is एक of the primary परभक्षी of समुद्री mammals.
it is also ज्ञात to prey upon a variety of other marine पशु, including मछली and seabirds.
It is the तभी known surviving प्रजाति of its genus Carcharodon, and is क्रमित first in having the सबसे हमले on humans.
The आईयूसीएन सूची the great white shark as a vulnerable species, while it is included in Appendix ii of CITES.
The bestselling अनोखा Jaws by Peter benchley and the subsequent ब्लॉकबस्टर film by स्टीवन Spielberg चित्रित the great श्वेत शार्क as a `` ferocious man भक्षक ``.
In वास्तविकता, इंसानो हैं not the preferred शिकार of the ग्रेट श्वेत shark.
the संयुक्त राज्य Armed शक्तियां are the military forces of the United States of America.
They consist of the फौज, Navy, Marine Corps, Air फ़ोर्स, and coast गार्ड.
The U.S. has a दमदार tradition of civilian control of the सैन्य.
The अध्यक्ष is the सैन्य 's overall head, और helps form military नीति with the U.S. विभाग of Defense ( DoD ), a संघीय कार्यपालिका विभाग, acting as the principal organ by which military policy is carried out.
the dod is headed by the Secretary of Defense, who is a civilian और Cabinet member.
The Defense Secretary is second in the सैन्य 's chain of कमांड, बस नीचे the President, and serves as the प्रिंसिपल सहायक to the President in सब DoD-related matters.
to निर्देशांक military कार्रवाई साथ कूटनीति, the President has an सलाहकार National सुरक्षा Council headed by a National Security Advisor.
Both the President and Secretary of Defense are advised by a seven-member Joint chiefs of स्टाफ, which includes the head of प्रत्येक of the Defense Department 's service शाखाओं as खूब as the मुख्य of the नेशनल Guard ब्यूरो.
Leadership is provided by the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff और the Vice अध्यक्ष of the Joint chiefs of Staff.
The कमांडेंट of the Coast Guard is not a सदस्य of the संयुक्त Chiefs of स्टाफ.
All of the branches work together दौरान operations and संयुक्त missions, under the Unified Combatant Commands, अंतर्गत the प्राधिकार of the Secretary of रक्षा with the exception of the Coast Guard.
The Coast गार्ड falls अंतर्गत the administration of the Department of Homeland Security and receives इसके operational orders from the सचिव of मातृभूमि Security.
The Coast Guard may be transferred to the विभाग of the Navy by the President or Congress during a time of war.
सब five armed सेवाएं are among the seven uniformed services of the United States ; the अन्य are the U.S. Public स्वास्थ्य Service Commissioned corps and the National Oceanic और वायुमंडलीय Administration commissioned corps.
From the time of its inception, the military played a decisive role in the इतिहास of the United States.
A sense of national unity and identity थी forged as a result of victory in the First Barbary War and the Second Barbary युद्ध.
Even so, the Founders were संदिग्ध of a स्थाई military force and not जबतक the outbreak of संसार War II did a large खड़ा army become officially established.
the National सुरक्षा Act of 1947, अपनाया following World War II and दौरान the Cold War 's onset, निर्मित the modern U.S. military framework ; the Act मिलाया previously Cabinet-level Department of War and the विभाग of the नेवी into the National Military Establishment ( renamed the Department of Defense in 1949 ), headed by the Secretary of Defense ; and निर्मित the Department of the Air Force and National Security Council.
the U.S. military is one of the largest militaries in terms of क्रमांक of कर्मियों.
It draws its manpower from a विशाल pool of paid volunteers ; although conscription रै been प्रयुक्त in the past in various टाइम्स of both war and peace, it has not been प्रयुक्त since 1972.
as of 2013, the u.S. spends about $ 554.2 billion annually to fund its सैन्य forces, और appropriates approximately $ 88.5 billion to fund Overseas Contingency Operations.
put together, the U.S. constitutes roughly 43 percent of the world 's military expenditures.
the U.S. हथियारबंद Forces as a whole possess large quantities of advanced और powerful उपकरण, along साथ widespread placement of forces around the संसार, giving them significant सामर्थ्य in दोनो defense and शक्ति projection.
Freedom of speech is the political right to communicate one 's राय and विचार using one 's देह और property to anyone who is willing to प्राप्त them.
The term freedom of अभिव्यक्ति is sometimes used synonymously, but शामिल any अधिनियम of seeking, receiving और imparting सूचना or ideas, regardless of the medium used.
in practice, the right to स्वतंत्रता of speech is not निरपेक्ष in any country and the right is commonly subject to limitations, as with libel, slander, obscenity, राजद्रोह ( including, लिये example inciting ethnic hatred ), copyright उल्लंघन, revelation of information that is classified or वरना.
The right to स्वतंत्रता of expression is recognized as a human right under Article 19 of the सार्वभौमिक Declaration of इंसान Rights and recognized in international इंसान rights विधि in the International Covenant on सिविल and Political अधिकारों ( ICCPR ).
आलेख 19 of the ICCPR states कि `` [ e ] veryone shall have the right to hold राय without interference '' and `` everyone shall have the सही to freedom of expression ; this right shall include स्वतंत्रता to seek, receive और impart information और ideas of all kinds, regardless of frontiers, either orally, in writing or in print, in the form of art, or through any अन्य media of उसके choice ''.
आलेख 19 goes on to say that the exercise of these rights carries `` special कर्तव्य and responsibilities `` and may `` इसलिए be विषय to certain प्रतिबंध '' जब necessary `` [ f ] or आदर of the अधिकारों or प्रतिष्ठा of others '' or `` [ f ] or the सुरक्षा of नेशनल security or of public order ( अनुक्रम पब्लिक ), or of public health or morals ''.
Freedom of speech may be legally curtailed in some religious विधिक प्रणालियों and in धर्मनिरपेक्ष jurisdictions where it is found to cause religious offense, such as the British जातिगत and Religious Hatred Act 2006.
the बिग Bang Theory लोगो.
The बिग Bang सिद्धान्त is an American comedy television श्रेणी created और executive उत्पादित by Chuck Lorre और विधेयक Prady.
जैसे the नाम of the series itself, साथ the exception of the first episode— '' Pilot '' —episode शीर्षक of The Big बंग सिद्धान्त always start साथ `` the '' and resemble the name of a scientific principle, theory or experiment, whimsically referencing a प्लाट point or quirk.
, 133 episodes have aired.
the Big Bang सिद्धान्त has been renewed for a seventh season.
ड्वाइट दाउद `` Ike '' Eisenhower ( pronounced, ; अक्तूबर 14, 1890 – कूच 28, 1969 ) was the 34th President of the United States from 1953 until 1961.
He had previously महरूम a five-star general in the United राज्य Army during World War ii और परोसा as Supreme Commander of the Allied शक्तियां in Europe ; he had responsibility for नियोजन और supervising the invasion of North अफ़्रीकी in Operation Torch in 1942–43 और the successful आक्रमण of France और Germany in 1944–45 इससे the पश्चिमी सामने.
In 1951, he became the पहला supreme commander of NATO.
आइज़नहावर was of Pennsylvania Dutch ancestry and was reared in a large family in Kansas by अभिभावक with a robust कार्य ethic and धार्मिक पृष्ठभूमि.
As एक of six sons, he थी conditioned by a प्रतिस्पर्धी माहौल जिससे instilled self-reliance.
he attended और ग्रैजुएट from वेस्ट पाइंट और later married and had दो sons.
After World War ii, आइज़नहावर served as फौज Chief of Staff अंतर्गत President Harry S. Truman, then assumed the post of President at Columbia University.
आइज़नहावर डाला the 1952 अध्यक्षीय race as a Republican to counter the non-interventionism of सीनेटर रॉबर्ट A. Taft और to crusade against `` साम्यवादी, Korea और भ्रष्टाचार ''.
He won by a landslide, defeating Democrat Adlai stevenson और ending दो दशकों of the नई Deal Coalition.
In the first साल of उसके प्रेसिडेंसी, Eisenhower deposed the leader of Iran in the 1953 Iranian coup d'état and used nuclear threats to conclude the Korean War with China.
His नई Look policy of नाभिकीय deterrence gave प्रधानता to inexpensive नाभिकीय weapons while reducing the funding लिये conventional सैन्य शक्तियां ; the goal was to रखना दबाव on the Soviet Union और reduce संघीय deficits.
in 1954, Eisenhower पहला articulated the domino theory in his description of the threat प्रस्तुत by the स्प्रेड of communism.
The Congress agreed to his request in 1955 for the Formosa Resolution, which सक्रिय him to prevent चाइनीज communist aggression against Chinese nationalists and established the U.S. नीति of defending Taiwan.
When the soviets launched Sputnik in 1957, he had to खेल catch-up in the space race.
आइज़नहावर forced Israel, the uk, और फ़्रांस to end their invasion of Egypt during the स्वेज Crisis of 1956.
In 1958, he sent 15,000 US सैनिकों to Lebanon to prevent the pro-Western government from falling to a Nasser -inspired क्रान्ति.
निकट the end of his पद, उसके efforts to set up a summit meeting with the soviets collapsed because of the U-2 incident.
on the domestic सामने, he covertly opposed Joseph मैकार्थी and contributed to the समाप्त of McCarthyism by openly invoking the modern विस्तारित संस्करण of कार्यपालिका विशेषाधिकार.
he वरना बाएँ most राजनैतिक activity to his Vice अध्यक्ष, Richard Nixon.
He was a moderate conservative who continued नई सौदे एजेंसियों and expanded Social Security.
Among his enduring innovations, he launched the Interstate Highway प्रणाली ; the Defense Advanced Research प्रोजेक्ट Agency ( DARPA ), which led to the internet, among many invaluable आउटपुट ; the National Aeronautics and स्पेस Administration ( नासा ), driving शांतिपूर्ण discovery in space ; the स्थापना of strong science education via the नेशनल Defense Education अधिनियम ; और प्रोत्साहित peaceful use of नाभिकीय power via amendments to the Atomic उर्जा Act.
In social नीति, he sent federal सैनिकों to Little Rock, Arkansas, for the first समय चूंकि Reconstruction to enforce संघीय court आदेश to desegregate पब्लिक schools.
he also हस्ताक्षरित civil अधिकारों विधान in 1957 and 1960 to protect the right to vote.
He implemented desegregation of the armed forces in two सालो and made five नियुक्ति to the परम् Court.
He थी the first term-limited president in accordance with the 22nd Amendment.
Eisenhower 's two terms were peaceful ones लिये the most part and saw considerable आर्थिक prosperity except for a sharp मंदी in 1958–59.
Eisenhower is प्रायः ranked highly among the U.S. Presidents.
Air Force One is the official air ट्रैफ़िक control call sign of a United States एयर Force aircraft carrying the President of the संयुक्त States.
In आम parlance the term refers to those Air Force aircraft specifically designed, built, and प्रयुक्त लिये the purpose of transporting the अध्यक्ष.
the Presidential aircraft is a prominent प्रतीक of the American प्रेसिडेंसी and इसके power.
The idea of designating विशिष्ट सैन्य वायुयान to हस्तांतरण the President arose in 1943, जब officials of the United States फौज एयर शक्तियां – the predecessor to the U.S. Air Force – became concerned साथ relying on commercial एयरलाइंस to transport the अध्यक्ष.
a C-87 मुक्तिवादी Express was reconfigured for उपयोग as a presidential transport ; however, it was अस्वीकृत by the Secret Service amid concerns over the वायुयान 's safety record.
A c-54 Skymaster was then converted for presidential use ; this वायुयान, उतावले the पवित्र Cow, transported President Franklin D. Roosevelt to the yalta Conference in फ़रवरी 1945, and was subsequently used लिये another दो years by President Harry S. Truman.
The `` Air Force एक '' call sign was created after a 1953 incident during which a flight carrying President Dwight D. Eisenhower entered the same airspace as a वाणिज्यिक airline उड़ान using the same कॉल sign.
Several aircraft have been used as Air फ़ोर्स One since the creation of the presidential fleet, including दो Boeing 707s introduced in the 1960s और 1970s, respectively ; since 1990, the अध्यक्षीय fleet has consisted of two Boeing vc-25as – specifically configured, अत्यधिक customized बोइंग 747-200b series aircraft.
the एयर Force is looking into replacing the two VC-25 वायुयान with three replacement aircraft beginning in 2017.
a wedding anniversary is the anniversary of the date a wedding took प्लेस.
Traditional names exist for सबसे of them : लिये उदाहरण, 50 years of marriage is called a `` सुनहरी wedding anniversary '' or बस a `` golden anniversary ''.
A scanner with Duplexing Automatic दस्तावेज़ Feeder.
In multifunction or all-in-one printers, fax machines, photocopiers and scanners, an स्वचालित दस्तावेज़ feeder or ADF is a feature which takes अनेक pages और feeds the paper one page at a time into a scanner or copier, allowing the user to scan, and thereby नक़ल, print, or fax, multiple-page documents without having to हस्तचालित replace each पेज.
Most copiers allow scanning on the flatbed or platen ( the `` कांच '' ) or through a document फीडर.
The vast majority of fax मशीने have an ADF, allowing the unattended sending of multi-page faxes.
Due to the ubiquity of ADF in fax machines, कुछ fax machine स्वामी use the फैक्स machine as a scanner, faxing multi-page documents to themselves.
Document feeders हैं described by speed, in pages per minute or ppm, and capacity, प्रायः in a range from 10 चादरें to 200.
There are two kinds of document feeders capable of two-sided ( duplex ) scanning : a reversing स्वचालित दस्तावेज़ फीडर or RADF scans one side of a page, तब flips it और scans the other side.
A duplexing automatic दस्तावेज़ feeder or dadf scans both sides in एक pass.
The advantage of the DADF is faster speed for two-sided originals.
radfs और DADFs are rated in बिंब per minute ( IPM ), the number of sides वे can scan each minute.
Fair Park is a recreational and शैक्षणिक जटिल स्तिथ in Dallas, Texas ( USA ).
The जटिल is registered as a डलास Landmark, National Historic Landmark और is home to nine museums, six प्रदर्शन facilities, a लैगून, and the largest फेरिस व्हील in North America.
अनेक of the buildings on the complex were constructed for the Texas centennial Exposition in 1936 which drew over six लाख visitors.
Most of the buildings built for the exposition still survive and it is recognized as a significant उदाहरण of Art डेको architecture.
Fair Park has महरूम designated a ग्रेट Place in America by the अमरीकी नियोजन Association.
The अमरीकी नियोजन Association ( APA ) “is an independent, not-for-profit educational organization कि provides leadership in the development of vital communities.”
The Great Places in अमरीकी program helps to celebrate areas with “exemplary character, quality, and planning.”
Being designated as a Great Place in अमेरिका, Fair Park was एक of only टेन शहरों chosen in 2011.
San Jose ( ; Spanish : St. जोसेफ ) is the third-largest city in California, the tenth-largest in the U.S., and the काउंटी सीट of Santa Clara County which is located at the southern end of सैन Francisco खाड़ी.
San Jose is the largest city भीतर Silicon Valley, which is a major component of the greater सैन Francisco खाड़ी क्षेत्रफल, a region of 8.4 लाख people and the पांचवां largest metropolitan क्षेत्रफल ( CSA ) in the संयुक्त राज्य.
it is the largest city in Northern कैलिफ़ोर्निया.
सैन Jose was founded on नवम्बर 29, 1777, as El Pueblo de San José de Guadalupe, the first civilian town in the Spanish colony of Nueva California, which later became alta California.
The नगर served as a खेती community to support Spanish military installations at San Francisco और Monterey.
जब California gained statehood in 1850, San Jose served as इसके पहला पूंजी.
बाद more than 150 सालो as a small farming city, सैन Jose और the surrounding Santa Clara Valley became the last ( और largest ) संलग्न area of undeveloped जमीन surrounding the सैन Francisco Bay.
सैन Jose अनुभवी increased demand लिये housing from soldiers and veterans returning from World War II.
San Jose then continued इसके aggressive expansion during the 1950s and 1960s by annexing अधिक जमीन area.
The rapid विकास of the high-technology and electronics उद्योग further accelerated the transition from an agricultural center, to an urbanized metropolitan क्षेत्रफल.
By the 1990s, सैन जोस 's location within the booming local technology उद्योग अर्जित the नगर its उपनाम, Capital of Silicon Valley.
San Jose now maintains global city status और is the largest नगर in the San Francisco खाड़ी क्षेत्रफल in शर्तें of population, land क्षेत्रफल, and industrial development.
The u.S. Census Bureau reported the population of the city to be 945,942 as of the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी.
As of April 2013, the estimated population of सैन Jose was 984,000.
San Jose, along साथ the सांता Clara Valley, experienced परिचय half a सदी of spectacular suburban sprawl, with characteristics of intense urbanization similar to the लॉस एंजिल्स area of दक्षिणी कैलिफ़ोर्निया.
The city रै taken definite steps to avoid बनने `` L.A. उत्तर ''.
However, the sprawl in San Jose is worse than in Los Angeles by उपायों such as population घनत्व and public पारगमन सुरक्षा, investment, और ridership.
Europe depicted by Antwerp cartographer Abraham Ortelius in 1595
The history of Europe covers the लोगों inhabiting the European continent since it was first आबादी in प्रागैतिहासिक times to present, with the first Homo sapiens arriving between 45,000 and 25,000 bc.
the earliest settlers to Prehistoric Europe आए during the paleolithic era.
The arrival of कृषि around 7000 BC ushered in the neolithic आयु.
Neolithic Europe lasted लिये 4000 सालो, overlapping साथ metal-using cultures that gradually स्प्रेड throughout the continent.
Technological advances during the prehistoric आयु tended to arrive इससे the Middle East, spreading gradually to the northwest.
Some of the best-known civilizations of prehistoric यूरोपीय were मिनोआई and Mycenaean, जिससे flourished दौरान the कांस्य Age until वे collapsed in a short period of time around 1200 BC.
The period known as classical antiquity began with the rise of the city-states of Ancient Greece.
Greek influence reached इसके zenith अंतर्गत the expansive साम्राज्य of Alexander the Great, spreading throughout Asia.
उत्तरी and पश्चिमी Europe यहूद dominated by the la Tène संस्कृति, a precursor to the Celts.
Rome, a small city-state traditionally founded in 753 BC, would grow to become the रोमन Republic in 509 BC and होता succeed यूनानी संस्कृति as the dominant Mediterranean civilization.
The events of the rule of Julius Caesar led to reorganization of the Republic into the Roman Empire.
the empire was later divided by the सम्राट Diocletian into the Western and Eastern empires.
दौरान the बाद सालो of the Roman Empire, the germanic peoples of northern Europe grew in strength and repeated हमले led to the Fall of the पश्चिमी Roman साम्राज्य in AD 476, a तिथि जिससे traditionally marks the समाप्त of the classical period and the प्रारंभ of the Middle Ages.
During the Middle Ages, the Eastern रोमन Empire बच, though आधुनिक historians refer to इस state as the Byzantine Empire.
In Western Europe, Germanic peoples स्थानांतरित into positions of शक्ति in the remnants of the former Western Roman साम्राज्य and established kingdoms and empires of उनके own.
Of all of the germanic peoples, the Franks would rise to a स्थिति of Hegemony over western Europe, the Frankish साम्राज्य reaching इसके peak अंतर्गत Charlemagne around AD 800.
francia was divided into several parts ; West Francia would evolve into the Kingdom of France, जबकि East francia would evolve into the पावन Roman Empire, a precursor to modern जर्मनी.
the अंग्रेजों Isles यहूद the site of several large-scale migrations.
देशी Celtic peoples had been marginalized during the काल of Roman Britain, and when the Romans abandoned the अंग्रेजों Isles during the 400s, waves of Germanic Anglo-Saxons migrated to southern ब्रिटेन and established a series of petty kingdoms in कया would eventually develop into the Kingdom of इंग्लैण्ड by ad 927.
During this period, the Kingdom of Poland and किंगडम of Hungary ( 1000–1945 ) यहूद organized as well.
the viking आयु, a period of migrations of Scandinavian peoples, वर्चस्व the काल इससे the late 700s to the मध्य 1000s.
Chief among the Viking states थी the Empire of Cnut the ग्रेट, a Danish leader who would become किंग of England, Denmark, and Norway.
The Normans, a Viking people जो settled in उत्तरी France and founded the duchy of normandy, would have a significant प्रभाव on many parts of Europe, from the Norman conquest of England to Southern Italy and सिसिली.
Another Scandinavian people, the Rus ' people, होता go on to मिला Kievan Rus ', an early राज्य which was a precursor लिये the modern देश of Russia.
As the Viking Age drew to a close, the period known as the Crusades, a series of religiously-motivated military expeditions originally intended to bring the Levant back into Christian नियम, began.
Several Crusader states यहूद संस्थापित in the eastern Mediterranean.
ये यहूद all short-lived.
the Crusaders would have a profound impact on many parts of यूरोपीय.
Their Sack of Constantinople in 1204 brought an abrupt end to the बीज़ान्टिन Empire.
Extinct dog breeds is a compilation of श्वान breeds that have become extinct.
Wii बोलो is a microphone accessory for Nintendo 's वी video game console.
Connected to the console via USB, the यंत्र can be placed near the वीडियो display, allowing voice chat to be conducted with the संपूर्ण room.
The device features an LED to indicate when the माइक्रोफोन is active.
Wii बोलो was घोषित at निन्टेंडो 's 2008 E3 media drug.
It was released separately and bundled with Animal Crossing : City Folk on November 16, 2008, in North America, और was released on December 5, 2008, in यूरोपीय.
The Wii बोलो accessory is succeeded by the अंतःस्थापित microphone on the Wii U 's GamePad controller.
Nissan Intelligent key®
a smart key is an electronic अभिगम और authorization system जिससे is available as an option or standard in several cars.
It was पहला विकसित by Siemens in the mid-1990s और introduced by mercedes-benz अंतर्गत the नाम `` Keyless Go '' in 1998 on the W220 S-Class following इसके design पेटेंट filed by Daimler-Benz on may 17, 1997.
univisión ( ) is a spanish-language टेलीविज़न संजाल in the United States.
The संजाल is primarily dedicated for Latin अमरीकी families जो reside in the United States.
It has the largest audience of spanish-language टेलीविज़न दर्शक in the world according to Nielsen ratings.
Randy falco, ( CEO as of June 29, 2011 ) COO, has been in charge of the company since the प्रस्थान of univision संचार president और सीईओ Joe Uva in अप्रैल 2010.
In recent years the network has reached parity with the U.S. 's पाँच प्रमुख English-language television संजाल, and is often a दमदार fifth, outranking the cw, with कुछ fourth-place weekly placings, और as of 2012, even first place rankings for individual कार्यक्रम over all पाँच अंग्रेज़ी networks due to the network 's consistent अनुसूची of new telenovelas all 52 weeks of the year.
Univisión is headquartered in नई York, and has इसके प्रमुख studios, production सुविधाएं, and operations in doral, Florida, a उपनगरीय of Miami.
in 2009, another television studio was announced, Univision Studios, to be built in doral.
univision is available on cable and satellite in most of the country, साथ local stations in over 50 markets साथ विशाल Hispanic and लातीनी populations and a national केबल network फीड distributed in markets बगैर either the availability or the demand लिये a locally-based स्टेशन.
सबसे of these stations air full लोकल news and अन्य local programming in addition to network shows, and in major markets such as लॉस Angeles, New यॉर्क, and मियामी the लोकल newscasts carried by the network 's owned-and-operated station ( O & O ) stations are equally competitive साथ their English-language counterparts ratings-wise.
univisión was acquired on March 29, 2007 by a consortium led by Haim saban 's saban Capital Group ( जो had previously owned the entity saban Entertainment ), TPG पूंजी, L.P., Providence Equity साझेदार, Madison Dearborn साझेदार, and Thomas H. Lee Partners for $ 13.7 अरब or $ 36.25 per share plus $ 1.4 billion in acquired कर्ज़.
The buyout left the कम्पनी with a debt level of twelve times इसके annual cash flow, which was twice the norm in buyouts किया over the previous two years.
Artist 's conception of a आदिग्रह disk
the गठन and of the Solar प्रणाली is अनुमानित to have begun 4.6 अरब सालो पहले with the gravitational collapse of a small भाग of a दानव molecular cloud.
Most of the collapsing mass collected in the centre, forming the Sun, जबकि the बाकी flattened into a protoplanetary disk out of which the planets, moons, asteroids, और other small Solar System bodies formed.
This widely accepted model, known as the nebular परिकल्पना, was first developed in the 18th century by Emanuel Swedenborg, Immanuel Kant, और pierre-simon लाप्लास.
Its subsequent development रै interwoven a किस्में of scientific disciplines including astronomy, physics, geology, and planetary विज्ञान.
Since the भोर of the स्पेस आयु in the 1950s और the discovery of extrasolar planets in the 1990s, the model रै been दोनो challenged and परिष्कृत to खाता for new observations.
the Solar System रै evolved considerably चूंकि its आरंभिक formation.
Many moons have formed from circling discs of गैस and dust around उनके parent ग्रह, जबकि अन्य moons are thought to have formed independently and later been captured by their planets.
Still others, as the धरती 's चंद्रमा, may be the result of giant collisions.
Collisions between bodies have occurred continually up to the present day and have been सेंट्रल to the एवोल्यूशन of the Solar System.
The स्थितियाँ of the planets प्रायः shifted, and planets have switched places.
This planetary migration is now thought to have महरूम responsible लिये much of the सौर System 's early evolution.
In roughly 5 अरब सालो, the सूर्य होगा cool और expand outward many टाइम्स its वर्तमान diameter ( बनने a रेड giant ), before ढलाई बंद its बाहरी layers as a planetary nebula and leaving पीछे a तारकीय remnant known as a white dwarf.
in the far distant future, the gravity of passing stars will gradually reduce the Sun 's retinue of planets.
Some ग्रह होगा be destroyed, अन्य ejected into अंतरतारकीय space.
Ultimately, over the कोर्स of tens of billions of years, it is संभावित that the Sun होगा be left with none of the original bodies in orbit around it.
The Trial ( Kafka 's original German शीर्षक :, later as, और ) is a अनोखा written by Franz Kafka in 1914 और 1915 but नहीं published until 1925.
एक of Kafka 's best-known works, it tells the स्टोरी of a man arrested and prosecuted by a remote, inaccessible authority, साथ the nature of उसके अपराधों revealed to neither him nor the reader.
जैसे काफ्का 's other novels, The विचारण was never समाप्त, हालांकि it करता include a अध्याय जिससे brings the story to an end.
Because of this वहीँ हैं certain inconsistencies which exist within the novel, such as disparities in timing in addition to other discontinuities in narration.
After काफ्का 's death in 1924 his dost and literary executor Max Brod edited the text लिये प्रकाशन by Verlag Die Schmiede.
The original manuscript is आयोजित at the संग्रहालय of आधुनिक Literature, Marbach am Neckar, Germany.
In 1999, the किताब थी listed in Le mondes 100 Books of the Century and as No. 2 of the Best जर्मनी Novels of the Twentieth सदी.
लिसा Anne Loeb ( born March 11, 1968 ) is an American singer-songwriter और actress.
She launched उसके career in 1994 with the song, `` रहो ( I Missed You ) ``, which was included in the film वास्तविकता Bites.
वो was the first artist to have a क्रमांक one सिंगल in the United राज्य while नहीं signed to a recording contract.
Her पाँच studio CDs include her प्रमुख लेबल debut, the gold-selling Tails और its follow-up, the grammy-nominated, gold-selling Firecracker.
Loeb has also worked in फिल्मी, television, voice-over work and children’s रिकार्डिंग.
लोएब has appeared in दो television series, Dweezil & Lisa, a साप्ताहिक culinary एडवेंचर for the Food संजाल and Number 1 Single, a वास्तविकता show on the E !
Network in 2006 केन्द्रित on उसके quest for love, success, career, और family.
Her children 's music शामिल the albums कैच the Moon ( 2003 ), and Camp Lisa ( 2008 ).
Her first joint children 's किताब और album Lisa Loeb 's Silly Sing-Along : the Disappointing पैनकेक and अन्य zany गीतों थी published in 2011.
In 2010 she संस्थापित the लिसा Loeb Eyewear Collection, जिससे is based on her अपना designs.
The Coat of arms of the State of New Jersey includes:
a shield with three plows emblazoned, representative of नई Jersey 's agricultural tradition.
A forward-facing नाईट 's helmet.
a horse 's head as the crest of the helmet.
The मादा figures Liberty and Ceres, प्रतिनिधि of the राज्य 's motto ( देखिए next मद ).
स्वतंत्रता is holding a staff supporting a `` liberty cap `` ; Ceres is holding an overflowing cornucopia.
The streamer at the पैर of the emblem contains the State Motto of नई जर्सी, `` Liberty and Prosperity '', and the year of statehood, 1776.
it was originally designed by Pierre Eugene du Simitiere in 1777 and was modified slightly in 1928.
The seal is the central motif in the ध्वज of New जर्सी and the ग्रेट Seal of the राज्य of New जर्सी.
the कोट of arms contains a horse 's सिर.
A helmet प्रर्दशित that New Jersey governs itself तदनुसार and three plows on a शील्ड referring to the State 's कृषि परंपरा, giving it the nickname `` Garden राज्य ''.
The two देवियाँ represent the State motto, `` Liberty and Prosperity ''.
Liberty is on the left.
She is पकड़कर a staff with a liberty cap on it, and the word स्वतंत्रता underneath her.
The देवी on the right is Ceres, goddess of कृषि.
She is पकड़कर a cornucopia with prosperity written below her.
according to the minutes of the New Jersey General Assembly for March 11, 1896, the date in which the Assembly officially स्वीकृत the flag as the state emblem, the buff color is due indirectly to जार्ज वॉशिंगटन, who had ordered on October 2, 1779, that the वर्दी coats of the New Jersey Continental Line be dark ( Jersey ) blue, with buff facings.
Buff-colored facings had जबतक तब महरूम reserved तभी for उसके own uniform और those of other Continental generals and their aides.
Then, on February 28, 1780, the महाद्वीपीय War Officers in Philadelphia directed that the uniform कोट facings of all regiments were to be the same as the background रंग of the regiments ' राज्य flag.
the seal is described in New Jersey statute Title 52, §2-1:
`` we Can Work It Out '' is a song by the Beatles, लिखा by पॉल McCartney और John Lennon.
it was released as a `` double A-sided `` single with `` Day Tripper ``, the first time both sides of a single were so designated in an initial release.
Both songs were recorded during the रबर आत्मा सत्र.
The सोंग is an उदाहरण of lennon–mccartney सहयोग at a depth कि happened only rarely after they लिखा the hit singles of 1963.
इस song, `` A Day in the Life ``, `` Baby, तुम 're a समृद्ध Man `` and `` I 've Got a Feeling ``, हैं among the notable exceptions.
As a चिकित्सा diagnosis, pedophilia or paedophilia is a psychiatric विकार in persons 16 years of age or older typically characterized by a primary or exclusive sexual interest toward prepubescent children ( generally age 11 years or younger, हालांकि specific diagnosis criteria for the disorder extends the cut-off point लिये prepubescence to age 13 ).
an adolescent who is 16 years of age or older must be at least पाँच years older than the prepubescent child before the attraction can be diagnosed as pedophilia.
The term रै a range of definitions, as found in psychiatry, psychology, the vernacular, and law प्रवर्तन.
the International Classification of Diseases ( ICD ) defines pedophilia as a `` विकार of adult personality and behaviour '' in जिससे there is a sexual preference for children of prepubertal or जल्दी pubertal आयु.
According to the निदान and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders ( dsm ), it is a paraphilia in जिससे वयस्कों or adolescents 16 years of आयु or पुरानी have तीव्र and recurrent यौन urges towards and fantasies परिचय prepubescent children that they have either acted on or जिससे कारण उन्हें distress or interpersonal difficulty.
in popular usage, pedophilia means कोई sexual interest in children or the act of child sexual abuse, प्रायः termed `` pedophilic behavior ''.
For example, The अमरीकी विरासत Stedman 's Medical शब्दकोष राज्य, `` pedophilia is the act or fantasy on the भाग of an वयस्क of engaging in यौन activity with a child or children. ''
This common use application also extends to the यौन interest in और sexual contact with रोमिल or post-pubescent minors.
Researchers recommend that these imprecise उपयोग be avoided क्युकी although people जो कमिट child यौन abuse commonly exhibit the disorder, some offenders do नहीं मिलें the clinical diagnosis standards for pedophilia and ये standards pertain to prepubescents.
Additionally, not सब pedophiles दरअसल commit such गाली.
pedophilia was first formally recognized and named in the late 19th century.
A significant amount of research in the area has लिया place since the 1980s.
Although ज़्यादातर प्रलेखित in men, वहीँ are भी महिलाओं जो exhibit the disorder, and researchers assume available estimates underrepresent the सच्चा number of female pedophiles.
No cure लिये pedophilia रै महरूम विकसित, but वहीँ are therapies कि can reduce the incidence of a person committing चाइल्ड यौन abuse.
In the संयुक्त States, following Kansas v. Hendricks, sex offenders who are diagnosed with certain mental विकार, particularly pedophilia, can be विषय to indefinite civil प्रतिबद्धता, अंतर्गत various state laws ( generically called SVP कानून ) and the संघीय Adam वाल्श Child सुरक्षा and सुरक्षा Act of 2006.
at उपस्थित, the exact causes of pedophilia have not been conclusively established.
Research suggests कि pedophilia may be correlated with several अलग neurological abnormalities, and often co-exists with other व्यक्तित्व विकार and psychological pathologies.
in the contexts of forensic मनोविज्ञान and law enforcement, a किस्में of typologies have महरूम सुझाया to categorize pedophiles according to behavior and motivations.
जूलियो César chávez ( born Julio César Chávez González on July 12, 1962 ) is a रिटायर्ड Mexican professional boxer.
Chávez is considered by many people for their खेल statistics the greatest fighter ever to come out of मैक्सिको.
He is a six-time world champion in three वज़न divisions, और for several सालो he was माना एक of the best pound-for-pound boxer in the world.
In a career that spanned over 25 सालो, Chávez won five world titles in three weight divisions : WBC Super Featherweight in 1984, WBA Lightweight in 1987, WBC Lightweight in 1988, wbc लाइट Welterweight in 1989, IBF Light welterweight in 1990, and WBC Light Welterweight in 1994.
He holds रिकॉर्ड for most कामयाब consecutive defenses of संसार titles ( 27 ), most title झगड़े ( 37 ), most title-fight victories ( 31 ) and he is after Joe Louis साथ ( 23 ) लिये most title defenses जीती by knockout ( 21 ).
Chávez also has the longest undefeated streak in मुक्केबाज़ी history, 13 सालो.
His record was 89-0-1 going into his first loss to Frankie Randall और had an 87 fight win streak जबतक his `` draw '' with Whitaker.
Julio César Chávez was ज्ञात लिये उसके outstanding punching शक्ति, devastating body attack, remarkably दमदार chin and the relentless stalking of his प्रतिद्वंद्वियों.
He बाँधने # 24 on ESPN 's 50 Greatest Boxers of All Time.
On December 7, 2010, he was inducted in the prestigious अंतरराष्ट्रीय Boxing Hall of Fame for the क्लास of 2011.
He is the father of prospect ओमर Chávez and पूर्व WBC Middleweight Champion Julio césar Chávez, Jr.
`` Selektion `` on the Judenrampe, Auschwitz, may/june 1944.
to be sent to the right meant स्लेव मजदूर ; to the बाएँ, the गैस कक्ष.
इस चित्र shows the आगमन of Hungarian Jews from Carpatho-Ruthenia, many of them from the Berehov ghetto.
The फ़ोटोग्राफ़र थी Ernst Hofmann or बर्नहार्ड वाल्टर of the SS. Image सौजन्य of Yad Vashem
The Holocaust ( from the यूनानी ' : hólos, `` whole '' and kaustós, `` burnt '' ) also ज्ञात as the Shoah ( Hebrew :, HaShoah, `` catastrophe '' ; यहूदी :, Churben or hurban, from the Hebrew for `` destruction '' ), was the mass murder or genocide of approximately six million यहूदियों during World युद्ध II, a programme of systematic state-sponsored हत्या by Nazi Germany, led by Adolf Hitler और the Nazi Party, throughout German-occupied territory.
Of the nine million Jews who had resided in Europe before the Holocaust, approximately two-thirds were killed.
Over एक million यहूदी children यहूद killed in the Holocaust, as were लगभग two million Jewish women and तीन million Jewish मेन.
A संजाल of over 40,000 facilities in Germany and German-occupied territory were used to concentrate, थाम, and मार Jews और other पीड़ितों.
Some scholars argue कि the mass murder of the Romani and people with disabilities should be included in the परिभाषा, and some use the common noun `` holocaust '' to describe अन्य Nazi mass murders, including those of Soviet prisoners of war, पॉलिश and Soviet civilians, और homosexuals.
Recent estimates based on figures obtained since the पतन of the सोवियत संघ indicates some ten to eleven million civilians and बंदियों of war यहूद intentionally murdered by the Nazi regime.
The persecution and genocide were carried out in stages.
Various laws to remove the Jews from civil society, most prominently the nuremberg Laws, यहूद enacted in Germany सालो पहले the outbreak of World युद्ध II.
Concentration camps यहूद established in which inmates were subjected to slave labor जबतक वे died of exhaustion or disease.
Where Germany conquered new territory in eastern Europe, specialized units called Einsatzgruppen murdered Jews and political opponents in द्रव्यमान shootings.
The occupiers required Jews and Romani to be confined in overcrowded ghettos before being transported by freight train to extermination शिविरों where, if वे survived the journey, सबसे were systematically killed in gas chambers.
प्रत्येक arm of Germany 's अफसरशाही was involved in the logistics that led to the genocides, turning the Third Reich into what एक Holocaust scholar रै called `` a genocidal state ''.
4-h in the United राज्य is a युवावस्था organization administered by the National Institute of Food and कृषि of the संयुक्त States Department of कृषि ( USDA ), with the mission of `` engaging youth to पहुँचें their fullest संभावित while advancing the field of youth विकास. ''
the नाम represents four personal development areas of focus for the संगठन : head, दिल, हैंड्स, and health.
The organization has over 6.5 लाख सदस्यों in the United राज्य, from ages five to twenty-one, in लगभग 90,000 clubs.
The goal of 4-H is to develop नागरिकता, नेतृत्व, responsibility और जीवन कौशल of youth through experiential learning programs and a positive युवावस्था विकास दृष्टिकोण.
Though typically thought of as an agriculturally focused organization as a result of its history, 4-H today focuses on citizenship, healthy living, science, engineering, और technology programs.
Today, 4-h और related programs मौजूद in over eighty countries around the world ; the organization and प्रशासन varies from देश to country.
Each of ये programs operates independently, but cooperatively through international exchanges, global education कार्यक्रम, and communications.
The 4-H motto is `` To मेक the best better '', while इसके slogan is `` Learn by doing '' ( sometimes लिखा as `` Learn to do by doing '' ).
the national flag of चिली, consists of two unequal horizontal bands of श्वेत and red and a blue वर्गाकार the same height as the white band in the canton, जिससे bears a white five-pointed star in the center.
It was अपनाया on 18 October 1817.
The Chilean ध्वज is भी ज्ञात in Spanish as La Estrella solitaria ( The लोन Star ).
The star represents a guide to progress and honor ; ब्लू symbolizes the sky and the Pacific Ocean, white is for the snow-covered Andes, and रेड स्टैंड for the रक्त spilled to achieve independence.
According to the epic poem La araucana, the colors यहूद derived from those from the ध्वज flown by the mapuche during the arauco युद्ध.
`` ध्वज Day '' is आयोजित each year on the ninth of July to commemorate the 77 soldiers who died in the 1882 बैटल of La Concepción.
पीढी Y, also known as the Millennial Generation, is the demographic दल following पीढी X.
वहीँ are no precise dates for जब Generation Y starts और ends.
टीकाकारों use beginning जनम तिथियाँ from the latter 1970s, or from the early 1980s to the early 2000s.
The Torches of नीरो, by Henryk Siemiradzki.
according to tacitus, Nero targeted ईसाइयों as those responsible for the आग.
the Great आग of रोम ( ) was an शहरी fire that occurred beginning 19 जुलाई ad 64.
Virginia ( ), officially the राष्ट्रमंडल of वर्जिनिया, is a U.S. राज्य स्तिथ in the South Atlantic region of the United States.
वर्जिनिया is nicknamed the `` Old डोमिनियन '' and the `` Mother of राष्ट्रपतियों '' बाद the आठ U.S. राष्ट्रपतियों born there.
The geography and जलवायु of the Commonwealth are shaped by the ब्लू Ridge kyu और the chesapeake Bay, जिससे provide habitat लिये much of इसके flora और fauna.
the capital of the राष्ट्रमंडल is Richmond ; and वर्जिनिया Beach is the सबसे populous city.
Fairfax County is the most populous political subdivision.
the wealthiest is loudoun काउंटी.
the राष्ट्रमंडल 's population is over आठ लाख.
The क्षेत्रफल 's history begins साथ several indigenous groups, सहित the Powhatan.
In 1607 the लंदन Company established the Colony of वर्जिनिया as the first permanent New World English उपनिवेश.
स्लेव labor और the जमीन acquired from displaced Native अमरीकी tribes each निभाई a significant भूमिका in the colony 's जल्दी politics and वृक्षारोपण अर्थव्यवस्था.
Virginia was एक of the 13 colonies in the अमरीकी Revolution and joined the Confederacy in the अमरीकी Civil युद्ध, दौरान which रिचमंड was made the Confederate capital and वर्जिनिया 's northwestern counties seceded to form the राज्य of West Virginia.
Although the Commonwealth was under conservative single-party rule for nearly a century following Reconstruction, both major national पार्टियों हैं competitive in modern Virginia.
The वर्जिनिया सामान्य Assembly is the oldest विधानमंडल in the Western गोलार्ध.
The राज्य government has been repeatedly ranked most effective by the pew Center on the States.
It is अद्वितीय in how it ट्रीट cities और counties equally, manages लोकल सड़कें, and prohibits इसके governors from serving consecutive terms.
Virginia 's economy has many sectors : कृषि in the Shenandoah Valley ; federal एजेंसियों in Northern Virginia, including the headquarters of the Department of रक्षा और सीआईए ; and सैन्य सुविधाएं in Hampton Roads, the site of the प्रदेश 's main seaport.
वर्जिनिया 's public स्कूलों and अनेक कॉलेजों और universities have contributed to growing media और technology sectors.
As a result, computer चिप्स have become the राज्य 's leading export.
Windows Movie Maker ( formerly known as Windows Live Movie मेकर, codenamed Sundance ) is a freeware video editing तन्त्र by Microsoft.
It is a भाग of Windows Essentials तन्त्र सुइट और offers the ability to create और edit वीडियो as well as to प्रकाशित उन्हें on SkyDrive, Facebook, YouTube, and फ्लिकर.
`` Brenda 's Got A Baby '' is the solo debut single by Tupac Shakur, and tenth track इससे उसके डेब्यू एल्बम, 2Pacalypse अभी.
the सोंग, which सुविधाएँ R & B singer डेव Hollister, is परिचय a twelve year-old girl named Brenda who lives in a ghetto, has a baby, and is incapable of supporting it.
the सोंग explores the issue of teen pregnancy and its effect on the young mothers and उनके परिवारों.
Like अनेक of Shakur 's songs, `` Brenda 's Got a baby '' draws from the plight of the impoverished.
Using Brenda to represent यंग mothers in सामान्य, Shakur criticises the low level of support from the baby 's father, the government, and समाज in general.
Shakur wrote the सोंग when he read a समाचारपत्र article about a twelve-year-old लड़की who got pregnant from her cousin and, because वो did not want उसके parents to know about the baby, threw it in a trash can.
The official लोगो of पोकीमॉन लिये its international release ; `` पोकीमॉन '' is छोटी लिये the असली Japanese title of `` Pocket Monsters ''.
is a मीडिया franchise published and owned by Japanese वीडियो game company Nintendo और created by Satoshi Tajiri in 1996.
Originally released as a pair of interlinkable Game Boy role-playing video games developed by खेल Freak, Pokémon has since become the second-most successful और lucrative video game-based media franchise in the world, behind तभी Nintendo 's own Mario franchise.
पोकीमॉन properties have since महरूम merchandised into दुश्मनी, manga, trading ताश, खिलौने, किताबे, and अन्य media.
the franchise celebrated in 2006, और, संचयी sales of the वीडियो games ( सहित home console संस्करण, ऐसे as the `` Pikachu '' निन्टेंडो 64 ) have reached more than 200 million नक़ल.
in November 2005, 4kids Entertainment, जिससे had प्रबंधित the non-game related licensing of Pokémon, announced that it had agreed not to renew the Pokémon representation agreement.
Pokémon USA inc. ( now The Pokémon Company अंतरराष्ट्रीय ), a subsidiary of Japan 's Pokémon Co., अभी oversees all Pokémon लाइसेंसिंग बाहर of एशिया.
The name Pokémon is the romanized contraction of the Japanese brand.
the पद पोकीमॉन, in addition to referring to the पोकीमॉन franchise itself, also collectively refers to the 649 fictional species that have made appearances in पोकीमॉन media as of the release of the fifth generation शीर्षक Pokémon Black 2 और White 2 ; with the upcoming रिलीज of पोकीमॉन x and Y, 6 नई Pokémon have been featured in प्रचार for the games.
`` Pokémon '' is identical in both the singular और plural, as is each व्यक्तिगत प्रजाति name ; it is grammatically correct to कह `` एक Pokémon '' and `` many Pokémon '', as well as `` one Pikachu `` and `` many Pikachu ''.
Cover of the पहला संस्करण of the publication Dada by Tristan tzara ; Zurich, 1917
दादा ( ) or Dadaism was an art गति of the European avant-garde in the जल्दी 20th century.
अनेक claim Dada began in Zurich, Switzerland in 1916, spreading to Berlin shortly thereafter but the ऊँचाई of नई York दादा was the year before in 1915.
to quote Dona Budd 's The भाषा of आर्ट Knowledge, Dada was born out of negative reaction to the horrors of World War I.
इस international movement was begun by a group of artist and poets associated साथ the Cabaret Voltaire in Zurich.
दादा अस्वीकृत कारण और logic, prizing nonsense, irrationality और intuition.
the origin of the name Dada is unclear ; कुछ believe that it is a nonsensical word.
अन्य maintain that it originates इससे the रोमानियाई कलाकारों ट्रिस्टन Tzara और Marcel janco 's बारंबार उपयोग of the words da, da, meaning यस, yes in the Romanian language.
Another theory says that the name `` दादा '' came during a बैठक of the समूह when a पेपर knife stuck into a French-German dictionary happened to point to 'dada ', a French word for 'hobbyhorse '.
The movement primarily involved विज़ुअल कला, literature, poetry, art manifestoes, आर्ट theory, theatre, and graphic design, and concentrated its anti-war politics through a rejection of the prevailing standards in आर्ट through anti-art cultural works.
In addition to being anti-war, Dada was also anti- bourgeois और had political affinities with the radical left.
Dada activities included public gatherings, demonstrations, और प्रकाशन of art/literary journals ; passionate coverage of art, राजनीती, and culture were topics often discussed in a variety of media.
Key figures in the movement included Hugo Ball, Emmy hennings, hans Arp, Raoul Hausmann, Hannah Höch, Johannes Baader, ट्रिस्टन Tzara, फ्रांसिस picabia, Richard huelsenbeck, Georg grosz, John heartfield, Marcel Duchamp, Beatrice Wood, कर्ट Schwitters, and hans Richter, among अन्य.
The movement influenced बाद styles like the avant-garde and downtown music आंदोलनों, और groups सहित surrealism, Nouveau réalisme, pop art और fluxus.
Dada is the groundwork to abstract art and sound poetry, a starting पाइंट लिये performance आर्ट, a prelude to postmodernism, an influence on पॉप art, a celebration of antiart to be बाद embraced for anarcho-political uses in the 1960s और the movement कि lay the foundation for Surrealism.
पहला trophic level.
The plants in this image, and the शैवाल and phytoplankton in the lake, are primary producers.
They take nutrients from the soil or the water, and manufacture their own खाना by photosynthesis, using उर्जा इससे the sun.
The trophic level of an organism is the position it occupies in a खाना chain.
The शब्द trophic derives from the Greek τροφή ( trophē ) referring to food or feeding.
a food कड़ी represents a उत्तराधिकार of organisms that eat another organism and हैं, in turn, eaten themselves.
The number of steps an सजीव is from the start of the chain is a माप of its trophic level.
Food chains start at trophic level 1 with primary निर्माता such as plants, move to herbivores at level 2, predators at level 3 और typically finish साथ carnivores or apex परभक्षी at level 4 or 5.
The path साथ the chain can form either a one-way flow, or a खाना `` web. ''
Ecological communities with higher biodiversity रूप more complex trophic paths.
Four of the most important domesticated silk moths.
शीर्ष to bottom : Bombyx mori, Hyalophora cecropia, antheraea pernyi, Samia cynthia.
From Meyers Konversations-Lexikon ( 1885-1892 )
a silk-producing raspy cricket.
Silk is a प्राकृतिक protein fibre, some forms of which can be woven into textiles.
The protein fibre of silk is रचित mainly of fibroin और produced by certain कीट लार्वे to रूप cocoons.
the best-known type of silk is प्राप्त from the cocoons of the लार्वे of the mulberry silkworm Bombyx mori reared in captivity ( sericulture ).
The shimmering appearance of रेशा is due to the triangular प्रिज़्म -like ढांचा of the silk fibre, which allows रेशा cloth to refract आवक light at different कोण, thus producing different colors.
Silks are produced by several other कीट, but generally only the silk of moth caterpillars has been used for textile manufacturing.
There has been कुछ research into अन्य silks, which differ at the molecular level.
Many silks are mainly उत्पादित by the larvae of insects undergoing complete metamorphosis, लकिन some adult insects such as webspinners produce silk, and कुछ insects such as raspy crickets उपज रेशा throughout their जीवनदान.
Silk उत्पादन also occurs in Hymenoptera ( bees, wasps, और ants ), silverfish, mayflies, thrips, leafhoppers, beetles, lacewings, fleas, flies and midges.
अन्य प्रकार of arthropod produce silk, most notably विभिन्न arachnids such as spiders ( see spider silk ).
Late Show with David Letterman is an अमरीकी late-night talk show hosted by David Letterman on CBS.
The show debuted on August 30, 1993, and is produced by Letterman 's उत्पादन कम्पनी, Worldwide Pants Incorporated.
The show 's music director and band-leader of the हाउस band, the CBS Orchestra, is Paul Shaffer.
The head writer is Matt Roberts and the announcer is Alan Kalter.
of the major u.S. late-night programs, लेट Show ranks second in संचयी average viewers over time and third in number of episodes over time.
The show leads other लेट night shows in ad revenue साथ $ 271 million in 2009.
In most u.S. markets the show airs at 11:35 p.m. Eastern/Pacific time, but is recorded Monday through बुधवार at 4:30 p.m., and गुरुवार at 3:30 p.m and 6:00 p.m.
The second Thursday एपीसोड प्रायः airs on Friday of that week.
In 2002, Late Show with David Letterman थी क्रमित no. 7 on tv Guide 's 50 Greatest TV Shows of सब Time.
CBS रै a contract with Worldwide Pants to continue the show through 2014 ; by then, लेटरमैन होगा surpass Johnny Carson as the longest tenured late-night talk show host.
the Real Housewives of Orange County is an American reality documentary television कार्यक्रम on ब्रावो, set in नारंगी County, कैलिफ़ोर्निया.
It was the first The Real housewives program in the श्रेणी.
the श्रेणी is a voyeuristic dekh into the wealthy lives of these housewives, as वे shop, get plastic surgery, gossip, fight and सजीव lavishly.
the financial crisis, the beginning of which coincided almost exactly साथ the पहला season 's broadcast, रै since trimmed the housewives ' lifestyles with job losses, evictions, बंधक मूलभूत, foreclosures, और वैवाहिक stress—all अंकित in प्रगतिशील seasons of the show.
Cyberstalking is the use of the Internet or other electronic means to stalk or harass an individual, a group of individuals, or an संगठन.
It may शामिल the making of false accusations or statements of फैक्ट ( as in defamation ), निगरानी, making खतरे, identity theft, damage to data or equipment, the solicitation of minors लिये sex, or gathering सूचना that may be used to harass.
The definition of `` harassment '' जरूर meet the criterion that a reasonable person, in कब्ज़ा of the same सूचना, would regard it as sufficient to cause another उचित व्यक्ति तकलीफ.
Cyberstalking is अलग from स्थानिक or offline stalking in कि it occurs through the उपयोग of electronic communications प्रौद्योगिकी such as the internet.
however, it sometimes leads to it, or is accompanied by it.
Both हैं criminal offenses.
cyberstalking shares important characteristics साथ ऑफ़लाइन stalking.
Many stalkers – online or बंद – हैं motivated by a desire to कंट्रोल their victims.
a cyberstalker may be an online अजनबी or a person whom the target knows.
a cyberstalker may be anonymous and may solicit involvement of other people online who do not even know the target.
Cyberstalking is a criminal offense कि comes into play under state anti-stalking laws, slander laws, और harassment कानून.
A cyberstalking conviction can result in a restraining अनुक्रम, परिवीक्षा, or even दण्ड दंड against the assailant, including jail.
A कारोबार अक्षर is प्रायः used when लिखने from one company to another, or for पत्राचार between such organizations and their customers, clients and अन्य बाह्य parties.
The overall style of letter will निर्भर on the संबंध between the पार्टियों चिंतित.
वहीँ are many reasons to लिखें a business letter.
It could be to request direct information or कार्रवाई from another party, to अनुक्रम आपूर्तियाँ from a supplier, to पहचानो a गलती that थी वचनबद्ध, to reply सीधे to a request, to apologize for a wrong or बस to convey goodwill.
Even आज, the business letter is still very उपयोगी because it produces a permanent रिकार्ड, is confidential, औपचारिक और delivers persuasive, well-considered messages.
Tilapia ( ) is the common name for nearly a hundred species of cichlid fish इससे the tilapiine cichlid tribe.
Tilapia हैं mainly freshwater fish, inhabiting shallow streams, ponds, rivers and झीलों, and कम commonly मिला living in brackish water.
Historically, they have been of major महत्व in artisan fishing in अफ़्रीकी and the Levant, and हैं of increasing importance in aquaculture.
tilapia can become problematic invasive species in new warm-water habitats, whether deliberately or accidentally introduced, but generally नहीं in temperate climates due to their अक्षमता to survive in cooler waters below परिचय.
Turner & Hooch is a 1989 कॉमेडी drama crime फिल्मी starring tom Hanks and beasley the श्वान as the eponymous characters, Turner और hooch respectively.
The film also stars Mare Winningham, Craig T. Nelson, and Reginald VelJohnson.
It was निर्देशित by Roger Spottiswoode ; the film was originally slated to be निर्देशित by Henry Winkler, but he थी terminated due to `` creative differences ''.
It was co-written by Michael blodgett from परे the Valley of the Dolls fame.
Although K-9 ( with James Belushi ) was released prior to इस film ( exactly three महीने पहले ), Turner & hooch became more popular and seemingly overshadowed its greater success, भी हालांकि k-9 had a बहुत similar plot.
A pilot for a Turner & Hooch TV series थी बना and ran as a भाग of the Magical World of Disney.
This is a list of israeli airports, sorted by location.
Entrance to ovda Airport
Terminal 3 at Ben गुरियन
Plane landing at Be'er Sheva ( Teyman )
Eilat Airport
Adolf हिटलर ( ; 20 April 1889 – 30 April 1945 ) was an Austrian -born जर्मनी politician and the leader of the Nazi Party ( ( NSDAP ) ; नेशनल समाजवादी German Workers Party ).
He थी chancellor of Germany from 1933 to 1945 और तानाशाह of नाजी Germany ( as Führer und Reichskanzler ) from 1934 to 1945.
Hitler was at the centre of Nazi Germany, World War ii in यूरोपीय, and the Holocaust.
हिटलर was a सजा veteran of World War I.
he joined the German मजदूर ' Party ( precursor of the NSDAP ) in 1919, and became leader of the nsdap in 1921.
In 1923, he attempted a तख्तापलट d'état in Munich, known as the Beer Hall Putsch.
the विफल coup resulted in Hitler 's imprisonment, दौरान which समय he wrote his memoir, Mein Kampf ( my Struggle ).
After his release in 1924, Hitler gained लोकप्रिय support by attacking the सन्धि of versailles and promoting Pan-Germanism, antisemitism, और anti-communism with charismatic oratory and Nazi propaganda.
After his appointment as chancellor in 1933, he transformed the Weimar Republic into the Third Reich, a single-party dictatorship आधारित on the totalitarian and autocratic ideology of Nazism.
Hitler 's aim was to establish a New अनुक्रम of निरपेक्ष Nazi जर्मनी hegemony in महाद्वीपीय Europe.
To इस end, उसके foreign और घरेलू policies had the aim of seizing lebensraum ( `` living space '' ) for the Germanic people.
He निर्देशित the rearmament of जर्मनी और the invasion of कैंडल by the Wehrmacht in सितंबर 1939, resulting in the outbreak of World War ii in Europe.
Under हिटलर 's rule, in 1941 German forces and their European allies occupied most of यूरोपीय और North Africa.
In 1943, Germany had been forced onto the रक्षात्मक and suffered a series of escalating defeats.
In the फाइनल days of the युद्ध, during the बैटल of Berlin in 1945, Hitler married उसके long-time partner, Eva Braun.
On 30 अप्रैल 1945, कम than two दिनों later, the two committed suicide to avoid capture by the Red Army, and their corpses were burned.
Hitler 's aggressive foreign policy is considered the main cause of the outbreak of World War II in Europe.
उसके antisemitic policies and racially प्रेरित ideology resulted in the deaths of at तनिक 5.5 million Jews, and millions of अन्य people deemed racially inferior.
thumb
a डोमेन name is an identification string that defines a realm of administrative autonomy, authority, or control on the Internet.
Domain names are formed by the rules और procedures of the Domain Name System ( DNS ).
technically, any name registered in the DNS is a domain name.
Domain names are used in विभिन्न networking contexts and application-specific नामकरण और addressing purposes.
In general, a डोमेन नाम represents an Internet Protocol ( ip ) resource, such as a personal कंप्यूटर used to access the Internet, a server computer hosting a वेब site, or the web site itself or any other service communicated via the अंतरजाल.
Domain names हैं organized in subordinate levels ( subdomains ) of the DNS root domain, जिससे is nameless.
the first-level set of डोमेन names are the top-level domains ( tlds ), including the generic top-level domains ( gtlds ), such as the prominent domains com, info, जाल and org, और the country कोड top-level domains ( cctlds ).
नीचे these top-level domains in the DNS hierarchy are the second-level and third-level डोमेन names that are typically open for reservation by end-users who काश to कनेक्ट local क्षेत्रफल networks to the Internet, create other publicly accessible Internet संसाधन or run वेब साइट.
The registration of ये domain names is प्रायः administered by डोमेन नाम registrars who बेचें उनके services to the public.
A fully qualified डोमेन name ( fqdn ) is a domain name that is completely specified in the hierarchy of the DNS, having no omitted parts.
Domain names are usually लिखा in lowercase, although labels in the डोमेन नाम प्रणाली are case-insensitive.
नाइट्रेट is a polyatomic ion साथ the आणविक formula no3− and a molecular mass of 62.0049 g/mol. Nitrates also describe the सशुल्क कार्यात्मक समूह rono2.
These nitrate esters are a specialized क्लास of explosives.
A wheat harvest in idaho
इस photo from a 1921 ज्ञानकोष shows a tractor ploughing a crop field.
Agriculture is a प्रमुख industry in the संयुक्त राज्य and the देश is a net exporter of food.
as of the last जनसांख्यिकी of agriculture in 2007, वहीँ were 2.2 million farms, covering an area of, an average of प्रति फार्म.
Although agricultural activity occurs in सबसे states, it is विशेषकर concentrated in the vast expanse of flat, arable land known as the ग्रेट Plains, which encompasses the central region of the स्वदेश.
The Mpemba प्रभाव, named after Tanzanian छात्र erasto Mpemba, is the assertion कि warmer water can freeze faster than colder जल.
Although वहीँ is anecdotal support for the प्रभाव, there is no अनुबंध on exactly what the effect is and अंतर्गत कया हालातों it occurs.
There have महरूम reports of समान phenomena since प्राचीन times, although साथ अपर्याप्त विवरण for the claims to be replicated.
The phenomenon seems contrary to thermodynamics, but a number of possible explanations लिये the effect have been proposed.
Further investigations will need to decide on a precise definition of `` जमने '' and control a vast number of starting parameters in order to confirm or explain the effect.
the Siamese (, ) is एक of the पहला distinctly पहचाना breeds of Oriental cat.
The नस्ल originated in Thailand ( formerly ज्ञात as Siam ), where they are एक of several native breeds and are पुकारा wichian Mat ( วิเชียรมาศ, a name अर्थ `` moon डायमंड '' ).
In the 20th century the Siamese cat became one of the most popular breeds in यूरोपीय और उत्तर America.
Quality Food Centers ( QFC ) is a सुपरमार्केट chain आधारित in Bellevue, Washington, with 64 स्टोर्स in the Puget ध्वनि region of Washington state और in the पोर्टलैंड, Oregon metropolitan area.
In economics, the money सप्लाई or money stock, is the total amount of मौद्रिक assets उपलब्धियाँ in an economy at a specific time.
There हैं several ways to define `` धन, '' लकिन standard measures usually include currency in circulation और माँग जमा ( जमाकर्ताओं ' easily accessed एसेट on the books of financial institutions ).
धन supply आंकड़ा are recorded और published, usually by the government or the central bank of the country.
Public and private सेक्टर analysts have long monitored changes in money supply because of its effects on the price स्तर, महंगाई, the exchange rate and the business cycle.
कि relation between money and prices is historically associated साथ the quantity theory of money.
There is strong empirical evidence of a direct relation between money-supply growth और long-term दाम inflation, at least for rapid increases in the राशि of money in the अर्थव्यवस्था.
That is, a country such as ज़िम्बाब्वे which देखी rapid increases in इसके धन सप्लाई also देखी rapid increases in prices ( hyperinflation ).
This is one कारण for the reliance on monetary नीति as a अर्थात् of controlling महंगाई.
the nature of this causal chain is the subject of contention.
Some heterodox economists argue that the धन supply is endogenous ( संकल्पित by the workings of the अर्थव्यवस्था, not by the central bank ) and that the स्त्रोत of inflation must be found in the distributional structure of the अर्थव्यवस्था.
In जोड, those economists देखकर the central bank 's control over the धन सप्लाई as feeble say that वहीँ हैं two weak links between the growth of the money supply and the inflation रेट.
First, in the aftermath of a मंदी, जब many resources are underutilized, an increase in the धन supply can कारण a sustained बढ़ाएँ in रियल production बजाय of inflation.
Second, if the velocity of धन, i.e., the ratio between नाममात्र GDP and धन सप्लाई, changes, an increase in the money supply could have either no प्रभाव, an अतिरंजित effect, or an unpredictable effect on the growth of nominal GDP.
Logo लिये imax.
Warren Theatre IMAX cinema, Wichita, Kansas, USA, 601 seats.
A comparison between 35 mm and 15/70 mm negative areas.
imax ( an संक्षिप्त लिये Image Maximum ) is a motion picture film स्वरूप and a set of cinema projection मानकों created by the Canadian company imax Corporation.
IMAX रै the capacity to record and प्रदर्शक images of far greater size और रेज़ोल्यूशन than conventional film systems.
Since 2002, some feature films have महरूम परिवर्तित ( or upgraded ) into IMAX format for display in imax theatres and some have also महरूम partially shot in imax.
IMAX is the most widely used system for special-venue फिल्मी presentations.
, there are 697 IMAX थिएटर in 52 देशों.
Today 's खास is a Canadian children 's television दिखाएँ produced by Clive VanderBurgh at tvontario इससे 1981 to 1987.
It also ran on Nickelodeon and the Faith and मान channel/odyssey ( now the Hallmark Channel ) as खूब as many PBS stations throughout the United States.
It was set in a विभाग स्टोर, based on the flagship location of the अभी defunct Simpson 's in Toronto.
Many sequences for it यहूद shot at the Queen Street West and Yonge Street store after hours.
Constitutionalism, in इसके most general meaning, is `` a complex of विचार, attitudes, और पैटर्न of बर्ताव elaborating the principle कि the authority of सरकारी derives from and is limited by a देह of fundamental law ''.
a political organization is constitutional to the extent कि it `` contain [ s ] institutionalized mechanisms of शक्ति कंट्रोल लिये the protection of the रूचि और लिबर्टीज of the citizenry, सहित those कि may be in the minority ``.
As वर्णित by political scientist and constitutional scholar David fellman :
An ice-cream सिरदर्द, also known as brain फ्रीज, cold-stimulus headache, or its दिए वैज्ञानिक नाम sphenopalatine ganglioneuralgia ( meaning `` तंत्रिका pain of the sphenopalatine ganglion `` ), is a form of brief cranial पीड़ा or headache commonly associated with consumption ( particularly जल्दी खपत ) of cold beverages or भोजन such as ice cream and ice pops.
It is caused by having कुछ cold टच the roof of the mouth ( तालु ), और is believed to result from a तंत्रिका response causing rapid constriction और swelling of रक्त बरतन or a `` referring `` of पीड़ा इससे the छत of the mouth to the head.
The rate of intake for ठंडा भोजन has महरूम studied as a contributing factor.
There हैं लोगों who can नहीं experience `` brain फ्रीज '' or similar लक्षण.
The पद ice-cream headache has महरूम in use since at least 31 January 1937, contained in a जर्नल प्रविष्टि by Rebecca Timbres published in the 1939 किताब We किया n't पूछो Utopia : a quaker family in Soviet Russia.
The first published उपयोग of the term brain फ्रीज, as it pertains to cold-induced headaches, was on 27 May 1991.
`` Auld Lang Syne '' ( : note `` s '' rather than `` z '' ) is a स्कॉट्स poem written by Robert Burns in 1788 और नियत to the धुन of a परंपरागत folk song ( roud # 6294 ).
It is खूब known in many देशों, विशेषकर in the English-speaking world ; its traditional use being to celebrate the प्रारंभ of the नई Year at the स्ट्रोक of midnight.
By एक्सटेंशन, it is also सुंग at funerals, graduations and as a farewell or ending to other occasions.
The international लड़के Scout youth movement, in many देशों, uses it as a बंद to jamborees and other functions.
The song 's स्कॉट्स title may be translated into English वस्तुतः as `` old long since '', or अधिक idiomatically, `` long long ago '', `` days gone by '' or `` बूढ़ा टाइम्स ''.
Consequently `` For auld lang syne '', as it appears in the first लकीर of the कोरस, might be loosely translated as `` लिये ( the खातिर of ) old times ''.
The phrase `` Auld Lang Syne '' is भी used in similar poems by रॉबर्ट ayton ( 1570–1638 ), allan ramsay ( 1686–1757 ), और James Watson ( 1711 ) as well as पुरानी folk गीतों predating Burns.
मैथ्यू fitt uses the phrase `` In the days of auld लैंग syne '' as the equivalent of `` एकबार upon a समय...
`` in his retelling of fairy tales in the Scots language.
Ben Schulz, खिलाड़ी of leeroy जेनकींस at BlizzCon 2007
Leeroy Jenkins, sometimes misspelled Leroy Jenkins और प्रायः elongated with numerous additional letters, is an अंतरजाल मीम नामित for a player character निर्मित by Ben Schulz in blizzard Entertainment 's mmorpg, World of Warcraft.
The character became popular due to a वीडियो of the game that circulated around the Internet.
The घटना has since spread beyond the सीमाएँ of the गेमिंग community into अन्य online and मुख्यधारा media.
Oscar Grant थी fatally shot by बार्ट police officer Johannes Mehserle in Oakland, कैलिफ़ोर्निया, United States, in the early morning घंटों of New Year 's Day 2009.
Responding to reports of a fight on a crowded खाड़ी क्षेत्रफल Rapid Transit ट्रैन returning from San Francisco, BART Police officers detained Oscar ग्रान्ट और अनेक other यात्री on the मंच at the fruitvale BART Station.
Officer Johannes mehserle and another officer यहूद restraining Grant, who was सजदा and allegedly resisting गिरफ़्तार.
Officer mehserle stood और, according to witnesses, said : `` मिलेंगी back, i 'm gon na tase उसे. ''
Then mehserle drew उसके gun और shot Grant एकबार in the back ; Mehserle appeared stunned, put his hands to his सिर and exclaimed, `` Oh, my God ! ''
During his court testimony, Mehserle said that Grant then exclaimed, `` तुम shot me ! ''
Grant turned out to be unarmed ; he was pronounced dead the अगला morning at Highland Hospital in ओकलैंड.
The events यहूद captured on multiple digital वीडियो and cell फोन कैमरे.
the footage was disseminated to media outlets and to various वेबसाइटों, where it was देखी millions of टाइम्स.
The following days saw both peaceful और violent विरोध.
The shooting has been variously labeled an involuntary manslaughter and a summary execution.
On January 13, alameda काउंटी prosecutors चार्ज Mehserle with murder लिये the शूटिंग.
He resigned उसके position and pleaded not guilty.
the trial began on June 10, 2010.
Michael Rains, Mehserle 's criminal रक्षा attorney, argued that mehserle mistakenly shot Grant with his pistol, intending to use his Taser when he saw Grant reaching for his waistband.
Pretrial filings argue that his क्लाएंट did not commit first-degree murder and पूछा a लॉस Angeles judge to instruct the जूरी to limit its deliberations to either second-degree हत्या or acquittal.
Oakland civil rights attorney John burris filed a $ 25 million wrongful death अर्जी against BART on behalf of Grant 's family.
On July 8, 2010, the जूरी लौटे its verdict : Mehserle was found guilty of involuntary manslaughter और नहीं guilty of second-degree murder and voluntary manslaughter.
आरंभिक protests against the सत्ताधारी were शांतिपूर्वक organized ; looting, arson, विनाश of property, and छोटी riots broke out बाद dark.
Nearly 80 people यहूद eventually गिरफ्तार.
On Friday, July 9, 2010, the U.S. इंसाफ Department opened a civil rights मामला विरूद्ध mehserle ; the संघीय government can prosecute उसे independently लिये the same act अंतर्गत the पृथक sovereigns exception to double jeopardy.
The Department of Justice will be working साथ the u.S. Attorney 's office in San Francisco और the FBI.
on November 5, 2010, Mehserle was sentenced to दो years, minus time served.
He served his time in the लॉस Angeles County Jail, occupying a निजी कोशिका दूर from other prisoners.
he थी released on June 13, 2011 and is अभी on parole.
Major representatives of the Harlem Renaissance.
The हार्लेम Renaissance was a cultural गति that spanned the 1920s.
At the time, it was known as the `` नई नीग्रो गति '', named after the 1925 anthology by Alain locke.
Though it थी centered in the हार्लेम neighborhood of New York City, many French-speaking black लेखक इससे अफ़्रीकी and caribbean colonies who जिया in Paris were also बहकावे by the हार्लेम Renaissance.
the Harlem Renaissance is unofficially recognized to have spanned from परिचय 1919 जबतक the जल्दी or mid-1930s.
Many of its ideas जिया on much longer.
the zenith of इस `` flowering of Negro literature '', as जेम्स Weldon जॉनसन preferred to call the Harlem पुनर्जागरण, थी placed between 1924 ( the year कि Opportunity : A जर्नल of Negro जीवन hosted a पार्टी for black writers जहाँ many white publishers were in attendance ) और 1929 ( the year of the stock market crash and the beginning of the Great Depression ).
African States between 500 BCE and 1500 CE
Obelisk at टेम्पल of Luxor, मिश्र.
c. 1200 BCE.
African नाईट of Baguirmi in पूरा padded armour suit.
the history of Africa begins with the prehistory of Africa and the emergence of Homo sapiens in East अफ़्रीकी, continuing into the present as a patchwork of diverse and नीतियां developing nation राज्य.
Some जल्दी प्रमाण of कृषि in अफ़्रीकी तिथियाँ from 16,000 BCE, और metallurgy from about 4000 BCE.
The recorded history of early civilization arose in Egypt, और later in Nubia, the Maghreb and the सींग of Africa.
दौरान the Middle Ages, Islam spread through the regions.
क्रासिंग the Maghreb and the Sahel, a major center of मुस्लिम culture थी टिम्बकटू.
Some notable pre-colonial राज्य and societies in Africa शामिल the nok संस्कृति, Mali साम्राज्य, Ashanti Empire, Kingdom of Mapungubwe, किंगडम of Sine, किंगडम of saloum, Kingdom of Baol, Kingdom of Zimbabwe, Kingdom of Kongo, Ancient कार्थेज, Numidia, Mauretania, the Aksumite साम्राज्य, the Ajuuraan State और the adal Sultanate.
From the late 15th century, europeans और Arabs took slaves इससे वेस्ट, Central और Southeast Africa overseas in the African slave व्यापार.
European colonization of अफ़्रीकी developed rapidly in the हाथापाई for Africa of the late 19th और जल्दी 20th सदियां.
following struggles for independence in many parts of the continent, as well as a weakened Europe after the Second संसार War ; decolonization took place.
Africa 's history has been challenging for researchers in the फ़ील्ड of African अध्ययन because of the scarcity of written sources in large भाग of sub-saharan Africa.
scholarly techniques ऐसे as the recording of oral history, historical भाषाविज्ञान, archaeology और आनुवंशिकी have been crucial.
Curry Foley was the पहला player in प्रमुख League Baseball इतिहास to hit for the साईकिल.
In बेसबॉल, hitting for the cycle is the accomplishment of one batter hitting a सिंगल, a double, a triple, and a home run in the same game.
Collecting the हिट्स in कि order is ज्ञात as a `` natural cycle ''.
Cycles are uncommon in Major League Baseball ( MLB ), and have occurred 294 times since the first by curry Foley in 1882.
The साईकिल is roughly as common as a no-hitter ( 279 आवृत्ति in MLB history ) ; it has महरूम called `` one of the rarest '' और `` most difficult feats '' in baseball.
Based on 2009 offensive levels, the probability of an औसत एमएलबी खिलाड़ी hitting for a cycle विरूद्ध an average टोली in a खेल is लगभग 0.00590 % ; this corresponds to about 2.5 चक्र in a 162-game ऋतु with 30 teams.
In अन्य baseball leagues, the cycle is achieved less अक्सर.
through September 4, 2008, 62 players in निप्पन Professional Baseball ( NPB ), the top-level baseball organization in Japan, have hit for the cycle, the most recent being Michihiro Ogasawara.
Two players have hit लिये the cycle on the same दिन once in NPB history ; इस रै occurred twice in MLB history.
One NPB player has also hit लिये the साईकिल in an NPB all-star खेल.
No खिलाड़ी has ever hit for the साईकिल in the एमएलबी all-star Game or the postseason.
the प्रमुख slave routes in medieval अफ़्रीकी.
This article discusses systems, history, and प्रभाव of slavery within अफ़्रीकी.
See Arab slave व्यापार, Atlantic स्लेव trade, Maafa, and Slavery in समकालीन Africa for other discussions.
`` स्लेव हस्तांतरण in अफ़्रीकी ''.
Europeans usually did not डालें the interior regions.
Slavery in Africa has existed throughout the continent लिये many centuries, and continues in the वर्तमान day.
Systems of servitude and slavery were common in many parts of the continent, as they were in much of the ancient world.
in most अफ़्रीकी societies जहाँ slavery was prevalent, the enslaved people were largely treated as indentured servants and नहीं treated as chattel slaves.
जब the Arab slave trade और अटलांटिक slave trade began, many of the लोकल स्लेव systems बदला and began supplying captives for स्लेव markets outside of Africa.
Slavery in historical Africa थी practiced in अनेक different forms and some of these do not clearly fit the definitions of गुलामी elsewhere in the world.
Debt गुलामी, enslavement of war captives, military slavery, और criminal slavery were सब practiced in various parts of अफ़्रीकी.
Although there had been कुछ trans-Saharan trade इससे the आंतरिक of Sub-Saharan Africa to अन्य regions, गुलामी was a small part of the economic जीवन of many societies in Africa until the परिचय of transcontinental slave trades ( Arab और अटलांटिक ).
Slave practices were again transformed साथ European colonization of Africa and the formal abolition of गुलामी in the जल्दी 1900s.
खिड़कियाँ Task Manager is a कार्य manager or प्रणाली monitor अनुप्रयोग included with the Microsoft Windows NT परिवार of ऑपरेटिंग systems that provides सीमित information परिचय computer performance और running अनुप्रयोग, processes and cpu usage, commit चार्ज और memory सूचना, संजाल activity and statistics, logged-in users, and प्रणाली services ( and as प्रायः is the case with तन्त्र tools provided by Microsoft for खिड़कियाँ, 3rd पार्टी software is available which fills the requirements more thoroughly, e.g, `` प्रक्रम Explorer '', `` Extended Task Manager '', `` Anvir कार्य Manager '', `` प्रक्रम Hacker '', and `` System Explorer '' ).
the Task Manager can also be प्रयुक्त to set process priorities, प्रोसेसर अपनापन, forcibly terminate processes, and shut down, restart, hibernate or log off इससे खिड़कियाँ.
Windows Task Manager was introduced साथ खिड़कियाँ NT 4.0.
Previous versions of खिड़कियाँ NT included the कार्य सूची application, which had far fewer features.
The task list was सक्षम of listing फिलहाल running processes और killing them, or creating a new process.
In Windows XP तभी, a Shutdown menu is also present कि allows access to standby, hibernate, Turn off, restart, Log Off and स्विच User.
Earlier versions of Microsoft Windows ( Microsoft खिड़कियाँ 3.x, Windows 95, Windows 98 ) had a कार्यक्रम known as tasks to display the programs currently running.
This संचिका was executed by running the taskman.exe file from the C : \Windows directory.
The troop is an American-Canadian live-action, single कैमरा comedy -adventure television series about a तिकड़ी of teenagers जो fight and कैप्चर monsters and other supernatural phenomena that invade the fictional कस्बा of lakewood.
Created and executive उत्पादित by अधिकतम Burnett, Greg Coolidge और क्रिस Morgan, the series premiered on Nickelodeon on September 18, 2009.
The दूसरी season premiered on June 25, 2011 और Nickelodeon cancelled the series मिडवे through it 's second ऋतु.
The बाकी एपीसोड of season 2 were aired on nicktoons except the last 3..
Sparsely आबादी in relation to its क्षेत्रफल, the Democratic गणतंत्र of the Congo ( DRC ) is home to a vast potential of प्राकृतिक resources and mineral wealth, its untapped जमा of raw खनिज are estimated to be worth in excess of US $ 24 trillion, yet the economy of the DRC has अस्वीकृत drastically since the mid-1980s.
at the time of its independence in 1960, DRC थी the दूसरी most industrialized country in Africa after South Africa ; it boasted a thriving खनन सेक्टर and its agriculture sector थी relatively उत्पादक.
if the दर्शक stares at this image for 20–60 सेकेंड और stares at a श्वेत object, a ऋणात्मक afterimage होगा appear ( in इस case, it होगा be cyan on magenta ).
This can भी be achieved by the viewer closing his/her eyes and tilting उनके head up.
An afterimage or ghost image or चित्र burn-in is an optical illusion that refers to an चित्र continuing to appear in एक 's vision after the एक्सपोज़र to the original चित्र has ceased.
One of the most common afterimages is the bright glow that seems to float before one 's eyes after looking into a light सोर्स for a few seconds.
Closing the eye can help achieve a बेहतर sense of the color in its own aspect.
afterimages आइये in two फ़ॉर्म, negative ( inverted ) और positive ( retaining original रंग ).
The प्रक्रम behind positive afterimages is अनजान, though विचार to be related to neural adaptation.
on the अन्य हाथ, negative afterimages are a retinal phenomenon and हैं खूब understood.
Lost is an American serial drama television series कि premiered on September 22, 2004 on the American प्रसारण Company ( ABC ).
The श्रेणी was निर्मित by J. J. Abrams and Damon lindelof, आधारित upon an original pilot script titled Nowhere लिखा by जेफरी lieber.
छह सीज़न of the show aired, in addition to numerous काटें shows to recap previous एपीसोड.
ABC announced that Lost would समाप्त after six seasons, having produced a कुल of 121 episodes.
The series follows the पास्ट, उपस्थित, and future experience ( s ) of the survivors of a plane crash on a यात्री jet, oceanic Flight 815, flying from Sydney to लॉस एंजिल्स after it crashes on a तीव्र island in the South प्रशांत.
the series also includes stories of the lives of people already living on the island — they include the `` अन्य ``, who initially antagonize the survivors, as खूब as a group of people who arrive on the freighter Kahana.
Each episode typically features कार्रवाई on the island as well as a द्वितीयक storyline from another point in a character 's life.
Season 6 features a detailing of the lives of the survivors in a अलग वास्तविकता, as if the flight had never क्रैश.
In the following list, the term `` प्रदर्शित character ( s ) '' refers to the character or characters who are प्रदर्शित in the द्वितीयक storyline of each episode.
`` No.
in श्रेणी '' refers to the episode 's number in the overall series, whereas `` No.
in ऋतु '' refers to the episode 's number in each particular season.
`` U.S. viewers ( लाख ) '' refers to the क्रमांक of Americans in लाखो जो watched the episode live.
A कुल of 121 एपीसोड of खोया यहूद produced, the last of which aired on May 23, 2010.
All seasons are available on DVD in regions 1–4 and on Blu-ray in regions A and b.
Flat फीट ( भी called pes planus or fallen arches ) is a formal reference to a medical condition in which the arch of the foot collapses, with the entire sole of the foot coming into complete or near-complete contact with the ground.
in some individuals ( an अनुमानित 20–30 % of the सामान्य जनसांख्यिकी ) the arch simply never develops in one foot ( unilaterally ) or both feet ( bilaterally ).
Three studies ( see citations नीचे in military section ) of military recruits have shown no evidence of बाद increased injury, or पैर problems, due to flat feet, in a जनसांख्यिकी of लोगों who पहुँचें military service age without prior foot problems.
however, these अध्ययन can not be used to judge possible भविष्य damage from this कंडीशन जब diagnosed at younger ages.
वे भी can नहीं be applied to व्यक्तियों जिनकी flat feet are associated with foot symptoms, or certain symptoms in other parts of the देह ( ऐसे as the leg or back ) possibly referable to the foot.
Generation X, commonly abbreviated to Gen X, is the पीढी born after the Western post-world युद्ध II baby boom.
demographers, historians and टीकाकारों use beginning birth dates from the early 1960s to the early 1980s.
The term was popularized by Douglas Coupland 's 1991 novel Generation x : Tales लिये an त्वरित Culture.
Before that, it had been used for various subcultures or countercultures after the 1950s.
Pressure ulcers, भी known as decubitus ulcers or bedsores, are localized injuries to the skin and/or underlying tissue usually over a bony prominence, as a result of pressure, or दबाव in combination साथ shear and/or friction.
सबसे commonly this will be the sacrum, coccyx, heels or the hips, but other साइट such as the elbows, knees, ankles or the वापस of the cranium can be affected.
The cause of pressure ulcers is pressure applied to soft tissue so कि रक्त प्रवाह to the soft tissue is completely or partially obstructed.
Shear is also a कारण ; shear pulls on रक्त vessels that feed the skin.
दबाव छाले सबसे commonly develop in persons जो are not moving about or are confined to wheelchairs.
It is widely believed that other कारकों can influence the tolerance of skin for pressure and shear thereby increasing the risk of pressure अल्सर development.
These factors हैं protein-calorie malnutrition, microclimate ( स्किन wetness caused by sweating or incontinence ), diseases that reduce blood flow to the स्किन, such as arteriosclerosis or diseases that reduce the feeling in the स्किन, such as paralysis or न्यूरोपैथी.
The healing of pressure छाले may be slowed by the age of the person, medical conditions ( such as arteriosclerosis, diabetes or infection ), smoking or medications ऐसे as antiinflammatory drugs.
Although often prevented and treatable if मिला early, pressure ulcers can be very difficult to prevent in critically बीमार patients, frail बड़ो, wheelchair users ( विशेषकर where स्पाइनल injury is शामिल ) और terminally ill patients.
Primary रोकथाम is to redistribute pressure by turning the patient regularly.
The लाभ of turning to avoid further sores is well प्रलेखित since at least the 19th century.
In addition to turning and re-positioning the रोगी in bed or wheelchair, eating a balanced diet साथ adequate protein and keeping the skin free इससे exposure to मूत्र and stool is very important.
The prevalence of दबाव ulcers in hospital जमावट is high, but improvements are being made.
according to the 2010 ipup ( International Pressure Ulcer Prevalence Survey ) conducted in Canada, there was a significant decrease in the overall facility-acquired व्यापकता of pressure ulcers from 2009-2010.
Ulcers were most commonly identified at the sacral/coccyx ulcer स्थान ; however, heel ulcers were the most आम facility-acquired location in the survey.
Overboard is a 1987 American romantic कॉमेडी फिल्मी अभिनीत Goldie hawn and Kurt रसेल.
It was directed by Garry मार्शल, उत्पादित by Roddy mcdowell, और loosely inspired by the 1974 Italian film Swept Away.
In फेरे, overboard was adapted into the 2006 South Korean television श्रेणी, युगल or Trouble.
Green Bay is a city in and the county seat of Brown County in the u.S. state of विस्कॉन्सिन, located at the head of ग्रीन खाड़ी, a sub-basin of झील Michigan, at the mouth of the फॉक्स River.
it has an elevation of ऊपर sea level and is located north of मिल्वौकी.
The population थी 104,057 at the 2010 census.
It is the third-largest नगर in the state of विस्कॉन्सिन, after Milwaukee और Madison.
it is भी the third-largest city on the वेस्ट shore of Lake Michigan, after शिकागो और Milwaukee.
Green खाड़ी is घर to the ग्रीन खाड़ी Packers of the National Football League, बनाना it by far the smallest metropolitan क्षेत्रफल in the यूएसए to host a major professional खेल franchise.
Green Bay is the principal city of the ग्रीन Bay Metropolitan Statistical Area, जिससे covers भूरा, kewaunee, और oconto Counties and had a संयुक्त population of 282,599 at the 2000 जनसांख्यिकी.
Green Bay is an industrial city with अनेक meatpacking and paper plants, and a port on Green खाड़ी, an भुजा of Lake Michigan that locals कॉल the खाड़ी of Green खाड़ी, to avoid conflating it with the eponymous city.
it is home to the National Railroad संग्रहालय ; the नेविली Public Museum, with exhibitions of art, history, and विज्ञान ; and the University of Wisconsin–Green Bay.
Luteinizing hormone ( LH, भी ज्ञात as lutropin and sometimes lutrophin ) is a हार्मोन produced by gonadotroph कोशिकाएं in the अग्रवर्ती pituitary gland.
In females, an अधि rise of LH ( `` LH surge '' ) triggers ovulation and development of the corpus luteum.
in males, जहाँ LH था also been called अंतरालीय cell-stimulating hormone ( ICSH ), it stimulates Leydig cell production of testosterone.
it acts synergistically साथ FSH.
सेलिना quintanilla-pérez ( April 16, 1971 – March 31, 1995 ), ज्ञात बस as Selena, थी an American singer-songwriter.
She was नामित the `` top Latin artist of the '90s '' and `` Best selling Latin कलाकार of the decade '' by बिलबोर्ड लिये her fourteen top-ten singles in the Top लैटिन Songs chart, including seven number-one hits.
Selena था the सबसे successful singles of 1994 और 1995, `` amor prohibido `` और `` No me Queda Más ``.
She was called `` The Queen of tejano music `` and the Mexican समतुल्य of मैडोना.
Selena released her first album, Selena y लॉस Dinos, at the age of twelve.
She won Female Vocalist of the साल at the 1987 Tejano Music Awards and landed a recording अनुबंध with emi a few years later.
उसके fame grew throughout the जल्दी 1990s, especially in spanish-speaking countries, and वो had begun recording in English as खूब.
सेलिना was murdered at the age of 23 on कूच 31, 1995 by Yolanda Saldívar, the पूर्व president of her प्रशंसक club.
On April 12, 1995, दो weeks बाद her death, जार्ज W. बुश, governor of Texas at the time, declared उसके birthday `` Selena Day '' in Texas.
warner Bros. produced Selena, a film based on her जीवन starring Jennifer Lopez, in 1997.
Selena 's life थी भी the basis of the musical Selena Forever starring Veronica vazquez as Selena.
in जून 2006 Selena was commemorated with a life-sized bronze प्रतिमा ( Mirador de la Flor in कॉर्पस Christi, Texas ) and a सेलिना museum opened there.
वो रै बेची over 60 million albums worldwide, making her one of the best-selling artists of all समय.
She is also the only female artist to have five एल्बम in u.s. बिलबोर्ड 200 at the वही time.
German Stahlhelm from World War II
तमगा of the Bolivian Army Colorados regiment, showing a stahlhelm and two crossed bayonets
stahlhelm ( बहुवचन, stahlhelme ) is German for `` steel हेल्मेट ''.
The Imperial German Army began to बदलें the traditional boiled-leather pickelhaube ( spiked combat helmet ) साथ the Stahlhelm during World War i in 1916.
The term Stahlhelm refers दोनो to a generic स्टील helmet, और more specifically to the distinctive ( and iconic ) German design.
The Stahlhelm, with इसके distinctive `` coal scuttle `` shape, थी an instantly recognizable icon लिये military imagery and became a common element of सैन्य propaganda on both sides, बस like the pickelhaube before it.
Its name was भी प्रयुक्त by the Stahlhelm, a अर्धसैनिक nationalist organization स्थापित at the end of 1918.
glow-in-the-dark may refer to:
Bioluminescence, the production and उत्सर्जन of light by a living सजीव
Chemiluminescence, is the emission of light ( luminescence ) without emission of ऊष्मा
Phosphorescence, a विशिष्ट प्रकार of photoluminescence related to fluorescence
radioluminescence, production of संदीप्ति in a material by the बमबारी of ionizing विकिरण
Glow in the अंधेरा Tour, a 2008 concert tour by Kanye West
Frankfurt Airport serves as a hub नगर लिये Lufthansa और receives flights from स्टार गठबंधन वाहक.
एयरलाइन hubs are airports क्रमित as large, medium, small, and non-hubs as one of the faa विमानक्षेत्र categories which हैं re-evaluated प्रत्येक year based on number of वाणिज्यिक passengers.
the more आम but informal उपयोग for the phrase एयरलाइन hub is an विमानक्षेत्र that an airline उपयोग as a transfer point to get यात्री to their intended destination.
it is part of a hub and spoke model, where travelers moving between airports not परोसा by direct flights change planes en route to उनके गंतव्यों.
इस is as opposed to the Point to पाइंट model.
अनेक hubs of the एयरलाइंस are also situated at airports in the cities of the respective सिर offices.
कुछ airlines may use तभी a single hub, while other airlines उपयोग अनेक hubs.
Hubs are used for both passenger flights as well as कार्गो फ़्लाइट.
Many airlines भी use focus cities, which function much the same as hubs.
Airlines may also उपयोग secondary hubs, a non-technical term for large फ़ोकस cities.
A हब in the middle of a route is more effective than at either end as connecting ट्रैफ़िक अधिक easily भरता the प्लेन - passengers prefer a one-stop ( two-leg ) रूट over a two-stop ( three-leg ) रूट.
Hollow lacedaemon.
Site of the Menelaion, the shrine to हेलेन and menelaus constructed anciently in the Bronze आयु नगर that stood on the hill of therapne on the left bank of the Eurotas River निहार the भविष्य साईट of डोरियन स्पार्टा.
आरपार the valley the successive ridges of Mount Taygetus हैं in प्रमाण.
Sparta ( Doric Greek : ; Attic Greek : ), or Lacedaemon, was a prominent city-state in ancient यूनानियों, situated on the banks of the Eurotas River in laconia, in south-eastern Peloponnese.
it उभरा as a राजनैतिक entity around the 10th सदी BC, when the invading Dorians subjugated the local, non-Dorian population.
Around 650 bc, it rose to become the dominant सैन्य land-power in ancient Greece.
दिए इसके military pre-eminence, Sparta was recognized as the overall leader of the combined यूनानी forces during the greco-persian Wars.
between 431 and 404 BC, Sparta थी the प्रिंसिपल enemy of एथेंस during the Peloponnesian युद्ध, from which it emerged victorious, though at great लागत.
Sparta 's defeat by Thebes in the Battle of Leuctra in 371 BC ended स्पार्टा 's prominent role in Greece.
However, it कायम इसके राजनैतिक independence जबतक the Roman conquest of यूनानियों in 146 BC.
It then underwent a long period of decline, विशेषकर in the Middle Ages, when many spartans स्थानांतरित to live in Mystras.
आधुनिक Sparta is the capital of the Greek क्षेत्रीय ईकाई of laconia और a center for the processing of goods such as citrus and olives.
स्पार्टा was unique in ancient यूनानियों लिये its social प्रणाली and constitution, which completely focused on military training and excellence.
इसके inhabitants were classified as spartiates ( Spartan citizens, who enjoyed full rights ), Mothakes ( non-Spartan फ़्री मेन raised as spartans ), Perioikoi ( freedmen ), और helots ( state-owned serfs, enslaved non-Spartan लोकल population ).
spartiates underwent the rigorous agoge training and education regimen, and spartan phalanges यहूद widely माना to be among the बेहतरीन in battle.
Spartan women enjoyed considerably more rights और equality to मेन than elsewhere in the classical world.
Sparta was the विषय of fascination in its own day, as well as in the West following the revival of शास्त्रीय सीखना.
This प्रेम or admiration of Sparta is known as Laconism or Laconophilia.
Fantasy football is an इंटरैक्टिव प्रतियोगिता in which users compete against प्रत्येक अन्य as general managers of virtual टीमों.
the खिलाड़ी that an individual is able to manage are पेशेवर American football players in the National Football League.
the different actions people are able to make are drafting, व्यापार, adding or dropping खिलाड़ी, and बदलना rosters.
due to the growth of the Internet, Fantasy football has vastly increased in popularity, विशेषकर क्युकी Fantasy फ़ुटबॉल providers such as ESPN, Yahoo, CBS, and the NFL itself are able to keep track of statistics entirely online, eliminating the need to जाँच बक्सा scores और newspapers regularly to keep track of खिलाड़ी.
Most लीग have a single week championship in सप्ताह 16 of the NFL season.
World population estimates from 1800 to 2100, आधारित on UN 2010 projections ( red, orange, green ) and us Census Bureau ऐतिहासिक estimates ( ब्लैक ).
Actual recorded population figures are in blue.
according to the highest estimate, the world population may rise to 16 billion by 2100 ; according to the lowest estimate, it may decline to 6 billion.
the world population is the total क्रमांक of जीना humans on धरती.
As of today, it is estimated to क्रमांक billion by the United States Census Bureau ( USCB ).
The uscb estimates that the संसार population exceeded 7 billion on March 12, 2012.
According to a separate estimate by the United Nations Population Fund, it पहुँचे this milestone on अक्तूबर 31, 2011.
The world population has experienced continuous growth since the समाप्त of the Great Famine and the Black Death in 1350, when it stood at around 370 million.
The highest rates of विकास – global population increases above 1.8 % प्रति year – were seen briefly during the 1950s, and लिये a longer period during the 1960s and 1970s.
The विकास rate peaked at 2.2 % in 1963, and had अस्वीकृत to 1.1 % by 2011.
Total annual births were highest in the लेट 1980s at परिचय 138 लाख, and are now अपेक्षित to remain essentially constant at their 2011 level of 134 लाख, while deaths क्रमांक 56 million प्रति year, और हैं अपेक्षित to increase to 80 million per year by 2040.
वर्तमान projections show a continued increase in population in the near future ( but a steady decline in the population growth rate ), with the global जनसांख्यिकी expected to reach between 7.5 और 10.5 billion by 2050.
Various longer-term estimates भविष्यवाणी further विकास, stagnation, or even overall decline in the वैश्विक population by 2150.
Some analysts have questioned the स्थिरता of further संसार population growth, citing the growing pressures on the environment, global खाना supplies, and energy संसाधन.
Skeletal मांसपेशियां homo sapiens
This is a table of muscles of the human anatomy.
There are लगभग 642 skeletal मांसपेशियां within the typical human, and लगभग every मांसपेशी constitutes one part of a जोड़ी of identical bilateral muscles, found on both sides, resulting in approximately 320 pairs of मांसपेशियां, as presented in this आलेख.
Nevertheless, the exact क्रमांक is difficult to define because different स्त्रोत समूह muscles differently, e.g. regarding what is defined as different parts of a single muscle or as अनेक muscles.
उदाहरण दायरा from 640 to 850.
The मांसपेशियां of the इंसान body can be categorized into a number of groups जिससे शामिल muscles relating to the सिर and neck, muscles of the torso or trunk, muscles of the अपर limbs, और muscles of the निम्नतर limbs.
the action refers to the action of each मांसपेशी from the मानक anatomical स्थिति.
In other positions, अन्य actions may be performed.
A gold bar is a मात्रा of परिष्कृत धात्विक gold of any आकार that is made by a bar producer meeting मानक conditions of manufacture, labeling, and रिकार्ड keeping.
larger सुनहरा bars that are produced by pouring the molten metal into molds are पुकारा ingots.
Smaller बार may be manufactured by minting or stamping इससे appropriately rolled सुनहरा sheets.
the standard सुनहरा बार held as gold reserves by central बैंको और traded among bullion dealers is the 400-troy-ounce ( 12.4 kg or 438.9 ounces ) Good Delivery सुनहरा बार.
The kilobar, जिससे is to कह 1000 गामा in द्रव्यमान, is the bar कि is more manageable and is used extensively लिये व्यापार and investment.
The premium on these bars when traded is very कम over the spot value of the gold बनाना it ideal लिये small हस्तांतरण between बैंको and traders.
Most kilobars are flat, although कुछ निवेशकों, particularly in Europe, prefer the brick आकार.
elisha Archibald `` Archie '' मैनिंग III ( born May 19, 1949 ) is a former अमरीकी football क्वार्टरबैक in the National Football लीग, playing for the New Orleans संतो from 1971 to 1982, then लिये the ह्यूस्टन Oilers and Minnesota Vikings.
he is the father of वर्तमान Denver broncos quarterback peyton Manning, वर्तमान New York Giants starting quarterback Eli Manning, और पूर्व ओले Miss receiver Cooper मैनिंग.
Advocacy is a राजनैतिक process by an individual or group which aims to influence public-policy and resource allocation decisions within political, आर्थिक, and social systems and institutions.
वकालत can शामिल many activities कि a person or संगठन undertakes including मीडिया अभियान, public speaking, commissioning and publishing शोध or polls or the filing of an amicus brief.
Lobbying ( प्रायः by लॉबी groups ) is a रूप of advocacy जहाँ a direct approach is made to legislators on an issue जिससे plays a significant भूमिका in modern politics.
Research is beginning to explore how वकालत समूह in the U.S. और Canada are using social media to facilitate नागरिक engagement and सामूहिक action.
The flag of Mexico ( Spanish : Bandera de México ) is a लंबवत tricolor of ग्रीन, white, and red with the नेशनल कोट of arms charged in the बीच of the श्वेत stripe.
While the meaning of the colors has बदला over time, these three colors यहूद adopted by Mexico following स्वतंत्रता from स्पेन दौरान the country 's युद्ध of Independence, and subsequent First Mexican Empire.
the current ध्वज थी adopted in 1968, लकिन the overall डिज़ाइन रै been used since 1821, जब the First National ध्वज थी created.
The current law of नेशनल symbols, Law on the National Arms, ध्वज, and गान, कि governs the उपयोग of the national flag has महरूम in place since 1984.
रेड, श्वेत, and green are the रंगों of the नेशनल liberation army in मैक्सिको.
the central emblem is the Aztec pictogram for Tenochtitlan ( now Mexico नगर ), the center of उनके empire.
It recalls the लेजेंड that inspired the Aztecs to settle on what was originally a lake-island.
The रूप of the कोट of arms was most recently revised in 1968.
a ribbon in the national colors is at the bottom of the coat of arms.
Throughout इतिहास, the flag रै changed four टाइम्स, as the डिज़ाइन of the coat of बाहें and the length-width ratios of the flag have महरूम modified.
however, the कोट of arms has had the same features throughout : an त्रिभुज, holding a serpent in its talon, is perched on top of a prickly pear cactus ; the कैक्टस is situated on a चट्टान that rises above a lake.
The coat of बाहें is derived from an Aztec legend that their gods told them to build a city जहाँ they spot an eagle on a nopal eating a serpent, which is now Mexico City.
the वर्तमान national flag, the Fourth नेशनल Flag, is also used as the Mexican naval ensign by ships registered in Mexico.
A destination marketing organization or convention and visitor ब्यूरो promotes a town, city, प्रदेश, or देश in order to increase the number of visitors.
it promotes the विकास और marketing of a destination, focusing on convention sales, tourism marketing, और services.
ऐसे organizations promote economic development of a destination by increasing visits from tourists and business travelers, जिससे generates overnight आवास for a destination, visits to रेस्तरां, और खरीदारी revenues.
Convention और visitor bureaus are the सबसे important tourism विपणन organizations in their respective tourist destinations, as वे हैं directly responsible for विपणन the गंतव्य ब्रांड through travel और पर्यटन `` product awareness '' to visitors.
DMOs produce billions of dollars in direct और अप्रत्यक्ष revenue and taxes for their destinations ' economies साथ their marketing and sales विशेषज्ञता.
Destination marketing संगठन are often पुकारा travel, convention, visitors, or tourism bureaux, welcome centers, information centers और more.
regardless of the name, ये organizations offer many सेवाएं to the traveling public.
The नीलगाय or wapiti ( cervus canadensis ) is एक of the largest प्रजाति of हिरण in the world, और one of the largest जमीन mammals in North America and eastern एशिया.
It was long believed to be a subspecies of the European रेड deer ( cervus elaphus ), but evidence from a 2004 study of the mitochondrial DNA indicates that the two हैं पृथक प्रजाति.
This एनिमल should not be उलझन साथ the larger moose ( Alces alces ), to which the name `` elk '' applies in Eurasia.
Apart from the moose, the तभी other member of the हिरण परिवार to प्रतिद्वंद्वी the elk in आकार is the south Asian sambar ( rusa unicolor ).
Elk range in forest और forest-edge आवास, feeding on grasses, पौधे, leaves, और छाल.
Although देशी to उत्तर America और eastern Asia, they have adapted well to countries where they have महरूम introduced, including Argentina, Australia, and New Zealand.
Their great adaptability may threaten endemic प्रजाति and ecosystems into which they have महरूम introduced.
Male elk have large antlers which are shed each year.
Males भी engage in ritualized mating व्यवहार during the rut, सहित posturing, antler wrestling ( sparring ), and bugling, a loud श्रेणी of vocalizations जिससे establishes दबदबा over other males and attracts females.
नीलगाय are susceptible to a number of infectious diseases, कुछ of which can be transmitted to livestock.
प्रयत्न to eliminate infectious diseases इससे नीलगाय populations, largely through vaccination, have had mixed success.
Some cultures revere the elk as a आध्यात्मिक फ़ोर्स.
In parts of एशिया, antlers and their मखमल हैं प्रयुक्त in परंपरागत दवाइयाँ.
Elk हैं hunted as a खेल species ; the meat is leaner and higher in protein than beef or chicken.
The जार्ज वॉशिंगटन University ( gw, gwu, or जार्ज Washington ) is a comprehensive private, coeducational research विश्वविद्यालयों located in Washington, d.C..
It awards certificates, Bachelor डिग्री, Masters डिग्री, और phds आरपार several dozen disciplines.
the university was चार्टर्ड by an Act of Congress on फ़रवरी 9, 1821 as The Columbian College in the District of Columbia.
The lion ( पेंथेरा leo ) is one of the four बिग cats in the genus Panthera और a member of the family फ़ेलिडाए.
With some males exceeding in वज़न, it is the second-largest living cat बाद the बाघ.
जंगली lions currently exist in sub-saharan अफ़्रीकी and in Asia ( where an endangered remnant population resides in Gir वन National Park in India ) while other types of शेर have disappeared इससे North Africa और Southwest एशिया in historic times.
जबतक the late Pleistocene, about 10,000 सालो पहले, the lion was the most widespread large land mammal after humans.
वे यहूद found in most of Africa, across यूरेशिया from western Europe to India, और in the americas इससे the Yukon to Peru.
the lion is a vulnerable species, having seen a प्रमुख population मनाही of 30–50 % over the past two decades in इसके African दायरा.
Lion populations हैं untenable बाहर designated reserves and national parks.
Although the cause of the मनाही is not fully समझा, habitat loss and conflicts with humans are currently the महानतम causes of concern.
Within Africa, the West अफ़्रीकी शेर population is विशेषकर endangered.
Lions live for 10–14 years in the wild, while in captivity they can live longer than 20 सालो.
in the जंगली, males seldom live longer than 10 सालो, as चोटों sustained from continual fighting with प्रतिद्वंद्वी males greatly reduce उनके longevity.
They typically inhabit सवाना and grassland, although they may लो to bush and forest.
शेर are unusually social compared to other cats.
A अभिमान of lions consists of सम्बन्धित महिलाओं और औलाद and a small number of वयस्क males.
Groups of female lions typically हंट together, preying mostly on विशाल ungulates.
Lions are apex and keystone predators, although वे scavenge as opportunity allows.
While शेर do not typically hunt इंसानो, some have महरूम known to do so.
Sleeping mainly during the day, शेर हैं primarily nocturnal, although bordering on crepuscular in nature.
अत्यधिक distinctive, the पुरूष शेर is easily recognised by its mane, and its face is one of the सबसे widely recognised animal symbols in इंसान संस्कृति.
depictions have existed from the Upper Paleolithic काल, with carvings and paintings इससे the Lascaux and Chauvet Caves, through virtually all ancient और medieval cultures where they एकबार occurred.
It has been extensively depicted in sculptures, in paintings, on नेशनल flags, and in contemporary films और literature.
Lions have been kept in menageries since the time of the Roman साम्राज्य, and have been a कुंजी species sought for प्रदर्शनी in zoos over the world since the लेट 18th सदी.
Zoos are cooperating worldwide in breeding programs for the endangered एशियाटिक subspecies.
In the history of वीडियो games, the seventh generation of consoles is the previous generation, and includes consoles released since late by Nintendo, Microsoft, and सोनी.
For home consoles, the सातवाँ generation began on 22 November 2005 with the release of Xbox 360 and continued with the release of PlayStation 3 on 11 नवम्बर 2006, and Wii on 19 November 2006.
प्रत्येक new console introduced a new प्रकार of breakthrough in प्रौद्योगिकी.
The Xbox 360 offered खेल rendered natively at HD resolutions, the PlayStation 3 offered, in जोड to fhd gaming, HD फिल्म playback via a built-in 3d blu-ray Disc player, and the Wii focused on integrating परिरक्षक with गति sensors as well as joysticks.
Joining निन्टेंडो in the गति मार्केट, सोनी released the PlayStation मूव in September 2010.
The प्लेस्टेशन Move features motion sensing gaming, similar to that of the Wii.
Microsoft also joined Sony and निन्टेंडो, with इसके kinect.
Unlike the अन्य two systems ( PlayStation 3 and Wii ), kinect करता not उपयोग any controllers of कोई sort and makes the उपयोक्ता the `` controller. ''
Having sold 8 लाख units in इसके first 60 days on the मार्केट, Kinect रै claimed the गिनीज World Record of होने the `` fastest selling उपभोक्ता electronics यंत्र ''.
While the Xbox 360 offers wired controllers as a standalone product, all PlayStation 3 controllers can be used in wired और wireless configurations.
starting साथ handheld consoles, the seventh generation began on 21 November 2004 साथ the North American परिचय of the निन्टेंडो ds as a `` third pillar '', alongside Nintendo 's existing खेल लड़के अग्रिम और GameCube consoles.
The Nintendo ds ( NDS ) features a touch screen and built-in माइक्रोफोन, and supports बेतार IEEE 802.11 ( Wi-Fi ) standards.
Additionally, the revised version of the NDS, the dsi, features two built in कैमरे, the ability to download games इससे the DSi store, and a web browser.
the PlayStation Portable, or PSP, released later the same year on 12 दिसम्बर 2004, followed a अलग pattern.
It became the पहला handheld video game console to use an optical disc स्वरूप, Universal Media डिस्क ( UMD ), as its प्राथमिक भंडार media.
Sony also gave the PSP robust multi-media काबिलियत, connectivity with the PlayStation 3 and other PSPs, and Internet कनेक्टिविटी.
The Nintendo ds likewise has connectivity to the अंतरजाल through the Nintendo Wi-Fi कनेक्शन and Nintendo ds ब्राउजर, as well as wireless connectivity to अन्य DS systems और Wii consoles.
despite high sales numbers for दोनो consoles, प्लेस्टेशन Portable बिक्री have consistently पिछड़ापन behind those of the Nintendo ds ; nevertheless, the PlayStation Portable रै the distinction of being the best-selling non-Nintendo हैंडहेल्ड gaming system.
Sgt. Pepper 's निर्जन Hearts Club बैंड ( प्रायः shortened to sgt. Pepper ) is the eighth studio एल्बम by English rock बैंड the Beatles.
Released in June 1967, the album included गीतों such as `` With a Little Help इससे My Friends ``, `` Lucy in the आसमान with Diamonds ``, और `` A Day in the Life ``.
continuing the artistic maturation देखी on the band 's album रिवाल्वर ( 1966 ), sgt. pepper further departed from the conventional pop rock idiom of the समय and incorporated balladry, साइकेडेलिक, music hall, and symphonic प्रभाव.
During the Sgt. pepper sessions, the group improved upon the quality of उनके म्यूज़िक 's production while exploring प्रायोगिक recording तकनीकों.
निर्माता George Martin 's innovative दृष्टिकोण शामिल the use of an orchestra.
Widely acclaimed and imitated, the एल्बम कवर, designed by English pop artists Peter ब्लेक and Jann Haworth, was inspired by a sketch by Paul McCartney that चित्रित the band posing in सामने of a collage of some of उनके favourite हस्तियाँ.
Sgt. Pepper थी a worldwide critical and वाणिज्यिक success, spending 27 सप्ताह at the top of the UK एल्बम Chart and 15 weeks at number one on the US बिलबोर्ड 200.
A seminal work in the उभरते psychedelic चट्टान style, the album was critically acclaimed upon release and won four Grammy Awards in 1968.
With an अनुमानित 32 लाख नक़ल sold, it is एक of the world 's best selling albums.
Sgt. pepper is considered by many to be the most influential and famous rock album ever, and रै been named the greatest album of all time by दोनो All Time Top 1000 Albums and Rolling Stone.
The temporal पालि is a region of the cerebral cortex कि is located beneath the पार्श्ववर्ती फिशर on both दिमागी बांटती of the mammalian दिमाग.
The temporal lobes are involved in the retention of visual memories, प्रसंस्करण संवेदी इनपुट, comprehending language, storing new memories, emotion, and deriving meaning.
The इंसान फेफड़े हैं the organs of respiration in humans.
Humans have two lungs, a सही lung and a left lung.
The right lung consists of three lobes while the बाएँ lung is थोड़ा smaller consisting of तभी two निर्मोक ( the left lung has a `` हृदय notch '' allowing space for the heart भीतर the छाती ).
Together, the lungs contain लगभग of airways and 300 to 500 million alveoli, having a कुल surface क्षेत्रफल of about ( ) in वयस्कों — roughly the same area as one side of a tennis अदालत.
Furthermore, if all of the capillaries that घेर the alveoli were unwound and रखी समाप्त to end, they होता extend लिये about.
Each फेफड़ों weighs, इसलिए making the संपूर्ण organ about.
Human फेफड़े
the trachea divides into two bronchi ( one for each side ) at the level of T4.
This junction is भी known as the carina.
the conducting zone contains the trachea, the bronchi, the bronchioles, and the टर्मिनल bronchioles The respiratory zone contains the respiratory bronchioles, the alveolar नलिकाएं, और the alveoli.
the conducting मण्डल और the respiratory stuffers ( लकिन not the alveoli ) are बना up of एयरवेज़.
The conducting zone has no गैस exchange साथ the blood, and is reinforced with उपास्थि in order to hold खोलें the airways.
The conducting मण्डल warms the air to और humidifies the air.
It भी cleanses the एयर by removing particles via cilia located on the walls of all the passageways.
the फेफड़े are surrounded by the rib cage.
The respiratory zone is the site of gas exchange साथ blood.
The सहानुभूतिपूर्ण बेचैन system via noradrenaline एक्टिंग on the बीटा receptors causes bronchodilation.
The parasympathetic nervous system via acetylcholine, which acts on the M-3 muscarinic receptors, maintains the resting टोन of the bronchiolar चिकना muscle.
इस action is सम्बन्धित, although माना पृथक from bronchoconstriction.
अनेक other non-autonomic nervous and biochemical stimuli, सहित carbon dioxide and ऑक्सीजन, are also शामिल in the regulation process.
The pleural cavity is the संभावित space between the parietal pleura, अस्तर the भीतरी wall of the thoracic cage, and the visceral pleura lining the lungs.
The lung parenchyma is सख्ती used to refer solely to alveolar tissue साथ respiratory bronchioles, alveolar ducts and टर्मिनल bronchioles.
However, it प्रायः शामिल कोई form of lung tissue, भी including bronchioles, bronchi, blood vessels और फेफड़ों interstitium.
The मार्गरिटा is a Mexican cocktail consisting of टकीला mixed साथ Cointreau or similar orange -flavoured liqueur और लाइम or lemon juice, often परोसा with salt on the glass rim.
It is the सबसे common tequila-based cocktail in the United States.
The पेय is परोसा shaken with बर्फ ( on the रॉक्स ), blended with ice ( frozen मार्गरिटा ), or without ice ( सीधा up ).
Two bottles of red Burgundy wine from Gevrey-Chambertin, Côtes de Nuits
Burgundy is a dark red color associated with the Burgundy wine of the वही name, जिससे in turn is named बाद the Burgundy region of France.
The color burgundy is समान to other शेड्स of dark red such as maroon.
When referring to the color, `` burgundy '' is usually not capitalized.
The first recorded use of `` burgundy '' as a color name in English थी in 1881.
Grave of an unknown British soldier, मारे in 1943 during the Battle of leros.
Because his पहचान is unknown, he is missing in action.
Grave of an अनजान American soldier in oise-aisne कब्रिस्तान.
मारे in 1917
Grave of an अनजान छत्रसेना, killed in the बैटल of Arnhem, 1944.
Photographed in April 1945
क़ब्रों of 11 अनजान British soldiers killed during World War II, in Rhodes CWGC war cemetery
Wall crypts containing remains of unknown Italian soldiers killed during संसार War ii, in a Rhodes cemetery
Some of the 72,000 names inscribed on the Thiepval Memorial to the Missing of the somme
क़ब्रों of अनजान French soldiers killed during World War One.
Each कंक्रीट cross has a metal प्लैक bearing the word `` Inconnu '' i.e. `` Unknown ''
Ossuary at the gallipoli battlefield, containing the remains of 3000 unidentified French सैनिको who died in 1915
Graves of unknown Eritrean Ascaris killed in 1941 during the Battle of Keren
लापता in action ( MIA ) is a casualty Category assigned अंतर्गत the Status of Missing to armed सेवाएं personnel who हैं reported लापता during active service.
They may have been killed, wounded, become a prisoner of war, or deserted.
If deceased, neither उनके remains nor संगीन can be positively पहचाना.
Becoming MIA रै been an occupational risk लिये सेवा personnel लिये as long as वहीँ has been warfare.
Chamber of कॉमर्स Building in बीच.
This building is the original कारावास, built along साथ the Historic courthouse.
Both sit on the Town वर्गाकार.
The Rio थिएटर in बीच
First Baptist Church at 117 Cora Street in Center is स्तिथ next to the शहर खण्ड.
First Christian Church at 124 Cora Street in Center is one of the oldest congregations in the community.
बीच is a city in शेल्बी काउंटी, Texas, संयुक्त States.
the population थी 5,193 at the 2010 census.
It is the county सीट of Shelby काउंटी.
It is नामित for its स्थान near the बीच of Shelby County, नहीं लिये its location in Texas as it is located निकट the Louisiana border.
Intense red-eye effect in ब्लू eyes with dilated pupil
The red-eye effect in photography is the common रूप of red pupils in रंग photographs of eyes.
It occurs जब using a फ़ोटोग्राफ़िक flash very close to the कैमरा लेंस ( as with most compact cameras ), in ambient low light.
The प्रभाव appears in the eyes of humans and पशु that have tapetum lucidum.
Theatrical followspot operators, positioned nearly coincidentally with a very bright light and somewhat दूर from the actors, occasionally witness red-eye in अभिनेताओं on स्टेज.
the effect is not visible to the rest of the audience क्युकी it is reliant on the बहुत छोटी angle between the followspot ऑपरेटर and the लाइट.
the University of California, Santa Barbara ( commonly referred to as UC सांता बारबरा or ucsb ) is a पब्लिक research विश्वविद्यालयों and one of the ten general campuses of the University of California system.
The main कैम्पस is स्तिथ on a साईट in Goleta, कैलिफ़ोर्निया, United States, from Santa Barbara and northwest of लॉस Angeles.
ट्रेसिंग its जड़ें back to 1891 as an independent teachers ' college, UCSB joined the University of कैलिफ़ोर्निया system in 1944 and is the third-oldest general-education campus in the system.
UCSB is एक of अमेरिका 's पब्लिक Ivy universities, which recognizes top public शोध universities in the संयुक्त राज्य.
the university is a comprehensive डॉक्टरेट विश्वविद्यालयों and is organized into पाँच colleges और schools offering 87 undergraduate degrees और 55 graduate degrees.
The कैम्पस is the 6th-largest in the UC system by enrollment with 18,977 undergraduate और 2,950 graduate विद्यार्थी.
In 2012, UCSB थी ranked 41st among `` National Universities '' and 10th among public विश्वविद्यालयों by U.S. न्यूज & World Report.
The university थी also ranked 35th worldwide by the Times उच्चतर Education World University Rankings और 34th worldwide ( 6th worldwide लिये अभियान्त्रिकी ) by the Academic Ranking of World Universities in 2012. < संदर्भ name= '' shanghairanking.com/fieldeng2012 '' >
UC Santa बारबरा is a `` very ऊँची activity '' शोध university and खर्च $ 191.2 लाख on शोध expenditures in the 2007 fiscal year, 97th-largest in the United States.
UCSB घरों twelve नेशनल research centers, including the renowned kavli Institute for Theoretical भौतिकी.
UCSB faculty includes five Nobel Prize laureates, one Fields Medalist, 29 members of the National Academy of sciences, 27 members of the National Academy of Engineering, और 31 members of the अमरीकी अकादमी of Arts and Sciences.
UCSB थी the no. 3 मेजबान on the ARPAnet and थी elected to the Association of American Universities in 1995.
the UC Santa Barbara Gauchos compete in the NCAA Division i Big West Conference.
the Gauchos have won NCAA national championships in men 's सॉकर and men 's water polo.
Saint Joseph साथ the Infant Jesus by Guido Reni
Saint जोसेफ 's Day, March 19, the feast of st. जोसेफ is in Western christianity the principal feast दिन of Saint जोसेफ, Spouse of the Blessed वर्जिन मरियम.
he is also the step-father of Jesus of Nazareth /Jesus मसीह.
it has the rank of a solemnity in the Roman कैथोलिक Church ; catholics जो follow the missal of 1962 celebrate it as a first class feast.
Previous to 1962 it was मनाये as a feast of the rank of double of the first class.
It is a feast or commemoration in the provinces of the Anglican Communion, और a feast or पर्व in the लूथरन Church.
Saint जोसेफ 's Day is the Patronal feast day लिये Poland as well as for Canada, persons named Joseph, Josephine, etc., for धार्मिक institutes, schools और parishes bearing his name, and for carpenters.
It is also पिता 's Day in कुछ Catholic countries, mainly स्पेन, Portugal, and इटली.
March 19 was dedicated to संत जोसेफ in अनेक Western calendars by the दसवाँ सदी, and this custom was established in रोम by 1479.
Pope st. Pius v extended its use to the entire Roman Rite by his Apostolic संविधान quo Primum ( July 14, 1570 ).
Since 1969, Episcopal Conferences may, if they wish, transfer it to a तिथि outside Lent.
between 1870 and 1955, a feast थी celebrated in honor of St. Joseph as जीवनसाथी of the Blessed Virgin Mary and Patron of the Universal Church, the latter title having been दिए to him by Pope Pius IX.
Originally celebrated on the तीसरा Sunday बाद Easter साथ an अष्टक, बाद Divino Afflatu of St. पायस X ( देखिए Reform of the रोमन Breviary by Pope Pius X ), it थी moved to the preceding Wednesday.
the feast थी also retitled The Solemnity of संत Joseph.
This celebration and its accompanying octave थी abolished दौरान the modernisation and simplification of rubrics under Pope Pius XII in 1955.
It is still maintained by Catholics who follow the missal of 1962 or earlier missals.
As the traditional holiday of the Apostles ss. फिलिप and James, May 1, had faded from the memory of सबसे Catholics by the mid-twentieth सदी, कि of Joseph the Worker थी created in order to coincide with the जश्न of international श्रमिक दिन ( May दिन ) in अनेक देशों.
the feast of Ss. Philip and जेम्स, which had been मनाये on that तिथि since the छठे सदी, थी स्थानांतरित from इसके traditional place.
In the new calendar published in 1969, the feast, जिससे at एक समय occupied the उच्चतम possible रैंक in the Church पंचांग, was reduced to an optional Memorial, the lowest rank लिये a संत 's day.
the पूर्वी Orthodox Church celebrates Saint जोसेफ on the संडे after क्रिसमस.
Mariah Carey ( born March 27, 1970 ) is an अमरीकी सिंगर, songwriter, record निर्माता, actress, और लोकसेवक.
Under the मार्गदर्शन of कोलंबिया Records executive Tommy Mottola, कैरी released her self-titled debut studio album Mariah Carey in 1990 ; it गई multi-platinum and spawned four consecutive क्रमांक one singles on the U.S. Billboard Hot 100 चार्ट.
Following उसके marriage to Mottola in 1993 and success with hit रिकॉर्ड Emotions ( 1991 ), Music Box ( 1993 ), और Merry क्रिसमस ( 1994 ), Carey was established as Columbia 's highest-selling act.
daydream ( 1995 ) made music history when its second सिंगल `` One मीठी Day ``, a duet with Boyz ii Men, खर्च a रिकार्ड sixteen weeks on top of the बिलबोर्ड hot 100, और remains the longest-running number-one song in U.S. chart इतिहास.
During the recording of the album, कैरी began to deviate from her R & b and पॉप beginnings और धीरे traversed into हिप hop.
इस musical change became evident साथ the release of Butterfly ( 1997 ), at जिससे time Carey had separated from Mottola.
Carey left Columbia in 2000, and signed a record-breaking $ 100 million recording अनुबंध साथ Virgin Records.
Before the release of उसके पहला feature film Glitter ( 2001 ), she suffered a physical और emotional breakdown and was hospitalized for कठोर exhaustion.
Following the film 's poor reception, वो was खरीदा out of her recording contract for $ 50 million, which led to a decline in her career.
She signed a multi-million dollar contract deal with Island Records in 2002, and after an unsuccessful period, returned to the top of music charts with The emancipation of Mimi ( 2005 ).
Its second सिंगल `` We belong Together `` became her most successful single of the 2000s, and was later named `` सोंग of the Decade '' by Billboard.
Carey एकबार again ventured into फिल्मी साथ a well-received starring भूमिका in ( 2009 ) ; she was awarded the `` Breakthrough Performance Award '' at the ताड़ Springs International फिल्मी Festival, and Black रील और NAACP चित्र Award nominations.
in a career spanning over two दशकों, कैरी रै sold अधिक than 200 million records विश्वव्यापी, making her एक of the best-selling म्यूज़िक artists of all time.
In 1998, वो was honored as the world 's best-selling recording artist of the 1990s at the World Music Awards.
Carey थी भी named the best-selling female artist of the millennium in 2000.
According to the रिकॉर्डिंग Industry Association of America, वो is the तीसरा best-selling female artist in the संयुक्त राज्य, साथ 63.5 लाख certified albums.
With the release of `` Touch My Body `` ( 2008 ), Carey gained her eighteenth क्रमांक एक single in the संयुक्त राज्य, अधिक than any other solo artist.
in 2012, Carey थी ranked second on VH1 's list of the `` 100 Greatest महिलाओं in Music ''.
aside इससे उसके वाणिज्यिक accomplishments, Carey has जीती five ग्रैमी Awards, 17 संसार Music Awards, 11 American म्यूज़िक पुरस्कार, and 31 Billboard म्यूज़िक Awards.
Referred to as the `` songbird supreme '' by the Guinness World रिकॉर्ड, वो is famed for her five-octave vocal range, power, melismatic style और signature use of the whistle register.
A bumblebee is कोई member of the मधुमक्खी genus Bombus, in the परिवार apidae.
वहीँ are over 250 known species, existing primarily in the Northern गोलार्ध हालांकि वे also occur in South America.
वे have been introduced to New जीलैंड और the Australian राज्य of Tasmania.
Bumblebees are social insects that are characterised by ब्लैक और yellow body बालों, often in bands.
However, some प्रजाति have orange or red on their लाशें, or may be entirely black.
another obvious ( but नहीं unique ) characteristic is the soft nature of the hair ( long, branched setae ), पुकारा pile, that covers उनके entire देह, बनाना them appear and feel fuzzy.
They are best distinguished from similarly विशाल, fuzzy bees by the form of the female हिन्द लेग, which is modified to रूप a corbicula : a चमकदार concave surface कि is bare, but surrounded by a fringe of बालों used to transport pollen ( in similar bees, the hind लेग is completely hairy, and पराग दाने are wedged into the hairs लिये transport ).
Like उनके relatives the honey bees, bumblebees feed on nectar and gather पराग to फीड their यंग.
A man openly carrying a handgun in a Burger किंग in Eagle, Colorado.
in the संयुक्त States, open carry is shorthand terminology for `` खुलकर carrying a firearm in public '', as distinguished from concealed carry, जहाँ firearms can नहीं be seen by the casual observer.
The practice of open carry, where gun owners openly carry firearms जबकि they go about their daily कारोबार, has seen an increase in the U.S. in recent years.
This has been marked by a number of organized कार्यक्रम intended to increase the दृश्यता of खोलें carry और पब्लिक जागरूकता about the अभ्यास.
Proponents of खोलें carry पाइंट to history and statistics, noting कि criminals usually conceal their weapons.
प्रोत्साहित by groups like OpenCarry.org, GeorgiaCarry.org and कुछ भागीदार of the फ़्री State Project, open carry has देखी a revival in recent सालो, लकिन it is not yet clear if इस represents just a short-term trend.
The gun rights community has been mixed in its जवाब.
Alan gottlieb of the दूसरी Amendment Foundation and the NRA have been cautious in expressing support, जबकि special-interest groups such as the aforementioned OpenCarry.org and georgiacarry.org, and certain नेशनल समूह such as the Gun Owners of अमेरिका ( GOA ) have been अधिक outspoken in favor of the practice.
खोलें carry is strongly opposed by gun control groups such as the ब्रैडी अभियान and the Coalition to Stop Gun हिंसा.
the Cattenom Nuclear Power Plant in France.
फ़्रांस produces around three quarters of इसके electricity by nuclear शक्ति.
the Grafenrheinfeld Nuclear Power Plant in Germany.
Chancellor Angela Merkel 's coalition घोषित on may 30, 2011, that Germany’s 17 nuclear शक्ति stations होगा be shut down by 2022, in a policy reversal following जापानी 's Fukushima Daiichi nuclear विपत्ति.
Currently, 68 रिएक्टरों are under निर्माण in 15 देशों.
Nuclear शक्ति स्टेशन operate in thirty countries.
In 2010, पहले the Fukushima daiichi nuclear विपत्ति, it was reported कि an औसत of परिचय 10 nuclear reactors were अपेक्षित to become operational प्रति year, although according to the संसार Nuclear Association, of the 17 civilian reactors नियोजित to become operational between 2007 and 2009, तभी पाँच actually came on स्ट्रीम.
As of June 2011, जर्मनी and स्विट्ज़रलैंड are phasing-out nuclear power.
As of June 2011, countries such as ऑस्ट्रेलिया, Austria, Denmark, Greece, Ireland, इटली, Latvia, Liechtenstein, ध्वज, Malaysia, Malta, नई जीलैंड, नार्वे and पुर्तगाल remain opposed to nuclear शक्ति.
Color गति picture फिल्मी refers both to unexposed color photographic film in a format उपयुक्त for use in a motion चित्र camera, and to finished motion picture फिल्मी, ready for उपयोग in a projector, which bears images in रंग.
the first color cinematography थी by means of additive color systems such as the one patented in England by Edward Raymond टर्नर in 1899 and tested in 1902.
A simplified additive प्रणाली थी विकसित by जार्ज अल्बर्ट Smith and successfully commercialized in 1909 as Kinemacolor.
These जल्दी प्रणालियों used black-and-white film to फोटोग्राफ and project two or more component images through अलग रंग फ़िल्टर.
Still from footage recorded by एडवर्ड Turner in 1902
With the present-day technology, वहीँ are two distinct प्रक्रियाओं : eastman रंग Negative 2 chemistry ( camera ऋणात्मक stocks, duplicating interpositive और internegative स्टॉक्स ) and Eastman Color Positive 2 रसायन ( positive prints लिये direct projection ), usually abbreviated as ECN-2 और ecp-2.
Fuji 's products are compatible with ECN-2 and ecp-2.
Ashanti Shequoiya Douglas ( born October 13, 1980 ) is an American singer-songwriter, रिकार्ड producer, and actress.
Ashanti is most famous for her eponymous debut album, जिससे प्रदर्शित the hit song `` foolish ``, and sold over 503,000 copies in its first week of release throughout the U.S. in April 2002.
The एल्बम set a Soundscan रिकार्ड as the biggest opening week sales for a new female कलाकार, outselling debuts by एलिसिया कुंजियाँ and Lauryn Hill.
in the same week, she became the first मादा यजमान to simultaneously थाम the top two स्थान on the Billboard hot 100 singles chart with `` foolish '', और `` What 's Luv ? ``
( with Fat Joe ).
Ashanti broke records again by having three top ten songs, `` foolish, '' `` What 's Luv ? '' और `` Always on Time ``, on the बिलबोर्ड Hot 100 चार्ट in the वही week, होने the first स्त्री to accomplish this feat और होने second only to the Beatles.
In 2003, the self-titled debut album जीती Ashanti उसके पहला ग्रैमी Award लिये Best Contemporary R & B एल्बम.
As of April 1st 2013, ashanti has बेची over 27.7 million रिकॉर्ड worldwide.
Ashanti ended the decade ( 2000–09 ) as the third शीर्ष नई R & b artist behind Alicia Keys और Beyoncé.
She also ended the दशक at number 38 on the Top कलाकार of the Decade list.
She is currently on the सूची of the Twenty Best selling Music Singles Since 1990 लिये her single foolish for selling 7.2 million copies to-date.
Ashanti has an estimated net लायक of $ 40 लाख dollars [ USD ].
ashanti wrote and sang पृष्ठभूमि on Jennifer Lopez 's `` ai n't It Funny ( हत्या Remix ) ``, which reached number one on बिलबोर्ड Hot 100, जिससे was भी in the top 10 chart at the same time as `` Foolish '', `` Always on समय '' ( with Ja नियम ), और `` What 's Luv '' ( with Fat Joe ).
बाद that year, she was acclaimed as the `` राजकुमारी of hip-hop & R & B '' by her label and capped off her कामयाब debut by जीतना आठ Billboard awards और two American म्यूज़िक पुरस्कार.
Within seven years of Ashanti 's career, she रै scored 16 top 40 hits on the Hot 100.
Ashanti रै endorsed numerous products including Gap, हर्बल essences और Mudd जीन्स.
Ashanti cites Whitney ह्यूस्टन, Janet Jackson, प्रिंस, मैडोना, तुपाक Shakur, मरियम J. Blige, Ella fitzgerald, Smokey रॉबिन्सन, डोना Summer, and ब्लू Magic as उसके musical influences.
Praised as a gifted songwriter by उसके peers and critics alike, ashanti has written/co-written the bulk of सब उसके music.
She is currently working on her own publishing company हकदार Written entertainment.
वो released her fourth studio एल्बम entitled The Declaration on जून 3, 2008 और is फिलहाल in the स्टुडियो working on her fifth.
She also performed the दान tune `` Just Stand up `` alongside 15 अन्य मादा गायकों लिये the `` स्टैंड Up to कर्कट '' live television special which helped raise $ 100 million डॉलर for cancer research.
The United राज्य Army एयर Forces ( usaaf or AAF ) was the सैन्य aviation भुजा of the संयुक्त States of America during और immediately बाद World War II, and the direct पूर्ववर्ती of the संयुक्त States Air Force.
The AAF was a component of the United राज्य फौज, which in 1942 थी divided functionally by executive अनुक्रम into three autonomous शक्तियां : the फौज Ground Forces, the Services of Supply ( which in 1943 became the फौज Service Forces ), and the aaf.
Each of these शक्तियां था a commanding general who reported directly to the मुख्य of Staff of the United राज्य फौज.
The AAF administered all भाग of military aviation formerly वितरित among the फौज Air Corps, General मुख्यालय Air फ़ोर्स, and मैदान शक्तियां corps area commanders, और thus became the पहला एयर संगठन of the U.S. Army to कंट्रोल इसके own installations और support personnel.
In practice, the aaf थी virtually autonomous inside the Army.
The peak आकार of the aaf was over 2.4 million men और महिलाओं in service और nearly 80,000 वायुयान in 1944, and 783 domestic bases in December 1943.
by VE Day it था 1.25 लाख men stationed overseas and operated from अधिक than 1,600 airfields विश्वव्यापी.
The एयर corps became the Army एयर शक्तियां in June 1941 to provide the air भुजा a greater autonomy in which to expand more efficiently, and to provide a structure लिये the additional कमांड echelons जरूरी by a vastly increased force.
Although other राष्ट्र already had separate एयर शक्तियां independent of the army or navy ( ऐसे as the British Royal Air फ़ोर्स and the जर्मनी Luftwaffe ), the AAF remained a part of the United States Army until the United States एयर Force came into होने in सितंबर 1947.
however, in its expansion and conduct of the युद्ध, the AAF became more than just an भुजा of the greater organization.
By the समाप्त of World War ii the aaf had become virtually an independent service.
by विनियमन and कार्यपालिका order, the aaf थी a अधीनस्थ agency of the War Department tasked तभी with आयोजन, training, और equipping combat इकाई, limited in responsibility to the महाद्वीपीय संयुक्त States, as were the Army Ground शक्तियां and the फौज Service Forces.
In reality, Headquarters AAF controlled the conduct of all aspects of the air war in प्रत्येक part of the world, determining air policy and issuing orders without transmitting उन्हें through the मुख्य of Staff.
This `` कंट्रास्ट between theory and fact is... fundamental to an understanding of the aaf. ''
The स्वतंत्रता of सूचना अधिनियम ( FOIA ) is a संघीय freedom of information law that allows for the full or partial प्रकटीकरण of previously unreleased information and documents controlled by the United States government.
the Act defines agency records विषय to disclosure, outlines अनिवार्य प्रकटीकरण procedures and grants nine exemptions to the statute.
It was originally signed into law by President Lyndon B. जॉनसन, despite his misgivings, on July 4, 1966 as and went into effect the following साल.
the Federal Government 's स्वतंत्रता of Information Act should not be उलझन with the different and varying Freedom of Information Acts passed by the individual states.
अनेक of those state acts may be समान but नहीं एकसमान to the संघीय act.
The European Union ( eu ) is an economic and political union of 27 member राज्य that हैं located primarily in यूरोपीय.
The EU operates through a प्रणाली of supranational independent institutions और intergovernmental negotiated निर्णय by the सदस्य states.
Institutions of the eu include the यूरोपीय Commission, the Council of the यूरोपीय Union, the यूरोपीय परिषद, the अदालत of इंसाफ of the European संघ, the European सेंट्रल Bank, the Court of Auditors, और the यूरोपीय Parliament.
the European Parliament is elected every पाँच years by EU citizens.
the eu 's de facto पूंजी is Brussels.
The EU traces इसके origins इससे the यूरोपीय Coal and Steel Community ( ECSC ) and the European आर्थिक जातियाँ ( EEC ), formed by the Inner छह countries in 1951 and 1958 क्रमशः.
In the intervening years the community and its successors have grown in size by the accession of new member राज्य and in शक्ति by the addition of नीति areas to its remit.
the Maastricht Treaty established the यूरोपीय Union अंतर्गत its current name in 1993.
The latest major amendment to the संवैधानिक basis of the EU, the Treaty of Lisbon, came into फ़ोर्स in 2009.
the EU has developed a single market through a standardised system of laws कि apply in सब सदस्य राज्य.
Within the शेंगेन क्षेत्रफल ( जिससे includes 22 EU and 4 non-eu राज्य ) passport नियंत्रण have been abolished.
EU policies aim to ensure the फ़्री गति of लोगों, goods, सेवाएं, और capital, enact legislation in इंसाफ and घर affairs, और maintain common policies on trade, agriculture, fisheries और क्षेत्रीय विकास.
A मौद्रिक union, the eurozone, was स्थापित in 1999 and is composed of 17 member राज्य.
Through the Common Foreign and Security Policy the eu has विकसित a भूमिका in external relations and defence.
Permanent diplomatic missions have been established around the संसार.
The EU is represented at the संयुक्त Nations, the wto, the g8 and the g-20.
With a combined population of over 500 million inhabitants, or 7.3 % of the संसार population, the eu, in 2012, उत्पन्न a nominal gross domestic product ( GDP ) of 16.584 trillion US डॉलर, representing approximately 20 % of the global जीडीपी when measured in terms of purchasing शक्ति parity, and represents the largest nominal जीडीपी and GDP PPP in the संसार.
The eu was the recipient of the 2012 Nobel Peace Prize.
The Wales national रग्बी लीग team represent वेल्स in international रग्बी लीग football matches.
Currently the टोली is seventh in the RLIF World rankings.
The team were run under the auspices of the रग्बी Football League, लकिन an independent body, Wales Rugby League, now runs the team from Cardiff.
a कुल of तीन वेल्श players have महरूम entered into the Rugby लीग Hall Of कीर्ति.
Similar to many अन्य Welsh नेशनल sporting teams, Wales strip रै been primarily red for many years, including now.
However in उनके last World Cup अभियान in 2000 they किया wear a shirt featuring the वेल्श flag, adding a टच of green and white.
the team is known as `` the Dragons '' and so the टीमों लोगो on the shirt is a रेड dragon.
The team date back to 1907, बनाना them the third oldest national side after England and नई Zealand.
और it थी a touring नई Zealand पक्ष कि Wales first निभाई against in 1908, winning 9-8 at Aberdare.
Since then Wales have regularly played England, चूंकि 1935 France, as well as welcomed the touring Australia और New जीलैंड teams, हालांकि वे rarely toured themselves, नहीं playing a मैच in the दक्षिणी Hemisphere until 1975.
लिये twenty-six years वेल्स competed against their two biggest rivals, England and France, in the European Nations कप, winning the ट्रॉफी चार times.
Wales have also competed in the World कप on three occasions, the first समय होने in 1975.
In 1995 and 2000 वे had their most कामयाब tournaments to तिथि, surprisingly बनाना the Semi-Finals on both occasions पहले being beaten by इंग्लैण्ड and ऑस्ट्रेलिया क्रमशः.
वेल्स विफल to qualify लिये the 2008 संसार Cup, being the दूसरी highest ranked side not to do so, having खोया to स्कॉटलैंड on points difference over दो मिलान.
in 2008 ऑस्ट्रेलियाई John Dixon became the new सिर coach and appointed Lee Briers as captain, having played for Wales चूंकि 1998.
in हाल seasons वेल्स have taken massive strides under former player Iestyn Harris जो has coached Wales to वापस to वापस यूरोपीय Cup successes, which culminated in a Four राष्ट्र रूप in 2011.
Cardiomyopathy ( literally `` दिल muscle disease '' ) is the measurable deterioration of the फलन of the myocardium ( the दिल muscle ) for any कारण, usually leading to दिल विफलता ; common symptoms are dyspnea ( breathlessness ) and peripheral एडिमा ( swelling of the legs ).
लोगों with cardiomyopathy are often at risk of खतरनाक forms of irregular heart beat and sudden cardiac मौत.
The सबसे आम form of cardiomyopathy is dilated cardiomyopathy.
बकवास in its शाब्दिक अर्थ refers to the act of sexual intercourse.
It is an English शब्द कि is प्रायः used as a profanity, either to denote तिरस्कार or as an intensifier.
The उत्पत्ति of the word is obscure.
It is usually माना to be first attested to around 1475, but it may be considerably older.
in modern उपयोग, बकवास and its derivatives ( such as कमीने और fucking ) can be प्रयुक्त in the स्थिति of a noun, a क्रिया, an क्रियाशील or an क्रियाविशेषण.
There हैं many common phrases which make use of the शब्द, as well as a number of compounds incorporating it, such as motherfucker.
Note : this आलेख adopts the U.S. विभाग of Transportation 's definition of a passenger गाडी, to mean a car or ट्रक, used for यात्री, excluding बसें और trains.
The United States is घर to the largest passenger vehicle मार्केट of कोई country in the world.
overall, वहीँ यहूद an estimated 254.4 million registered passenger vehicles in the United States according to a 2007 DOT study.
इस number, साथ with the average age of vehicles, has increased steadily since 1960, indicating a growing number of वाहनों per capita.
The चाइनीज car मार्केट, however, is poised to जल्द exceed the संयुक्त States ; by the end of 2012, वहीँ were over 240 million cars on the road in China.
The United States is भी home to तीन विशाल vehicle manufacturers : सामान्य Motors, Ford Motor कम्पनी and Chrysler, which have historically महरूम referred to as the `` Big तीन. ''
Chrysler however is no longer among the शीर्ष three ; but is क्रमांक five, behind Toyota और Honda.
The motor car has clearly become an अभिन्न भाग of American life, साथ vehicles outnumbering licensed drivers.
नैदानिक laboratory in a Hospital setting प्रर्दशित several automated analysers.
A medical laboratory or clinical प्रयोगशाला is a laboratory where tests हैं done on clinical नमूनों in order to get information about the health of a patient as pertaining to the निदान, उपचार, and prevention of बीमारी.
In पोकर, players construct hands of पाँच cards according to predetermined नियम, जिससे vary according to जिससे रूपांतर of poker is being played.
These hands are compared using a हाथ ranking system that is मानक across all विसंगतियाँ of poker, the player साथ the highest-ranking hand winning कि particular deal in most variants of poker.
In some variants, the lowest-ranking hand can win or tie.
These hand rankings हैं also used in some अन्य card games, और in पोकर dice.
The ranking of a particular hand is increased by including multiple cards of the same कार्ड rank, by all five ताश being इससे the same suit, or by all five cards being of लगातार रैंक.
The relative ranking of the various hand श्रेणी is आधारित on the probability of होने randomly dealt such a hand from a well- shuffled deck.
ब्रूस Randall Hornsby ( born नवम्बर 23, 1954 ) is an American virtuoso ; a singer, pianist, synthesizer, accordion, और dulcimer player, and songwriter.
Known for the spontaneity and creativity of his live प्रदर्शन, Hornsby draws frequently from शास्त्रीय, जैज़, bluegrass, folk, Motown, gospel, rock, blues, and jam band musical परंपराओं with his songwriting and the seamless improvisations contained within.
Hornsby 's recordings have been recognised on a क्रमांक of occasions with industry awards, सहित the Best New कलाकार Grammy in 1987 साथ Bruce Hornsby and the Range, the Best ब्लूग्रास Recording ग्रैमी in 1990, और the बेहतरीन Pop Instrumental Grammy in 1993.
Hornsby रै also achieved recognition for his सोलो एल्बम और performances, उसके touring band Bruce Hornsby and the noisemakers, उसके bluegrass project with रिकी Skaggs and his appearances as a session- and guest-musician.
He also collaborated with Grateful Dead and was a सदस्य of the बैंड from सितंबर 1990 to कूच 1992, playing at over one hundred shows during that काल.
Sugarcane plantation in rural क्यूबा
Agriculture in Cuba has played an important part in the economy लिये अनेक hundred years.
Agriculture contributes less than 10 प्रतिशत to the सकल domestic product ( GDP ), but it employs roughly 20 percent of the working population.
About 30 percent of the देश 's जमीन is used for crop cultivation.
The inefficient agricultural industry in Cuba रै led to the need to import large amounts of foods.
क्यूबा now imports परिचय 80 % of the food it rations to the public.
the rationing program खाते for परिचय a third of the food उर्जा the average क्यूबन consumes.
Overall, however, Cuba is निर्भर on imports for तभी 16 % of इसके food.
सही
Mega लाखो ( initially called the Big Game Mega लाखो as the successor of The Big Game ) is an American multi-jurisdictional $ 1 lottery game.
The first ( the बिग Game ) आचमन Millions drawing was in 2002 ( देखिए below ).
The minimum आचमन लाखो advertised jackpot is $ 12,000,000, paid in 26 बराबर yearly किश्तों ( unless the cash option is चुनी ) ; usually, the jackpot increases जब there is no top-prize winner.
However, despite no जैकपॉट winner for the $ 12,000,000 December 18, 2012 drawing, the jackpot remained at $ 12,000,000 for the drawing to be held on December 21.
( See below लिये information on how the game 's jackpot is funded. )
reflecting common अभ्यास among अमरीकी lotteries, the जैकपॉट is advertised as a nominal value of annual किश्तों.
A नकदी value विकल्प ( the usual choice ), जब चुनी by a jackpot winner ( see below ), pays the approximate present value of the किश्तों.
आचमन Millions currently uses a 5/56 ( white balls ) plus 1/46 ( the Mega बॉल ) double matrix to select its winning numbers.
Each game लागत $ 1.
in 43 of the 44 Mega Millions jurisdictions ( California is the एक्सेप्शन ), there is an option, called megaplier ( ऐसे खेल are $ 2 प्रत्येक ) जहाँ non-jackpot prizes are multiplied by 2, 3, or 4.
The Megaplier was made available to all आचमन Millions jurisdictions in January 2011 ; it began as a Texas -only option.
Mega Millions is drawn at 10:59 p.m. पूर्वी समय मंगलवार and शुक्रवार, including holidays.
Mega Millions is administered by a consortium of its 12 original lotteries and the drawings are held at WSB-TV in Atlanta, Georgia.
supervised by the Georgia Lottery.
the largest jackpot in Mega Millions, as well as in American लॉटरी history, was $ 656,000,000 annuitized ( with a नकदी option of $ 474,000,000 ) लिये the March 30, 2012 drawing in which वहीँ were तीन jackpot-winning टिकटें ; one प्रत्येक in Illinois, Kansas, और Maryland.
All three tickets had been claimed as of April 18, with प्रत्येक नियत of विजेता चुनना the cash option.
is a Japanese manga series created by writer Tsugumi Ohba और manga कलाकार Takeshi Obata.
The main character is लाइट Yagami, a high school student who discovers a अलौकिक notebook, the `` मौत नोट '', dropped on Earth by a shinigami ( a god of death ) named Ryuk.
The Death Note grants इसके user the ability to kill anyone जिनकी नाम and face they जान, by writing the name in the notebook while picturing their फेस.
The series centers around Light 's attempt to बनाएँ and rule a world `` cleansed of evil '' as `` God '' using the कोपी, और the efforts of a detective ज्ञात as L to रोकें him.
Death Note was पहला serialized in 108 chapters by Shueisha in the Japanese manga magazine साप्ताहिक Shōnen जम्प from December 2003 to May 2006.
The series was also प्रकाशित in tankōbon format in जापानी starting in may 2004 and समाप्ति in October 2006 with a total of thirteen आयतन.
The anime श्रेणी aired in जापानी इससे अक्तूबर 3, 2006, to June 26, 2007.
रचित of 37 एपीसोड, the दुश्मनी was developed by Madhouse and directed by Tetsuro Araki.
a लाइट novel based on the series, written by nisio isin, was released in Japan.
Additionally, विभिन्न video games have महरूम published by Konami for Nintendo DS.
The series थी adapted into live-action films released in जापानी on जून 17, 2006, November 3, 2006, and फ़रवरी 2, 2008.
Viz Media licensed the Death Note manga in उत्तर America and has published सब the twelve आयतन from the series, a 13th आवाज़ जिससे serves as a `` रीडर 's guide '', as well as the light novels.
the episodes from the anime first appeared in North America as downloadable by ign.
Viz later licensed the anime series and it aired on Bionix in कनाडा और on Cartoon Network in the संयुक्त States.
The live-action films briefly निभाई in certain उत्तर अमरीकी theaters since 2008.
However, none of the video games have thus far महरूम published in North America or यूरोपीय.
Death नोट is one of Weekly shōnen jumps best-selling manga series of all time, with sales over 26.5 million copies.
Halloween or hallowe'en ( a contraction of `` All Hallows ' Evening `` ), भी known as All Hallows ' Eve, is a वार्षिक celebration observed in a number of countries on October 31, the eve of the Western Christian feast of All Hallows ( or सब Saints ) and the day initiating the triduum of hallowmas.
According to many scholars, All Hallows ' Eve is a Christianised feast originally influenced by western European harvest festivals, and festivals of the dead साथ possible pagan roots, particularly the Celtic Samhain.
Other scholars maintain that it originated independently of Samhain और has solely ईसाई roots.
Typical festive हैलोवीन क्रियाएँ include trick-or-treating ( also known as `` guising `` ), attending costume parties, carving pumpkins into jack-o'-lanterns, lighting bonfires, apple bobbing, visiting haunted आकर्षण, playing pranks, telling scary stories, and watching हॉरर films.
New York City taxicabs during Midtown rush hour in Manhattan
The taxicabs of New यॉर्क City, with their distinctive yellow पेंट, are a widely recognized प्रतीक of the city.
Taxicabs हैं operated by private companies और licensed by the New York City Taxi और Limousine Commission ( tlc ).
it also oversees over 40,000 other for-hire vehicles, सहित `` ब्लैक cars '', commuter वैन and ambulettes.
`` Medallion taxis, '' the familiar yellow cabs, are the only vehicles in the city permitted to pick up passengers in response to a गली hail.
schematic क्रॉस section of part of leaf, xylem shown as रेड वृत्त at figure 8.
Xylem is एक of the दो प्रकार of transport tissue in vascular plants ( फ्लोएम is the other ).
the शब्द xylem is निकला इससे the यूनानी word ξύλον ( xylon ), अर्थ `` wood '' ; the best-known xylem ऊतक is लकडी, though it is found throughout the plant.
इसके मौलिक function is to हस्तांतरण water, but it also transports some nutrients through the संयंत्र.
U.S. women suffragists demonstrating लिये the सही to vote, फ़रवरी 1913.
Women 's suffrage also ज्ञात as woman suffrage is the right of women to vote and to run for office.
सीमित मतदान rights were gained by महिलाओं in Sweden, फिनलैंड और some western U.S. states in the late 19th century.
International organizations यहूद formed to coordinate efforts, especially the International Council of Women ( 1888 ) and the International Woman suffrage गठबंधन ( 1904 ).
In 1893, नई Zealand, तब a self-governing British उपनिवेश, granted adult women the right to vote and the self-governing British colony of South ऑस्ट्रेलिया did the same in 1895, but also permitted women to चलाएं for दफ्तर.
ऑस्ट्रेलिया federated in 1901, and महिलाओं acquired the right to vote and stand in federal elections इससे 1902, though uneven restrictions on aboriginal महिलाओं voting in नेशनल elections यहूद not completely removed until 1962.
The first यूरोपीय देश to introduce women 's suffrage was the Grand Duchy of फिनलैंड, then part of the रूसी Empire, जिससे also produced the world 's first मादा members of parliament in the 1907 संसदीय चुनावों.
Norway followed, granting full women 's suffrage in 1913.
in most Western countries, महिलाओं 's suffrage came after World I युद्ध i I, with कुछ important late adopters being France in 1944 and Switzerland in 1971.
Women 's suffrage रै generally महरूम recognized after political अभियान to obtain it were waged.
In many countries it थी granted पहले universal suffrage.
Women 's suffrage is explicitly stated as a सही under the Convention on the विलोपन of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women, adopted by the United Nations in 1979.
The Thirteenth Tale ( 2006 ) by Diane Setterfield is a gothic सस्पेंस novel, the author 's first published book.
यहोवा 's Witnesses is a millenarian restorationist ईसाई denomination with nontrinitarian beliefs distinct इससे मुख्यधारा Christianity.Sources for descriptors : • Millenarian : • Restorationist : • Christian : • Denomination : The organization रिपोर्ट्स worldwide membership of over 7.78 लाख adherents involved in इंजीलवाद, convention उपस्थिति of over 12 लाख, and सालाना Memorial उपस्थिति of over 19 million.
They are directed by the शासी Body of Jehovah 's Witnesses, a समूह of बड़ो in Brooklyn, नई York, that establishes all doctrines.
Jehovah 's गवाह ' मान्यताओं are आधारित on their interpretations of the बाइबल and they prefer to उपयोग उनके own translation, the New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures.
They believe कि the विनाश of the present world system at Armageddon is imminent, और कि the स्थापना of परमेश्वर 's kingdom on earth is the only समाधान for सब problems faced by mankind.
The group emerged from the Bible Student movement —founded in the late 1870s by Charles Taze रसेल साथ the गठन of Zion 's Watch Tower Tract Society —with significant organizational and doctrinal changes under the नेतृत्व of Joseph फ्रैंकलिन Rutherford.
The name Jehovah 's witnesses, based on Isaiah 43:10–12, was अपनाया in 1931 to distinguish themselves इससे other Bible Student groups and symbolize a ब्रेक with the legacy of Russell 's traditions.
Jehovah 's Witnesses are best known for their door-to-door उपदेश, distributing literature such as The बुर्ज and Awake !
, and refusing military सेवा and blood transfusions.
They consider उपयोग of the name Jehovah vital लिये उचित worship.
They reject Trinitarianism, inherent अमरत्व of the soul, and hellfire, जिससे वे consider to be unscriptural doctrines.
They do not observe Christmas, Easter, birthdays, or other holidays and customs they consider to have pagan origins incompatible with christianity.
adherents commonly refer to their देह of मान्यताओं as `` the truth '' and consider themselves to be `` in the truth ''.
वे consider धर्मनिरपेक्ष समाज to be morally भ्रष्ट and अंतर्गत the influence of शैतानी, और most limit उनके social interaction with non-Witnesses.
Congregational disciplinary actions शामिल disfellowshipping, their पद लिये औपचारिक expulsion और shunning.
Baptized individuals who formally leave are considered disassociated and are भी shunned.
disfellowshipped और disassociated individuals may eventually be reinstated if deemed repentant.
The धर्म 's स्थिति regarding ईमानदार आपत्ति to military service और refusal to salute national flags has brought it into conflict with some governments.
नतीजतन, यहोवा 's Witnesses have महरूम persecuted and their activities हैं banned or प्रतिबंधित in some countries.
Persistent legal challenges by यहोवा 's गवाह have influenced legislation related to civil rights in several countries.
पिछला Tango in Paris ( ) is a 1972 Franco-Italian रोमांटिक नाटक film directed by बर्नार्डो bertolucci जिससे portrays a हाल American widower who begins an बेनाम sexual relationship with a young, betrothed Parisian woman.
It सितारों Marlon Brando, मरिया Schneider, and Jean-Pierre Léaud.
The फिल्मी 's कच्चा portrayal of यौन violence and emotional turmoil led to international controversy and drew various स्तर of government censorship.
The MPAA दिया the फिल्मी an X दरजा upon रिलीज in the United States.
After revisions यहूद made to the mpaa ratings कोड, it थी वर्गीकृत as an NC-17 in 1997.
MGM released a censored R-rated काटें in 1981.
The फिल्मी has its NC-17 rating लिये `` some explicit यौन content. ''
Windows XP is an ऑपरेटिंग system उत्पादित by Microsoft for use on personal computers, सहित घर and business desktops, लैपटॉप और media centers.
First released to कंप्यूटर निर्माताओं on August 24, 2001, it is the दूसरी most popular version of खिड़कियाँ, आधारित on संस्थापित user base.
the नाम `` XP '' is short for `` eXPerience '', highlighting the उन्नत उपयोक्ता experience.
खिड़कियाँ XP, the successor to खिड़कियाँ 2000 और Windows ME, was the पहला consumer-oriented operating system produced by microsoft to be निर्मित on the Windows NT कर्नेल.
Windows XP थी released worldwide for retail sale on October 25, 2001, and over 400 million copies were in उपयोग in January 2006.
it was succeeded by Windows Vista in जनवरी 2007.
सीधा OEM and retail बिक्री of खिड़कियाँ XP ceased on June 30, 2008.
Microsoft जारी to sell Windows XP through their System बिल्डर ( smaller oems who sell समवेत computers ) program until January 31, 2009.
On April 10, 2012, microsoft reaffirmed that extended support लिये खिड़कियाँ xp and Office 2003 would end on अप्रैल 8, 2014 and suggested कि administrators begin preparing to migrate to a नए OS.
The nt -based versions of Windows, जिससे are programmed in C, C++, और सभा, हैं known for उनके improved stability and efficiency over the 9x संस्करण of Microsoft Windows.
खिड़कियाँ xp presented a significantly redesigned आलेखीय user interface, a change Microsoft promoted as more user-friendly than पिछला versions of Windows.
In an attempt to further ameliorate the `` DLL hell `` कि plagued the past संस्करण of Windows, improved side-by-side सभा technology in Windows xp allows side-by-side installation, registration and servicing of multiple versions of globally shared तन्त्र components in full isolation.
it is also the first version of Windows to use product activation to कॉम्बैट illegal copying.
दौरान Windows XP 's development, the project was codenamed `` whistler '', after Whistler, British Columbia, as many Microsoft employees skied at the whistler-blackcomb स्की resort.
according to web analytics आंकड़ा generated by Net Applications, खिड़कियाँ xp was the most widely used operating system until August 2012, when Windows 7 overtook it.
, Windows xp मार्केट share is at 38.99 %, having decreased almost every month चूंकि at least November 2007, the first month लिये which आंकडे are सरेआम available from Net अनुप्रयोग.
`` Por una Cabeza '' is an Argentine tango with music and lyrics लिखा in 1935 by Carlos Gardel and Alfredo le प्रभा क्रमशः.
The name is a Spanish horse-racing phrase meaning `` by a head '', which refers to a घोड़ा जीतना a race by the length of one head.
the गीत बोलो of a compulsive horse-track gambler जो compares उसके addiction लिये horses with his attraction to women.
अल्फ्रेडो Le प्रभा थी a ब्राज़ीलियाई from São Paulo, a much italian-influenced area in Brazil, and also the birthplace of Zequinha de abreu, composer of Tico-Tico no Fubá.
le प्रभा and Gardel died in an airplane crash in Medellín, ( Colombia ), on June 24, 1935.
Por una Cabeza
The tango has चूंकि been performed by numerous tango orchestras.
टैंगो scenes साथ `` पोर una Cabeza '' appear in Delicatessen ( 1991 ), Scent of a Woman ( 1992 ), Schindler 's List ( 1993 ), True झूठ ( 1994 ), टाइटैनिक ( 1996 ), Bad Santa ( Uncut Version, 2003 ), All the किंग 's Men ( 2006 ), Planet 51 ( 2009 ), episode 37 of Nip/Tuck ( 2003–2010 ), episode 9 of दक्षिण Korean drama series मीठी Spy ( 2005–08 ), the beginning and समाप्ति क्रेडिट of the South कोरियाई drama ब्रॉडकास्ट I 'm Sorry, I Love You ( 2004 ), and the एपीसोड `` bas the खरगोश Hole `` ( 2007 ).
in the फिल्म Frida ( Salma Hayek, 2002 ), gardel is heard गायन it on a radio.
It is also quoted in David Del Tredici 's `` शुभ न्यूज !
Nilda is Back '' ( इससे the song साईकिल Miz Inez sez ).
In सैंट of a Woman ( 1992 ), the tango is performed by the `` The टैंगो Project '', who actually appear in the dancing scene starring al Pacino ( the रिकॉर्डिंग used is available on एक of their CD albums ).
John Williams arranged a version of the piece that appears on the album `` Cinema serenade '' साथ the सारंगी solo performed by Itzhak Perlman.
Perlman and विलियम्स ( conducting ) have भी performed the टुकड़ा together in live concerts.
In 2012 a dance version थी released by the समूह `` Da Carrera '' featuring the असली vocal रिकॉर्डिंग by Carlos Gardel.
the baroreflex or baroreceptor reflex is एक of the body 's homeostatic mechanisms for maintaining blood दबाव.
it provides a negative प्रतिक्रिया loop in जिससे an elevated blood दबाव reflexively causes heart रेट to decrease इसलिए causing blood दबाव to decrease ; likewise, decreased blood दबाव activates the baroreflex, causing heart rate to increase thus causing an increase in blood pressure.
the system relies on specialized न्यूरॉन्स, known as baroreceptors, in the aortic arch, carotid साइनस, and elsewhere to monitor changes in रक्त दबाव और रिले उन्हें to the brainstem.
subsequent परिवर्तन in blood दबाव are mediated by the autonomic बेचैन system.
अलिंदी natriuretic peptide forms a समानांतर negative प्रतिक्रिया loop in an endocrinological contrast to the renin-angiotensin system.
the Loma Prieta earthquake, also ज्ञात as the भूकंप of '89 और the World श्रेणी Earthquake, was a major भूकंप that struck the San Francisco Bay Area of California on अक्तूबर 17, 1989, at 5:04 pm local time.
Caused by a slip साथ the San Andreas Fault, the quake lasted 10–15 seconds and measured 6.9 on दोनो the moment magnitude स्केल ( surface-wave magnitude 7.1 ) और on the open-ended Richter Scale.
the quake killed 63 people throughout northern California, injured 3,757 and left some 3,000–12,000 people बेघर.
the earthquake occurred during the warm-up अभ्यास for the तीसरा game of the 1989 World श्रेणी, featuring both of the Bay Area 's Major लीग बेसबॉल teams, the Oakland Athletics and the San Francisco Giants.
Because of game-related sports coverage, इस was the first प्रमुख earthquake in the संयुक्त राज्य to have its initial jolt broadcast live on television.
Pawn in the मानक Staunton pattern
The pawn ( ♙♟ ) is the most numerous and in most circumstances the weakest टुकड़ा in the खेल of शतरंज, historically representing infantry or, अधिक particularly, armed peasants or pikemen.
in शतरंज, each player begins the खेल with आठ pawns, one on प्रत्येक square of the rank immediately in सामने of the other टुकड़े.
( In algebraic notation, the white pawns start on a2, b2, c2,..., h2, जबकि black pawns start on a7, b7, c7,..., h7. )
Individual pawns are referred to by the संचिका on जिससे they stand.
लिये example, one speaks of `` White 's f-pawn '' or `` ब्लैक 's b-pawn '', or less commonly ( using descriptive notation ), `` White 's king 's bishop साहूकार '' or `` Black 's queen 's knight pawn ''.
It is भी common to refer to a rook साहूकार, meaning any साहूकार on the a- or h-file, a नाईट pawn ( on the b- or g-file ), a bishop pawn ( on the c- or f-file ), a queen pawn ( on the d-file ), a king pawn ( on the e-file ), and a central pawn ( on either the d- or e-file ).
The military forces of the world have differing approaches to the enlistment of homosexual ( gay and लेस्बियन ) और द्विलिंगी individuals.
The armed forces of most विकसित countries have now removed नीतियों excluding non-heterosexual individuals ( with सख्त नीतियों on sexual harassment ).
Nations that परमिट gay people to serve खुलकर in the सैन्य include the 4 of the 5 members of the UN Security परिषद ( United States, United किंगडम, फ़्रांस, and Russia ), the Republic of चीन ( Taiwan ), Australia, Israel, South अफ़्रीकी, Argentina, and all नाटो members excluding Turkey.
हाइड्रोजन production is the family of industrial methods लिये generating hydrogen.
फिलहाल the dominant technology for direct उत्पादन is भाप reforming from hydrocarbons.
Many other methods are known including electrolysis और thermolysis.
in 2006, the United राज्य थी अनुमानित to have a उत्पादन क्षमता of 11 million tonnes of hydrogen.
5 लाख टन of hydrogen यहूद consumed on-site in oil refining, और in the production of अमोनिया ( Haber process ) and methanol ( reduction of carbon monoxide ).
0.4 लाख टन यहूद an incidental by-product of the chlor-alkali process.
Hydrogen production is an अनुमानित $ 100 अरब industry.
A basis पाइंट ( often denoted as bp, colloquially referred to in the बहुवचन as `` bips '', भी known as a `` बीप '' ) is a unit equal to एक hundredth of a percentage पाइंट, or एक भाग per ten thousand, 1/10000.
The same unit is also ( rarely ) called a permyriad, literally meaning 'for ( every ) असंख्य ( ten thousand ) ', and in कि context is written with which looks जैसे a percent चिह्न ( % ) with दो extra zeroes at the समाप्त ( like a stylized रूप of the four zeros in the denominator, although it originates as a natural extension of the percent ( % ) and permille ( ‰ ) signs ).
a basis पाइंट is पारिभाषित as:
1 basis पाइंट = 1 permyriad = one one-hundredth percent
1 bp = 1 = 0.01 % = 0.1‰ = 10−4 = = 0.0001
1 % = 100 bp = 100
आधार अंक are used as a convenient unit of मापन in contexts where percentage differences of less than 1 % are discussed.
The most common example is interest दरों, where differences in ब्याज दरों of less than 1 % per year हैं usually meaningful to talk about.
For example, a difference of 0.10 percentage points is equivalent to a change of 10 basis अंक ( e.g. a 4.67 % rate increases by 10 basis points to 4.77 % ).
Like प्रतिशत points, आधार अंक avoid the ambiguity between relative and absolute चर्चाएँ परिचय interest दरों by dealing only with the absolute change in न्यूमेरिक मान of a rate.
लिये उदाहरण, if a report says there has been a `` 1 % increase '' from a 10 % interest rate, this could refer to an बढ़ाएँ either from 10 % to 10.1 % ( relative, 1 % of 10 % ), or from 10 % to 11 % ( absolute, 1 % plus 10 % ).
if, however, the report says there has been a `` 10 आधार point बढ़ाएँ '' from a 10 % interest rate, तब we जान कि the interest rate of 10 % has increased by 0.10 % ( the निरपेक्ष change ) to a 10.1 % rate.
it is common practice in the वित्तीय industry to use आधार points to denote a rate change in a financial instrument, or the difference ( spread ) between दो interest rates, including the yields of fixed-income प्रतिभूति.
चूंकि certain loans और bonds may commonly be quoted in relation to कुछ index or underlying security, they will often be quoted as a spread over ( or under ) the index.
लिये उदाहरण, a loan कि bears interest of 0.50 % per annum above the London Interbank Offered Rate ( libor ) is कहा to be 50 basis points over libor, which is commonly expressed as `` l+50bps '' or simply `` l+50 ''.
the term `` basis पाइंट '' रै इसके origins in व्यापार the `` basis '' or the spread between दो interest rates.
Since the basis is usually छोटी, these are quoted multiplied up by 10000, and hence a `` full point '' गति in the `` आधार '' is a basis point.
Contrast with pips in fx forward markets.
the relationship between percentage changes and basis points can be summarized as follows : 1 percentage पाइंट change = 100 basis points, and 0.01 प्रतिशत अंक = 1 basis point.
so, a bond whose उपज increases from 5 % to 5.5 % is कहा to बढ़ाएँ by 50 आधार points ; or interest rates that have risen 1 percentage point are said to have increased by 100 आधार अंक.
The British royal Family is the group of close relatives of the monarch of the United Kingdom.
The term is also commonly applied to the same group of लोगों जो are the relations of the monarch in उसके or उसके role as sovereign of any of the other राष्ट्रमंडल realms, यूँ sometimes at variance साथ आधिकारिक national शर्तें for the परिवार.
Members of the Royal परिवार belong to, either by birth or marriage, the House of Windsor, since 1917, when George v बदला the name of the royal house from saxe-coburg and Gotha.
This निर्णय थी primarily लिया because Britain and her Empire were at war with Germany और given the अंग्रेजों royal Family 's strong German ancestry ; it was felt कि its public image could be improved by choosing a more British हाउस name.
The नई name chosen, विंडसर, था absolutely no connection अन्य than as the name of the castle जिससे थी और continues to be a royal residence.
Although in the संयुक्त किंगडम there is no strict विधिक or formal definition of who is or is not a सदस्य of the Royal परिवार, and अलग lists will include different लोगों, those carrying the style Her or His Majesty ( HM ), or उसके or His Royal Highness ( HRH ) are always considered सदस्यों, which प्रायः results in the application of the पद to the monarch, the consort of the monarch, the widowed consorts of पिछला monarchs, the children of the monarch and previous monarchs, the male-line grandchildren of the monarch and पिछला monarchs, and the spouses and the widows of a monarch 's and previous monarch 's sons and male-line पोते.
On 30 November 1917, King George V issued अक्षर Patent defining जो are सदस्यों of the Royal परिवार ; the text of the notice from the London गजट is as follows:
In 1996, Her majesty the Queen परिवर्धित ये Letters पेटेंट, as was evidenced by this Notice from the London gazette:
in 2013 Letters पेटेंट were issued to extend a शीर्षक and a style borne by सदस्यों of the Royal Family to अतिरिक्त persons to be born, evidenced by this सूचना from the लंदन Gazette:
Members और relatives of the अंग्रेजों Royal Family historically represented the monarch in various स्थान throughout the अंग्रेजों Empire, sometimes लिये extended periods as viceroys, or for specific ceremonies or कार्यक्रम.
Today, वे often perform ceremonial और social duties throughout the United Kingdom and abroad on behalf of the संयुक्त किंगडम.
aside from the monarch, their only constitutional role in the affairs of government is to serve, if योग्य and when नियुक्त by letters patent, as a Counsellor of State, two or more of whom कसरत the प्राधिकार of the Crown ( within stipulated हद ) in the indisposal or absence इससे the British realm of the monarch.
in the other realms of the Commonwealth royalty do not serve as counsellors of State.
However in each ऐसे फ्रेम the monarch 's family members may act on behalf of, are funded by, and represent the sovereign of that particular state, and नहीं the United Kingdom.
The महारानी, her consort, her children and grandchildren, as well as all former अधिपति ' children and grandchildren hold places in the first sections of the official orders of पूर्वता in England and Wales, Scotland, and Northern Ireland.
पत्नियां of the कहा आनंद their husbands ' precedence, and husbands of princesses हैं unofficially but habitually placed साथ उनके wives as well.
However, the महारानी changed the private अनुक्रम of पूर्वता in the Royal परिवार in पक्ष of राजकुमारियों ऐनी and Alexandra, जो henceforth लो private पूर्वता over the Duchess of Cornwall, जो is वरना the फ्रेम 's उच्चतम ranking woman after the Queen herself.
She did नहीं alter the relative precedence of other born-princesses, ऐसे as the daughters of उसके younger sons.
Haiti ( ; haitian क्रियोल Ayiti ), officially the गणतंत्र of Haiti ( ; ), is a Caribbean देश.
It occupies the western, smaller portion of the island of Hispaniola, in the Greater antillean द्वीपसमूह, जिससे it shares with the डोमिनिकन Republic.
ayiti ( जमीन of high mountains ) was the indigenous Taíno or amerindian name for the island.
The country 's उच्चतम पाइंट is pic la Selle, at.
The total area of Haiti is and इसके पूंजी is port-au-prince.
Haitian Creole and फ्रेंच are the आधिकारिक languages.
Haiti 's क्षेत्रीय, ऐतिहासिक, and ethno-linguistic position is unique for several reasons.
it थी the first स्वतंत्र nation of Latin अमेरिका and the Caribbean, the first black -led गणतंत्र in the world, and the second republic in the Americas when it gained independence in 1804 as part of a successful slave revolution स्थायी nearly a decade.
In 2012, हैती announced its इरादे to seek associate सदस्यता औकात in the African Union.
Haiti is the most populous of the predominantly Francophone independent राष्ट्र in the Americas.
It is one of only two independent nations in the Americas ( along with कनाडा ) to designate फ्रेंच as an official भाषा ; the other French-speaking areas are सब overseas départements, or collectivités, of फ़्रांस.
Haiti is the most populous full member-state of the Caribbean जातियाँ ( caricom ).
it is the poorest country in the Americas as measured by the इंसान विकास Index.
Political violence has occurred regularly throughout its history, leading to government instability.
सबसे recently, in February 2004, a तख्तापलट d'état originating in the north of the country मजबूर the resignation और exile of President Jean-Bertrand aristide.
A provisional सरकारी took control with security provided by the United Nations Stabilization मिशन in Haiti ( MINUSTAH ).
Michel martelly, the current president, was निर्वाचित in the Haitian general चुनाव, 2011.
The island रै had a history of destructive earthquakes.
a 7.0 magnitude भूकंप struck Haiti on 12 January 2010 and devastated port-au-prince.
The highest reliable death गिनती was अनुमानित at 220,000.
Haitian government estimates were higher.
The Presidential palace, पार्लियामेंट and many अन्य important structures were destroyed, along साथ countless homes and businesses, leaving सैंकड़ों of thousands of people homeless.
the country has yet to रिकवर from the 2010 earthquake ( and subsequent incidents ) due to दोनो the गंभीरता of the damage Haiti endured in 2010, as well as a government कि थी अप्रभावी well before the earthquake.
United States aid organizations have donated $ 2 billion.
Combined साथ other अंतरराष्ट्रीय दान, these funds हैं intended to योगदान to the rebuilding of the country.
The Bloody Beetroots is the pseudonym of Sir bob Cornelius rifo, the Italian electro house and dance-punk म्यूज़िक producer, dj और photographer.
The Bloody Beetroots is well-known लिये the black Venom mask he wears दौरान प्रदर्शन.
In fact, the only identifying public feature of Rifo is the year `` 1977 '' tattooed आरपार his chest, which is दोनो the साल that the निर्माता and punk-rock was born.
`` the Bloody Beetroots DJ नियत '' contains Sir Bob Cornelius Rifo and Tommy Tea.
A मोटोरोला सलाहकार alphanumeric पेजर used in Brazil in the 1990s, operated by Teletrim
A pager is a बेतार telecommunications device that receives और प्रदर्शक numeric or text संदेश, or receives और announces voice messages.
one-way pagers can only प्राप्त messages, जबकि response pagers and two-way pagers can also acknowledge, reply to, और originate संदेश using an internal ट्रांसमीटर.
pagers operate as part of a paging system which includes one or अधिक फिक्स्ड ट्रांसमीटरों ( or in the case of response pagers and two-way pagers, एक or more आधार stations ), as well as a number of pagers carried by mobile users.
These systems can range from a restaurant system साथ a single low-power transmitter, to a देशभर system with thousands of high-power base stations.
One of the first व्यावहारिक paging सेवाएं was launched in 1950 लिये physicians in the नई York City क्षेत्रफल.
Physicians paid US $ 12 per माह for the सेवा and carried a ( 6 oz ) पेजर that होता प्राप्त phone messages within ( 25 mi ) of a single transmitter tower.
The प्रणाली थी manufactured by the Reevesound कम्पनी और operated by telanswerphone.
In 1960, John Francis मिशेल combined तत्व of मोटोरोला 's Walkie Talkie and automobile radio technologies to create the first transistorized pager, and from this point, paging technology continued to advance, और pager adoption जारी to expand, until the early 1990s.
however, by the mid-1990s, as सेल्यूलर technologies became सस्ता and अधिक widely available, advanced सेवाएं began to displace paging as a commercial product.
Today, pagers exist largely as niche products, finding preferential use in applications ऐसे as hospitals, public safety, and retail स्थितियाँ where their simplicity, high विश्वसनीयता, and कम लागत represent significant advantages.
Reevesville is a town in dorchester County, दक्षिण Carolina, United राज्य.
The population was 196 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी.
as पारिभाषित by the U.S. Office of Management and Budget, and used by the U.S. जनसांख्यिकी ब्यूरो लिये सांख्यिकीय purposes only, Reevesville is शामिल भीतर the charleston-north Charleston-Summerville metropolitan क्षेत्रफल.
frida Kahlo de Rivera ( born magdalena Carmen frieda Kahlo y Calderón ; जुलाई 6, 1907 – July 13, 1954 ) was a मैक्सिकन painter, born in Coyoacán, जो is बेहतरीन known for उसके self-portraits.
Kahlo 's life began and ended in Mexico नगर, in her home known as the ब्लू हाउस.
She दिया her birth तिथि as जुलाई 7, 1910, but उसके जनम certificate shows July 6, 1907.
Kahlo had allegedly चाही the year of उसके birth to coincide with the year of the beginning of the Mexican revolution so कि उसके life would begin with the जनम of modern Mexico.
उसके work has been celebrated in Mexico as emblematic of नेशनल and स्वदेशी tradition, and by feminists for इसके uncompromising चित्रण of the female अनुभव and form.
Mexican culture और amerindian cultural परंपरा are महत्वपूर्ण in उसके कार्य, which has been sometimes characterized as Naïve art or लोक art.
Her कार्य रै also महरूम described as `` surrealist '', and in 1938 André Breton, principal initiator of the surrealist गति, described Kahlo 's आर्ट as a `` रिबन around a bomb ''.
Kahlo had a volatile विवाह with the famous Mexican artist डिएगो रिवेरा.
She suffered lifelong health समस्याएं.
Many of her health problems were the result of a traffic accident she बच as a teenager.
Recovering from उसके injuries isolated उसके from other लोगों और this अलगाव influenced her works, अनेक of which हैं self-portraits of एक sort or another.
Kahlo suggested, `` I पेंट myself because I am so often alone and because I am the विषय i know बेहतरीन. ''
She also stated, `` I थी born a bitch.
I was born a painter. ''
300px
Theresienwiese on the दिन before Oktoberfest 2006
Oktoberfest is a 16-day festival celebrating बियर held annually in Munich, Bavaria, जर्मनी, running इससे late September to the first वीकेंड in अक्तूबर.
It is one of the most famous events in Germany and is the world 's largest मेला, with more than 6 लाख people from around the world attending the event every year.
To the locals, it is not पुकारा Oktoberfest, but `` die Wiesn '', after the colloquial नाम of the fairgrounds themselves.
The oktoberfest is an important part of Bavarian संस्कृति, having been held चूंकि 1810.
Other cities across the संसार भी hold oktoberfest जश्न, modeled बाद the original Munich event.
the Munich Oktoberfest originally took place during the sixteen days up to, और including, the पहला संडे in October.
In 1994, the अनुसूची was modified in जवाब to जर्मनी reunification so that if the पहला Sunday in October falls on the 1st or 2nd, then the पर्व would go on जबतक October 3 ( जर्मनी Unity Day ).
Thus, the पर्व is now 17 दिनों जब the first संडे is October 2 and 18 दिनों जब it is अक्तूबर 1.
In 2010, the पर्व lasted जबतक the पहला सोमवार in October, to चिह्नित the वर्षगांठ of the इवेंट.
the festival is आयोजित in an क्षेत्रफल नामित the Theresienwiese ( field, or meadow, of therese ), प्रायः पुकारा Wiesn लिये short, located near Munich 's center.
विशाल quantities of Oktoberfest बियर are consumed, साथ almost 7 million liters served during the 16 day festival in 2007.
Visitors may भी enjoy a चौड़ी variety of traditional खाना such as Hendl ( मुर्गा ), Schweinebraten ( रोस्ट पोर्क ), schweinshaxe ( grilled ham hock ), Steckerlfisch ( grilled fish on a stick ), würstl ( sausages ) along with brezeln ( Pretzel ), knödel ( potato or bread पकौड़ी ), Käsespätzle ( cheese नूडल्स ), Reiberdatschi ( आलू pancakes ), sauerkraut or Rotkohl/Blaukraut ( red cabbage ) along with ऐसे Bavarian delicacies as Obatzda ( a spiced cheese-butter स्प्रेड ) and weisswurst ( a white sausage ).
A platter with cheese and garnishes
Wheels of Gouda
Cheese is a generic term लिये a विविध समूह of milk-based food products.
Cheese is produced in wide-ranging flavors, बनावट, and forms.
Cheese consists of प्रोटीन और fat from milk, प्रायः the मिल्क of cows, buffalo, goats, or शीप.
It is produced by coagulation of the milk protein casein.
typically, the मिल्क is acidified and addition of the enzyme rennet causes जामन.
The solids are अलग and pressed into फाइनल रूप.
कुछ cheeses have molds on the rind or throughout.
सबसे cheeses melt at cooking तापमान.
Hundreds of प्रकार of cheese from various देशों हैं produced.
Their शैलियाँ, textures और जायका निर्भर on the origin of the milk ( सहित the animal 's आहार ), whether they have महरूम pasteurized, the butterfat सामग्री, the जीवाणु and mold, the processing, and वृद्धावस्था.
Herbs, मसाले, or wood smoke may be used as flavoring agents.
The yellow to red रंग of many cheeses, ऐसे as Red Leicester, is normally formed from adding annatto.
For a few cheeses, the milk is curdled by adding acids such as vinegar or नीबू रस.
Most cheeses are acidified to a lesser उपाधि by bacteria, which turn milk sugars into lactic एसिड, तब the जोड of rennet completes the curdling.
Vegetarian alternatives to rennet हैं available ; most are produced by fermentation of the fungus Mucor miehei, but अन्य have महरूम extracted इससे various प्रजाति of the Cynara thistle family.
Cheese is valued लिये its पोर्टेबिलिटी, long life, and ऊँची content of मोटे, protein, कैल्सियम, और phosphorus.
चीज is more compact and has a longer shelf जीवन than मिल्क, हालांकि कैसा long a cheese will keep may depend on the type of चीज ; labels on packets of cheese प्रायः अर्जी that a चीज should be consumed within three to five दिनों of opening.
Generally speaking, hard cheeses last longer than soft cheeses, such as Brie or बकरी 's मिल्क चीज.
cheesemakers near a dairy region may benefit from fresher, lower-priced milk, and lower shipping costs.
The long storage life of कुछ cheese, especially if it is encased in a सुरक्षात्मक rind, allows selling जब markets are favorable.
Additional ingredients may be added to some cheeses, ऐसे as black peppers, garlic, chives or cranberries.
A विशेषज्ञ seller of cheese is sometimes ज्ञात as a cheesemonger.
to become an विशेषज्ञ in इस field, जैसे वाइन or cooking, requires some formal शिक्षा और सालो of tasting और hands-on experience.
This position is typically responsible लिये all aspects of the चीज inventory ; selecting the cheese menu, purchasing, receiving, भंडार, and ripening.
Legal citation सिग्नल are a set of brief abbreviated phrases or words प्रयुक्त to clarify the authority or significance of a विधिक citation as it relates to a proposition.
सिग्नल help a reader quickly discern अर्थ or usefulness of a particular reference when the reference itself does नहीं provide adequate सूचना.
Most citation signals हैं placed in सामने of the citation to जिससे they apply.
लिये example, in the अनुच्छेद जब writing a legal argument, it is important to refer to प्राथमिक sources.
to assist पाठक in locating these स्त्रोत, it is desirable to use a standardized citation format.
देखिए generally Harvard Law Review संघ, The Bluebook : A Uniform System of Citation ( 18th ed. 2005 ).
Note, however, that कुछ courts may require कोई विधिक papers that are submitted to उन्हें to conform to a different citation format.
the सिग्नल is the phrase `` see generally, '' which indicates that the citation `` The Bluebook : a वर्दी System of Citation ( 18th ed. 2005 ) '' provides general background information on the topic.
Neil Alden Armstrong ( August 5, 1930 – August 25, 2012 ) was an American astronaut and the first person to चलना on the Moon.
he was also an aerospace engineer, नवल aviator, test pilot, and university professor.
Before becoming an astronaut, आर्मस्ट्रांग was an officer in the U.S. नेवी and परोसा in the Korean युद्ध.
After the war, he earned his स्नातक 's उपाधि at purdue विश्वविद्यालयों और served as a test pilot at the National सलाहकार Committee for Aeronautics High-Speed Flight Station, अभी known as the ड्राइडेन Flight शोध Center, where he logged over 900 फ़्लाइट.
He later समाप्त graduate studies at the विश्वविद्यालयों of Southern कैलिफ़ोर्निया.
A भागीदार in the U.S. Air Force 's Man in Space Soonest and x-20 Dyna-Soar human spaceflight programs, Armstrong joined the नासा Astronaut Corps in 1962.
he made उसके first space flight, as command pilot of मिथुन 8, in 1966, becoming NASA 's first civilian astronaut to मक्खी in space.
On this mission, he performed the first docking of two spacecraft, with pilot David Scott.
Armstrong 's दूसरी and पिछला spaceflight was as mission commander of the अपोलो 11 moon लैंडिंग, in जुलाई 1969.
On इस mission, आर्मस्ट्रांग and Buzz Aldrin descended to the lunar surface and spent two और a हाफ hours exploring, जबकि Michael Collins remained in lunar orbit in the कमांड Module.
साथ साथ कॉलिन्स और Aldrin, Armstrong थी awarded the Presidential पदक of स्वतंत्रता by अध्यक्ष Richard निक्सन ; in 1978, President Jimmy Carter प्रस्तुत आर्मस्ट्रांग the Congressional Space Medal of Honor in 1978 ; he and his पूर्व crewmates received the congressional सुनहरा Medal in 2009.
Armstrong died in सिनसिनाटी, Ohio, on अगस्त 25, 2012, at the age of 82, after जटिलताओं from coronary धमनी bypass सर्जरी.
सचिवालय ( March 30, 1970 – अक्तूबर 4, 1989 ) थी an American Thoroughbred racehorse that in 1973 became the first u.s. Triple क्राउन champion in 25 years.
He set रेस records in all तीन events in the श्रेणी — the Kentucky Derby ( 1:59.4 ), the Preakness Stakes ( 1:53 ), and the belmont Stakes ( 2:24 ) — records कि स्टिल stand today.
he is considered to be one of the greatest thoroughbreds of all समय.
In 1999, ESPN क्रमित Secretariat the 35th best खिलाड़ी of the 20th सदी, the highest ranking racehorse on the list URL_http.
He ranked दूसरी behind Man o ' War in The Blood-Horse 's List of the शीर्ष 100 U.S. Racehorses of the 20th सदी.
Secretariat थी sired by बिंदास शासक out of somethingroyal, by Princequillo.
He was foaled at the Meadow in Caroline County, Virginia.
Like उसके प्रसिद्ध predecessor Man o ' War, Secretariat थी a large शाहबलूत टट्टू और थी given the same nickname, `` Big Red. ''
सचिवालय 's grandsire, Nasrullah, is also the great-great-grandsire of 1977 Triple Crown विजेता सिएटल Slew.
Owned by Penny chenery, he was trained by Lucien Laurin और मुख्यतः ridden by Canadian jockey Ron Turcotte, साथ with apprentice jockey पॉल Feliciano ( first two races ), and veteran एडी Maple ( पिछला रेस ).
He raced in Chenery 's Meadow Stable 's blue and white checkered colors और his groom थी Eddie Sweat.
Secretariat stood approximately tall, and weighed, with a 75-inch girth, in his racing प्रधान.
मैड्रिड (, ) is the capital and largest नगर of Spain.
The population of the नगर is roughly 3.3 लाख and the entire जनसांख्यिकी of the मैड्रिड metropolitan क्षेत्रफल is calculated to be around 6.5 million.
it is the third-largest नगर in the यूरोपीय Union, after London और Berlin, और इसके metropolitan area is the third-largest in the European संघ बाद London and Paris.
the city spans a total of.
The city is located on the manzanares river in the centre of दोनो the देश और the जातियाँ of Madrid ( जिससे comprises the नगर of Madrid, its conurbation and विस्तारित suburbs और villages ) ; this community is bordered by the autonomous communities of Castile और León and Castile-La मांचा.
as the पूंजी city of Spain, seat of सरकारी, और residence of the Spanish monarch, मैड्रिड is also the राजनैतिक, economic and cultural centre of Spain.
The current mayor is Ana Botella from the People 's Party ( PP ).
The मैड्रिड urban agglomeration has the third-largest GDP in the European संघ and इसके influences in politics, education, entertainment, environment, media, fashion, science, culture, और the arts all contribute to इसके status as one of the संसार 's major global शहरों.
Due to इसके economic output, high standard of living, और market size, Madrid is considered the major वित्तीय centre of दक्षिणी यूरोपीय and the इबेरिया प्रायद्वीप ; it hosts the head offices of the vast majority of the major स्पेनी companies, such as telefónica, Iberia or Repsol.
मैड्रिड is the most touristic city of Spain, the fourth-most touristic of the continent, और the सातवाँ most visited नगर in the world according to Forbes.
Is the 10th most livable city in the world according to Monocle magazine, in its 2010 अनुक्रमणिका.
Madrid also ranks among the 12 greenest यूरोपीय cities in 2010. < ref name= '' http : //www.citymayors.com/environment/greenest-cities-europe.html '' > मैड्रिड is currently a Candidate City for the 2020 Summer Olympics.
मैड्रिड houses the headquarters of the World Tourism Organization ( WTO ), belonging to the United Nations संगठन ( UN ), the segib, the संगठन of Ibero-American States ( OEI ), और the पब्लिक Interest oversight Board ( PIOB ).
it also hosts major international institutions regulators of Spanish : the Standing Committee of the Association of Spanish Language अकादमियों, headquarters of the Royal स्पेनी Academy ( rae ), the Cervantes Institute and the Foundation of Urgent Spanish ( Fundéu ).
Madrid organizes fairs as fitur, आरको, SIMO TCI और the Cibeles Madrid फ़ैशन Week.
जबकि Madrid possesses a आधुनिक infrastructure, it रै preserved the look and feel of many of इसके historic neighbourhoods and streets.
Its landmarks include the royal Palace of Madrid ; the teatro Real ( Royal theatre ) with its restored 1850 Opera House ; the Buen retiro पार्क, संस्थापित in 1631 ; the 19th-century नेशनल पुस्तकालयों building ( संस्थापित in 1712 ) containing some of Spain 's ऐतिहासिक archives ; a विशाल number of National संग्रहालय, and the सुनहरी Triangle of Art, located along the paseo del Prado and comprising three आर्ट संग्रहालय : Prado Museum, the Museo nacional Centro de Arte Reina Sofía, a संग्रहालय of modern art, और the Thyssen-Bornemisza Museum, which completes the त्रुटियां of the other two museums.
cibeles Palace and फव्वारा have become the monument symbol of the city.
the path of the Via Appia and of the Via Appia Traiana.
remains of the Appian Way in Rome, near Quarto Miglio
Near Rome.
The Appian रास्ता ( Latin and Italian : Via Appia ) was एक of the earliest और strategically most important रोमन roads of the ancient republic.
It connected Rome to Brindisi, apulia, in southeast Italy.
इसके importance is indicated by its आम name, recorded by statius :
appia teritur regina longarum viarum
`` the appian way is the queen of the long roads ''
The road is named after appius Claudius caecus, the रोमन censor who began और completed the first section as a military road to the south in 312 BC during the samnite युद्धों.
The Draupner wave, a single giant wave measured on New Year 's दिन 1995, finally confirmed the अस्तित्व of freak लहरें, which था previously been considered near-mythical
Rogue waves ( भी known as freak waves, दानव लहरें, killer waves, extreme waves, and abnormal waves ) are relatively large और spontaneous ocean सतह waves that occur far out at sea, and are a threat even to विशाल ships and ocean liners.
In oceanography, they are more precisely defined as waves जिनकी height is more than twice the significant wave ऊँचाई ( swh ), जिससे is itself पारिभाषित as the mean of the largest तीसरा of waves in a वेव रिकार्ड.
Therefore rogue waves are not necessarily the biggest waves मिला at sea ; they are, rather, surprisingly विशाल waves for a given sea state.
Rogue लहरें seem not to have a single distinct cause, but occur जहाँ physical factors such as ऊँची हवाएँ and strong currents कारण लहरें to विलय to create a single exceptional large वेव.
Electress Sophia of Hanover ( 1630–1714 )
The लकीर of succession to the अंग्रेजों throne is the ordered अनुक्रम of all those people eligible to succeed to the throne of the संयुक्त Kingdom and the अन्य 15 Commonwealth realms.
The Act of Settlement 1701 bestowed उत्तराधिकार on the Electress Sophia of Hanover और her descendants while excluding Roman Catholics.
the British सरकारी does not publish an official सूची of all those in लकीर to succeed, but the कार्य of genealogical लेखक and amateur researchers suggests that वहीँ हैं several thousand लोगों potentially in line.
At a summit in Perth, Western Australia in 2011, the heads of government of all 16 Commonwealth realms agreed to take steps to अपनाना निरपेक्ष primogeniture, end the exclusion of people married to Roman catholics, and make other changes in the उत्तराधिकार नियम.
the line of succession is भी used to select the Counsellors of State ( and a regent if the need arises ) under the provisions of the Regency अधिनियम 1937.
For पहले versions of the लकीर of succession, see History of the British लकीर of succession.
Edward Montgomery Clift ( October 17, 1920july 23, 1966 ) थी an American film and स्टेज कर्ता The New यॉर्क times’ obituary noted his portrayal of `` moody, sensitive young men ''.
He प्रायः played outsiders and `` victim-heroes '' ; उदाहरण include the social climber in George Stevens 's a प्लेस in the Sun, the anguished कैथोलिक priest in हिचकॉक 's I कबूल, the doomed regular सिपाही रॉबर्ट E. ली Prewitt in फ्रेड Zinnemann 's From Here to Eternity, and the Jewish GI bullied by antisemites in एडवर्ड Dmytryk 's the Young Lions.
बाद, बाद a disfiguring car crash in 1956, और alcohol and prescription drug गाली, he became erratic.
Nevertheless important भूमिकाएँ यहूद still his, including `` the लापरवाह, alcoholic, mother-fixated rodeo performer '' in John Huston 's The Misfits, the title role in Huston 's, और the concentration camp victim in Stanley Kramer 's Judgment at Nuremberg. ''
Clift received four Academy Award nominations during his करियर, तीन for Best Actor और एक for Best Supporting कर्ता.
the युद्ध on Terror ( भी known as the Global War on आतंक ) is a पद commonly applied to an अंतरराष्ट्रीय military campaign जिससे started as a परिणाम of the 11 September 2001 terrorist attacks on the संयुक्त States.
इस resulted in an international सैन्य campaign to eliminate al-qaeda and other उग्रवादी organizations.
The United किंगडम and many अन्य NATO और non-nato nations participate in the conflict.
the phrase 'war on आतंक ' थी पहला used by US अध्यक्ष George W. बुश on 20 September 2001.
the Bush administration और the Western media have चूंकि used the term to signify a global military, राजनैतिक, lawful, and conceptual struggle—targeting both संगठन designated as terrorist and regimes अभियुक्त of supporting them.
it थी typically प्रयुक्त with a particular focus on उग्रवादी islamists, al-Qaeda, और other jihadi groups.
Although the term is not officially used by the administration of us President Barack Obama ( जिससे instead uses the term Overseas Contingency आपरेशन ), it is स्टिल commonly used by राजनेता, in the मीडिया and by कुछ aspects of government officially, such as the संयुक्त राज्य ' Global War on Terrorism Service Medal.
German battleship schleswig-holstein, Westerplatte, September 1, 1939
Destroyer uss Shaw exploding after her forward पत्रिका थी detonated during the Attack on पर्ल हार्बर
the प्रमुख कल्याणकारी of संसार War ii were nationalistic मुद्दे, unresolved issues, and resentments resulting इससे World युद्ध i and the interwar period in Europe, in जोड to the effects of the Great Depression in the 1930s.
The culmination of events that led to the outbreak of war are generally समझा to be the 1939 आक्रमण of कैंडल by Germany and सोवियत रूस and the 1937 आक्रमण of the Republic of चीन by the साम्राज्य of Japan.
These military aggressions were the परिणाम of decisions made by the authoritarian सत्ताधारी नाजी elite in Germany and by the नेतृत्व of the Kwantung Army in Japan.
World युद्ध II started after ये aggressive क्रियाएँ were मिले with an official declaration of war and/or armed resistance.
The following is a list of gods और अन्य divine और semi-divine figures from Greek mythology.
The list does नहीं include creatures ; for these, see List of यूनानी पौराणिक जीव.
The मित्सुबिशी galant is an ऑटोमोबाइल manufactured by Mitsubishi Motors between 1969 and 2012.
The नाम was derived from the French word galant, meaning `` chivalrous ''.
There have महरूम नौ distinct पीढियां, and cumulative बिक्री अभी exceed five million.
It began as a compact sedan, but over the course of its life रै evolved into a larger mid-size car.
Initial production थी only based in Japan, लकिन चूंकि 1994 the अमरीकी market has महरूम served by वाहनों assembled at the पूर्व diamond-star Motors ( dsm ) सुविधा in सामान्य, इलिनोइस.
Blood pressure ( BP ), sometimes referred to as arterial रक्त pressure, is the pressure exerted by circulating रक्त upon the walls of blood vessels, और is one of the principal vital signs.
जब used without further specification, `` blood pressure '' usually refers to the arterial pressure of the systemic circulation.
During प्रत्येक heartbeat, blood दबाव varies between a अधिकतम ( systolic ) and a minimum ( diastolic ) pressure.
The blood pressure in the circulation is principally due to the pumping action of the heart.
मतभेद in mean रक्त दबाव are responsible लिये blood flow from one location to another in the circulation.
The rate of mean blood flow depends on the प्रतिरोध to flow प्रस्तुत by the blood vessels.
Mean रक्त pressure decreases as the circulating रक्त चालें दूर from the heart through arteries and capillaries due to viscous losses of उर्जा.
Mean रक्त pressure drops over the whole परिसंचरण, although most of the fall occurs along the small धमनियों and arterioles.
Gravity affects रक्त pressure via hydrostatic शक्तियां ( e.g., during खड़ा ) and valves in रगों, breathing, and pumping इससे contraction of skeletal मांसपेशियां also influence blood pressure in veins.
Blood pressure without further specification usually refers to the systemic arterial pressure measured at a person 's upper arm and is a माप of the दबाव in the brachial धमनी, the major artery in the upper arm.
A person’s blood pressure is usually expressed in terms of the systolic दबाव over diastolic pressure and is measured in millimetres of पारा ( mmHg ), for उदाहरण 120/80.
A वीटो – Latin लिये `` I forbid '' – is the power ( used by an officer of the state, for example ) to unilaterally रोकें an official कार्रवाई, especially the enactment of विधान.
A वीटो can be absolute, as for instance in the संयुक्त Nations Security Council, whose permanent सदस्यों ( China, फ़्रांस, Russia, United Kingdom, United States of America ) can block कोई resolution.
Or it can be limited, as in the विधान process of the संयुक्त States, where a two-thirds vote in both the House and Senate may override a Presidential वीटो of विधान.
A वीटो तभी gives शक्ति to stop changes, not to adopt them ( except for the rare `` amendatory veto '' ).
यूँ a veto allows इसके holder to protect the औकात quo.
the concept of a veto body originated साथ the Roman consuls and tribunes.
Either of the two consuls holding office in a दिए साल could block a military or civil decision by the other ; any tribune had the power to unilaterally block legislation passed by the रोमन Senate.
Sulfur डाइऑक्साइड ( also sulphur डाइऑक्साइड ) is the रासायनिक compound with the formula.
It is a toxic gas with a pungent, irritating smell, that is released by volcanoes and in various industrial processes.
चूंकि coal और petroleum प्रायः contain sulfur compounds, उनके combustion generates sulfur dioxide जबतक the sulfur compounds are removed before burning the fuel.
Further oxidation of SO2, usually in the presence of a catalyst such as NO2, फ़ॉर्म H2SO4, and thus एसिड rain.
गंधक dioxide emissions are also a precursor to particulates in the atmosphere.
दोनो of ये impacts are cause लिये चिंता over the environmental impact of these fuels.
Myasthenia gravis ( from Greek μύς `` muscle '', `` कमज़ोरी '', and `` serious '' ; abbreviated MG ) is an असंक्राम्य neuromuscular disease leading to fluctuating muscle weakness and fatigability.
It is an असंक्राम्य disorder, in which कमज़ोरी is caused by circulating antibodies that ब्लाक acetylcholine receptors at the postsynaptic neuromuscular junction, inhibiting the excitatory प्रभाव of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine on nicotinic receptors throughout neuromuscular junctions.
myasthenia is treated medically साथ acetylcholinesterase inhibitors or immunosuppressants, और, in चयनित cases, thymectomy.
The disease incidence is 3–30 मामले प्रति million per year और उठती as a result of increased जागरूकता.
mg must be विशिष्ट from जन्मजात myasthenic syndromes that can present समान लक्षण but offer no response to immunosuppressive treatments.
परावर्तक twisted nematic liquid crystal display.
Polarizing filter film with a vertical axis to polarize light as it enters.
Glass substrate with ITO electrodes.
The shapes of ये electrodes will determine the shapes that will appear when the LCD is turned ON.
Vertical ridges etched on the surface are smooth.
Twisted nematic liquid crystal.
कांच substrate with common electrode film ( ITO ) with horizontal ridges to line up with the horizontal filter.
Polarizing filter film with a horizontal axis to block/pass light.
Reflective surface to send light back to viewer.
( In a backlit LCD, this layer is replaced with a लाइट source. )
A liquid-crystal display ( एलसीडी ) is a flat panel display, electronic विज़ुअल display, or video display कि uses the light modulating गुण of liquid crystals.
द्रव crystals do not emit लाइट directly.
LCDs are available to display arbitrary बिंब ( as in a general-purpose computer display ) or fixed images जिससे can be प्रदर्शित or छुपा, such as preset शब्द, digits, and 7-segment प्रदर्शक as in a digital clock.
वे use the same मौलिक technology, मगर that arbitrary images हैं made up of a large number of small pixels, जबकि अन्य displays have larger elements.
LCDs are used in a wide दायरा of अनुप्रयोग सहित computer मॉनीटर, टेलीविज़न, instrument panels, aircraft cockpit displays, और साइनेज.
They are common in consumer डिवाइस such as video खिलाड़ी, gaming devices, घड़ियाँ, घड़ियाँ, calculators, and telephones, और have replaced cathode ray ट्यूब ( CRT ) प्रदर्शक in सबसे अनुप्रयोग.
They are available in a wider range of screen sizes than CRT and plasma displays, और since वे do not उपयोग phosphors, they do not suffer image burn-in.
lcds हैं, however, susceptible to image persistence.
The LCD स्क्रीन is अधिक उर्जा कुशल and can be disposed of अधिक safely than a CRT.
Its low विद्युत power consumption enables it to be प्रयुक्त in battery -powered इलेक्ट्रॉनिक उपकरण.
It is an electronically modulated optical device made up of any number of segments filled साथ liquid crystals and arrayed in front of a light source ( backlight ) or reflector to produce images in रंग or monochrome.
द्रव crystals were पहला discovered in 1888.
By 2008, विश्वव्यापी sales of televisions with LCD screens exceeded annual sales of CRT इकाई ; the CRT became obsolete for most उद्देश्य.
The Borgata Hotel Casino और Spa is a luxury hotel, casino, और spa in Atlantic नगर, New जर्सी, संयुक्त States.
It is owned by Marina ज़िला Development, a joint venture between boyd Gaming and a divesture विश्वास स्थापित by MGM Resorts International.
The $ 1.1 अरब casino hotel सुविधाएँ 2,002 कक्ष and is the largest hotel in नई जर्सी.
the borgata खोली in जुलाई 2003 as a लास Vegas-style megaresort और is the top-grossing casino in Atlantic नगर.
A बोतल of high potency B-complex vitamin संपूरक गोलियां.
A vitamin ( or ) is an सशुल्क यौगिक required by an सजीव as a vital nutrient in limited amounts.
An organic रासायनिक compound ( or सम्बन्धित नियत of यौगिकों ) is called a विटामिन when it can not be synthesized in sufficient quantities by an organism, and must be obtained इससे the diet.
Thus, the पद is conditional both on the हालातों and on the particular organism.
For example, ascorbic एसिड ( vitamin C ) is a vitamin for humans, but not लिये most अन्य animals, and biotin and vitamin D are required in the human diet only in certain circumstances.
By सम्मेलन, the पद vitamin includes neither other essential nutrients, ऐसे as dietary minerals, essential fatty acids, or essential amino acids ( which are needed in larger amounts than vitamins ) nor the large number of अन्य nutrients कि प्रचार health but are वरना required कम प्रायः.
Thirteen vitamins are universally recognized at present.
Vitamins are वर्गीकृत by their biological and chemical activity, नहीं their ढांचा.
यूँ, each `` विटामिन '' refers to a क्रमांक of vitamer compounds कि सब show the biological activity associated साथ a particular विटामिन.
Such a set of रसायन is grouped under an alphabetized vitamin `` generic descriptor '' शीर्षक, ऐसे as `` विटामिन A ``, which includes the compounds retinal, retinol, and चार known carotenoids.
vitamers by definition are convertible to the active रूप of the vitamin in the देह, and are sometimes inter-convertible to one another, as well.
Vitamins have विविध biochemical functions.
Some have hormone-like functions as regulators of खनिज metabolism ( such as vitamin D ), or regulators of cell and ऊतक विकास and differentiation ( such as some फ़ॉर्म of vitamin A ).
Others फलन as antioxidants ( e.g., विटामिन E और sometimes vitamin C ).
The largest क्रमांक of विटामिन ( such as b complex vitamins ) function as precursors लिये एंजाइम cofactors, कि help enzymes in their work as catalysts in चयापचय.
In this भूमिका, विटामिन may be tightly bound to enzymes as part of prosthetic groups : For example, biotin is part of एंजाइमों involved in making वसीय acids.
Vitamins may भी be कम tightly बंधी to एंजाइम catalysts as coenzymes, detachable अणुओं that function to carry रासायनिक groups or electrons between molecules.
For उदाहरण, folic acid may carry methyl, formyl, और methylene समूह in the cell.
Although these roles in assisting enzyme-substrate reactions are विटामिन ' best-known function, the other vitamin functions are equally important.
जबतक the mid-1930s, when the first commercial yeast-extract विटामिन b जटिल and semi-synthetic विटामिन C supplement tablets यहूद बेची, vitamins were obtained solely through खाना intake, and changes in diet ( जिससे, लिये उदाहरण, could occur during a particular growing season ) प्रायः greatly altered the types and amounts of vitamins ingested.
However, vitamins have been उत्पादित as कमोडिटी chemicals and made widely available as inexpensive semisynthetic and synthetic-source multivitamin dietary और खाना supplements and एडिटिव, since the मध्य of the 20th सदी.
World Muslim जनसांख्यिकी by percentage ( Pew Research Center, 2009 )
संसार Muslim जनसांख्यिकी in millions
Islam is the world 's second largest धर्म after Christianity.
According to a 2010 study, islam has 1.62 billion adherents, making up over 23 % of the world population.
islam is the predominant धर्म in the Middle East, in सहेल, in the Horn of अफ़्रीकी and northern अफ़्रीकी, and in some parts of एशिया.
Large communities of Muslims are also found in China, the Balkans, and रूस.
Other parts of the world host large Muslim immigrant communities ; in Western यूरोपीय, for उदाहरण, islam is the दूसरी largest religion after Christianity, जहाँ it represents 6 % of the total population.
According to the Pew Research Center in 2010 there were 49 muslim-majority countries.
around 62 % of the world 's Muslims सजीव in South and Southeast Asia, with over 1 अरब adherents.
The largest Muslim country is Indonesia, home to 12.7 % of the संसार 's मुसलमान, followed by Pakistan ( 11.0 % ), India ( 10.9 % ), and Bangladesh ( 9.2 % ).
About 20 % of Muslims live in Arab देशों.
In the मध्य East, the non-Arab देशों of तुर्कों and इरान हैं the largest muslim-majority countries ; in Africa, Egypt and Nigeria have the most populous Muslim communities.
a study conducted by the Pew Research Center in 2010 और released जनवरी 2011 found that there हैं 1.62 अरब Muslims around the world.
The पढ़ाई found अधिक मुसलमान in the संयुक्त किंगडम than in Lebanon और more in चीन than in Syria.
Rhode द्वीप ( or ), officially the State of rhode Island and विधाता Plantations, is a state in the New England region of the United States.
rhode द्वीप is the smallest in area, the आठवीं तनिक populous, but the second most densely populated of the 50 US states behind New Jersey.
rhode द्वीप is bordered by Connecticut to the west और Massachusetts to the north and east, and it साझा a water boundary with New York 's Long Island to the southwest.
Rhode Island was the first of the 13 असली colonies to घोषित independence इससे अंग्रेजों नियम, declaring itself स्वतंत्र on May 4, 1776, two महीने before any अन्य colony.
The राज्य was also the last of the thirteen असली colonies to ratify the संयुक्त राज्य Constitution.
Rhode Island 's official nickname is `` The Ocean State '', a सन्दर्भ to the राज्य 's geography, चूंकि rhode Island has several large bays and inlets that amount to about 14 % of its total area.
Its land area is, लकिन its total area is significantly larger.
Dubai ( ; ', ) is a city in the संयुक्त Arab अमीरात, located within the emirate of the same name.
The emirate of Dubai is located on the southeast coast of the Persian Gulf on the Arabian Peninsula and is one of the seven emirates कि make up the country.
It has the largest जनसांख्यिकी in the UAE ( 2,106,177 ) और the second-largest जमीन territory by area ( 4,114 km2 ) after Abu Dhabi.
Dubai और Abu Dhabi, the नेशनल capital, are the only two अमीरात to have वीटो शक्ति over critical matters of नेशनल महत्व in the country 's विधानमंडल.
The city of Dubai is located on the emirate 's उत्तरी coastline and heads up the Dubai-Sharjah-Ajman metropolitan area.
Dubai is nowadays often misperceived as a country or city-state and, in some cases, the UAE as a whole has been described as 'dubai '.
The earliest mention of Dubai is in 1095 AD, and the earliest अंकित settlement in the region तिथियाँ from 1799.
the Sheikhdom of Dubai थी formally established in 1833 by Sheikh Maktoum bin butti Al-Maktoum when he persuaded around 800 members of his tribe of the Bani Yas, living in what was then the Second Saudi राज्य and now part of सऊदी अरब, to follow him to the Dubai क्रीक by the Abu falasa clan of the Bani Yas.
It remained अंतर्गत the जनजाति 's कंट्रोल जब the United Kingdom assumed protection of the Sheikhdom in 1892 and joined the nascent संयुक्त अरब Emirates upon independence in 1971 as the country 's दूसरी अमीर.
Its strategic geographic स्थान made the कस्बा an important trading hub and by the शुरूआत of the 20th सदी, दुबई थी already an महत्वपूर्ण regional बंदरगाहों.
आज, Dubai has उभरा as a कॉस्मोपॉलिटन metropolis that has grown steadily to become a global city and a business and cultural hub of the मध्य East and the Persian Gulf region.
Although Dubai 's economy थी historically निर्मित on the oil industry, the emirate 's western-style model of कारोबार drives इसके अर्थव्यवस्था with the main revenues now coming from tourism, real estate, and वित्तीय सेवाएं.
Dubai has recently आकर्षित world attention through many innovative विशाल construction प्रोजेक्ट and sports कार्यक्रम.
the city रै become symbolic for its skyscrapers and high-rise इमारतें, ऐसे as the world 's tallest burj खलीफा, in addition to ambitious development projects including man-made islands, होटल, and कुछ of the largest shopping malls in the region and the world.
इस increased attention has भी highlighted मजदूर और human rights issues concerning the city 's largely South Asian paid workforce.
दुबई 's प्रॉपर्टी market अनुभवी a major deterioration in 2008–2009 as a result of the worldwide economic downturn following the financial crisis of 2007-2008.
however, दुबई has बना a स्थिर and gradual recovery with help coming from neighboring emirates.
the handful of new projects that are in the पाइपलाइन have महरूम able to सहायता दुबई real estate make a comeback.
As of 2012, Dubai is the 22nd सबसे महंगी city in the world, and the most expensive city in the Middle ईस्ट, surpassing Israel 's tel aviv ( 31st ).
Dubai has also महरूम रेटेड as एक of the बेहतरीन places to सजीव in the Middle ईस्ट, including by us American global परामर्श firm Mercer जो rated the नगर as the best प्लेस to सजीव in the Middle ईस्ट in 2011.
the following is a list of colleges और universities in the U.S. राज्य of Illinois.
सतह of the अटलांटिक ocean meeting the धरती 's planetary boundary layer and troposphere.
लहरें on an ocean coast.
This एनिमेशन uses धरती विज्ञान आंकड़ा इससे a किस्में of sensors on NASA Earth observing satellites to measure physical oceanography parameters such as ocean currents, समंदर winds, समुद्र सतह height और sea surface temperature.
An ocean ( ; the World Ocean of शास्त्रीय antiquity ) is a body of saline water that composes a विशाल part of a ग्रह 's hydrosphere.
in the context of धरती, it refers to one or all of the प्रमुख divisions of the planet 's संसार Ocean – वे are, in descending अनुक्रम of area, the प्रशांत, Atlantic, Indian, Southern ( अंटार्कटिक ), and आर्कटिक Oceans.
The word `` sea `` is प्रायः प्रयुक्त interchangeably with `` ocean '', but strictly बोलना a sea is a body of saline जल ( संभवतः a division of the World Ocean ) partly or fully enclosed by land.
Earth is the तभी planet known to have an ocean ( or any large amounts of खोलें द्रव water ).
Approximately 72 % of the planet 's surface ( ~3.6x108 km2 ) is covered by saline water कि is customarily divided into several principal oceans and smaller seas, साथ the ocean covering approximately 71 % of the Earth 's सतह.
In शर्तें of the hydrosphere of the धरती, the समंदर contains 97 % of the Earth 's जल.
oceanographers have stated that out of 97 %, only 5 % of the ocean as a whole on Earth रै been explored.
Because it is the principal component of Earth 's hydrosphere, the संसार ocean is integral to सब ज्ञात life, फ़ॉर्म भाग of the carbon cycle, and influences climate and weather patterns.
The total volume is लगभग 1.3 billion घन kilometres ( 310 लाख cu mi ) with an average depth of.
it is the habitat of 230,000 known species, although much of the ocean 's depths remain unexplored and it is अनुमानित that over two million marine species exist.
the origin of Earth 's oceans is still unknown, लकिन oceans are believed to have formed in the Hadean period and may have been the impetus for the emergence of जीवन.
Extraterrestrial oceans may be composed of a wide range of elements and compounds.
The तभी confirmed विशाल stable bodies of extraterrestrial surface liquids are the lakes of टाइटन, although there is evidence लिये the existence of oceans elsewhere in the Solar System.
Early in their geologic histories, मंगल and Venus are theorized to have had large water oceans.
The Mars ocean परिकल्पना suggests that nearly a third of the surface of मंगल was once covered by जल, though the water on Mars is no longer oceanic, and a runaway ग्रीनहाउस effect may have boiled दूर the वैश्विक ocean of Venus.
Compounds ऐसे as salts और ammonia dissolved in water lower its freezing point, so that water might मौजूद in large quantities in extraterrestrial environments as brine or convecting ice.
Unconfirmed महासागर हैं speculated beneath the surface of many dwarf planets and natural satellites ; notably, the समंदर of Europa is believed to have over twice the water आवाज़ of Earth.
The Solar प्रणाली 's gas giant planets हैं also believed to possess द्रव atmospheric layers of yet to be confirmed compositions.
Oceans may also exist on exoplanets and exomoons, including सतह oceans of liquid water within a circumstellar habitable मण्डल.
Ocean planets are a hypothetical type of planet with a surface completely covered with liquid.
Elvis आरोन Presley ( जनवरी 8, 1935 – August 16, 1977 ) थी an अमरीकी singer and actor.
A cultural icon, he is commonly ज्ञात by the सिंगल नाम एल्विस.
One of the most लोकप्रिय संगीतकारों of the 20th century, he is often referred to as the `` King of Rock and Roll '' or `` the King ''.
Born in Tupelo, Mississippi, Presley moved to Memphis, टेनेसी, with his family at the age of 13.
he began his करियर वहीँ in 1954, working with Sun Records owner Sam phillips, who wanted to लाओ the sound of African-American म्यूज़िक to a wider audience.
Accompanied by guitarist स्कॉटी Moore and bassist Bill ब्लैक, Presley थी the most महत्वपूर्ण popularizer of rockabilly, an uptempo, backbeat -ड्राइवn fusion of country and लय and ब्लूज़.
RCA Victor acquired उसके अनुबंध in a deal arranged by Colonel Tom पार्कर, who गई on to मैनेज the singer for over two decades.
प्रेस्ली 's first आरसीए single, `` heartbreak Hotel ``, released in January 1956, was a number-one hit.
He became the अग्रणी फिगर of the newly लोकप्रिय sound of rock and फेंकें with a series of network television appearances and chart-topping रिकॉर्ड.
His सक्रिय interpretations of songs, many from African-American sources, और उसके uninhibited performance style made उसे enormously popular—and controversial.
In नवम्बर 1956, he made his film debut in Love me Tender.
drafted into सैन्य service in 1958, प्रेस्ली relaunched his recording career two years बाद with some of his सबसे commercially successful कार्य.
He staged few concerts however, and guided by पार्कर, proceeded to devote much of the 1960s to making Hollywood movies and साउंडट्रैक albums, most of them critically derided.
In 1968, after seven सालो दूर from the stage, he returned to live performance in a मनाये वापसी television special कि led to an extended लास Vegas concert residency and a स्ट्रिंग of profitable टुर.
in 1973 प्रेस्ली मंचन the first concert broadcast globally via उपग्रह, aloha from Hawaii.
नुस्खा drug abuse severely deteriorated his health, और he died suddenly in 1977 at the age of 42.
प्रेस्ली is regarded as एक of the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण figures of 20th-century popular संस्कृति.
He had a versatile voice and unusually wide success encompassing अनेक genres, including country, pop ballads, इन्जील, and blues.
He is the best-selling सोलो artist in the history of popular music.
मनोनीत लिये 14 competitive Grammys, he जीती तीन, और प्राप्त the Grammy Lifetime उपलब्धि Award at age 36.
He has been inducted into अनेक music halls of fame.
a glass of रूट beer साथ foam
रूट beer is a carbonated, sweetened beverage, originally बना using the root of a sassafras plant ( or the छाल of a sassafras पेड़ ) as the प्राथमिक flavor.
रूट beer, popularized in उत्तर America, आता in दो फ़ॉर्म : alcoholic and soft पेय.
the historical रूट beer थी analogous to small beer in that the प्रक्रम provided a पेय साथ a very कम दारू content.
Although roots are used as the source of many soft drinks throughout the world, often different names are used.
Fluorescent minerals emit दृश्य light when exposed to ultraviolet light
Fluorescence is the emission of लाइट by a पदार्थ that has अवशोषित light or other electromagnetic radiation.
It is a form of luminescence.
In सबसे cases, the उत्सर्जित light has a longer wavelength, और therefore lower उर्जा, than the absorbed radiation.
However, जब the absorbed इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक radiation is intense, it is possible for एक electron to absorb दो photons ; इस two-photon अवशोषण can lead to emission of radiation having a shorter wavelength than the absorbed radiation.
The emitted radiation may also be of the वही wavelength as the absorbed radiation, termed `` resonance प्रतिदीप्ति ''.
the most striking उदाहरण of fluorescence occur when the absorbed विकिरण is in the ultraviolet region of the spectrum, and thus invisible to the human eye, और the emitted लाइट is in the दृश्य region.
प्रतिदीप्ति has many व्यावहारिक applications, सहित mineralogy, gemology, chemical sensors ( fluorescence spectroscopy ), fluorescent लेबलिंग, dyes, biological detectors, और, most commonly, fluorescent lamps.
अनौपचारिक logic, intuitively, refers to the principles of logic and लॉजिकल thought बाहर of a formal सेटिंग.
However, शायद because of the अनौपचारिक in the title, the precise definition of अनौपचारिक लॉजिक is a matter of some dispute.
Ralph H. जॉनसन and J. Anthony Blair define informal logic as `` a branch of logic जिनकी task is to develop non-formal standards, criteria, procedures लिये the analysis, interpretation, मूल्यांकन, आलोचना और construction of argumentation. ''
This definition reflects what had been अव्यक्त in उनके अभ्यास और what others were doing in their informal लॉजिक texts.
Informal logic is associated with ( informal ) fallacies, critical thinking, the सोच Skills गति और the interdisciplinary पूछताछ known as argumentation theory.
frans H. van eemeren writes that the लेबल `` informal logic '' कवर a `` collection of normative approaches to the पढ़ाई of reasoning in ordinary भाषा that remain closer to the practice of argumentation than औपचारिक logic. ''
यूएसए annual real GDP 1910–60, साथ the years of the Great Depression ( 1929–1939 ) highlighted.
बेरोजगारी rate in the us 1910–1960, साथ the years of the ग्रेट Depression ( 1929–1939 ) highlighted.
The Great Depression began in August of 1929, when the संयुक्त States अर्थव्यवस्था पहला went into an economic recession.
हालांकि the country spent दो महीने with declining GDP, it was not जबतक the वॉल Street Crash of October, 1929 that the प्रभाव of a घटती अर्थव्यवस्था यहूद felt, और a major worldwide economic downturn ensued.
The मार्केट क्रैश marked the beginning of a decade of ऊँची unemployment, poverty, कम profits, deflation, plunging farm incomes, and lost opportunities लिये economic growth and personal advancement.
Although इसके कल्याणकारी are still अनिश्चित and controversial, the net effect थी a sudden और general घाटा of confidence in the economic future.
The usual स्पष्टीकरण include numerous कारकों, especially ऊँची consumer debt, ill-regulated बाज़ार कि permitted overoptimistic loans by banks और investors, and the lack of high-growth नई industries, सब interacting to बनाएँ a downward economic spiral of reduced spending, falling confidence, and lowered उत्पादन.
Industries that suffered the most included construction, agriculture as dust-bowl conditions persisted in the agricultural heartland, shipping, mining, और logging as well as durable goods like automobiles और उपकरण that could be postponed.
The economy reached नीचे in the winter of 1932–33 ; then came four years of very rapid विकास until 1937, when the मंदी of 1937 brought back 1934 स्तर of बेरोजगारी.
The अवसाद caused major political परिवर्तन in America.
तीन years into the अवसाद, Herbert Hoover lost the 1932 presidential election to फ्रैंकलिन Delano Roosevelt in a sweeping landslide.
Roosevelt 's economic recovery plan, the New सौदे, instituted unprecedented programs for relief, रिकवरी and reform, और brought about a major realignment of अमरीकी politics.
The Depression also resulted in an increase of emigration of लोगों to other countries लिये the first समय in American history.
For example, कुछ immigrants गई back to उनके देशी countries, और some native US नागरिकों गई to कनाडा, Australia, और South Africa.
It भी resulted in the द्रव्यमान migration of लोगों from badly hit क्षेत्रों in the Great मैदान और the South to स्थान ऐसे as California और the North, क्रमशः ( see Okies और the ग्रेट माइग्रेशन of African Americans ).
Racial tensions भी increased during this time.
By the 1940s immigration had returned वापस to सामान्य, and emigration declined.
A well-known example of an emigrant was Frank McCourt, who गई to Ireland, as recounted in his book Angela 's राख.
The मेमोरी of the Depression also shaped modern theories of अर्थशास्त्र and resulted in अनेक परिवर्तन in how the सरकारी dealt with economic downturns, such as the use of stimulus पैकेज, keynesian economics, and Social Security.
It भी shaped आधुनिक American literature, resulting in प्रसिद्ध novels ऐसे as जॉन Steinbeck 's `` The Grapes of प्रकोप `` and `` Of Mice और Men ``.
the Great अवसाद of the 1930s प्रारंभ साथ the भण्डार market क्रैश of अक्तूबर 1929.
Turkey ( ), officially the Republic of Turkey, is a transcontinental country, located ज़्यादातर on Anatolia in पश्चिमी एशिया and on East Thrace in southeastern Europe.
Turkey is bordered by eight countries : Bulgaria to the northwest ; यूनानियों to the west ; Georgia to the पूर्वोत्तर ; Armenia, Iran और the Azerbaijani exclave of Nakhchivan to the ईस्ट ; and Iraq and Syria to the southeast.
the Mediterranean Sea is to the south ; the Aegean Sea is to the वेस्ट ; और the Black समुद्र is to the north.
the Sea of मरमरा, the bosphorus and the Dardanelles ( which together form the Turkish Straits ) demarcate the boundary between Thrace और आनातोलिया ; वे also separate यूरोपीय and Asia.
तुर्कों 's location at the crossroads of यूरोपीय and Asia makes it a country of significant geostrategic importance.
The देश 's आधिकारिक भाषा is तुर्की, a Turkic language, which is बोला by लगभग 85 % of the population as mother tongue.
The most numerous ethnic group is the turks, जो constitute between 70 % and 75 % of the जनसांख्यिकी according to the संसार Factbook.
kurds are the largest ethnic minority and, according to the वही source, number around 18 % of the population while other ethnic अल्पसंख्यकों are estimated to be at 7–12 %.
The vast majority of the population is मुस्लिम.
the क्षेत्रफल now called Turkey has been inhabited चूंकि the Paleolithic, सहित विभिन्न Ancient आनातोलियाई civilizations and Thracian peoples.
After Alexander the Great 's conquest, the क्षेत्रफल थी Hellenized, which continued with the Roman rule और the परिवर्तन into the बीज़ान्टिन Empire.
The Seljuk Turks began migrating into the area in the 11th century, starting the process of turkification, which was greatly accelerated by the Seljuk victory over the Byzantines at the Battle of Manzikert in 1071.
The Seljuk सल्तनत of Rûm ruled Anatolia until the Mongol invasion in 1243, upon which it disintegrated into several small तुर्की beyliks.
Starting इससे the late 13th century, the Ottoman beylik संयुक्त Anatolia and निर्मित an साम्राज्य encompassing much of Southeastern Europe, Western Asia और North Africa.
After the उस्मानी Empire collapsed following its शिकस्त in World युद्ध i, parts of it were occupied by the victorious allies.
A संवर्ग of young सैन्य अधिकारियों, led by Mustafa Kemal Atatürk and his colleagues, organized a successful प्रतिरोध to the allies ; in 1923 वे स्थापित the modern Republic of तुर्कों, with Atatürk as इसके पहला president.
Turkey is a democratic, secular, unitary, संवैधानिक republic with a diverse सांस्कृतिक heritage.
Turkey रै become increasingly integrated with the West through membership in organisations ऐसे as the Council of Europe, NATO, OECD, OSCE and the G-20 प्रमुख economies.
Turkey began full सदस्यता negotiations with the European संघ in 2005, having महरूम an associate member of the European Economic Community since 1963 and having joined the EU कस्टम Union in 1995.
Turkey has also fostered close सांस्कृतिक, political and economic संबंध with the Middle ईस्ट, काकेशस, the Turkic states of Central एशिया and the African countries through membership in organisations such as the Turkic Council, Joint Administration of turkic Arts and संस्कृति, Organisation of Islamic सहयोग and the आर्थिक सहयोग Organisation.
तुर्कों 's growing economy और diplomatic initiatives have led to its recognition as a क्षेत्रीय power.
Turkey is the world 's 17th largest economy by nominal GDP और the 16th largest by purchasing power parity.
caryn Elaine Johnson, best known as whoopi Goldberg (, ( born November 13, 1955 ) is an American comedienne, अभिनेत्री, singer-songwriter, political activist, author and talk show host.
Goldberg made her film debut in The Color जामुनी ( 1985 ), playing celie, a mistreated ब्लैक woman in the Deep South.
She प्राप्त a nomination for the अकादमी Award for Best अभिनेत्री और won उसके first Golden ग्लोब Award लिये her role in the film.
in 1990, she निभाई Oda Mae Brown, a wacky psychic helping a slain man ( पैट्रिक Swayze ) save his lover ( demi Moore ) in the blockbuster Ghost.
This प्रदर्शन won her a second Golden ग्लोब और an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress ; this बना Goldberg तभी the second ब्लैक woman in the history of the Academy Awards to win an acting oscar—the first being Hattie McDaniel who won for गए With the Wind in 1939.
notable later films शामिल सिस्टर अधिनियम and Sister अधिनियम 2, the Player, Made in America, कैसा Stella मिला Her नाली Back, लड़की, बाधित and Rat Race.
वो is भी acclaimed for her roles as the bartender Guinan in Star Trek : The अगला Generation, as Terry Doolittle in Jumpin ' जोकर Flash, और as Carmen Tibideaux in ग्ली, as well as the voice of Shenzi the hyena in The शेर किंग.
Goldberg has been nominated for 13 एमी Awards for her work in television.
She थी co-producer of the लोकप्रिय खेल show Hollywood वर्गों from 1998 to 2004.
वो has महरूम the moderator of the daytime talk show The दृश्य चूंकि 2007.
Goldberg has a Grammy, two Daytime Emmys, two Golden Globes, a Tony ( for production, not acting ), and an Oscar.
In जोड, Goldberg has a British Academy Film Award, चार People 's Choice Awards, and रै been honored with a star on the Hollywood चलना of Fame.
वो is one of the few entertainers who have won an Emmy, Grammy, Oscar, and Tony Award.
Augusta is a consolidated city in the U.S. state of जॉर्जिया, located at the पतन line of the Savannah River, at the head of its navigable portion.
As of the 2010 census, the Augusta– Richmond County population थी 195,844 नहीं counting the unconsolidated cities of hephzibah and Blythe.
augusta is the principal नगर of the Augusta – Richmond County Metropolitan Statistical क्षेत्रफल, which as of 2010 had an estimated population of 556,877, making it both the second-largest नगर and the second-largest मैट्रो area in the राज्य after Atlanta.
It is the 116th-largest नगर in the United States.
internationally, Augusta is best known for hosting the मास्टर्स टूर्नामेंट in गोल्फ़ प्रत्येक spring.
A CD-ROM ( ) is a pre-pressed compact डिस्क जिससे contains आंकड़ा.
The नाम is an acronym which stands लिये `` Compact Disc read-only memory ``.
कंप्यूटर can read CD-ROMs, लकिन can not write on उन्हें.
CD-ROMs are popularly used to distribute कंप्यूटर software, including video खेल and multimedia applications, हालांकि कोई data can be stored ( up to the क्षमता limit of a डिस्क ).
Some cds, called उन्नत cds, थाम both computer आंकड़ा and audio with the latter capable of होने निभाई on a cd खिलाड़ी, while data ( ऐसे as software or digital video ) is only usable on a कंप्यूटर ( such as आईएसओ 9660 format PC CD-ROMs ).
The Yellow Book is the technical standard कि defines the format of CD-ROMs.
एक of a set of color-bound किताबे that contain the तकनीकी specifications लिये all CD formats, the Yellow किताब, निर्मित by Sony and Philips, थी the first extension of Compact Disc Digital Audio.
It adapted the format to hold कोई form of data.
The Chicago Blackhawks ( spelled as ब्लैक Hawks before 1986, और known colloquially as the Hawks ) are a professional बर्फ hockey team based in Chicago, इलिनोइस.
They are members of the सेंट्रल Division of the Western सम्मेलन of the National Hockey League ( NHL ).
वे have जीती four Stanley Cup championships since their founding in 1926, सबसे recently in 2009–10.
The ब्लैकहॉक्स are one of the Original छह एनएचएल teams, साथ with the डेट्रॉयट Red Wings, Montreal canadiens, Toronto मेपल Leafs, Boston Bruins and नई यॉर्क रेंजरों.
चूंकि the Blackhawks have played their home games at the United Center बाद having spent 65 सालो playing at शिकागो Stadium.
Lent celebrants carrying out a street procession during Holy Week.
The violet color is often संबद्ध with penance और detachment.
Similar Christian penitential practice is seen in अन्य कैथोलिक countries, sometimes associated with mortification of the flesh.
Granada, निकारागुआ.
Lent ( Latin : Quadragesima ) is a solemn observance in the liturgical year of many ईसाई denominations, lasting for a काल of approximately छह weeks leading up to ईस्टर Sunday.
In the general Latin-rite और most Western denominations lent is taken to चलाएं इससे राख बुधवार to Maundy गुरुवार ( Holy गुरुवार ) morning or to Easter Eve.
In the कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर, Lent lasts until Holy Thursday, while other denominations run until ईस्टर Eve.
the traditional purpose of lent is the preparation of the believer through दुआ, penance, repentance, almsgiving, and self-denial.
इसके institutional purpose is heightened in the annual commemoration of पावन Week, marking the death, दफ़न and resurrection of यीशु, which recalls the कार्यक्रम of the Bible when यीशु is crucified on शुभ Friday, जिससे then culminates in the celebration on ईस्टर Sunday of the Resurrection of Jesus Christ.
During Lent, many of the faithful कमिट to fasting or giving up certain types of luxuries as a form of penitence.
The Stations of the Cross, a devotional commemoration of Christ 's carrying the Cross and of his execution, are often observed.
Many रोमन कैथोलिक और कुछ Protestant churches हटाएँ flowers from उनके altars, while crucifixes, धार्मिक statues, और other विस्तृत धार्मिक symbols are often veiled in violet fabrics in solemn observance of the event.
In certain परहेज़गारों कैथोलिक countries, कुछ adherents mark the season साथ the traditional abstention from the consumption of meat.
In कुछ countries, ग्रैंड religious processions and cultural customs are observed, and the faithful attempt to विज़िट seven churches during पावन Week in honor of यीशु Christ heading to Mount Calvary.
Lent is traditionally वर्णित as lasting for forty days, in commemoration of the forty days which, according to the Gospels of Matthew, चिह्नित and Luke, यीशु खर्च fasting in the मरुस्थल पहले the beginning of his public ministry, जहाँ he endured प्रलोभन by the Devil.
However, अलग Christian denominations calculate the forty days of Lent differently.
In सबसे Western traditions the Sundays are not counted as भाग of Lent ; यूँ the period इससे Ash Wednesday until ईस्टर consists of 40 दिनों when the Sundays हैं excluded.
However in the Roman कैथोलिक Church Lent is now लिया to end on Holy Thursday rather than ईस्टर Eve, and hence lasts 38 days excluding Sundays, or 44 दिनों in कुल.
This event, along साथ its pious customs हैं observed by catholics, Lutherans, Methodists, Presbyterians, और Anglicans.
स्थान of Chernobyl nuclear power संयंत्र
The abandoned city of Pripyat with chernobyl plant in the distance
abandoned housing blocks in Pripyat
the chernobyl disaster (, Chornobylska katastrofa – Chornobyl Catastrophe ) was a catastrophic nuclear accident that occurred on 26 April 1986 at the chernobyl नाभिकीय शक्ति संयंत्र in Ukraine ( then officially the Ukrainian SSR ), जिससे was under the direct क्षेत्राधिकार of the central authorities of the Soviet संघ.
An explosion और आग released large quantities of radioactive अणु into the atmosphere, which स्प्रेड over much of the पश्चिमी ussr and Europe.
The Chernobyl विपत्ति is widely माना to have been the worst nuclear power plant दुर्घटना in history, और is एक of only two classified as a level 7 इवेंट on the अंतरराष्ट्रीय Nuclear इवेंट स्केल ( the other being the Fukushima daiichi nuclear disaster in 2011 ).
The battle to contain the contamination और avert a greater catastrophe ultimately शामिल over 500,000 मजदूर और cost an अनुमानित 18 billion rubles.
The official सोवियत casualty count of 31 मौतों has महरूम disputed, and long-term प्रभाव ऐसे as cancers and deformities are still being accounted लिये.
In grammar, a subject complement is a predicative expression कि follows a linking क्रिया ( copula ) and that complements ( completes ) the subject of the sentence by either ( 1 ) renaming it or ( 2 ) describing it.
in the former मामला, a renaming noun phrase ऐसे as a संज्ञा or सर्वनाम is पुकारा a predicative nominal.
an adjective following the copula and describing the subject is पुकारा a predicative adjective.
In either case the predicative complement in effect mirrors the subject.
विषय complements are used with a छोटी क्लास of verbs called linking क्रियाएँ or copula, of which be is the most common.
Since copula are stative क्रियाएँ, subject complements are not affected by कोई action of the verb.
Subject complements are typically not clause arguments, nor are वे clause केंद्रीभूत.
Throughout the fifty-five year history of the Grammy Awards, अनेक significant रिकॉर्ड have महरूम नियत.
इस पेज only शामिल the प्रतिस्पर्धी awards won by various artists.
This does नहीं include the various खास awards that हैं प्रस्तुत by the नेशनल Academy of रिकॉर्डिंग Arts and sciences ऐसे as आजीवन Achievement पुरस्कार, trustees पुरस्कार, Technical Awards or Legend पुरस्कार.
the page however करता include अन्य non-performance related Grammys ( known as the शिल्प & Production Fields ) that may have been presented to the artist ( s ).
मार्शल Bruce Mathers III ( born अक्तूबर 17, 1972 ), better ज्ञात by his स्टेज name Eminem ( stylized as EMINƎM ) and by उसके alter ego Slim छायादार, is an अमरीकी rapper, record producer, songwriter and actor.
एमिनेम, along with his solo career, is a member of his group D12, और also one half of the हिप हॉप duo Bad meets Evil, साथ रॉयस da 5'9 ''.
Eminem is one of the best-selling कलाकारों in the संसार और is the best-selling कलाकार of the 2000s.
He रै been listed और क्रमित as one of the greatest कलाकारों of सब time by अनेक मैगज़ीन, सहित Rolling Stone magazine which ranked him 82nd on its list of The 100 Greatest Artists of सब Time.
the same magazine declared him The किंग of हिप हॉप.
सहित उसके work with D12 and Bad Meets Evil, Eminem has achieved ten number-one एल्बम on the Billboard 200.
He has sold more than 100 लाख records worldwide, सहित 42 लाख tracks and 49.1 लाख albums in the संयुक्त States.
as an underground rapper एमिनेम released his debut solo album, Infinite in 1996.
the album थी a critical and वाणिज्यिक failure.
He gained mainstream लोकप्रियता in 1999 बाद the रिलीज of उसके major-label डेब्यू album the Slim छायादार lp.
The lp भी earned एमिनेम उसके first ग्रैमी पुरस्कार for Best रैप Album.
उसके अगला two रिकॉर्ड the मार्शल Mathers lp, and The एमिनेम Show, also won Best रैप Album Grammy Awards, making एमिनेम the first artist to win Best Rap Album for three लगातार एलपी.
इस थी followed by another studio release in 2004 titled Encore.
एमिनेम then went on अंतराल after touring in 2005.
He released his first album in five years titled पतन, on may 15, 2009.
In 2010, Eminem released his seventh studio एल्बम रिकवरी.
रिकवरी was an international success और was नामित the best selling एल्बम of 2010 worldwide, joining the Eminem Show, जिससे थी the best seller of 2002.
Eminem जीती Grammy Awards for both Relapse and Recovery, giving उसे a कुल of 13 Grammys in his करियर.
Eminem has opened अन्य ventures, including उसके own record लेबल छायादार रिकॉर्ड with his manager Paul Rosenberg.
He भी has his own radio channel, Shade 45 on Sirius XM रेडियो.
Eminem began an acting career in 2002, when he स्ट्रक्चर in the hip hop नाटक film 8 Mile.
He won the अकादमी Award for बेहतरीन Original Song, becoming the first रैप artist ever to win the पुरस्कार.
He has भी made cameo appearances in the Wash ( 2001 ), मजेदार People ( 2009 ) and the television series Entourage.
The एकड़ is a unit of area used in the imperial and u.S. customary systems.
An acre is परिचय 40 % of a हेक्टेयर – slightly smaller than an American football फ़ील्ड.
The acre is no longer commonly प्रयुक्त, although a few notable exceptions शामिल the United States, Australia, Burma and the United Kingdom ( as of 2010, the acre is no longer officially used in the संयुक्त Kingdom, हालांकि is still used in रियल estate descriptions ).
It is स्टिल प्रयुक्त, to कुछ extent, in Canada.
The अंतरराष्ट्रीय प्रतीक of the एकड़ is ac, and is defined as 1/640 of a square मील.
The most commonly used acre आज is the अंतरराष्ट्रीय एकड़.
In the United States both the international एकड़ and the slightly different US survey एकड़ are in उपयोग.
the most common use of the एकड़ is to measure tracts of land.
एक international acre is पारिभाषित as 4046.8564224 square मीटर.
During the मध्य Ages, an एकड़ थी the राशि of जमीन that could be plowed in one दिन साथ a yoke of oxen.
Antoine Lavoisier 's discovery of the Law of Conservation of द्रव्यमान led to अनेक new निष्कर्षों in the 19th century.
Joseph Proust 's law of definite proportions और जॉन Dalton 's atomic theory branched from the discoveries of एंटोनी Lavoisier.
Lavoisier 's quantitative experiments नाज़िल that combustion involved oxygen बल्कि than what was previously thought to be phlogiston.
The विधि of संरक्षण of mass, or principle of mass conservation, states कि for any system closed to सब transfers of पदार्थ और energy ( दोनो of जिससे have द्रव्यमान ), the द्रव्यमान of the प्रणाली must remain constant over समय, as system mass can not change quantity if it is not added or removed.
hence, the मात्रा of mass is `` conserved '' over समय.
the law implies that द्रव्यमान can neither be निर्मित nor destroyed, although it may be rearranged in space, or the entities संबद्ध with it may be बदला in रूप, as लिये example when light or शारीरिक work is रूपांतरित into particles कि योगदान the same mass to the system as the light or कार्य had contributed.
The law implies ( requires ) that during any chemical reaction, nuclear reaction, or रेडियोसक्रिय decay in an पृथक प्रणाली, the द्रव्यमान of the reactants or starting सामग्री must equal the mass of the products.
The अवधारणा of mass conservation is widely used in अनेक fields such as chemistry, mechanics, and द्रव डायनामिक्स.
Historically, द्रव्यमान संरक्षण थी discovered in रासायनिक reactions by एंटोनी Lavoisier in the late 18th सदी, and was of निर्णायक importance in the progress from alchemy to the आधुनिक natural विज्ञान of रसायन.
The closely related concept of पदार्थ संरक्षण was found to hold good in रसायन to such high approximation कि it failed तभी लिये the ऊँची energies treated by the बाद refinements of आपेक्षिकता theory, but otherwise remains useful और sufficiently सटीक for most chemical calculations, even in modern practice.
in special relativity, needed for सटीकता when large energy हस्तांतरण between systems is involved, the difference between thermodynamically बंद and पृथक systems becomes महत्वपूर्ण, since conservation of द्रव्यमान is strictly and perfectly upheld only लिये so-called isolated systems, i.e. those completely पृथक इससे all exchanges with the पर्यावरण.
In this circumstance, the mass-energy equivalence theorem राज्य that mass संरक्षण is equivalent to total energy संरक्षण, which is the first law of ऊष्मागतिकी.
By contrast, लिये a thermodynamically closed system ( i.e., one which is closed to exchanges of पदार्थ, but open to exchanges of non-material energy, ऐसे as heat और work, with the surroundings ) द्रव्यमान is ( usually ) only approximately conserved.
the इनपुट or आउटपुट of non-material energy must change the द्रव्यमान of the प्रणाली in relativity theory, although the change is usually small, चूंकि relatively large amounts of ऐसे energy ( by comparison with ordinary experience ) carry only a small राशि of mass ( again by ordinary मानकों of measurement ).
In special relativity, द्रव्यमान is not converted to उर्जा, चूंकि energy in all of इसके forms always retains its equivalent amount of mass throughout any transformation or translocation into, or out of, a प्रणाली.
However, certain प्रकार of matter ( a different concept ) may be converted to energy, so long as the mass of the system is unchanged in the प्रक्रम.
However, if such energy is removed इससे systems, वे must lose the mass that is associated साथ it.
In general आपेक्षिकता, mass ( and उर्जा ) conservation in expanding volumes of space is a complex concept, विषय to different definitions, and neither mass nor energy is as सख्ती and simply conserved as is the case in special relativity और in Minkowski space.
लिये a discussion, see द्रव्यमान in general relativity.
A सुअर is any of the animals in the genus Sus, within the Suidae family of even-toed ungulates.
Pigs include the domestic pig, its पूर्वज the जंगली boar, और several other जंगली रिश्तेदारों.
Young and small pigs are ज्ञात as piglets.
Pigs are omnivores और are highly सोशल और intelligent animals.
8-inch, -inch, and -inch floppy डिस्क
8-inch, -inch ( पूरा height ), और -inch drives
A 3.5-inch diskette 's `` floppy '' चुम्बकीय material, removed इससे its housing
A floppy disk, or diskette, is a disk भंडार medium composed of a disk of thin and flexible magnetic भंडार medium, sealed in a आयताकार प्लास्टिक वाहक lined with fabric that removes dust particles.
They are पढ़ा और written by a floppy disk drive ( fdd ).
Floppy डिस्क, initially as media and later in and 3.5-inch ( 90 mm ) sizes, यहूद a ubiquitous form of data भंडार and एक्सचेंज इससे the mid-1970s खूब into the first decade of the 21st century.
By 2010, computer motherboards were rarely manufactured साथ floppy ड्राइव support ; `` floppies could be प्रयुक्त as an external usb ड्राइव, लकिन ``, 8 ``, and non-standard ड्राइव could only be handled by बूढ़ा उपकरण.
While फ्लॉपी disk ड्राइव still have some limited uses, especially with विरासत industrial computer equipment, they have been superseded by आंकड़ा storage विधि साथ much greater क्षमता, such as USB flash ड्राइव, portable external hard disk drives, optical discs, memory ताश, और computer networks.
an animated आरेख of a कटर
in baseball, a कटर, or काटें fastball, is a प्रकार of fastball जिससे breaks slightly toward the pitcher 's glove side as it reaches home थाली.
This pitch is कही between a slider and a fastball, as it is usually thrown faster than a स्लाइडर but with अधिक motion than a ठेठ fastball.
Some pitchers use a cutter as a way to prevent hitters इससे expecting their regular fastballs.
A common technique used to throw a cutter is to use a four-seam fastball grip with the baseball set slightly off center in the हाथ.
When a batter is समर्थ to hit a कटर पिच, it प्रायः results in soft contact and an easy out, due to the pitch 's movement keeping the बॉल away इससे the bat 's sweet spot.
The कटर is typically 2–5 किमी धीमा than a pitcher 's four-seam fastball.
in 2010, the औसत pitch वर्गीकृत as a cutter by PITCHf/x thrown by a right-handed pitcher थी 88.6 mph ; the average four-seamer was 92.1 mph.
`` What It Takes '' is a शक्ति ballad by American मुश्किल चट्टान बैंड Aerosmith.
It थी written by Steven Tyler, Joe Perry, and Desmond Child.
it was released in 1990 as the तीसरा single इससे एरोस्मिथ 's critically and commercially कामयाब 1989 एल्बम पंप.
In the video The Making of Pump, A & r man John Kalodner वर्णित the सोंग as `` a कलाकृति ''.
दौरान live प्रदर्शन, Tyler गाती the पहला verse a cappella and belts out one of his signature screams right before the chorus.
The album version of the song is followed by an untitled hidden track.
Head of Odysseus from a Greek 2nd century bc marble समूह representing odysseus blinding polyphemus, मिला at the villa of tiberius at Sperlonga
विवरण of an ancient Roman mosaic of Ulysses in Tunisia
Odysseus ( or ; Greek :, ), also known by the रोमन नाम Ulysses ( ; ), was a legendary Greek किंग of ithaca and a hero of Homer 's एपिक कविता the ओडिसी.
Odysseus also plays a key भूमिका in Homer 's Iliad और अन्य works in कि वही Epic साईकिल.
Husband of Penelope, father of Telemachus, and son of Laërtes ( or Sisyphus ) and Anticlea, Odysseus is renowned for his brilliance, guile, and versatility ( polytropos ), और is hence known by the epithet Odysseus the cunning ( mētis, or `` cunning प्रज्ञा `` ).
he is most famous for the टेन eventful years he took to return home बाद the decade-long trojan War और his प्रसिद्ध Trojan घोड़ा ploy to कैप्चर the city of Troy.
erie is a statutory Town in Boulder और Weld counties in the U.S. state of Colorado.
The जनसांख्यिकी according to the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी is 18,135 और was अंकित as 6,291 at the 2000 census.
The Town of Erie is located just west of I-25 for easy access to i-70, Denver International Airport and Colorado 's entire Front Range.
Erie 's Planning Area spans 48 वर्गाकार मील, extending from the north पक्ष of State Highway 52 south to State Highway 7, and between US 287 on the वेस्ट और Interstate 25 to the east.
Erie is approximately 35 मिनट्स from Denver International Airport, 25 minutes to Denver और 20 minutes from Boulder.
The फलक of Trustees serves as the विधान and governing देह of the कस्बा of Erie and is responsible for establishing Town policies and goals.
The Board has the authority to अपनाना laws, ordinances और रिज़ॉल्यूशन as needed to conduct the business of the कस्बा, and by अध्यादेश may enter into contracts or intergovernmental समझौतों to furnish, receive सेवाएं or to provide for cooperative सेवा delivery.
Appointed by and serving at the pleasure of the Board of trustees, the Town Administrator is the मुख्य operating and प्रशासनिक officer of the Town and is जिम्मेदार for providing पेशेवर leadership in the administration and execution of policies और objectives formulated by the Board.
The mission of the Erie Police Department is to communicate and work with the जातियाँ to maintain a safe पर्यावरण, prevent crime and enforce the law, while protecting the अधिकारों of सब.
Erie Municipal Airport ( EIK ) is owned and operated by the Town of erie and is strategically located in the Denver-Boulder महानगर area on Colorado Highway 7, a छोटी over तीन मील वेस्ट of Interstate 25.
The main runway is concrete paved and 4,700 फीट long.
The is a home video game console produced by Sony Computer entertainment.
It is the successor to the प्लेस्टेशन 2, as भाग of the प्लेस्टेशन series.
the PlayStation 3 competes साथ Microsoft 's Xbox 360 और निन्टेंडो 's Wii as part of the seventh generation of video game consoles.
It was पहला released on नवम्बर 11, 2006, in Japan, with international markets following shortly thereafter.
the console थी पहला officially announced at E3 2005.
Originally set for a spring 2006 रिलीज date, it was विलम्बित several टाइम्स until finally hitting stores at the end of the year.
it was the first और फिलहाल only console to उपयोग Blu-ray Disc as its प्राथमिक storage मीडियम.
प्रमुख features of the console include its unified online gaming service, the PlayStation संजाल, and its connectivity with the PlayStation Portable and प्लेस्टेशन वीटा, in September 2009 the updated PlayStation 3 Slim, थी released.
This Slim is lighter और thinner than the original संस्करण, हालांकि it lacks प्लेस्टेशन 2 backwards compatibility ( removed on later original models ), but notably प्रदर्शित a re-designed logo and विपणन design.
as of November 4, 2012, 70 million PlayStation 3s have been sold worldwide.
Its successor, PlayStation 4, is नियत for a Q4 2013 release.
Salvador Domingo फेलिप Jacinto Dalí i domènech, 1st Marqués de dalí de pubol ( May 11, 1904January 23, 1989 ), known as Salvador dalí ( ), was a prominent Spanish surrealist painter born in figueres, स्पेन.
dalí was a skilled draftsman, best known for the striking and bizarre images in उसके surrealist work.
His painterly skills are often attributed to the influence of Renaissance मास्टर्स.
His best-known work, The Persistence of Memory, थी समाप्त in 1931.
dalí 's expansive artistic repertoire included फिल्मी, मूर्तिकला, and छायाचित्र, in collaboration साथ a range of artists in a variety of मीडिया.
dalí attributed his `` love of everything that is gilded and excessive, my passion for लक्ज़री and my love of प्राच्य clothes '' to a self-styled `` Arab lineage '', claiming कि his पूर्वजो यहूद descended from the Moors.
Dalí was highly कल्पनाशील, and also enjoyed indulging in unusual and grandiose behavior.
His eccentric manner and attention-grabbing public actions sometimes drew more ध्यान than his artwork, to the dismay of those जो held his work in ऊँची esteem, and to the जलन of उसके आलोचकों.
Philosopher Plato by Silanion
The humanities are academic disciplines that study human culture, using methods that are primarily विश्लेषणात्मक, critical, or सट्टे, and having a significant historical element, as distinguished from the mainly empirical approaches of the प्राकृतिक sciences.
the मानवता include ancient and modern languages, साहित्य, दर्शनशास्त्र, धर्म, and visual and performing arts such as music and theatre.
The humanities that are also regarded as social sciences include इतिहास, anthropology, area studies, communication studies, cultural studies, law, economics and linguistics.
Scholars working in the मानवता हैं sometimes described as `` humanists ''.
however, कि पद also describes the philosophical स्थिति of मानवतावाद, जिससे some `` antihumanist `` scholars in the humanities reject.
Some द्वितीयक स्कूलों offer humanities classes, प्रायः consisting of English साहित्य, वैश्विक studies, and art.
इंसान disciplines like इतिहास, सांस्कृतिक मानवशास्त्र and psychoanalysis पढ़ाई विषय matters to which the प्रायोगिक विधि करता नहीं apply, and they have access instead to the comparative विधि और comparative research.
The 2005 Blue रूम Christmas Tree
The White House Christmas Tree, भी known as the ब्लू Room क्रिसमस Tree, is the official indoor क्रिसमस tree at the residence of the अध्यक्ष of the United States, the White House.
the पहला indoor Christmas tree was installed in the White House sometime in the 19th century ( there are varying claims as to the सटीक year ) और since 1961 the tree रै had a प्रसंग motif at the discretion of the First Lady of the United States.
The President of the United States of America ( POTUS ) is the head of state and सिर of government of the United States.
The president leads the executive branch of the federal government and is the commander-in-chief of the संयुक्त States हथियारबंद Forces.
Article II of the u.S. Constitution vests the executive power of the संयुक्त राज्य in the अध्यक्ष and charges him with the execution of federal विधि, alongside the responsibility of appointing federal कार्यपालिका, diplomatic, नियामक, और न्यायिक officers, and concluding treaties with विदेशी powers, with the advice and सहमति of the Senate.
The president is further empowered to ग्रान्ट federal pardons and reprieves, and to convene और adjourn either or both houses of कॉंग्रेस अंतर्गत extraordinary circumstances.
Since the founding of the United राज्य, the शक्ति of the अध्यक्ष and the संघीय government have grown substantially and each modern president, despite possessing no formal legislative powers beyond हस्ताक्षर or vetoing congressionally passed bills, is largely जिम्मेदार लिये dictating the विधान agenda of his party और the विदेशी and घरेलू policy of the United States.
the president is frequently described as the most powerful person in the संसार.
the president is indirectly elected by the people through the Electoral College to a four-year term, और is one of only two nationally elected federal officers, the other being the वाइस अध्यक्ष of the United States.
The Twenty-second Amendment, अपनाया in 1951, prohibits anyone इससे कभी होने निर्वाचित to the presidency for a तीसरा full पद.
It also prohibits a person from being निर्वाचित to the presidency more than एकबार if that व्यक्ति previously had served as अध्यक्ष, or acting president, for more than दो years of another person 's term as president.
in सब, 43 individuals have परोसा 55 four-year शर्तें.
On जनवरी 20, 2009, बराक ओबामा became the 44th and current president.
On November 6, 2012, he was re-elected और is scheduled to serve जबतक January 20, 2017.
Senses are physiological capacities of organisms that provide data for perception.
the senses and their आपरेशन, classification, and theory are overlapping विषय पढ़ाई by a variety of फ़ील्ड, most notably neuroscience, संज्ञानात्मक psychology ( or cognitive science ), and philosophy of perception.
The nervous system has a specific sensory system or organ, समर्पित to प्रत्येक भाव.
Humans have a multitude of होश.
Sight ( ophthalmoception ), सुनना ( audioception ), taste ( gustaoception ), smell ( olfacoception or olfacception ), and touch ( tactioception ) are the five traditionally recognized.
जबकि the ability to detect अन्य stimuli परे those governed by the traditional senses exists, including temperature ( thermoception ), kinesthetic भाव ( proprioception ), पीड़ा ( nociception ), balance ( equilibrioception ), त्वरण ( kinesthesioception ), and विभिन्न internal stimuli ( e.g. the different chemoreceptors लिये detecting नमक and carbon डाइऑक्साइड concentrations in the blood ), तभी a small क्रमांक of these can safely be classified as पृथक senses in और of themselves.
What constitutes a sense is a matter of some बहस, leading to difficulties in धमक what exactly a भाव is.
Animals भी have receptors to भाव the world around उन्हें, with डिग्री of काबिलियत varying greatly between species.
Humans have a comparatively weak भाव of महकते, जबकि some animals may lack one or अधिक of the traditional five senses.
Some पशु may also intake और interpret संवेदी stimuli in very different तरीके.
Some species of पशु हैं समर्थ to sense the संसार in a way that humans can नहीं, with some species समर्थ to sense electrical और magnetic fields, and detect water pressure and currents.
मकड़ियों ( order Araneae ) are air-breathing arthropods कि have eight टाँगे and chelicerae with fangs that inject venom.
वे are the largest order of arachnids और rank सातवाँ in total species विविधता among all अन्य groups of जीवों.
Spiders are found worldwide on प्रत्येक continent मगर for Antarctica, and have become established in nearly every आवास साथ the एक्सेप्शन of air and sea colonization.
As of 2008, at तनिक 43,678 spider species, और 109 परिवारों have been recorded by taxonomists ; however, there रै been confusion भीतर the scientific जातियाँ as to how all ये परिवारों चाहिए be वर्गीकृत, as evidenced by the over 20 अलग classifications that have been proposed since 1900.
Anatomically, spiders differ from other arthropods in that the usual देह segments हैं fused into two tagmata, the cephalothorax and abdomen, and joined by a small, cylindrical pedicel.
नापसंद कीट, spiders do नहीं have antennae.
In सब except the सबसे primitive समूह, the Mesothelae, spiders have the सबसे centralized nervous प्रणालियों of all arthropods, as सब their ganglia हैं fused into one द्रव्यमान in the cephalothorax.
Unlike सबसे arthropods, spiders have no extensor muscles in their limbs and instead extend them by hydraulic pressure.
Their abdomens bear appendages that have महरूम modified into spinnerets that extrude silk from up to six प्रकार of रेशा ग्रंथियों within their abdomen.
Spider webs vary widely in आकार, shape और the राशि of sticky thread used.
It now appears that the spiral orb web may be one of the earliest forms, और मकड़ियों that उपज उलझे cobwebs हैं अधिक abundant और विविध than orb-web मकड़ियों.
Spider-like arachnids with silk-producing spigots appeared in the Devonian period about, but these animals जाहिर lacked spinnerets.
True spiders have been मिला in carboniferous रॉक्स from, और हैं बहुत समान to the सबसे primitive surviving order, the Mesothelae.
The main groups of modern मकड़ियों, Mygalomorphae and Araneomorphae, first appeared in the Triassic काल, before.
A herbivorous species, Bagheera kiplingi, was described in 2008, but सब other known species are predators, mostly preying on insects and on other spiders, although a few large प्रजाति also take birds and lizards.
मकड़ियों use a wide range of strategies to capture prey : trapping it in sticky webs, lassoing it with sticky bolas, mimicking the prey to avoid detection, or कार्यशील it down.
सबसे detect prey मुख्यतः by sensing कंपन, but the active hunters have acute vision, और hunters of the genus portia show लक्षण of intelligence in their choice of tactics and ability to develop new ones.
Spiders ' गुस्ताखी are too narrow to लो solids, और they liquidize their खाना by flooding it with digestive enzymes and grinding it with the bases of their pedipalps, as they do not have true jaws.
Male spiders identify themselves by a variety of complex प्रेमालाप rituals to avoid होने eaten by the महिलाओं.
Males of सबसे species जीवित a few matings, सीमित mainly by their short life spans.
महिलाओं weave silk egg-cases, प्रत्येक of which may contain सैंकड़ों of eggs.
महिलाओं of many species care for their young, for example by carrying उन्हें around or by sharing food with them.
A minority of प्रजाति are social, भवन communal webs कि may house anywhere from a few to 50,000 individuals.
Social बर्ताव ranges इससे precarious toleration, as in the विधवा spiders, to co-operative शिकार and food-sharing.
Although most spiders live for at सबसे two सालो, tarantulas और other mygalomorph मकड़ियों can live up to 25 years in captivity.
जबकि the venom of a few species is dangerous to इंसानो, scientists are अभी researching the use of spider venom in medicine और as non-polluting pesticides.
Spider silk provides a संयोजन of lightness, शक्ति and elasticity that is श्रेष्ठ to कि of सिंथेटिक materials, and spider silk जीनों have been inserted into mammals और plants to see if ये can be प्रयुक्त as silk factories.
As a result of their wide range of behaviors, spiders have become common symbols in art and mythology symbolizing various combinations of सब्र, cruelty और creative powers.
धूसर 's Anatomy is an American television चिकित्सा नाटक that premiered on the अमरीकी Broadcasting Company ( ABC ), as a mid-season बदलना on March 27, 2005.
The series has aired नौ seasons, and focuses on the fictional lives of सर्जिकल interns and residents as वे gradually evolve into seasoned डॉक्टर, while trying to maintain personal जीवनदान.
The show 's premise originated with Shonda Rhimes, who serves as an कार्यपालिका producer, along with Betsy beers, चिह्नित गॉर्डन, Krista Vernoff, Rob मकई, Mark wilding, और Allan Heinberg.
the series थी created to be racially विविध, utilizing a color-blind casting technique.
it is primarily filmed in Los एंजिल्स, कैलिफ़ोर्निया.
the श्रेणी ' समर्थक is Dr. Meredith Grey ( Ellen Pompeo ), who originally is स्वीकृत into the रेसिडेंसी program at the fictional Seattle अनुग्रह हॉस्पिटल.
Meredith is assigned to work under Dr. Miranda Bailey ( Chandra विल्सन ), along with dr. क्रिस्टीना यांग ( सैंड्रा oh ), Dr. George O'Malley ( T. R. नाईट ), Dr. Izzie Stevens ( Katherine heigl ), and Dr. एलेक्स karev ( Justin Chambers ).
Following O'Malley 's death and स्टीवंस ' departure, the hospital 's विलय with रहमत West brings in dr. जैक्सन एवेरी ( Jesse Williams ) and Dr. April Kepner ( सारा खींचा ), in the sixth season.
The सर्जिकल wing is primarily supervised by Dr. रिचर्ड Webber ( जेम्स Pickens, jr. ), जो is eventually replaced by Dr. डेरेक Shepherd ( पैट्रिक Dempsey ), and बाद Dr. Owen Hunt ( Kevin McKidd ).
dr. Preston Burke ( Isaiah Washington ) departs at the conclusion of the third season, और is replaced by Dr. Erica hahn ( ब्रुक Smith ), who पत्ते the show during the fifth season, और later Dr. Teddy Altman ( Kim Raver ), who प्रस्थान at the end of the eighth ऋतु.
Introduced in the second season is dr. Addison Montgomery ( Kate वाल्श ), who leaves the दिखाएँ at the end of the third season, in अनुक्रम to लॉन्च her अपना spin-off medical drama Private Practice.
Dr. Callie Torres ( Sara Ramirez ) and Dr. Mark स्लोअन ( Eric Dane ) also enter the दिखाएँ in the second ऋतु, while the latter dies in the premiere of the ninth season.
मेरेडिथ 's half-sister, Dr. Lexie Grey ( Chyler leigh ), appears from season तीन and dies at the समाप्त of season आठ.
dr. एरिज़ोना रॉबिन्स ( Jessica Capshaw ) is given series regular status at the शुरूआत of the sixth ऋतु.
धूसर 's anatomy is the highest-rated drama in the key 18–49 demographic.
Previously among the overall top-ten rated shows in the United States, धूसर 's Anatomy has been well प्राप्त by critics.
Considered an प्रभाव on culture, the series रै received numerous awards, and has भी been included in various critics ' top ten lists.
The show has produced several specials, as well as distributed all seasons to DVD, और released a collection of merchandise.
In 2012, धूसर 's Anatomy was named the fifth-highest revenue कमाई दिखाएँ, in शर्तें of advertising per half-hour.
On may 11, 2012, the श्रेणी was renewed लिये a ninth season, which premiered on September 27, 2012.
Schizophrenia ( or ) is a mental disorder characterized by a breakdown of विचार प्रक्रियाओं and by a deficit of ठेठ emotional प्रतिक्रियाएँ.
आम symptoms include auditory मति, paranoid or bizarre delusions, or disorganized speech and thinking, and it is accompanied by significant social or occupational dysfunction.
The onset of symptoms typically occurs in young adulthood, with a global आजीवन prevalence of about 0.3–0.7 %.
Diagnosis is based on observed behavior and the रोगी 's reported अनुभवों.
Genetics, जल्दी पर्यावरण, neurobiology, and मनोवैज्ञानिक and social processes appear to be important contributory factors ; some recreational और prescription drugs appear to cause or worsen symptoms.
Current शोध is focused on the role of neurobiology, although no single isolated organic cause has been मिला.
The many possible combinations of symptoms have triggered debate about whether the diagnosis represents a single विकार or a number of discrete syndromes.
Despite the etymology of the term from the Greek roots skhizein ( σχίζειν, `` to विभाजित '' ) and phrēn, phren- ( φρήν, φρεν- ; `` mind '' ), schizophrenia does नहीं imply a `` split personality '', or `` अनेक personality disorder '' ( which is known ये days as dissociative पहचान disorder ) —a condition with which it is often confused in पब्लिक perception.
Rather, the term अर्थात् a `` splitting of दिमागी functions '', क्युकी of the symptomatic presentation of the illness.
The mainstay of treatment is antipsychotic medication, which primarily suppresses dopamine ( and sometimes serotonin ) receptor कार्यकलाप.
Psychotherapy और वोकेशनल और social rehabilitation are also important in treatment.
in अधिक गंभीर cases—where there is रिस्क to स्वः and others— involuntary hospitalization may be जरुरी, although hospital stays are now shorter and less frequent than they एकबार were.
The विकार is thought मुख्यतः to affect cognition, but it also प्रायः contributes to chronic problems with बर्ताव and emotion.
People with schizophrenia are likely to have अतिरिक्त ( comorbid ) conditions, including प्रमुख depression और anxiety disorders ; the lifetime occurrence of substance use विकार is almost 50 %.
सोशल समस्याएं, such as long-term unemployment, poverty, and homelessness हैं common.
The औसत life expectancy of लोगों with the disorder is 12 to 15 years कम than those बगैर, the result of increased physical health problems and a higher suicide rate ( about 5 % ).
पॉल लेस्ली Snider ( April 15, 1951–August 14, 1980 ) थी the estranged husband and मैनेजर of प्लेबॉय मॉडल डोरोथी stratten, whom he murdered before killing खुद the same दिन.
the एपिक of gilgamesh, an epic poem इससे मेसोपोटामिया, is amongst the earliest surviving works of साहित्य.
The literary history of Gilgamesh begins with पाँच स्वतंत्र Sumerian कविताएं about 'bilgamesh ' ( Sumerian लिये Gilgamesh ), किंग of uruk.
Four of ये यहूद used as source सामग्री for a combined epic in अक्कादी.
इस first combined epic, known as the `` Old Babylonian '' version, तिथियाँ to the 18th century BC and is titled after इसके incipit, Shūtur eli sharrī ( `` surpassing All अन्य किंग्स '' ).
तभी a few fragments of it have बच.
The later `` Standard Babylonian '' version dates from the 13th to the 10th सदियां bc और bears the incipit Sha naqba īmuru ( `` He who Saw the Deep '' ).
Fragments of approximately दो तिहाई of this longer, twelve-tablet version have been बरामद.
Some of the best copies were discovered in the library ruins of the 7th-century BC Assyrian king ashurbanipal.
The स्टोरी centers on a friendship between gilgamesh और enkidu.
enkidu is a जंगली man created by the gods as Gilgamesh 's equal to distract him इससे oppressing the लोगों of Uruk.
साथ, they journey to the Cedar Mountain to defeat humbaba, इसके monstrous संरक्षक.
बाद they मार the Bull of Heaven, which the goddess इश्तार sends to punish Gilgamesh लिये spurning उसके अग्रिम.
As a punishment for these actions, the देवताओं sentence enkidu to मौत.
The दूसरी half of the epic focuses on Gilgamesh 's तकलीफ at enkidu 's death, and his quest लिये अमरत्व.
In अनुक्रम to learn the secret of eternal life, gilgamesh undertakes a long और perilous यात्रा.
He learns that `` the life that you are seeking you will never find.
When the gods created man वे allotted to him मौत, लकिन life they retained in उनके own keeping. ''
This quote was originally attributed to siduri in the Old Babylonian version of the epic, and then attributed to the immortal flood नायिका Utnapishtim in the अक्कादी version of the epic.
nevertheless, Gilgamesh 's कीर्ति जिया on बाद his death, क्युकी of his great building projects, and his account of what Utnapishtim बताई him happened during the flood.
The स्टोरी has been translated into many different भाषाएं, और gilgamesh रै चूंकि become adapted in works of popular fiction.
A eukaryote ( or ) is an organism whose cells contain complex structures enclosed within membranes.
eukaryotes may more formally be referred to as the taxon Eukarya or Eukaryota.
the defining membrane-bound ढांचा कि सेट eukaryotic cells apart from prokaryotic cells is the nucleus, or nuclear लिफाफा, within which the जेनेटिक सामग्री is carried.
The presence of a केंद्रक देता eukaryotes their name, which comes from the यूनानी ( eu, `` शुभ '' ) and ( karyon, `` nut '' or `` kernel '' ).
सबसे eukaryotic cells भी contain other membrane-bound organelles such as mitochondria, chloroplasts and the Golgi apparatus.
All large complex organisms हैं eukaryotes, including animals, plants and fungi.
the समूह भी includes many unicellular organisms.
कोशिका division in eukaryotes is different from that in organisms without a nucleus ( prokaryote ).
it involves separating the duplicated chromosomes, through आंदोलनों directed by microtubules.
There are two types of division processes.
In mitosis, one कोशिका divides to produce two genetically identical कोशिकाएं.
In meiosis, which is जरूरी in sexual reproduction, एक द्विगुणित कोशिका ( having two उदाहरण of each chromosome, one from each जनक ) undergoes recombination of प्रत्येक जोड़ी of parental chromosomes, और तब two चरण of कोशिका division, resulting in four haploid cells ( gametes ).
प्रत्येक gamete रै just one complement of गुणसूत्रों, each a अद्वितीय mix of the corresponding pair of parental chromosomes.
Eukaryota appears to be monophyletic, and so makes up one of the three domains of life.
The two अन्य domains, Bacteria and Archaea, हैं prokaryotes and have none of the above features.
eukaryotes represent a छोटा अल्पसंख्यक of all जीना बाते ; even in a human body वहीँ are 10 times more microbes than इंसान cells.
However, due to their much larger size their सामूहिक worldwide biomass is estimated at about equal to that of prokaryotes.
They are considered to have पहला विकसित approximately 1.6–2.1 billion years ago.
The use of अंतरजाल services or तन्त्र with अंतरजाल access to defraud victims or to otherwise लो लाभ of उन्हें, लिये example by stealing personal information, which can even lead to identity theft.
a very common form of Internet fraud is the वितरण of दुष्ट security software.
Internet सेवाएं can be used to उपस्थित fraudulent solicitations to prospective victims, to conduct बेईमान transactions, or to transmit the proceeds of fraud to वित्तीय संस्थानों or to others connected with the scheme.
Internet धोखाधड़ी can occur in chat कक्ष, ईमेल, संदेश boards, or on websites.
The International Security सहायता Force ( isaf ) is a NATO -led security मिशन in Afghanistan that was established by the United राष्ट्र Security Council in दिसम्बर 2001 by Resolution 1386, as envisaged by the Bonn Agreement.
Its प्रमुख purpose is to train the अफगान National सुरक्षा Forces ( ansf ) and assist अफगानिस्तान in rebuilding कुंजी सरकारी संस्थानों but is also सगाई in the 2001-present war साथ बागी समूह.
isaf was initially charged with securing काबुल and surrounding areas इससे the तालिबान, al Qaeda and factional warlords, so as to allow लिये the स्थापना of the अफगान transitional Administration headed by हामिद Karzai.
In अक्तूबर 2003, the UN Security Council प्राधिकृत the विस्तार of the isaf मिशन throughout Afghanistan, and isaf subsequently expanded the मिशन in चार प्रमुख stages over the whole of the country.
इससे 2006 to 2011, ISAF had been शामिल in increasingly more intensive combat परिचालन in southern and पूर्वी Afghanistan.
troop contributors शामिल from the United States, United Kingdom, नाटो सदस्य states and a क्रमांक of अन्य देशों.
The intensity of the combat faced by contributing राष्ट्र varies greatly, with the संयुक्त राज्य, United किंगडम, and Canada sustaining the majority of हताहत in intensive combat operations, with other contributors sustaining significantly कम.
as of early 2010, there were at least 700 military bases अंदर Afghanistan but अधिक were expected to be निर्मित in the coming years.
परिचय 400 of these were used by American‐led नाटो forces and 300 by ANSF.
Cocaine ( benzoylmethylecgonine ) ( INN ) is a crystalline tropane alkaloid that is obtained from the leaves of the coca संयंत्र.
The name आता इससे `` coca '' and the alkaloid suffix -ine, forming कोका.
It is a stimulant, an appetite suppressant, और a topical anesthetic.
biologically, कोका अधिनियमों as a serotonin–norepinephrine–dopamine reuptake inhibitor, also known as a ट्रिपल reuptake inhibitor ( TRI ).
It is addictive because of इसके प्रभाव on the mesolimbic बदला pathway.
नापसंद most molecules, cocaine has pockets with both high hydrophilic और lipophilic efficiency, violating the नियम of hydrophilic-lipophilic balance.
इस causes it to cross the blood–brain अवरोध far better than अन्य psychoactive chemicals और may even induce blood-brain barrier विश्लेषण.
It is illegal to possess, produce, or वितरित cocaine for non-medicinal और non-government-sanctioned उद्देश्य in almost every country.
Whole beef tri-tip rump, roasted मीडियम rare
The tri-tip is a cut of beef इससे the bottom sirloin primal cut.
It is a small triangular muscle, usually 1.5 to 2.5 lbs. ( 675 to 1,150g ) per पक्ष of बीफ.
The scientific name of this मांसपेशी is tensor fasciae latae, inserted in the fascia lata, the connective ऊतक covering the quadriceps femoris, also पुकारा quadriceps extensor, a group of चार muscles जिससे in turn प्रविष्ट in the patella, or घुटना cap of the animal.
willmar is a city in, और the county सीट of, Kandiyohi County, Minnesota, United States.
The population थी 19,610 at the 2010 census.
Willmar has महरूम आबंटित ZIP code 56201 by the United States Postal Service.
U.S. Routes 12 and 71 and Minnesota राज्य राजमार्गों 23 and 40 are four of the main routes in the city.
The Speaker of the United राज्य House of Representatives ( or Speaker of the हाउस ) is the presiding अधिकारी of the chamber.
The दफ्तर was established in 1789 by आलेख I, Section 2 of the United राज्य Constitution, which states in भाग, `` The House of Representatives shall chuse उनके Speaker... ''
The current Speaker is John Boehner, a Republican जो represents Ohio 's 8th congressional district.
The Constitution करता not आवश्यकता that the Speaker be a सदस्य of Congress, but no non-member रै कभी महरूम elected to the दफ्तर.
the Speaker is second in the United States presidential line of succession, after the वाइस President and ahead of the President प्रो tempore of the U.S. सीनेट.
Unlike some Westminster system parliaments, in जिससे the office of Speaker is considered non-partisan, in the संयुक्त राज्य the Speaker of the House is a leadership position and the office-holder actively works to set the majority party 's legislative agenda.
The Speaker usually does not personally preside over debates, बजाय delegating the duty to सदस्यों of the House from the majority party.
aside from duties relating to heading the House and the majority political party, the स्पीकर also performs administrative और प्रक्रियात्मक functions, and represents उसके or उसके congressional ज़िला.
A सायकिल frame is the प्रमुख component of a bicycle, on to which wheels and other components are fitted.
The modern and सबसे common frame design for an कतरा bicycle is based on the safety bicycle, and consists of दो त्रिकोण, a main triangle and a paired rear triangle.
इस is known as the diamond frame.
Frames are required to be strong, stiff and light, which they do by combining different materials and आकार.
`` Simple gravity pendulum '' मॉडल assumes no friction or air प्रतिरोध.
an exemplar एनिमेशन of a लोलक showing the velocity and acceleration vectors
A लोलक is a weight suspended from a so कि it can swing freely.
When a लोलक is displaced बगलों इससे its resting संतुलन position, it is subject to a restoring force due to गम्भीरता that होगा accelerate it back toward the equilibrium position.
When released, the restoring force combined with the लोलक 's mass causes it to oscillate परिचय the संतुलन position, swinging वापस और forth.
the time for एक complete cycle, a left झूले और a right swing, is पुकारा the period.
A pendulum swings साथ a specific काल जिससे depends ( mainly ) on its length.
इससे its डिस्कवरी around 1602 by Galileo गैलिली the regular motion of pendulums was used for timekeeping, और was the संसार 's most accurate timekeeping technology until the 1930s.
Pendulums हैं used to regulate pendulum घड़ियाँ, and are used in वैज्ञानिक instruments ऐसे as accelerometers and seismometers.
Historically they were used as gravimeters to माप the acceleration of gravity in geophysical surveys, and even as a standard of length.
The शब्द 'pendulum ' is new Latin, इससे the Latin pendulus, meaning 'hanging '.
The simple गम्भीरता pendulum is an idealized mathematical model of a pendulum.
This is a weight ( or bob ) on the समाप्त of a massless cord suspended from a, without friction.
When given an initial push, it will swing back और forth at a constant amplitude.
रियल pendulums हैं विषय to friction and air खीचें, so the amplitude of their swings declines.
the First Battle of Bull Run, भी ज्ञात as पहला manassas ( the name used by Confederate forces ), थी fought on जुलाई 21, 1861, in Prince विलियम County, Virginia, निकट the city of Manassas.
it थी the first major जमीन battle of the American सिविल War.
Just महीने after the प्रारंभ of the war at Fort Sumter, the Northern public clamored for a march विरूद्ध the Confederate capital of रिचमंड, Virginia, which वे expected to लाओ an early end to the विद्रोह.
Yielding to political pressure, Brig. Gen. Irvin McDowell led उसके unseasoned Union फौज across Bull Run विरूद्ध the equally inexperienced Confederate Army of Brig. Gen. P. G. T. beauregard camped near manassas Junction.
mcdowell 's महत्वाकांक्षी plan for a surprise flank attack on the Confederate बाएँ was poorly चलाया by his अधिकारियों and men ; nevertheless, the Confederates, who had been planning to आक्रमण the Union left पार्श्व, मिला themselves at an initial disadvantage.
Confederate reinforcements अंतर्गत Brig. gen. जोसेफ E. johnston arrived इससे the Shenandoah Valley by railroad and the course of the battle quickly changed.
A brigade of Virginians under a अपेक्षाकृत unknown colonel इससे the Virginia Military Institute, Thomas J. Jackson, stood their मैदान and Jackson received his famous nickname, `` Stonewall Jackson ''.
the confederates then शुभारम्भ a strong counterattack, and as the संघ troops began withdrawing under fire, अनेक panicked और it turned into a rout as mcdowell 's men frantically ran बगैर order in the direction of Washington, D.C.
दोनो armies यहूद sobered by the fierce fighting and many हताहत, and एहसास the war was going to be much longer and bloodier than either had anticipated.
Thunderstorm near Garajau, madeira
Weather is the राज्य of the माहौल, to the उपाधि कि it is hot or ठंडा, wet or dry, calm or stormy, clear or cloudy.
सबसे मौसम phenomena occur in the troposphere, just below the stratosphere.
Weather generally refers to day-to-day temperature and वर्षण activity, whereas climate is the term लिये the average atmospheric conditions over longer periods of समय.
When used without qualification, `` weather '' is understood to be the weather of धरती.
Weather is चलित by एयर दबाव ( temperature and moisture ) differences between one प्लेस और another.
These pressure और तापमान differences can occur due to the सूर्य angle at कोई particular spot, which varies by latitude from the ऊष्णकटिबन्ध.
The strong temperature कंट्रास्ट between polar और tropical air gives वृद्धि to the jet स्ट्रीम.
मौसम systems in the mid-latitudes, such as extratropical cyclones, are caused by instabilities of the जेट स्ट्रीम flow.
Because the Earth 's axis is tilted सापेक्ष to इसके orbital plane, sunlight is incident at different कोण at different times of the year.
On Earth 's surface, temperatures usually दायरा ±40 °C ( −40 °F to 100 °F ) annually.
over thousands of years, changes in धरती 's orbit affect the amount और distribution of सौर उर्जा received by the Earth and influence long-term climate and global climate change.
Surface temperature differences in turn cause pressure differences.
Higher altitudes are cooler than lower altitudes due to differences in compressional heating.
Weather forecasting is the अनुप्रयोग of science and प्रौद्योगिकी to भविष्यवाणी the state of the माहौल लिये a future समय and a दिए location.
The माहौल is a chaotic system, so small changes to one part of the system can grow to have विशाल प्रभाव on the system as a whole.
इंसान कोशिशें to कंट्रोल the weather have occurred throughout human इतिहास, and वहीँ is evidence that human कार्यकलाप such as agriculture and उद्योग has inadvertently modified मौसम patterns.
Studying how the weather works on अन्य planets has been सहायक in understanding how weather works on धरती.
A famous landmark in the Solar System, Jupiter 's ग्रेट Red Spot, is an anticyclonic तूफ़ान known to have existed for at least 300 सालो.
however, weather is नहीं सीमित to ग्रहीय bodies.
A star 's corona is constantly होने lost to space, creating कया is essentially a very thin atmosphere throughout the Solar प्रणाली.
The movement of mass ejected इससे the Sun is ज्ञात as the solar wind.
Katy Perry is an American singer-songwriter इससे Santa Barbara, California.
She हस्ताक्षरित with Capitol Records.
Perry has released three studio एल्बम, including her डेब्यू Christian effort कैटी Hudson, One of the Boys, and Teenage Dream.
Perry 's mainstream career was kicked बंद with the massive chart success of her debut सिंगल `` I Kissed a लड़की ``.
दौरान her करियर, Perry रै महरूम nominated for numerous प्रमुख music awards, primarily लिये teenage Dream and One of the Boys.
The following is a सूची of sovereign राज्य and territories जहाँ अंग्रेज़ी is an आधिकारिक language or भाषा of सरकारी.
in 2012, there were 88 राज्य in total ( 60 sovereign states और 28 non-sovereign राज्य ).
In many countries अंग्रेज़ी is the dominant language, but करता not have official status.
In Australia, अंग्रेज़ी is बोला by the vast majority of the population और is the only language प्रयुक्त in सरकारी संस्थानों, लकिन Australia करता not have an official भाषा.
The मामला is the same in the United Kingdom and the संयुक्त States, हालांकि many states and regions within the U.S. do have English as an official language.
English is the dominant language of New Zealand और an आधिकारिक language of Canada ( along साथ फ्रेंच ), India ( along with Hindi और अनेक other languages ), आयरलैंड ( along with Irish ), और the Philippines ( along with tagalog ).
English is the एकमात्र official language of the Commonwealth of Nations and the Commonwealth खेल.
English is एक of the आधिकारिक languages of the United Nations, the यूरोपीय Union and the International ओलम्पिक Committee.
अनेक of these countries are वर्तमान or पूर्व colonies or dependencies of the United Kingdom ( see भी British Empire ), or of the United States, itself a former colony of the UK.
Notable अपवाद include Rwanda, which was a former Belgian colony and इरित्रिया, which was an इतालवी colony जहाँ the British Empire spanned its control only in World War ii और shortly after ( 1941-1952 ).
India 's linguistic चित्र is complex.
According to the Constitution of India, `` Hindi in the देवनागरी script '' is the official language of the union ; and English the 'subsidiary official language ' ; however, English is mandated for the authoritative texts of all संघीय laws and Supreme Court निर्णय and ( साथ with Hindi ) is one of the दो भाषाएं of the Indian Parliament.
English is प्रयुक्त almost exclusively लिये उच्चतर शिक्षा, business और science.
पाठ्यक्रम in बहुमत of the schools हैं taught exclusively in English.
English is extensively used for प्रशासनिक उद्देश्य in इण्डिया.
इण्डिया is the second-largest English-speaking country in the world by number of अध्यक्षों, after the United राज्य.
as such, many consider English to be the de facto आधिकारिक language of India.
See Official भाषाएं of India.
the linguistic मेकअप of Pakistan is similarly complex.
While the national language is Urdu, English is an official language and used in business, government और law.
English is a compulsory language in schools.
All school courses are सिखाया in English.
Pakistan is the 9th largest English-speaking country in the world by population.
Southern Cone (, ) is a geographic region composed of the southernmost क्षेत्रों of South America, दक्षिण of the tropic of Capricorn.
हालांकि geographically इस शामिल दक्षिणी और part of southeast ( São पाउलो ) of Brazil, in terms of राजनैतिक भूगोल the Southern cone रै traditionally comprised Argentina, Chile, पैराग्वे, और Uruguay.
in the narrowest sense, it only covers Argentina, चिली और उरुग्वे, bounded on the north by the states of Brazil, पैराग्वे, Bolivia and पेरू, on the west by the Pacific समंदर, and south to the जंक्शन between the प्रशांत and अटलांटिक महासागर, जिससे it is the closest continental area of Antarctica ( 1000 km ).
High life expectancy, the उच्चतम Human विकास अनुक्रमणिका of Latin अमेरिका, high Standard of जीना, significant भागीदारी in the global markets and the emerging अर्थव्यवस्था of इसके सदस्यों make the दक्षिणी कोन the most prosperous macro-region in South अमेरिका.
लिये multi-event एथलेटिक competitions देखिए Track and फ़ील्ड Competitions, section `` Meetings ''.
Meetings are sometimes held around सम्मेलन tables.
in a बैठक, दो or more लोगों आइये together to discuss one or more topics, often in a formal setting.
An official game in baseball, also sometimes called a विनियमन game, is a game कि has progressed beyond the point at which it can be considered पूरा if जरुरी.
This is approximately the halfway पाइंट of the game.
in the case of inclement weather, any खेल which रै reached इस पाइंट may be रोका and shortened as needed, साथ the result being फाइनल, and all records and statistics counted.
a game जिससे रै not पहुँचे this point before being stopped is either considered a suspended खेल ( to be continued at a बाद date इससे the point of stoppage ), or is simply canceled और replayed from the प्रारंभ.
( इस depends on the नियम of each व्यक्तिगत लीग. )
In either case, no statistics हैं गिने until the खेल becomes आधिकारिक.
Since सबसे पेशेवर baseball games are nine innings long, the fifth inning is used as the threshold लिये an official game.
if the visiting टोली is अग्रणी, or the game is tied, the end of the fifth inning marks this पाइंट.
If the home team ( which bats last ) is already ahead in the स्कोर, और theoretically would नहीं need इसके half of the fifth inning, then 41⁄2 innings ( i.e., the middle of the fifth ) is considered an official खेल.
the game is also माना आधिकारिक if the home टोली scores to लो the lead in the bottom of the fifth inning, चूंकि the game would end immediately if the same thing happened in the ninth.
In nearly all cases, the `` official game '' status is प्रयुक्त to determine whether a rain check will be honored लिये fans पकड़कर tickets.
If a खेल is started लकिन करता not पहुँचें the point of बनने आधिकारिक, fans are हकदार to a new ticket लिये the make-up game or ( in most cases ) कोई other available game of उनके choice.
If a खेल is halted after it becomes official, the game is simply shortened and no rain check is given.
the `` official game '' statistic received some attention during the 1995 season, when Cal Ripken, Jr. was approaching the record लिये consecutive खेल played, previously आयोजित by Lou Gehrig.
Large numbers यहूद hung on the पक्ष of the B & O Warehouse at Oriole Park at camden Yards to show the number of games in Ripken 's streak.
प्रत्येक दिन, a new क्रमांक was unfurled during the fifth inning after each खेल had become official ( since the statistic होता not have counted if the game था been stopped before that point ).
a similar practice रै महरूम used to गिनती down toward the demolition of several stadiums ( including दिग्गजों Stadium in फिलाडेल्फिया in 2003, Busch Memorial Stadium in St. लुई in 2005, और the original Yankee Stadium and Shea Stadium in New York City in 2008 ) ; as each game became आधिकारिक, the team would unveil a new ( lower ) number showing the क्रमांक of खेल left to be played in the stadium.
a टेलीफोन क्रमांक or फोन number is a sequence of digits used to कॉल from one telephone line to another in a पब्लिक switched telephone network.
When टेलीफोन numbers यहूद invented, they were short — as few as one, two or तीन digits — और यहूद given orally to a switchboard operator.
as phone systems have grown and interconnected to encompass the world, telephone numbers have become longer.
In addition to telephones, वे now access other devices, such as computers और fax machines.
the number contains the information necessary to identify uniquely the intended endpoint for the टेलीफोन कॉल.
Each such endpoint जरूर have a unique क्रमांक within the public switched telephone संजाल.
Most countries use fixed लंबाई संख्याएँ ( लिये normal lines at least ) and इसलिए the number of endpoints determines the necessary लंबाई of the telephone number.
it is भी possible लिये each subscriber to have a set of shorter numbers for the endpoints most often used.
These `` shorthand '' or `` speed calling '' numbers are automatically translated to unique telephone संख्याएँ before the call can be connected.
Some special सेवाएं have उनके own short numbers ( e.g., 1-1-9, 9-1-1, 0-0-0, 9-9-9, 1-1-1, और 1-1-2 being the Emergency Services numbers लिये China, जापानी, South Korea, Taiwan और Sri Lanka ; Canada and the United States ; Australia ; the संयुक्त Kingdom, Ireland, South अफ़्रीकी, Poland, सऊदी Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, Morocco, Macao, Bahrain, Qatar, बांग्लादेश, Botswana, घाना, Kenya, Hong Kong, मलेशिया, Mauritius, सिंगापुर, Zimbabwe, Trinidad, Tobago ; नई जीलैंड ; कुवैत और the European Union, क्रमशः. )
Many प्रणालियों also allow calls within a local क्षेत्रफल to be बना without dialing the लोकल area code.
For उदाहरण, a फोन क्रमांक in North America will start with three numbers ( ऐसे as 661 ), which is the area code, followed by सात digits विभाजित into sections of three and चार ( such as 550-1212 ), which is the लोकल क्रमांक.
Some क्षेत्रों now have अनिवार्य ten-digit dialing in place, भी for लोकल calls.
Most टेलीफोन संजाल today ( exceptions होने private intercom और secure phone networks ) are interconnected in the international telephone network, where the format of टेलीफोन numbers is standardized by ITU-T in the recommendation E.164.
This specifies that the entire number should be 15 digits or shorter, and begin with a country prefix.
लिये most countries, this is followed by an क्षेत्रफल कोड or city code and the subscriber number, which might consist of the कोड for a particular telephone exchange.
ITU-T recommendation E.123 describes कैसा to represent an अंतरराष्ट्रीय telephone क्रमांक in writing or print, starting with a plus sign ( `` + '' ) and the country कोड.
When calling an international number from a fixed लकीर फोन, the + must be replaced with the international call prefix chosen by the country the कॉल is being बना इससे.
Some mobile फोन allow the + to be डाला सीधे.
The format and allocation of local phone numbers हैं controlled by each स्वदेश 's respective government, either directly or by प्रायोजित organizations ( such as NANPA overseen by NeuStar inc. ).
पहले a telephone call is कनेक्ट, the telephone number जरूर be dialed by the कॉलिंग पार्टी or Caller.
The called party might have equipment कि presents कॉलर ID before the call is answered.
a collection agency is a कारोबार that pursues भुगतान of debts owed by individuals or व्यवसायों.
Most collection agencies operate as एजेंटों of creditors और collect debts for a fee or percentage of the कुल amount owed.
There are अनेक types of संग्रहण agencies.
first-party agencies are oftentimes subsidiaries of the original कम्पनी the कर्ज़ is owed to.
Third-party एजेंसियों are separate companies contracted by a कम्पनी to collect debts on their behalf लिये a fee.
कर्ज़ buyers purchase the कर्ज़ at a percentage of its value, then attempt to collect it.
Each country has इसके own rules और regulations regarding them.
Cannabis flower साथ visible trichomes
Cannabis, भी known as marijuana ( from the मैक्सिकन Spanish marihuana ), और by अन्य names, is a preparation of the Cannabis plant intended for use as a psychoactive drug and as medicine.
Pharmacologically, the प्रिंसिपल psychoactive constituent of cannabis is tetrahydrocannabinol ( THC ) ; it is one of 483 known यौगिकों in the संयंत्र, सहित at least 84 अन्य cannabinoids, such as cannabidiol ( CBD ), cannabinol ( CBN ), tetrahydrocannabivarin ( THCV ).
और cannabigerol ( CBG ).
इस is a सूची of American football quarterbacks who have started for the Washington redskins, as खूब as its पूर्ववर्तियों the Boston Braves ( 1932 ) and बोस्टन Redskins ( 1933 – 1936 ), in the National Football League ( NFL ).
The वॉशिंगटन Redskins franchise was originally संस्थापित in Boston, Massachusetts as the बोस्टन Braves, named after the local baseball मताधिकार.
The name was बदला the following year to the Redskins.
In 1937, the franchise moved to वॉशिंगटन, D.C.
Of the 49 Redskins starting quarterbacks, two have been inducted into the प्रो फ़ुटबॉल Hall of कीर्ति : Sammy Baugh और Sonny Jurgensen.
रॉबर्ट Griffin III 2012-present
Jason Campbell 2005-2009
Mark Burnell 2004-2007
Mark rypien 1986-1993
Joe theismann 1974-1985
Sammy Baugh 1937-1952
1st खास शक्तियां Operational Detachment-Delta ( 1st SFOD-D ), popularly ज्ञात as Delta Force, is one of the संयुक्त States ' four गुपचुप tier-one counter-terrorism and Special मिशन Units.
It was formerly listed as the Combat Applications Group by the Department of Defense but has since been officially re-designated the Army Compartmented तत्व ( ACE ).
While 1st SFOD-D is administratively supported by usasoc, it falls अंतर्गत the operational control of the संयुक्त Special Operations कमांड.
Delta Force and its Navy बंटवारा, the नवल Special Warfare Development Group, are the United राज्य military 's primary counter-terrorism units.
डेल्टा फ़ोर्स 's प्राथमिक कार्य हैं counter-terrorism, सीधा action, and national intervention operations, although it is an extremely बहुमुखी group capable of conducting अनेक प्रकार of covert missions, including, लकिन not limited to, hostage rescues and raids.
The Central Intelligence Agency 's अत्यधिक secretive खास Activities Division ( SAD ) और more specifically its elite Special परिचालन Group ( SOG ) often works साथ – and recruits – operators इससे डेल्टा फ़ोर्स.
अल्फा क्षय is एक उदाहरण type of radioactive decay, in जिससे an परमाणु nucleus emits an alpha particle, और thereby transforms ( or 'क्षयs ' ) into an atom with a द्रव्यमान क्रमांक 4 less and atomic number 2 less.
Many other types of decays are संभावित.
रेडियोसक्रिय decay, also known as nuclear decay or radioactivity, is the process by जिससे a nucleus of an unstable अणु loses उर्जा by emitting particles of ionizing radiation.
A सामग्री that अनायास emits this kind of radiation — which includes the emission of ऊर्जावान alpha particles, beta अणु, और gamma rays — is considered radioactive.
There are अनेक different types of radioactive decay ( see table नीचे ).
A decay, or घाटा of energy, results जब an atom with एक प्रकार of nucleus, called the जनक radionuclide, transforms to an atom with a nucleus in a different राज्य, or to a different nucleus containing अलग संख्याएँ of protons और neutrons.
Either of ये products is named the daughter nuclide.
In some decays the parent and बेटी are अलग रासायनिक तत्व, और thus the क्षय process results in नाभिकीय transmutation ( सृष्टि of an atom of a new तत्व ).
The first decay processes to be discovered were alpha decay, beta decay, और gamma decay.
Alpha decay occurs जब the केंद्रक ejects an alpha particle ( helium nucleus ).
This is the सबसे common प्रक्रम of emitting nucleons, लकिन in rarer types of decays, nuclei can eject protons, or विशिष्ट nuclei of other तत्व ( in the process called cluster decay ).
बीटा क्षय occurs when the केंद्रक emits an electron or positron और a type of neutrino, in a process that changes a प्रोटॉन to a न्यूट्रॉन or the अन्य way around.
The nucleus may capture an orbiting इलेक्ट्रॉन, converting a proton into a neutron ( electron capture ).
All of these processes result in nuclear transmutation.
by कंट्रास्ट, there exist radioactive decay processes that do not result in transmutation.
The उर्जा of an उत्साहित nucleus may be उत्सर्जित as a gamma ray in गामा decay, or used to eject an orbital इलेक्ट्रॉन by interaction with the excited nucleus in a process called internal परिवर्तन.
radioisotopes occasionally emit neutrons, and this results in a change in an तत्व from one isotope to another.
One type of रेडियोसक्रिय क्षय results in products which हैं not defined, but appear in a range of `` टुकड़े '' of the original nucleus.
इस क्षय is called spontaneous परिवर्द्धन.
This decay happens when a विशाल unstable केंद्रक spontaneously splits into two ( और occasionally three ) smaller बेटी nuclei, and usually emits gamma किरणें, neutrons, or other particles as a consequence.
Radioactive decay is a stochastic ( i.e., random ) process at the स्तर of single atoms, in कि, according to quantum theory, it is नामुमकिन to भविष्यवाणी when a particular atom will decay.
however, the मौका that a given atom will decay is constant over time.
लिये a large number of atoms, the क्षय रेट लिये the collection is computable इससे the measured decay constants of the nuclides ( or equivalently from the half-lifes ).
वैक्सिंग is a रूप of semi-permanent बाल removal जिससे removes the hair from the root.
नई hair will नहीं grow back in the previously waxed क्षेत्रफल for two to आठ weeks, although some लोगों will start to see regrowth in तभी a week.
Almost any area of the body can be waxed, सहित eyebrows, face, bikini area, टाँगे, arms, back, abdomen and फीट.
There हैं अनेक प्रकार of waxing उपयुक्त for removing अनावश्यक बाल.
Strip वैक्सिंग is accomplished by spreading a मोम thinly over the skin.
A cloth or paper strip is then pressed on the top और ripped off the direction of hair growth.
This removes the wax साथ with the बाल.
Strip मोम can भी be made at home using नीबू रस, water, sugar and honey.
Hot वैक्सिंग utilizes Hot wax ( as opposed to स्ट्रिप मोम ).
In this case, the wax is applied somewhat thickly and with no cloth or पेपर strips.
the मोम तब hardens जब it cools, thus allowing the easy removal by a चिकित्सक without the aid of cloths.
This waxing method is very beneficial to people who have sensitive skin.
वॉल पेंटिंग ( 1st century AD ) from Pompeii depicting a multigenerational भोज
Ancient रोमन culture existed throughout the लगभग 1200-year history of the सभ्यता of Ancient Rome.
the पद refers to the culture of the Roman Republic, later the रोमन Empire, which, at इसके peak, covered an क्षेत्रफल इससे Lowland Scotland and Morocco to the euphrates.
Life in ancient Rome revolved around the city of रोम, its famed सात hills, और its स्मारकीय structures ऐसे as the Flavian Amphitheatre ( now पुकारा the कोलोसियम ), the फ़ोरम of Trajan, and the Pantheon.
The city also had several theaters, gymnasiums, and many taverns, baths, and brothels.
throughout the territory under ancient रोम 's कंट्रोल, residential वास्तुकला ranged from very modest houses to country विला, and in the capital city of Rome, there यहूद imperial residences on the elegant palatine Hill, from जिससे the शब्द palace is निकला.
the vast majority of the जनसांख्यिकी lived in the city center, packed into insulae ( apartment blocks ).
The city of Rome was the largest megalopolis of that time, with a population कि may खूब have exceeded one million people, with a high end estimate of 3.6 million and a low end estimate of 450,000.
Historical estimates indicate that around 30 प्रतिशत of the population अंतर्गत the city 's क्षेत्राधिकार lived in innumerable urban centers, with population of at least 10,000 और अनेक military settlements, a बहुत ऊँची रेट of urbanization by pre-industrial standards.
The most urbanized भाग of the Empire थी Italy, which था an अनुमानित rate of urbanization of 32 %, the same रेट of urbanization of England in 1800.
सबसे Roman towns and cities had a forum, temples और the वही type of buildings, on a smaller स्केल, as found in Rome.
The large urban population required an endless supply of food which was a complex logistical कार्य, including acquiring, transporting, storing and वितरण of food for Rome and other urban centers.
Italian खेतो supplied vegetables और fruits, but fish and meat were luxuries.
Aqueducts were built to bring water to शहरी centers और wine and आयल were imported from Hispania, gaul और Africa.
There was a very large राशि of कॉमर्स between the प्रांतों of the Roman Empire, since इसके transportation प्रौद्योगिकी was बहुत efficient.
the average लागत of transport and the technology were comparable with 18th-century Europe.
The बाद city of Rome did not भरण the space within its ancient Aurelian walls until बाद 1870.
Eighty percent of the जनसांख्यिकी under the jurisdiction of ancient रोम lived in the countryside in settlements with less than 10 thousand inhabitants.
Landlords generally resided in cities and their estates यहूद बाएँ in the care of farm प्रबंधक.
The plight of rural slaves was generally बदतर than उनके counterparts working in urban aristocratic households.
to stimulate a higher labor productivity most landlords freed a large number of slaves और many प्राप्त wages.
Some records indicate कि `` as many as 42 लोगों जिया in one छोटी फार्म hut in Egypt, while six families owned a सिंगल ज़ैतून tree. ''.
Such a rural environment continued to induce migration of population to urban centers until the early 2nd century, जब the urban जनसांख्यिकी stopped growing और started to decline.
starting in the middle of the 2nd century bc, private Greek संस्कृति was increasingly in ascendancy, in spite of tirades against the `` softening '' effects of hellenized संस्कृति इससे the conservative moralists.
by the time of augustus, cultured Greek household स्लेव taught the Roman young ( sometimes भी the girls ) ; chefs, decorators, secretaries, doctors, and hairdressers—all came इससे the यूनानी ईस्ट.
यूनानी sculptures adorned hellenistic लैंडस्केप gardening on the Palatine or in the विला, or were imitated in Roman sculpture गज by Greek slaves.
The Roman भोजन preserved in the cookery किताबे ascribed to Apicius is essentially Greek.
Roman writers disdained Latin for a cultured यूनानी स्टाइल.
Only in law और governance was the तिरछा प्रकृति of रोम 's accretive संस्कृति supreme.
विरूद्ध this इंसान background, दोनो the urban and rural setting, one of history 's सबसे influential civilizations took आकार, leaving behind a सांस्कृतिक विरासत कि survives in भाग today.
James जोसेफ `` Duffy '' Waldorf, Jr. ( born August 20, 1962 ) is an अमरीकी पेशेवर golfer.
Glass bottles ( लिये खीरा slices ) on shipping pallets
A Soviet मेयोनेज़ jar
a आधुनिक `` French kilner '' jar
Glass उत्पादन involves two प्रमुख methods – the फ्लैश glass process, which produces sheet glass, और glassblowing which produces bottles और other containers.
a season is a subdivision of the year, marked by परिवर्तन in weather, ecology, and घंटों of daylight.
सीज़न result from the yearly revolution of the Earth around the Sun and the tilt of the Earth 's axis relative to the plane of revolution.
In शीतोष्ण and polar regions, the seasons are marked by परिवर्तन in the intensity of sunlight that reaches the Earth 's सतह, variations of which may cause animals to go into शीतनिष्क्रियता or to migrate, and plants to be dormant.
During May, June और July, the northern hemisphere is उजागर to अधिक direct sunlight because the hemisphere चेहरों the sun.
the वही is true of the दक्षिणी hemisphere in नवम्बर, December and जनवरी.
it is the tilt of the धरती that causes the Sun to be उच्चतर in the sky दौरान the गर्मियाँ महीने which increases the solar फ्लक्स.
however, due to मौसमी lag, June, July and August are the hottest महीने in the northern गोलार्ध and December, January and February are the hottest months in the southern hemisphere.
In temperate and subpolar regions, generally चार calendar -based सीज़न ( साथ their adjectives ) are recognized : spring ( vernal ), summer ( estival ), autumn ( autumnal ) और शीत ( hibernal ).
However, ecologists mostly उपयोग a छह season मॉडल for temperate climate regions that includes pre-spring ( prevernal ) and late summer ( serotinal ) as पृथक seasons along with the traditional चार.
Hot regions have two or three seasons ; the rainy ( or wet, or monsoon ) season and the शुष्क season, and in some tropical areas, a cool or mild season.
in some parts of the world, special `` seasons '' हैं loosely defined based on महत्वपूर्ण कार्यक्रम ऐसे as a hurricane season, बवंडर ऋतु or a दावानल season.
The छह ecological सीज़न
The चार calendar seasons, depicted in an ancient Roman mosaic इससे Tunisia
The Battle of फोर्ट Sumter ( अप्रैल 12–14, 1861 ) was the bombardment and surrender of Fort Sumter, near Charleston, दक्षिण कैरोलिना, that started the American Civil War.
following घोषणाओं of secession by सात Southern states, South Carolina demanded that the u.S. फौज abandon its facilities in Charleston Harbor.
On दिसम्बर 26, 1860, U.S. प्रमुख रॉबर्ट एंडरसन surreptitiously moved उसके small command from the indefensible Fort Moultrie on Sullivan 's Island to फोर्ट Sumter, a substantial fortress controlling the entrance of चार्ल्सटन Harbor.
An attempt by U.S. President James बुकानन to reinforce and resupply Anderson, using the unarmed merchant ship Star of the West, विफल when it थी fired upon by shore batteries on जनवरी 9, 1861.
दक्षिण कैरोलिना authorities then seized all Federal property in the Charleston area, except for फोर्ट sumter.
During the early months of 1861, the हालात around Fort Sumter increasingly began to resemble a siege.
In कूच, Brig. Gen. P. G. T. Beauregard, the first general अधिकारी of the newly formed Confederate States of अमेरिका, थी लगाई in कमांड of Confederate forces in Charleston.
Beauregard energetically निर्देशित the strengthening of batteries around Charleston harbor aimed at फोर्ट sumter.
Conditions in the फोर्ट grew dire as the Union सैनिको rushed to पूरा the संस्थापना of additional बंदूकों.
Anderson was short of men, food, and supplies.
the resupply of Fort Sumter became the first crisis of the प्रशासन of अध्यक्ष Abraham Lincoln.
He notified the राज्यपाल of South Carolina, Francis W. pickens, that he was sending supply ships, जिससे resulted in an ultimatum इससे the Confederate सरकारी : evacuate Fort Sumter तत्काल.
प्रमुख Anderson refused to surrender.
Beginning at 4:30 a.m. on अप्रैल 12, the Confederates bombarded the फोर्ट from artillery batteries surrounding the harbor.
Although the Union garrison returned fire, they were significantly outgunned and, after 34 hours, Major Anderson agreed to evacuate.
There was no घाटा of life on either पक्ष as a direct परिणाम of this engagement, although a gun विस्फोट during the surrender ceremonies on April 14 caused two संघ deaths.
Following the battle, वहीँ थी फैली support from both North और दक्षिण for further सैन्य action.
Lincoln 's तात्कालिक call for 75,000 volunteers to suppress the विद्रोह resulted in an additional चार southern slave राज्य also declaring their secession and joining the Confederacy.
The Civil War had begun.
3G, short लिये third Generation, is the third generation of मोबाईल telecommunications प्रौद्योगिकी.
3g दूरसंचार networks support सेवाएं that provide an information transfer rate of at तनिक 200 kbit/s.
however, many services advertised as 3g provide higher गति than the minimum technical requirements for a 3G service.
Recent 3g रिलीज, प्रायः denoted 3.5g and 3.75G, also provide mobile broadband access of अनेक Mbit/s to smartphones and mobile modems in laptop कंप्यूटर.
3g finds application in wireless voice telephony, मोबाईल Internet access, fixed wireless Internet अभिगम, वीडियो calls and mobile tv.
`` Mazel Tov ! '' written on a wine कांच tag
traditionally, बाद the groom breaks the glass, the guests shout `` Mazel Tov ! ``.
A birthday cake, iced with the शब्द `` מזל טוב '' ( mazal tov ), as is often done in Israel.
यहाँ the phrase is written in यहूदी cursive.
`` Mazel tov '' or `` mazal tov '' ( Hebrew / यहूदी : `` מזל טוב '', Hebrew : `` mazal tov '' ; यहूदी : `` mazel tov '' ; lit.
`` good लक '' ) is a phrase प्रयुक्त to express congratulations लिये a happy and significant occasion or event.
hepatitis C is an infectious disease affecting primarily the liver, caused by the hepatitis C वायरस ( HCV ).
The infection is प्रायः asymptomatic, लकिन दीर्घकालिक infection can lead to scarring of the जिगर and ultimately to cirrhosis, which is generally apparent after अनेक सालो.
In some cases, those with cirrhosis will go on to develop liver failure, जिगर cancer or life-threatening esophageal and gastric varices.
HCV is spread primarily by blood-to-blood contact associated with intravenous ड्रग उपयोग, poorly sterilized medical उपकरण और transfusions.
an estimated 130–200 million people विश्वव्यापी are infected with.
The अस्तित्व of ( originally `` non- A non- b hepatitis '' ) was postulated in the 1970s और proven in 1989.
only infects humans and chimpanzees.
the वायरस persists in the liver in about 85 % of those संक्रमित.
इस persistent infection can be treated with दवा : the standard therapy is a combination of peginterferon and ribavirin, साथ either boceprevir or telaprevir added in कुछ cases.
Overall, 50–80 % of people treated are cured.
Those who develop cirrhosis or liver cancer may require a जिगर transplant.
is the अग्रणी cause of जिगर प्रत्यारोपण, हालांकि the वायरस usually recurs after transplantation.
No टीका विरूद्ध is उपलब्धियाँ.
a flexible spending खाता ( fsa ), also known as a लचीली spending arrangement, is one of a number of tax-advantaged वित्तीय accounts कि can be set up through a कैफेटेरिया plan of an employer in the United States.
An FSA allows an कर्मचारी to set aside a portion of earnings to pay लिये qualified expenses as established in the कैफेटेरिया plan, सबसे commonly for चिकित्सा खर्च लकिन often for निर्भर care or अन्य expenses.
Money deducted इससे an कर्मचारी 's pay into an FSA is नहीं subject to payroll taxes, resulting in substantial payroll tax बचत.
One significant disadvantage to using an fsa is that funds not used by the end of the योजना year are खोया to the कर्मचारी, known as the `` use it or खोना it '' rule.
The most common type of लचीली spending खाता, the medical expense FSA ( also medical FSA or health FSA ), is समान to a स्वास्थ्य बचत account ( HSA ) or a health reimbursement account ( HRA ).
However, while hsas और HRAs are almost exclusively used as components of a consumer driven health परवाह योजना, medical FSAs are commonly offered with अधिक traditional स्वास्थ्य योजनाएँ as well.
in जोड, निधि in a health savings account हैं नहीं lost जब the योजना साल is over, unlike funds in an FSA.
Paper forms or an fsa debit card, also known as a flexcard, may be used to access the account funds.
Tennessee ( ) ( ) is a U.S. state located in the southeastern United States.
Tennessee is the 36th सबसे extensive and the 17th most populous of the 50 United States.
टेनेसी is bordered by Kentucky and Virginia to the north, North Carolina to the east, Georgia, Alabama, and Mississippi to the south, and Arkansas and Missouri to the west.
The Appalachian Mountains dominate the eastern भाग of the राज्य, and the मिसिसिपी River फ़ॉर्म the state 's western किनारा.
Tennessee 's capital and दूसरी largest city is नैशविले, which has a population of 609,644.
Memphis is the राज्य 's largest city, with a जनसांख्यिकी of 652,050.
The राज्य of टेनेसी is rooted in the Watauga Association, a 1772 frontier pact generally regarded as the first संवैधानिक सरकारी west of the Appalachians.
What is now Tennessee थी initially part of North Carolina, and later part of the Southwest Territory.
Tennessee थी admitted to the संघ as the 16th state on June 1, 1796.
Tennessee was the पिछला state to leave the संघ and जुड़ें the confederacy at the outbreak of the U.S. सिविल War in 1861, and the first state to be readmitted to the संघ at the end of the युद्ध.
Tennessee सुसज्जित अधिक सैनिको लिये the Confederate Army than any other राज्य, and अधिक soldiers for the संघ फौज than any अन्य Southern state.
In the 20th सदी, टेनेसी transitioned इससे an agrarian economy to a more diversified अर्थव्यवस्था, aided at times by federal entities such as the Tennessee Valley प्राधिकार.
In the जल्दी 1940s, the city of ओक Ridge was established to हाउस the Manhattan Project 's uranium enrichment सुविधाएं, helping to build the world 's first atomic bomb.
Tennessee has played a critical role in the विकास of अनेक forms of अमरीकी popular music, including rock और फेंकें, ब्लूज़, country, और rockabilly.
Beale गली in मेम्फिस is माना by many to be the जन्मस्थान of the blues, with संगीतकारों such as w.c. Handy performing in इसके क्लब as early as 1909.
Memphis was भी home to Sun Records, where musicians such as एल्विस प्रेस्ली, Isaac Hayes, Johnny नकदी, Carl Perkins, जेरी Lee Lewis, Roy Orbison, and Charlie Rich began their recording करियर, and जहाँ rock and roll took आकार in the 1950s.
the 1927 Victor रिकॉर्डिंग sessions in Bristol generally चिह्नित the beginning of the देश music विधा और the वृद्धि of the ग्रैंड Ole opry in the 1930s helped make Nashville the center of the country म्यूज़िक recording industry.
Three ईंटें and mortar museums recognize टेनेसी 's भूमिका in nurturing various फ़ॉर्म of लोकप्रिय music : the Memphis चट्टान n ' आत्मा Museum, the Country Music Hall of Fame and Museum in Nashville, and the International Rock-A-Billy Museum in Jackson.
In addition, the Rockabilly हॉल of Fame, an ऑनलाइन site recognizing the विकास of rockabilly in जिससे टेनेसी played a निर्णायक role, is based in Nashville.
टेनेसी 's major industries शामिल agriculture, manufacturing, and पर्यटन.
Poultry, soybeans, and cattle are the राज्य 's प्राथमिक agricultural products, and major manufacturing निर्यात include रसायन, transportation equipment, और electrical equipment.
The ग्रेट Smoky kyu National Park, the nation 's most visited national park, is headquartered in the eastern part of the state, और a section of the Appalachian Trail roughly follows the Tennessee-North कैरोलिना किनारा.
अन्य major tourist attractions शामिल the Tennessee Aquarium in Chattanooga, the Sunsphere in Knoxville, Dollywood in Pigeon forge, the Parthenon, the देश Music Hall of Fame and Museum, और Ryman Auditorium in नैशविले, and Elvis Presley 's graceland residence and tomb in Memphis.
एक design रूपांतर of a cock रिंग.
a cock ring is a रिंग that can be placed around a man 's शिश्न, usually at the आधार, primarily to slow the flow of blood from the erect penile ऊतक, thus maintaining an erection for a much longer period of time.
Cock rings can be worn around बस the penis or दोनो the penis and scrotum, or बस the scrotum alone, though इस is usually called a testicle cuff.
बजती can be बना of a variety of different सामग्री, most commonly leather, रबर, or silicone, though नायलॉन और metal are भी used either as the प्रमुख component or part of the closure.
The term cock रिंग is sometimes used as a synonym for a प्रिंस Albert piercing, a piercing of the penis कि is प्रायः, हालांकि not always, a metal ring.
When used in मामले of erectile dysfunction they हैं known by various names ऐसे as `` स्तंभन रिंग '' और `` tension रिंग ''.
The मुख्यालय of Major League बेसबॉल at 245 Park Avenue, midtown Manhattan, नई यॉर्क City, USA.
Major League बेसबॉल ( MLB ) is a professional baseball league, consisting of टीमों that खेल in the National लीग and the American League.
डेटिंग to 1876 और 1901 respectively, the two leagues merged in 2000 into a सिंगल organization led by the Commissioner of Baseball, after 100 years as separate विधिक entities.
MLB constitutes one of the major professional sports leagues of the United राज्य and कनाडा.
It is composed of 30 teams — 29 in the United States और one in कनाडा.
Teams in एमएलबी play 162 games each season over six months ( अप्रैल through सितंबर ).
पाँच teams in प्रत्येक league अग्रिम to a four-round postseason tournament that culminates in the World Series, a best-of-seven-games चैंपियनशिप series between the two league champions which dates to 1903.
the organization oversees many minor-league baseball leagues जिससे operate परिचय 240 टीमों संबद्ध with the major-league clubs.
साथ the International Baseball संघ, the league also manages the international World Baseball Classic टूर्नामेंट.
एमएलबी has the highest ऋतु उपस्थिति of any sports league in the world with nearly 75 million spectators in 2012.
डेलावेयर ( ) is a U.S. state located on the अटलांटिक Coast in the Mid-Atlantic region of the संयुक्त राज्य.
It is bordered to the south and west by Maryland, to the northeast by New Jersey, और to the north by Pennsylvania.
the state takes its नाम from Thomas West, 3rd Baron De la Warr, an English nobleman and Virginia 's पहला colonial governor, बाद जिसको कया is now called Cape Henlopen was originally named.
डेलावेयर is located in the northeastern portion of the Delmarva प्रायद्वीप और is the second smallest, the छठे least populous, but the sixth most densely populated of the fifty United राज्य.
डेलावेयर is divided into तीन काउंटी.
From उत्तर to south, these three counties are नई Castle, केंट, और ससेक्स.
जबकि the southern two counties have historically महरूम predominantly agricultural, New किला County रै महरूम more industrialized.
Before इसके तटरेखा was explored by europeans in the 16th सदी, Delaware was inhabited by अनेक groups of Native Americans, including the Lenape in the north and nanticoke in the south.
It was initially colonized by Dutch traders at Zwaanendael, located near the present कस्बा of lewes, in 1631.
डेलावेयर was one of the 13 colonies participating in the अमरीकी Revolution और on December 7, 1787, became the first state to ratify the Constitution of the United States, thereby becoming ज्ञात as the पहला State.
Energy परिवर्तन in Energy Systems Language
Energy transformation or उर्जा conversion is the प्रक्रम of changing एक form of energy to another.
In भौतिकी, the पद energy describes the capacity to उपज certain changes within a system, बगैर लिहाज़ to limitations in transformation imposed by Entropy.
परिवर्तन in total energy of प्रणालियों can तभी be accomplished by adding or subtracting उर्जा from them, as energy is a मात्रा जिससे is conserved, according to the पहला law of thermodynamics.
according to special आपेक्षिकता, परिवर्तन in the energy of systems will also coincide with परिवर्तन in the प्रणाली 's mass, और the total amount of mass of a system is a measure of its energy.
उर्जा in a प्रणाली may be transformed so that it resides in a different state, or a अलग type of energy.
उर्जा in many states may be used to do अनेक किस्में of physical work.
उर्जा may be used in natural processes or machines, or else to provide कुछ service to society ( such as ऊष्मा, light, or motion ).
For example, an internal combustion इंजन converts the potential रासायनिक उर्जा in gasoline and oxygen into ऊष्मा, which is then transformed into the propulsive उर्जा ( kinetic उर्जा कि moves a गाडी ).
A solar कोशिका converts solar विकिरण into electrical उर्जा कि can तब be used to लाइट a bulb or power a कंप्यूटर.
The जेनेरिक name for a device जिससे converts energy from एक form to another, is a ट्रान्सड्यूसर.
In general, सबसे types of उर्जा, सहेजें for thermal energy, may be converted efficiently to any अन्य kind of energy.
Sometimes this occurs with an efficiency of essentially 100 %, such as जब potential energy is converted to kinetic energy as an object falls in vacuum, or जब it orbits nearer or farther इससे another object, in स्पेस.
Conversion of other types of energies to heat may also occurs with nearly perfect दक्षता ( अनेक types of घर्षण do this ).
Exceptions लिये पूर्ण परिवर्तन efficiency ( even for isolated प्रणालियों ) occur जब energy रै already been partly distributed among many available क्वांटम राज्य लिये a collection of अणु, जिससे are freely अनुमत to explore any राज्य of momentum and position ( phase space ).
In such circumstances, a माप called एन्ट्रॉपी, or evening-out of energy distribution in ऐसे राज्य, dictates कि भविष्य states of the system जरूर be of at तनिक बराबर evenness in उर्जा distribution.
( वहीँ is no रास्ता, taking the ब्रह्मांड as a पूरे, to collect energy into fewer राज्य, once it रै spread to them ).
a consequence of इस requirement is कि there हैं limitations to the efficiency with जिससे thermal energy can be converted to other kinds of energy, since थर्मल energy in संतुलन at a given temperature already represents the maximal evening-out of energy between all संभावित राज्य.
Such energy is sometimes considered `` degraded energy, '' because it is not entirely usable.
the second law of thermodynamics is a way of stating that, लिये इस कारण, thermal energy in a system may be converted to other kinds of energy साथ efficiencies approaching 100 %, तभी if the entropy ( even-ness or disorder ) of the ब्रह्मांड is increased by other means, to compensate for the decrease in entropy associated with the disappearance of the thermal energy and its entropy सामग्री.
Otherwise, only a part of thermal उर्जा may be converted to other kinds of energy ( और thus, useful work ), since the शेष of the heat must be reserved to be transferred to a thermal reservoir at a निम्नतर temperature, in such a way that the बढ़ाएँ in एन्ट्रॉपी लिये this प्रक्रम अधिक than compensates for the entropy decrease associated साथ परिवर्तन of the बाकी of the ऊष्मा into other प्रकार of energy.
The National Hockey League ( NHL ; ) is an `` unincorporated not-for-profit संघ '' जिससे operates a प्रमुख पेशेवर ice हॉकी league of 30 franchised member clubs, of जिससे सात are currently located in Canada और 23 in the United States.
headquartered in New York City, the NHL is widely considered to be the premier professional ice hockey league in the world, and one of the प्रमुख professional खेल leagues in the संयुक्त राज्य और Canada.
the Stanley Cup, the oldest पेशेवर sports trophy in North अमेरिका, is awarded annually to the league playoff champion at the end of each ऋतु.
the लीग was व्यवस्थित on November 26, 1917, in Montreal, Quebec, कनाडा, after the suspension of operations of its predecessor संगठन, the National Hockey Association ( NHA ), which had been founded in 1909.
It प्रारंभ with चार teams और, through a series of expansions, contractions, and relocations, the league is now composed of 30 active franchises.
The nation to which the name of the league originally referred थी Canada, हालांकि the लीग has now been binational चूंकि 1924 when it expanded into the United राज्य.
After a श्रमिक विवाद that led to the cancellation of the entire 2004–05 season, the league resumed play under a new collective bargaining agreement that included a salary cap.
In 2009, the NHL enjoyed record highs in terms of sponsorships, attendance, and television audiences.
the NHL draws अनेक highly skilled खिलाड़ी इससे सब over the संसार and फिलहाल has खिलाड़ी from about 20 different countries.
Although Canadians have historically constituted the majority of the players in the NHL, over the पास्ट four plus decades the percentages of US and European players have increased both because of the NHL 's continued expansion from six to thirty क्लब since 1967, and the increased availability of highly skilled European खिलाड़ी.
इस is the complete सूची of the ratified और unratified amendments to the United राज्य Constitution which received the approval of the संयुक्त States Congress.
Twenty-seven amendments have been ratified since the original signing of the Constitution, the first टेन of जिससे are known collectively as the Bill of अधिकारों.
The procedure लिये amending the United States Constitution is governed by आलेख V of the original text.
वहीँ have been अनेक other proposals for amendments to the United States Constitution introduced in Congress, but not submitted to the states.
पहले an amendment can take प्रभाव, it must be प्रस्तावित to the राज्य by a two-thirds vote of both houses of Congress or by a सम्मेलन ( known as an Article v सम्मेलन ) called by two-thirds of the states, and ratified by three-fourths of the राज्य or by three-fourths of conventions thereof, the विधि of ratification being determined by कॉंग्रेस at the time of proposal.
To date, no सम्मेलन लिये proposing amendments has been called by the राज्य, and तभी once—in 1933 for the अनुसमर्थन of the twenty-first amendment —has the convention method of अनुसमर्थन महरूम employed.
FMR llc ( Fidelity प्रबन्धन and Research ) or Fidelity Investments is an American multinational financial services corporation.
It is one of the largest mutual निधि and financial सेवाएं groups in the world.
It थी founded in 1946 and serves North अमरीकी investors.
Fidelity Ventures is इसके venture capital arm.
Fidelity International सीमित ( FIL ), was an अंतरराष्ट्रीय affiliate संस्थापित in 1969, सेवारत most countries in the rest of the world.
in September 2011, FIL was rebranded as 'Fidelity Worldwide Investment '.
वफ़ादारी Investments manages a large family of परस्पर निधि, provides निधि distribution and investment सलाह services, as well as providing discount brokerage services, रिटायरमेंट सेवाएं, माल प्रबन्धन, securities निष्पादन and क्लीयरेंस, life बीमे और a number of other सेवाएं.
June 2006 was the sixth month of कि year.
It began on a Thursday and ended after 30 days on a Friday the following कार्यक्रम भी occurred during the मोंटh:
समाजशास्त्र is the scientific study of इंसान society and its origins, development, संगठन, और institutions.
It is a social science which uses various विधि of empirical investigation and critical analysis to develop a body of ज्ञान about human social कार्यकलाप, structures, and functions.
a लक्ष्य लिये many sociologists is to conduct research which may be लागू सीधे to social नीति and welfare, while others फ़ोकस primarily on refining the theoretical understanding of social processes.
विषय matter ranges from the सूक्ष्म level of individual agency and बातचीत to the macro level of systems और the सोशल structure.
The traditional focuses of समाजशास्त्र include social stratification, सोशल class, culture, रेस and ethnicity, gender and कामुकता, social mobility, religion, secularization, law, and deviance.
As all spheres of human activity are प्रभावित by the interplay between social ढांचा and व्यक्तिगत एजेंसी, sociology has gradually expanded its फ़ोकस to further subjects, ऐसे as स्वास्थ्य, चिकित्सा, military and penal संस्थानों, the Internet, environmental sociology, political economy और the role of social activity in the development of scientific knowledge.
The range of social scientific methods has भी expanded.
Social शोधकर्ताओं draw upon a variety of qualitative and quantitative techniques.
the linguistic and cultural turns of the mid-twentieth century led to increasingly interpretative, hermeneutic, और philosophic approaches to the विश्लेषण of समाज.
conversely, recent decades have देखी the वृद्धि of नई analytically, mathematically और computationally rigorous techniques, such as agent-based modelling and social network analysis.
समाजशास्त्र चाहिए नहीं be उलझन with various सामान्य social studies पाठ्यक्रम which bear little relation to sociological theory or social science research methodology.
Thunder is the sound caused by lightning.
depending on the nature of the lightning और अलहदा of the listener, thunder can range from a शार्प, loud crack to a long, low rumble ( brontide ).
The sudden increase in pressure and तापमान from lightning produces rapid विस्तार of the एयर surrounding and within a bolt of बिजली.
In फेरे, इस विस्तार of एयर creates a sonic shock wave, similar to a सोनिक boom, which produces the sound of thunder, often referred to as a clap, क्रैक, or peal of थंडर.
The distance of the lightning can be गणना by the listener आधारित on the time अंतराल इससे when the lightning is seen to जब the sound is heard.
Palma (,, ), in full Palma de Mallorca, is the प्रमुख नगर and बंदरगाहों on the island of Majorca ( Mallorca ) and capital city of the autonomous community of the balearic Islands in स्पेन.
The names Ciutat de Mallorca ( नगर of Majorca ) और Ciutat ( City ) were used before the War of the Spanish उत्तराधिकार और हैं still used by people in Majorca.
However, the official name was Mallorca, the वही as the island.
It is situated on the दक्षिण coast of the island on the Bay of Palma.
as of the 2009 census, the जनसांख्यिकी of the नगर of Palma proper थी 401,270, और the population of the संपूर्ण urban क्षेत्रफल was 517,285, ranking as the twelfth largest urban area of Spain.
Almost half of the total population of Majorca live in Palma.
The cabrera Archipelago, though widely अलग from Palma proper, is administratively considered भाग of the municipality.
इसके airport, बेटे सन्त Joan, serves over 22 million passengers प्रत्येक year.
The Marivent राजमहल was offered by the city to the then Prince जुआन Carlos I of Spain.
The royals have since खर्च their summer holidays in Palma.
Luthor redirects यहाँ.
For other uses, see Luther ( disambiguation ).
Alexander Joseph `` Lex '' luthor is a fictional अक्षर, a supervillain appearing in comic books published by DC Comics.
Luthor is the archenemy of Superman, and as a high-status supervillain, has also आइये into conflict साथ Batman और other superheroes in the dc Universe.
Created by Jerry siegel and जो Shuster, the character first appeared in Action Comics # 23 ( April 1940 ).
Luthor is वर्णित as `` a power-mad, दुष्ट scientist '' of high intelligence and incredible technological prowess.
Luthor 's goals typically center on हत्या Superman, the foremost obstacle to achieving the villain 's megalomaniacal goals.
Despite periodically wearing a powered बहि, Luthor has traditionally lacked superpowers or a dual पहचान.
the character was originally depicted as a mad वैज्ञानिक who, in the vein of गूदा novels, wreaks havoc on the संसार with his futuristic weaponry.
in his earliest appearances, luthor is दिखाया with a full सिर of रेड hair.
Despite इस, the अक्षर later became hairless as the result of an कलाकार 's mistake.
A 1960 story by जेरी Siegel विस्तारित upon Luthor 's origin and motivations, revealing him to be a childhood friend of सुपरमैन 's जो lost his hair when a fire नष्ट उसके laboratory ; luthor vowed revenge.
following the 1985 limited series Crisis on Infinite Earths, the अक्षर was re-imagined as a Machiavellian industrialist and white-collar criminal, भी briefly serving as President of the United States.
In recent years, various लेखक have revived Luthor 's mad scientist persona from the 1940s.
The अक्षर was ranked as the 8th महानतम Villain by Wizard on its 100 Greatest खलनायक of सब समय list.
IGN 's list of the Top 100 कॉमिक Book खलनायक of All Time ranked Luthor as # 4.
Luthor is भी described as a `` megavillain '' by comic book critic Peter Sanderson, one of a few genre-crossing खलनायक whose adventures take प्लेस `` in a world in which the ordinary कानून of प्रकृति are slightly suspended '' ; वर्ण ऐसे as प्राध्यापक Moriarty, Count Dracula, Hannibal Lecter, Doctor Doom, and Darth Vader, also अनुरूप इस वर्णन.
Martin Luther King, Jr. दिन is a United States federal अवकाश marking the birthday of रेव. dr. Martin Luther किंग, Jr.
It is observed on the तीसरा Monday of January प्रत्येक साल, which is around the time of King 's birthday, January 15.
the floating holiday is similar to छुट्टियाँ set under the वर्दी Monday Holiday Act, though the act predated the establishment of मार्टिन Luther किंग, Jr. दिन by 15 years.
किंग थी the chief spokesman लिये nonviolent सक्रियता in the civil rights गति, जिससे successfully protested racial discrimination in संघीय and state law.
The campaign for a federal holiday in किंग 's honor began जल्द after उसके assassination in 1968.
Ronald Reagan हस्ताक्षरित the holiday into law in 1983, and it थी first observed on January 20, 1986.
At first, some राज्य resisted observing the अवकाश as such, giving it alternative names or combining it with other holidays.
It थी officially observed in सब 50 states for the first समय in 2000.
The कैमरा phone समाधान allows instant sharing of pictures.
as it 's automatic and instant, the उपयोक्ता does नहीं have to उपयोग a cable or removable media to connect to a personal computer.
A कैमरा phone is a मोबाईल phone which is समर्थ to कैप्चर स्टिल photographs ( and usually video ).
चूंकि early in the 21st सदी the majority of मोबाईल phones in उपयोग are कैमरा फोन.
Most कैमरा phones हैं simpler than पृथक digital कैमरे.
Their usual fixed फ़ोकस lenses और छोटी sensors सीमा their प्रदर्शन in poor lighting.
Lacking a physical शटर, सबसे have a long shutter lag.
Flash, where present, is usually weak.
Optical zoom and tripod screws are rare.
कुछ also कमी a usb connection, removable memory कार्ड, or other way of transferring their pictures more जल्दी than by the phone 's inherent communication feature.
Some of the more expensive camera फोन have only a few of these technical disadvantages, which लागू सबसे acutely in कम लाइट conditions and in कोई case have not inhibited their widespread use.
Most मॉडल lines improve in these regards every year or two.
कुछ, such as the droid Incredible तभी have a menu choice to start an अनुप्रयोग कार्यक्रम to activate the camera.
Others, ऐसे as the BlackBerry Storm 2, Droid X, मोटोरोला V980 and Nokia 5800 also have a पृथक camera button लिये quickness और convenience.
Windows Phones can be configured to operate as a कैमरा even if the phone is asleep.
कुछ camera फोन हैं designed to resemble separate low-end digital कॉम्पैक्ट कैमरे in रूप और to some extent in सुविधाएँ और चित्र विशेषता, and हैं branded as दोनो mobile phones and cameras, including certain Sony phones.
The प्रिंसिपल advantages of कैमरा phones are cost and compactness ; बेशक for a user who carries a mobile phone anyway, the additional size and cost are negligible.
Smartphones that are camera phones may run mobile अनुप्रयोग to add सामर्थ्य ऐसे as geotagging और image stitching.
a few ऊँची समाप्त phones can उपयोग उनके touch screen to direct their कैमरा to focus on a particular object in the field of view, giving even an inexperienced user a degree of focus control exceeded only by seasoned फ़ोटोग्राफ़र using हस्तचालित focus.
`` Whatever Happened to the Man of कल ? '' is a 1986 comic book स्टोरी featuring the dc कॉमिक्स character of Superman.
Written by Alan Moore साथ help from long-time, और soon to be retiring, Superman editor, Julius schwartz, the story थी published in two parts, शुरूआत in Superman # 423 and ending in Action Comics # 583, both published in September 1986.
The स्टोरी was drawn by long-time artist Curt Swan, in his final major contribution to the Superman titles, और was inked by George Pérez in the issue of सुपरमैन and Kurt Schaffenberger in the issue of कार्रवाई Comics.
the स्टोरी was an imaginary टेल which बताई the फाइनल story of the चांदी Age Superman और his long history, which थी होने rebooted following the कार्यक्रम of Crisis on अनन्त Earths, पहले उसके आधुनिक introduction in the John byrne series, the Man of Steel.
Moore wanted his plot to honor the long इतिहास of the अक्षर and to serve as a complete निष्कर्ष to his mythology.
The स्टोरी is a frame story नियत टेन years बाद Superman was पिछला देखी, जहाँ लोइस Lane recounts the tale of the end of Superman 's career to a रिपोर्टर from the Daily Planet.
Her स्टोरी शामिल numerous violent हमले विरूद्ध Superman by his दुश्मनों, the public revelation of his रहस्य identity of Clark Kent and a number of मौतों of those closest to him.
The स्टोरी has been cited as one of the best stories of the character of सुपरमैन, और critics और audiences frequently चुनें it as one of the most यादगार comics ever published.
It is used as an example of कैसा to close the long-time निरंतरता of a comic किताब character.
The स्टोरी 's विरासत has endured with similar stories written as श्रद्धांजलि to it.
the शीर्षक is a reference to एक of the nicknames of Superman as the Man of Tomorrow, और was used in the title of another सुपरमैन.
the Bugatti Veyron eb 16.4 is a mid-engined grand touring car, designed and developed by the Volkswagen Group and manufactured in Molsheim, फ़्रांस by Bugatti ऑटोमोबाइल S.A.S.
The Super Sport version of the Veyron is the तीव्रतम street-legal उत्पादन car in the world, with a top speed of.
The original संस्करण रै a top गति of.
It was named Car of the दशक ( 2000–2009 ) by the BBC television programme शीर्ष गियर.
The standard Veyron जीती Top Gears Best Car चलित सब Year award in 2005.
On 6 April 2013, Bugatti set the record for the fastest roadster in the world with the Veyron ग्रैंड खेल Vitesse, reaching on average a शीर्ष गति of.
The Veyron 's chief designer थी Hartmut Warkuss, और the exterior was designed by jozef Kabaň of Volkswagen, with much of the अभियान्त्रिकी work being conducted अंतर्गत the guidance of engineering chief Wolfgang schreiber.
A number of special variants have been produced.
In December 2010, Bugatti began offering prospective buyers the ability to customize exterior और इंटीरियर्स रंग by using the Veyron 16.4 configurator application on the marque 's official जालस्थल.
The संस्था of the Eucharist रै been a key theme in the depictions of the Last भोजन in Christian आर्ट, as in this 16th-century Juan de Juanes painting.
`` At the पिछला Supper, on the रात्रि he थी गद्दारी, हमारी Savior instituted the Eucharistic sacrifice of his Body और Blood. ''
( Catechism of the Catholic Church 1323 )
eucharist in the कैथोलिक Church refers to both the जश्न of the द्रव्यमान, that is, the Eucharist liturgy, and the bread and वाइन which after the consecration are transubstantiated ( changed in substance ) into the body and रक्त of यीशु Christ, Lord and God, a घोषणा formulated by the परिषद of Trent with an anathema against anyone who denied this.
Blessed Sacrament is a devotional पद used in the Roman कैथोलिक Church to refer to the eucharistic species ( the Body and रक्त of Christ ).
The following is a list of colleges and universities in the u.S. state of louisiana.
A short स्टोरी is a brief work of literature, usually written in narrative prose.
Emerging from earlier oral storytelling traditions in the 17th century, the short story रै grown to encompass a body of work so diverse as to defy आसान characterization.
at its most prototypical the छोटी story features a छोटी cast of named वर्ण, and focuses on a self-contained incident साथ the intent of evoking a `` सिंगल effect '' or mood.
In so doing, short stories मेक use of plot, resonance, and अन्य dynamic components to a far greater degree than is typical of an anecdote, yet to a far lesser degree than a novel.
While the छोटी स्टोरी is largely पृथक from the novel, authors of both generally draw from a आम pool of literary तकनीकों.
Short stories have no नियत length.
in terms of word count there is no official demarcation between an किस्सा, a short story, and a novel.
Rather, the form 's parameters are given by the rhetorical और practical context in जिससे a given story is उत्पादित and considered, so कि what constitutes a छोटी story may differ between genres, countries, eras, और टीकाकारों.
Like the अनोखा, the short story 's predominant shape reflects the demands of the available markets for publication, और the evolution of the रूप seems closely tied to the evolution of the publishing industry and the सबमिशन guidelines of its constituent houses.
The short story has been माना both an apprenticeship form preceding अधिक lengthy works, और a crafted form in इसके own right, collected साथ in किताबे of similar length, price, और वितरण as novels.
Short story writers may define their works as भाग of the artistic and personal expression of the form.
They may also attempt to resist categorization by genre and fixed रूप.
Area codes in मिशिगन
Area code 810 is the telephone area code serving eastern Michigan.
the raccoon (, procyon lotor ), sometimes spelled racoon, भी ज्ञात as the आम raccoon, North American raccoon, northern raccoon and colloquially as coon, is a medium-sized mammal देशी to North अमेरिका.
The raccoon is the largest of the procyonid परिवार, having a body length of and a body weight of.
Its grayish कोट ज़्यादातर consists of dense underfur which insulates against cold weather.
Two of the raccoon 's most distinctive सुविधाएँ हैं its अत्यधिक dexterous front paws और its facial मुखौटा, जिससे are विषयवस्तु in the mythology of अनेक Native American tribes.
Raccoons are विख्यात for their intelligence, with studies प्रर्दशित that they हैं समर्थ to remember the solution to tasks for up to तीन सालो.
The आहार of the omnivorous raccoon, which is usually nocturnal, consists of about 40 % invertebrates, 33 % संयंत्र foods, and 27 % vertebrates.
The असली habitats of the raccoon are deciduous and mixed forests, but due to their adaptability वे have विस्तारित their range to mountainous areas, तटीय marshes, and urban areas, where some homeowners consider them to be पीड़कों.
As a परिणाम of escapes and deliberate introductions in the mid-20th century, raccoons are now also वितरित across the यूरोपीय mainland, the Caucasus प्रदेश and Japan.
हालांकि previously विचार to be एकान्त, वहीँ is now प्रमाण that raccoons engage in gender-specific सोशल behavior.
Related females often share a आम area, while unrelated males सजीव साथ in groups of up to four पशु to maintain their positions विरूद्ध विदेशी males during the mating season, और other potential invaders.
घर range sizes vary anywhere from 3 hectares ( 7 acres ) for females in cities to 50 km2 ( 20 sq mi ) for males in prairies.
बाद a gestation काल of परिचय 65 दिनों, two to five young, ज्ञात as `` kits '', are born in वसन्त.
The kits are subsequently raised by their mother जबतक dispersion in late fall.
Although captive raccoons have been known to live over 20 सालो, उनके average life expectancy in the wild is only 1.8 to 3.1 years.
in many areas, hunting and vehicular injury are the two most आम causes of death.
The 2010 Haiti earthquake थी a catastrophic magnitude 7.0 mw earthquake, साथ an epicenter near the town of Léogâne ( ouest Department ), approximately west of Port-au-Prince, Haiti 's capital.
The earthquake occurred at 16:53 local time ( 21:53 UTC ) on Tuesday, 12 January 2010.
By 24 January, at least 52 aftershocks measuring 4.5 or वृहद had महरूम अंकित.
An estimated three million people यहूद प्रभावित by the quake.
The highest विश्वसनीय death count थी estimated at 220,000.
haitian government estimates यहूद उच्चतर.
The सरकारी of Haiti estimated that 250,000 residences और 30,000 commercial buildings had collapsed or were severely damaged.
the earthquake caused major damage in port-au-prince, Jacmel और अन्य settlements in the region.
अनेक notable landmark buildings were significantly क्षतिग्रस्त or destroyed, including the Presidential Palace, the National Assembly building, the Port-au-Prince Cathedral, and the main कारावास.
Among those killed were archbishop of port-au-prince जोसेफ Serge Miot, and विपक्ष leader Micha gaillard.
the मुख्यालय of the United Nations स्थिरीकरण Mission in हैती ( MINUSTAH ), located in the capital, collapsed, killing many, including the Mission 's Chief, Hédi Annabi.
Many countries responded to appeals लिये humanitarian aid, pledging funds and dispatching rescue और medical teams, engineers and support personnel.
Communication systems, air, land, and sea transport facilities, hospitals, and electrical networks had महरूम क्षतिग्रस्त by the earthquake, जिससे hampered rescue और सहायता efforts ; भ्रम over जो was in charge, air traffic जमघट, and समस्याएं with prioritisation of flights further complicated early relief work.
Port-au-Prince 's morgues were अभिभूत with tens of thousands of bodies.
ये had to be buried in द्रव्यमान graves.
As rescues tailed बंद, supplies, चिकित्सा care and स्वच्छता became प्राथमिकताएं.
Delays in सहायता distribution led to angry appeals from aid workers and survivors, and लूटने and sporadic हिंसा were observed.
On 22 January the United राष्ट्र noted कि the emergency phase of the relief operation was drawing to a बंद, and on the following day the Haitian सरकारी officially पुकारा off the search for survivors.
Mister Ed is a fictional talking horse, originally appearing in छोटी कहानियां by Walter R. Brooks, and बाद in an American टेलीविज़न हालात comedy produced by Filmways कि first aired in syndication from January 5 to July 2, 1961, and then on CBS इससे अक्तूबर 1, 1961 to February 6, 1966.
The stars of the show were Mister ed, a palomino horse who could `` talk '', played by gelding Bamboo harvester और voiced by former Western स्टार Allan Lane ( who went uncredited for the entire length of the series ), and his मालिक, an eccentric and enormously klutzy, yet friendly, वास्तु named Wilbur Post ( एलन Young ).
Much of the program 's humor stemmed from the फैक्ट Mister ed होता speak only to Wilbur, as खूब as Ed 's notoriety as a troublemaker.
अन्य कार्यशील jokes centered on Wilbur 's character being a विशाल klutz and inadvertently causing harm to himself or others.
according to the दिखाएँ 's producer, Arthur lubin, यंग was चुनी as the lead character because he `` just लगा जैसे the sort of guy a horse would talk to ''.
Lubin, a friend of Mae West, scored a coup by persuading the स्क्रीन icon to guest star in one episode.
In the संयुक्त States, reruns aired on उपनाम at Nite इससे March 3, 1986, to February 1, 1993.
Sister station TV Land also reran the show from 1996–98 and again from 2003-06.
The series is currently broadcast प्रत्येक morning on This TV, along साथ Highway पैट्रोल, और The Patty Duke Show.
It is also फिलहाल ब्रॉडकास्ट on Hallmark Movie चैनल.
as of January 1, 2011, the पहला two सीज़न of the दिखाएँ हैं available on Hulu.
The Rapture is a पद in ईसाई eschatology which refers to the `` being caught up '' discussed in 1 thessalonians 4:17, when the `` dead in Christ '' and `` we जो are alive and remain '' will be `` caught up in the clouds '' to मिलें `` the Lord in the एयर ''.
The term `` rapture '' is प्रयुक्त in at तनिक two senses.
In the pre-tribulation view, a समूह of लोगों होगा be left behind on धरती after another group वस्तुतः leaves `` to meet the Lord in the air. ''
This is now the most आम use of the पद, especially among fundamentalist ईसाइयों and in the United States.
The अन्य, older use of the पद `` rapture '' is simply as a synonym for the final resurrection generally, without a belief that a group of लोगों is left behind on earth for an extended Tribulation काल after the कार्यक्रम of 1 Thessalonians 4:17.
This भेद is important as some types of Christianity never refer to `` the rapture '' in धार्मिक education, but might use the पुरानी और more सामान्य sense of the word `` rapture '' in referring to कया happens during the final resurrection.
There are many views among ईसाइयों regarding the timing of मसीह 's return ( सहित whether it will occur in एक इवेंट or two ), और विभिन्न views regarding the गंतव्य of the aerial gathering described in 1 Thessalonians 4.
Denominations such as Roman Catholics, परंपरागत Christians, Lutheran ईसाइयों, और reformed Christians believe in a rapture only in the sense of a general final resurrection, when मसीह returns a सिंगल time.
They do not believe that a समूह of people is बाएँ पीछे on earth for an extended Tribulation period after the कार्यक्रम of 1 thessalonians 4:17.
Pre-tribulation rapture theology was विकसित in the 1830s by John Nelson Darby और the Plymouth brethren, and popularized in the संयुक्त States in the early 20th सदी by the wide circulation of the Scofield Reference Bible.
Kris Nathan Humphries ( born फ़रवरी 6, 1985 ) is an American professional basketball player with the ब्रुकलीन Nets.
the Philistine cities of गाजा, Ashdod, Ashkelon, Ekron, and gath
The Philistines (,,, or ;, Plištim ), Pleshet or peleset, were a people who as part of the Sea Peoples appeared in the दक्षिणी coastal area of Canaan at the शुरूआत of the Iron Age ( circa 1175 bc ), सबसे probably from the ईजियन region.
according to the बाइबल, they ruled the five city-states ( the `` Philistine pentapolis '' ) of Gaza, Ashkelon, Ashdod, Ekron and Gath, इससे Wadi Gaza in the दक्षिण to the Yarqon River in the उत्तर, but with no fixed border to the east.
the बाइबल paints उन्हें as the किंगडम of Israel 's most खतरनाक enemy.
originating somewhere in the Aegean, their population was around 25,000 in the 12th century BC, rising to a शिखर of 30,000 in the 11th century bc, of which the Aegean element थी नहीं more than half the total, and perhaps much less.
Nothing is ज्ञात for certain about the original language or languages of the Philistines, however they were not part of the Semitic canaanite population.
वहीँ is कुछ सीमित प्रमाण in पक्ष of the assumption that the philistines were Indo-European-speakers either from Greece and/or Luwian speakers from the coast of Asia Minor.
Philistine-related words found in the बाइबल are नहीं Semitic, and can in some cases, with reservations, be traced back to Proto-Indo-European roots.
By the beginning of the 1st मिलेनियम BCE they था adopted the general Canaanite language of the region.
The Armed Services Vocational योग्यता Battery ( asvab ) is a अनेक चुनाव test, administered by the United States Military Entrance Processing Command, प्रयुक्त to determine qualification for enlistment in the United States हथियारबंद forces.
It is often offered to American ऊँची school students when they are in the 10th, 11th and 12th grade, though anyone eligible लिये enlistment may लो it.
Although the test is administered by the सैन्य, it is not ( और never रै महरूम ) a requirement कि a test-taker साथ a qualifying score enlist in the armed शक्तियां.
In वित्तीय accounting, a balance sheet or statement of financial position is a summary of the financial balances of a sole बंदोबस्त, a business partnership, a corporation or अन्य कारोबार संगठन, such as an llc or an LLP.
Assets, liabilities and ownership equity are listed as of a specific date, ऐसे as the end of its financial year.
a संतुलन चादर is often वर्णित as a `` स्नैपशॉट of a कम्पनी 's financial कंडीशन ''.
Of the चार मौलिक financial statements, the संतुलन sheet is the तभी बयान which applies to a single point in समय of a business ' calendar year.
A standard company balance चादर has तीन parts : एसेट, liabilities and ownership equity.
the प्रमुख categories of assets are usually सूचीबद्ध पहला, and typically in अनुक्रम of liquidity.
एसेट हैं followed by the liabilities.
The difference between the assets और the liabilities is known as इक्विटी or the net assets or the जाल worth or capital of the company and according to the accounting equation, net worth जरूर बराबर एसेट ऋण देनदारी.
another way to dekh at the same equation is कि assets equals देनदारी प्लस owner 's इक्विटी.
looking at the समीकरण in this way shows how assets यहूद financed : either by उधार money ( liability ) or by using the owner 's money ( मालिक 's equity ).
Balance sheets are usually प्रस्तुत with assets in one section and liabilities and जाल लायक in the other section with the two sections `` balancing. ''
A business operating entirely in cash can measure its profits by withdrawing the संपूर्ण बैंको balance at the समाप्त of the period, plus any नकदी in हाथ.
However, many व्यवसायों are not paid immediately ; they build up inventories of goods and they acquire buildings and equipment.
In other शब्द : businesses have एसेट and so वे can नहीं, भी if वे want to, immediately turn ये into cash at the समाप्त of each period.
Often, ये व्यवसायों owe धन to आपूर्तिकर्ता and to कर authorities, और the proprietors do नहीं withdraw all their original पूंजी and profits at the end of प्रत्येक period.
In other words businesses also have liabilities.
.17 Hornady Magnum rimfire, commonly known as the.17 HMR, is a rimfire rifle cartridge developed by the ammunition company Hornady in 2002.
It descended इससे the.22 Magnum by necking down the.22 Magnum case to take a.17 caliber ( 4.5 mm ) bullet, and it is अधिक costly to shoot than traditional.22 caliber rimfire कारतूस.
Commonly loaded with a 17 अनाज ( 1.1 g ) गोली, it can deliver muzzle velocities in excess of 2550 ft/s ( 775 m/s ).
The schaumburg flyers यहूद a पेशेवर baseball team based in Schaumburg, Illinois, in the United States.
the Flyers were to be a charter member of the उत्तर American League, which is not संबद्ध with Major League Baseball, however, the टोली folded in March 2011, पहले वे began play in the nal.
From the 1999 season to the 2010 ऋतु, the flyers played their घर खेल at alexian Field, निकट the एल्गिन O'Hare Expressway.
The team formerly निभाई in Thunder खाड़ी, ओंटारियो, where वे were ज्ञात as the Thunder Bay whiskey jacks.
The team थी originally a सदस्य of the Northern League इससे 1993 to 2010.
on July 27, 2009, the Flyers played host to Battle of the लिंगों II, जिससे pitted the Flyers against the National Pro fastpitch Softball Champions, the Chicago Bandits.
निभाई by official softball नियम, the game was seen by an overflow record crowd of 8,918, और was won by the Bandits 4-2.
In 1999, the Flyers hired their पहला manager, Ron Kittle.
kittle is best known for his playing days साथ the Chicago White Sox, and former Chicago Cubs and White Sox खिलाड़ी Greg Hibbard was the pitching coach.
During the early years of the franchise, Kittle did a series of TV commercials to promote the team, using the gimmick `` Ma Kittle. '' where he played both himself and his `` Ma. ''
The ads यहूद successful at sparking some आरंभिक interest in the team as the Flyers hoped to steal away fans इससे the nearby Kane County Cougars.
The ad mimicked the highly कामयाब converse ads जहाँ Larry जॉनसन स्ट्रक्चर as both खुद and `` gramama. ''
At the end of the 2001 season, however, kittle resigned from उसके managerial position, और जिम Boynewicz was hired to replace उसे.
In 2004, the Flyers made it to the Northern League Championship Series विरूद्ध the st. पॉल Saints.
Despite अग्रणी the five-game श्रेणी 2-1, Schaumburg eventually lost the series.
In खेल 5, Flyers relief पिचर Lyle Prempas allowed a खेल winning ग्रैंड slam by St. पॉल infielder मार्क Mirizzi in the ninth inning.
The flyers appeared in the Northern लीग playoffs four times ( 1999, 2003, 2004, 2006 ) लकिन never जीती the चैंपियनशिप.
Some famous players who निभाई लिये the flyers were former Oakland a 's outfielder Ozzie canseco and पूर्व शिकागो शावक outfielder Dwight Smith.
Rachel Hannah Weisz ( / vice / ; born 7 March 1970 ) is an अंग्रेज़ी film and थिएटर अभिनेत्री और पूर्व fashion मॉडल.
वाइज़ began her acting करियर at Trinity Hall, Cambridge in the early 1990s, then started working in television, appearing in Inspector Morse, the British mini-series Scarlet and ब्लैक, and the television film Advocates II.
She made her film début in the फिल्मी मौत यंत्र ( 1994 ), but her breakthrough role आए in the फिल्मी Chain प्रतिक्रिया ( 1996 ), अग्रणी to a high-profile role as एवलिन Carnahan-O'Connell in the films The Mummy ( 1999 ) and The Mummy Returns ( 2001 ).
Other notable films featuring Weisz are दुश्मन at the Gates, About a Boy, constantine, The फव्वारा and The Constant Gardener, for which she received an Academy Award, a Golden Globe and a Screen Actors ' Guild award लिये उसके supporting role as Tessa quayle.
वो has been labelled an `` अंग्रेज़ी rose '' since her minor भूमिका in चोरी Beauty ( 1996 ).
वाइज़ भी works in theatre.
Her stage breakthrough was the 1994 revival of noël Coward 's play डिज़ाइन for जीना, जिससे earned उसके the London Critics Circle Award for the most promising newcomer.
Weisz 's performances also include the 1999 Donmar Warehouse उत्पादन of Tennessee Williams ' Suddenly, Last Summer, and their 2009 revival of a Streetcar Named ख्वाहिश.
Her portrayal of blanche DuBois in the latter play अर्जित her the Critics ' वृत्त थिएटर Award for बेहतरीन Actress.
वो has recently निभाई Evanora in Oz the ग्रेट और Powerful.
The American सिविल War ( ACW ), also ज्ञात as the युद्ध between the States or simply the सिविल War ( देखिए naming ), थी a सिविल war fought इससे 1861 to 1865 between the संयुक्त States ( the `` संघ '' or the `` North '' ) और अनेक Southern slave states that घोषित their secession and formed the Confederate States of America ( the `` confederacy '' or the `` South '' ).
The war had its उत्पत्ति in the issue of slavery, especially the extension of गुलामी into the western territories.
Foreign powers did not intervene.
After four years of खूनी कॉम्बैट that left over 600,000 soldiers dead और नष्ट much of the दक्षिण 's अवसंरचना, the confederacy collapsed, slavery was abolished, और the difficult Reconstruction प्रक्रम of restoring national unity and guaranteeing rights to the freed slaves began.
In the 1860 presidential election, Republicans, led by Abraham lincoln, opposed expanding slavery into United States ' territories.
lincoln जीती, but before his inauguration on कूच 4, 1861, seven cotton-based slave राज्य formed the Confederacy.
Outgoing लोकतांत्रिक President James Buchanan and the incoming Republicans rejected secession as illegal.
Lincoln 's inaugural address घोषित his administration would not initiate civil war.
Eight remaining slave states continued to अस्वीकृत काल्स लिये secession.
confederate शक्तियां जब्त numerous federal forts भीतर territory claimed by the Confederacy.
a सलाम सम्मेलन failed to find a compromise, और both sides prepared for war.
The confederates assumed that European countries were so dependent on `` King Cotton `` कि they would intervene ; none did and none पहचाना the new Confederate राज्य of America.
hostilities began on April 12, 1861, when Confederate forces fired upon फोर्ट Sumter, a key फोर्ट आयोजित by संघ सैनिकों in दक्षिण Carolina.
Lincoln called for प्रत्येक राज्य to provide troops to retake the fort ; consequently, चार more स्लेव states joined the confederacy, bringing their total to eleven.
the Union soon controlled the किनारा states and स्थापित a नवल blockade that crippled the southern economy.
The Eastern थिएटर was inconclusive in 1861–62.
the पतझड़ 1862 Confederate campaign into Maryland ( a संघ state ) ended with Confederate retreat at the Battle of antietam, dissuading British हस्तक्षेप.
Lincoln issued the Emancipation Proclamation, which made ending slavery a war goal.
to the west, by summer 1862 the संघ नष्ट the Confederate river navy, तब much of their western armies, and the Union at Vicksburg विभाजित the Confederacy in दो at the मिसिसिपी River.
In 1863, Robert E. Lee 's confederate incursion north ended at the Battle of Gettysburg.
Western successes led to Ulysses S. Grant command of सब Union सेना in 1864.
in the Western Theater, विलियम T. Sherman drove east to capture Atlanta and marched to the sea, destroying confederate infrastructure along the way.
The Union marshaled the resources and manpower to attack the Confederacy इससे all दिशानिर्देश, और could afford to लड़ो लड़ाइयों of अपघर्षण through the Overland Campaign towards Richmond, the confederate capital.
The defending Confederate army विफल, अग्रणी to Lee 's surrender to Grant at appomattox अदालत हाउस on April 9, 1865.
The अमरीकी Civil युद्ध थी one of the earliest true industrial wars.
Railroads, the telegraph, steamships, and mass-produced weapons were employed extensively.
The mobilization of civilian factories, mines, shipyards, banks, transportation and food supplies सब foreshadowed World युद्ध I.
it remains the deadliest war in अमरीकी history, resulting in the deaths of an अनुमानित 750,000 soldiers और an undetermined number of civilian हताहत.
Historian जॉन Huddleston estimates the death toll at ten percent of सब उत्तरी males 20–45 years बूढ़ा, और 30 percent of सब Southern white males aged 18–40.
Potato bread is a form of bread in which potato replaces a portion of the regular wheat flour.
it is cooked in a किस्में of methods, including by baking it on a hot griddle or pan, or in an oven.
It may be leavened or unleavened, and may have a variety of other संघटक baked into it.
The ratio of potato to wheat flour varies significantly from रेसिपी to रेसिपी, with कुछ व्यंजनों having a majority of potato, and others having a majority of गेहूं flour.
Some recipes कॉल for mashed आलू, साथ others calling for dehydrated potato flakes.
It is available as a commercial product in many देशों, with similar variations in संघटक, cooking method, and other परिवर्तनीय.
the Pacific Time Zone observes standard time by subtracting आठ hours from समन्वित Universal Time ( ).
The clock समय in this zone is आधारित on the औसत solar time of the 120th meridian west of the ग्रीनविच Observatory.
During daylight saving time, इसके time offset is.
In the संयुक्त States and Canada, this time zone is generically पुकारा प्रशांत Time ( PT ).
specifically, it is Pacific मानक समय ( PST ) when observing standard time ( winter ), और Pacific daylight Time ( पीडीटी ) when observing daylight छायांकन time ( summer ).
सबसे of Canada uses daylight saving समय.
In Mexico the UTC−8 समय मण्डल is known as the उत्तरपश्चिम Zone, which is synchronized साथ the u.S. PDT daylight saving schedule.
The largest city in the Pacific Time Zone is Los Angeles in California इससे यूएसए ; the city 's महानगर area is the largest in the zone.
the zone is one hour ahead of the Alaska समय मण्डल, one घंटा पीछे the Mountain Time Zone and three hours behind the पूर्वी समय Zone.
Stereo 8, commonly known as the eight-track cartridge, eight-track tape, or simply eight-track, is a magnetic tape ध्वनि रिकॉर्डिंग technology.
It was popular in the संयुक्त राज्य from the mid-1960s through to the early 1980s, but was relatively unknown in many European countries.
It थी, however, very popular in the United Kingdom दौरान इस period.
स्टीरियो 8 थी created in 1964 by a consortium led by Bill Lear of Lear जेट Corporation, along with Ampex, Ford मोटर Company, General Motors, Motorola, और RCA Victor Records ( RCA ).
It was a further development of the similar Stereo-Pak four-track cartridge निर्मित by Earl `` Madman '' Muntz.
a बाद quadraphonic version of the स्वरूप थी announced by आरसीए in April 1970 and first known as Quad-8, then later changed to बस Q8.
रामेसेस ii ( 1303 BC – July or August 1213 bc ; मिश्र :, alternatively transcribed as Rameses and ramses or ), referred to as Ramesses the ग्रेट, was the third Egyptian pharaoh ( reigned 1279 bc – 1213 BC ) of the Nineteenth dynasty.
he is प्रायः regarded as the greatest, most मनाये, and most powerful pharaoh of the मिश्र Empire.
उसके successors and later Egyptians called him the `` ग्रेट Ancestor. ''
Ramesses II led several military रिझाने into the Levant, re-asserting Egyptian control over Canaan.
He भी led expeditions to the दक्षिण, into नुबिया, commemorated in inscriptions at Beit el-wali and gerf Hussein.
At age fourteen, Ramesses थी appointed Prince Regent by his पिता Seti i.
He is believed to have लिया the throne in his late teens and is known to have ruled मिश्र from 1279 BC to 1213 bc लिये 66 years and 2 months, according to both Manetho and Egypt 's समकालीन historical records.
He was एकबार said to have lived to be 99 सालो old, but it is more likely that he died in his 90th or 91st year.
If he became Pharaoh in 1279 bc as सबसे Egyptologists today believe, he would have assumed the throne on may 31, 1279 BC, आधारित on his known accession date of III Shemu दिन 27.
Ramesses II मनाये an unprecedented 14 sed festivals ( the पहला held after thirty सालो of a pharaoh 's reign, and then every तीन years ) during his reign—more than कोई other pharaoh.
On his मौत, he was buried in a tomb in the घाटी of the किंग्स ; his body was later moved to a royal cache where it was discovered in 1881, और is now on display in the कायरो Museum.
The early part of his शासनकाल was केन्द्रित on भवन cities, temples and monuments.
He स्थापित the city of pi-ramesses in the Nile Delta as his new capital and main base लिये his अभियान in Syria.
This city was निर्मित on the remains of the city of Avaris, the capital of the Hyksos जब वे took over, and was the location of the main Temple of नियत.
He is also known as ozymandias in the Greek sources, from a transliteration into Greek of a part of रामेसेस 's सिंहासन नाम,, `` Ra 's mighty truth, chosen of Ra ''.
the Texas Rangers हैं a professional baseball team स्तिथ in the Dallas-Fort Worth Metroplex, based in Arlington, Texas.
The Rangers franchise is currently a member of the Western Division of Major League Baseball 's अमरीकी League.
चूंकि, the रेंजरों have निभाई in Rangers Ballpark in आर्लिंगटन in आर्लिंगटन, Texas.
the team 's name is borrowed from the famous law enforcement एजेंसी of the same नाम.
The franchise was established in 1961 by the नाम of the वॉशिंगटन Senators, an expansion team awarded to वॉशिंगटन, d.C., after the city 's पहला ballclub, the original Washington Senators, moved to Minnesota and became the Twins.
After the ऋतु, the new सीनेटरों moved to Arlington, Texas, और debuted as the Rangers the following spring.
The टेक्सास रेंजरों Baseball Club has made six appearances in the MLB postseason, all following division championships, in 1996, 1998, 1999, 2010, 2011 and 2012.
In 2010, the Rangers उन्नत past the Division श्रेणी for the first time, defeating the Tampa Bay Rays.
टेक्सास then brought home उनके first American League Pennant after beating the New यॉर्क Yankees in six games.
In the 2010 संसार Series, the मताधिकार 's पहला, the Rangers fell to the San Francisco Giants in five खेल.
Their लोन victory made them the first टेक्सास team to win a World Series game, the Houston Astros having been swept in their 2005 संसार श्रेणी appearance.
They repeated as अमरीकी League champions the following year, तब lost the 2011 World Series to the St. लुई Cardinals in सात games.
Gaius Julius Caesar (, जुलाई 100 BC – 15 March 44 BC ) थी a Roman general, statesman, Consul and notable लेखक of Latin गद्य.
he निभाई a critical role in the events कि led to the demise of the Roman Republic and the वृद्धि of the रोमन Empire.
In 60 bc, सीज़र, crassus and Pompey formed a political alliance कि was to dominate Roman राजनीती लिये several years.
Their कोशिशें to amass शक्ति through populist tactics were opposed by the conservative elite within the रोमन सीनेट, among them Cato the Younger with the frequent support of Cicero.
Caesar 's conquest of gaul, समाप्त by 51 BC, विस्तारित Rome 's territory to the अंग्रेज़ी चैनल and the Rhine.
Caesar became the पहला Roman सामान्य to cross both when he built a bridge across the Rhine और conducted the first आक्रमण of Britain.
ये उपलब्धियाँ granted him बेमेल सैन्य power and threatened to ग्रहण the standing of Pompey, who had realigned himself with the Senate after the death of Crassus in 53 BC.
साथ the gallic युद्धों concluded, the Senate ordered सीज़र to lay down his military कमांड and वापसी to Rome.
सीज़र refused, and marked his defiance in 49 BC by crossing the Rubicon with a legion, leaving उसके province and illegally entering Roman territory under arms.
Civil war resulted, from जिससे he emerged as the unrivaled leader of Rome.
बाद assuming control of government, Caesar began a कार्यक्रम of social and governmental reforms, including the सृष्टि of the जूलियन calendar.
He centralised the bureaucracy of the Republic and थी आखिरकार proclaimed `` dictator in perpetuity ''.
लकिन the underlying राजनैतिक conflicts had not been resolved, और on the Ides of March ( 15 कूच ) 44 BC, Caesar थी assassinated by a समूह of senators led by मार्कस Junius ब्रूटस.
A new series of civil wars broke out, और the constitutional सरकारी of the Republic थी never restored.
Caesar 's adopted वारिस Octavian, बाद known as augustus, rose to sole power, and the era of the Roman साम्राज्य began.
Much of सीज़र 's जीवन is known from his own खाते of his military campaigns, और इससे other contemporary sources, mainly the letters and भाषणों of सिसरो and the historical writings of Sallust.
The later biographies of Caesar by Suetonius and प्लूटार्क are also प्रमुख sources.
Caesar is deemed to be एक of the greatest military commanders of इतिहास.
Linguistic मैप of Nigeria, Cameroon, and Benin.
Sign in English, outside the University of लागोस
There are hundreds of languages spoken in Nigeria.
The प्रमुख languages are Yoruba, Hausa, Igbo, Edo, fulfulde, कनूरी, and ibb.
the official language of सीरियल, English, the former औपनिवेशिक language, was chosen to सुकर the cultural and linguistic unity of the country.
English, however, remains an exclusive preserve of the देश 's urban elite, and is नहीं widely बोला in rural areas, which comprise three quarters of the countries जनसांख्यिकी.
सीरियल 's linguistic diversity is a microcosm of Africa as a पूरे, encompassing तीन प्रमुख African languages families : afroasiatic, Nilo-Saharan, and niger–congo.
Nigeria also has अनेक as-yet unclassified भाषाएं, such as Cen tuum, which may represent a relic of an भी greater विविधता prior to the spread of the current भाषा परिवारों.
daucus carota ( आम names शामिल जंगली carrot, ( UK ) bird 's nest, bishop 's फीता, and Queen Anne 's lace ( उत्तर America ) ) is a flowering plant in the family Apiaceae, native to temperate regions of Europe, southwest Asia and naturalised to North अमेरिका और Australia.
domesticated carrots are cultivars of a subspecies, daucus carota subsp. sativus.
In the संयुक्त States, the title of federal न्यायधीश प्रायः means a judge नियुक्त by the President of the United States और confirmed by the संयुक्त States Senate pursuant to the नियुक्ति Clause in आलेख ii of the United States Constitution.
In addition to the परम् Court of the संयुक्त States, whose existence and some aspects of जिनकी क्षेत्राधिकार are परे the संवैधानिक power of Congress to alter, acts of कॉंग्रेस have established 13 courts of appeals ( also called `` circuit न्यायालयों '' ) with appellate jurisdiction over अलग regions of the संयुक्त राज्य, and 94 United States ज़िला courts.
Every judge appointed to such a अदालत may be categorized as a संघीय न्यायधीश ; ऐसे positions include the मुख्य इंसाफ and Associate Justices of the परम् अदालत, सर्किट Judges of the न्यायालयों of appeals, और district judges of the United राज्य district courts.
All of ये judges वर्णित यूँ दूर are referred to sometimes as `` Article III judges '' क्युकी they exercise the judicial power vested in the judicial branch of the federal सरकारी by Article iii of the U.S. Constitution.
In जोड, judges of the Court of International Trade exercise judicial power pursuant to Article III.
Other judges serving in the federal न्यायालयों, including मजिस्ट्रेट judges and दिवालियापन judges, are भी sometimes referred to as `` federal judges '' ; however, वे are neither appointed by the President nor पुष्टि by the Senate, और their power derives from Article i बजाय.
देखिए आलेख I and Article III tribunals.
Nelly किम Furtado ( born December 2, 1978 ) is a कनाडाई singer, songwriter and actress.
वो has sold 20 लाख albums विश्वव्यापी and more 20 लाख singles, bringing her total sales to over 40 लाख रिकॉर्ड around the world.
फ़र्टाडो first gained कीर्ति साथ उसके debut album, Whoa, नेल !
, which spawned दो successful singles, `` I 'm जैसे a Bird `` और `` Turn Off the Light ``. ``
I 'm Like A Bird '' won a 2001 Juno पुरस्कार for सिंगल of the Year और a 2002 Grammy Award for Best मादा पॉप Vocal प्रदर्शन.
In 2003, Furtado released लोकगीत, which उत्पादित three international singles— `` Powerless ( Say What You Want ) ``, `` Try `` and `` Força ``.
Three years बाद she released Loose, a विश्वव्यापी commercial कामयाबी.
The एल्बम शाखित चार number-one hits : `` Promiscuous ``, `` Maneater ``, `` Say it Right `` and `` सब Good Things ( आइये to an समाप्त ) ``.
After a three-year ब्रेक, she released her first full-length Spanish album, mi Plan, and Furtado प्राप्त a लैटिन ग्रैमी for Best Female पॉप गायन Album.
In 2012, फ़र्टाडो 's fourth English-language studio एल्बम, The स्पिरिट Indestructible was released.
Furtado 's work has earned her numerous पुरस्कार और accolades, including 2 Grammy Awards, 10 juno Awards, 3 MuchMusic Video Awards और a star on Canada 's Walk of कीर्ति.
Creatures of the रात्रि is the tenth studio एल्बम by Kiss.
It is the बैंड 's last एल्बम लिये Casablanca Records, the तभी label the समूह had कभी recorded for at कि point.
The album was समर्पित to the मेमोरी of कासाब्लांका founder and early Kiss supporter neil Bogart, who had died of cancer during the रिकॉर्डिंग सत्र.
It is also the band 's last album recorded साथ इक्का Frehley credited as an आधिकारिक member ( until 1998 's Psycho Circus ), और its first एल्बम with Vinnie Vincent as the initially uncredited सीसे guitarist ( विंसेंट would बाद be credited, लकिन not featured pictorially on the कवर, of 1985 's reissue of the album ).
Touch is a निर्णायक means of receiving information.
इस फ़ोटो shows tactile markings identifying stairs for visually impaired लोगों.
The somatosensory प्रणाली is a विविध sensory system comprising the receptors and processing centres to उपज the sensory modalities such as touch, temperature, proprioception ( देह position ), and nociception ( पीड़ा ).
The संवेदी receptors कवर the स्किन and epithelia, skeletal मांसपेशियां, bones और joints, internal organs, and the cardiovascular system.
While टच is considered एक of the पाँच traditional होश, the impression of टच is formed from several modalities.
In medicine, the colloquial पद `` touch '' is usually replaced with `` somatic senses '' to बेहतर प्रतिबिंबित the किस्में of mechanisms involved.
Somatic होश are sometimes referred to as somesthetic senses, with the समझना कि somesthesis includes टच, proprioception and ( depending on usage ) भी haptic perception.
The प्रणाली reacts to diverse stimuli using different receptors : thermoreceptors, nociceptors, mechanoreceptors and chemoreceptors.
Transmission of information from the receptors गुजरता via sensory nerves through tracts in the स्पाइनल cord and into the दिमाग.
Processing primarily occurs in the प्राथमिक somatosensory area in the parietal पालि of the cerebral cortex.
The cortical homunculus was devised by Wilder Penfield.
At its simplest, the system works when activity in a संवेदी neuron is triggered by a specific stimulus ऐसे as heat ; this signal eventually passes to an क्षेत्रफल in the दिमाग uniquely attributed to that area on the body—this allows the processed stimulus to be लगा at the correct location.
the point-to-point mapping of the body surfaces in the brain is called a homunculus and is अनिवार्य in the सृष्टि of a देह image.
इस brain-surface ( `` cortical '' ) map is not immutable, however.
नाटकीय shifts can occur in response to stroke or injury.
magnolia is a विशाल genus of about 210 flowering संयंत्र species in the subfamily Magnolioideae of the family magnoliaceae.
It is नामित after फ्रेंच botanist पियरे Magnol.
magnolia is an ancient genus.
Appearing पहले bees किया, the flowers evolved to encourage pollination by beetles.
To avoid क्षति इससे pollinating भृंग, the carpels of Magnolia flowers are extremely tough.
Fossilised नमूनों of Magnolia acuminata have been मिला dating to 20 million years पहले, and of plants identifiably belonging to the magnoliaceae डेटिंग to 95 लाख years ago.
another aspect of Magnolias that is माना to represent an ancestral state is कि the flower bud is enclosed in a bract बल्कि than in sepals ; the perianth parts are undifferentiated और पुकारा tepals rather than पृथक sepals and petals.
magnolia shares the tepal characteristic साथ several other flowering पौधे near the base of the flowering संयंत्र lineage ऐसे as Amborella and Nymphaea ( as well as with many more recently निकला पौधे such as Lilium ).
The प्राकृतिक दायरा of Magnolia प्रजाति is a disjunct distribution, with a main केन्द्र in ईस्ट and southeast Asia और a द्वितीयक centre in eastern North अमेरिका, Central America, the वेस्ट Indies, and कुछ species in South America.
अंगूठा
`` श्वेत Christmas '' is an Irving बर्लिन सोंग reminiscing परिचय an old-fashioned Christmas setting.
According to the गिनीज Book of World रिकॉर्ड, the version sung by Bing Crosby is the best-selling single of all time, with अनुमानित sales in excess of 50 million नक़ल worldwide.
Accounts vary as to when and where Berlin wrote the song.
One स्टोरी is that he wrote it in 1940, in गरम La quinta, California, while staying at the La Quinta Hotel, a frequent हॉलीवुड retreat also favored by writer-producer फ़्रैंक capra, हालांकि the Arizona biltmore also claims the सोंग थी written there.
he often ठहरे up all रात्रि लिखने — he told his secretary, `` पकड़ें your pen and लो bas this song.
I just wrote the बेहतरीन सोंग i 've ever written — heck, I just लिखा the best सोंग that anybody 's ever written ! ''
Cross-country स्कीइंग ( or XC skiing ) is a form of स्की touring in जिससे participants propel themselves across snow-covered मैदान using skis and poles.
The activity is लोकप्रिय in many places with large snowfields, primarily Northern यूरोपीय, Canada, and अलास्का.
cross-country skiing is part of the Nordic skiing sport family, which includes ski jumping, nordic संयुक्त ( cross-country skiing and ski jumping ), biathlon ( skiing and rifle marksmanship ) and ski-orienteering ( which शामिल मैप navigation साथ snow trails और tracks ).
Cross-country skiing is the modern style of skiing that most resembles prehistoric skiing, विशेषकर when किया in the backcountry.
it is also related to Telemark skiing.
a use tax in संयुक्त States is complementary to sales tax which means, if you ख़रीदे a Taxable product/services without paying any बिक्री कर to vendor, you owe use tax.
You must स्वः assess use tax and अदा it directly to the state where the products were खपत or services were rendered.
Use कर typically is a कर on consumption but if you buy an मद ( without paying sales tax ) and स्टोर it in अपना warehouse initially, उपयोग tax applies to that location जहाँ goods were stored.
बाद on when the final consumption takes place at some अन्य स्थान, you हैं required to pay the अवकल of कर rate to the jurisdiction of परम प्लेस of खपत.
This really means that you do n't have to pay both Sales Tax as well as Use Tax on एक transaction.
it is only one or the other कि you हैं required to अदा on खरीदें of taxable products/services.
If vendor does n't charge any बिक्री tax on इसके invoice तब it is the दायित्व of the buyer to self assess Use कर and pay it to the appropriate Jurisdication.
Use Tax is generally charged at the same कर रेट of Sales Tax लकिन in some states the tax रेट is different.
Use tax is भी termed as `` Consumption कर '' or `` उपभोक्ता Use Tax ''.
A उपयोग tax is a type of excise tax levied in the United States by numerous राज्य सरकारें.
it is assessed upon tangible personal प्रॉपर्टी purchased by a resident of the assessing state for use, भंडार, or consumption in that state ( not लिये resale ), regardless of where the खरीदें took place.
if a resident of a state makes a purchase within his home राज्य, full sales tax is सशुल्क at the time of the लेनदेन.
The use कर applies when a निवासी of the assessing राज्य purchases an मद कि is not subject to his home state 's sales कर.
Usually, this is due to out-of-state purchases, as well as ordering वस्तुएं through the mail, by phone, or over the Internet from other states.
The use कर is typically assessed at the same रेट as the sales कर कि would have been owed ( if कोई ) had the वही goods been purchased in the राज्य of residence.
For example, a resident of Massachusetts, with a 6.25 % `` बिक्री and उपयोग tax '' on certain goods and services, purchases non-exempt goods or services in नई हैम्पशायर लिये उपयोग, storage or other खपत in मैसाचुसेट्स.
Under New Hampshire law, the New हैम्पशायर vendor collects no sales taxes on the goods, लकिन the मैसाचुसेट्स purchaser/user must still pay 6.25 % of the बिक्री price directly to the विभाग of Revenue in Massachusetts as a use कर.
if the वही goods are खरीदा in a US राज्य कि does collect sales कर लिये such goods at time of खरीदें, whatever taxes were paid by the क्रेता to that state can be deducted ( as a tax credit ) from the 6.25 % owed लिये subsequent उपयोग, storage or खपत in Massachusetts.
With few exceptions, no state 's विक्रेता will charge the native state 's बिक्री कर on goods shipped आउट of state, meaning सब goods ordered इससे out-of-state are essentially free of sales tax.
The क्रेता is therefore required to declare और pay the use कर to his घर state on these ordered goods.
the assessing jurisdiction may make the use tax payable annually, but कुछ states require a मासिक भुगतान.
For example, जहाँ a Vermont resident has नहीं paid at least 6 % sales कर on property brought in for use in the state, वर्मांट law requires filing a कर वापसी ( Form su-452 और payment ) by the 20th day of the month following non-exempt purchases to avoid a $ 50 late शुल्क, a 5 % penalty प्रति month, to a maximum of 25 %, plus statutory ब्याज on the unpaid tax and दंड.
Typical exemptions include purchases by charitable non-profit संगठन or governmental agencies, purchases for पुनर्विक्रय in commerce, and purchases via `` casual sales '' by individuals not in the ordinary कोर्स of कारोबार.
भी note that there are thousands of tax jurisdictions in the U.S. and many have ever-changing lists of विशिष्ट types of goods और services कि are नहीं taxable.
As an उदाहरण of the complexities : a 2006 Massachusetts law requires payment of tax on `` pre-written '' ( not custom ) software purchased and downloaded over the Internet for installation and use in Massachusetts, regardless of जहाँ it originates.
However, the actual उपयोग of the same software downloaded by a Massachusetts resident to a सर्वर in another state remains a non-taxed `` service ''.
In कंट्रास्ट, Arkansas generally करता not कर anything delivered over the Internet ( such as downloaded तन्त्र or म्यूज़िक ), except VoIP which is specifically पारिभाषित as taxable `` telecommunications services ''.
Software ( pre-written or कस्टम ) `` delivered thru a tangible medium '' ( i.e., on disk ) in Arkansas is taxable even if ordered ऑनलाइन, मगर `` custom software for a particular customer '' which is non-taxable `` प्रोग्रामिंग services '' even if delivered on a disk.
In most cases, this complexity is part of the underlying बिक्री कर laws ; लकिन while a brick-and-mortar store रै to deal with only the sales कर कानून of इसके own स्थान, remote sellers have to deal with the use tax कानून of many jurisdictions—up to every us state and locality कि प्रकृती उन्हें, if the कम्पनी has a उपस्थिति or `` nexus '' in प्रत्येक state ( as विशाल `` brick-and-mortar '' sellers like Wal-Mart and बेहतरीन Buy do ).
In medicine, pulmonary hypertension ( PH ) is an increase of blood pressure in the pulmonary artery, pulmonary vein, or pulmonary capillaries, together known as the lung vasculature, leading to shortness of breath, dizziness, fainting, and other symptoms, all of which are exacerbated by exertion.
Pulmonary hypertension can be a severe disease with a markedly decreased exercise tolerance and heart failure.
It was first identified by dr. अर्नस्ट वोन romberg in 1891.
According to the most recent classification, it can be एक of पाँच different types : arterial, venous, hypoxic, thromboembolic or विविध.
right
सही
sanuk, a प्रभाग of deckers Outdoor निगम, is a footwear brand आधारित in दक्षिणी California.
Sanuk, the Thai word लिये fun, was founded by Southern कैलिफ़ोर्निया देशी Jeff kelley when he started making चप्पल आउट of indoor-outdoor carpet.
The पहला उत्पाद created was green carpeted and entitled the `` Fur Real '' after one दूकान owner asked if the novelty sandal was `` For Real. ''
The Fur Real first became a runaway hit through boutique stores and not the intended surf shops.
The novelty act was followed up by a चन्दन लपेटा in wire जाल, a leopard print संस्करण, and styles बना out of a poncho material in a किस्में of रंगों.
Sanuk has grown to शामिल स्टाइल options for men, women and youth and is distributed आरपार the United States and in over 50 countries throughout Europe, Asia, South अमेरिका और Australia.
Sanuk centers itself around a positive lifestyle advocating the slogan, `` Smile, Pass it on ! ``.
in computer science, array प्रोग्रामिंग languages ( also ज्ञात as vector or multidimensional भाषाएं ) generalize परिचालन on scalars to apply transparently to vectors, matrices, and उच्चतर dimensional arrays.
Array प्रोग्रामिंग primitives concisely एक्स्प्रेस broad ideas परिचय आंकड़ा manipulation.
The level of conciseness can be dramatic in निश्चित मामले : it is नहीं uncommon to ढूँढें array programming language one-liners that require अधिक than a couple of पृष्ठों of Java कोड.
apl, designed by Ken Iverson, was the पहला प्रोग्रामिंग language to provide array programming capabilities.
The mnemonic APL refers to the title of his seminal book `` A प्रोग्रामिंग Language '' and not to arrays per se. Iverson 's contribution to rigor and स्पष्टता was probably अधिक important than the simple एक्सटेंशन of dimensions to functions.
In the United States an annuity अनुबंध is created when an insured party, usually an individual, pays a जीवन insurance कम्पनी a single प्रीमियम that will later be वितरित back to the insured party over time.
Annuity contracts traditionally provide a guaranteed distribution of income over time, ऐसे as via fixed payments, जबतक the मौत of the व्यक्ति or व्यक्तियों named in the contract or जबतक a फाइनल date, whichever comes first.
However, the बहुमत of आधुनिक annuity ग्राहक use annuities तभी to accumulate funds फ़्री of income और पूंजी gains कर and to later लो lump-sum withdrawals without using the guaranteed-income-for-life विशेषता.
President Barack Obama.
Barack Obama with his first परम् अदालत nominee, सोनिया Sotomayor.
following is a list of all United राज्य संघीय न्यायाधीशों नियुक्त by President बराक ओबामा दौरान his presidency.
as of April 30, 2013, 187 ओबामा nominees to Article iii judgeships have been पुष्टि by the United राज्य Senate, namely two Justices to the Supreme Court of the United States, 35 judges to the संयुक्त राज्य courts of appeals and 150 न्यायाधीशों to the United States district courts.
25 further nominations are currently प्रतीक्षारत Senate कार्रवाई.
वहीँ हैं currently 16 vacancies on the संयुक्त राज्य न्यायालयों of Appeals, 67 vacancies on the संयुक्त States ज़िला courts और 22 additional federal judiciary vacancies that हैं anticipated to occur before the end of ओबामा 's second term.
Obama has नहीं made कोई recess नियुक्ति to the federal courts.
Obama रै बना two nominations to the United States Court of International Trade, an आलेख III ट्रिब्यूनल.
Obama also designated sitting judge Emily C. Hewitt of the United States Court of Federal Claims, an Article I court, to be मुख्य न्यायधीश of that court.
This is a list of एयरपोर्ट in Mexico, sorted by location.
Mexico रै about 1,834 airports, ranking 2nd in number of airports in North America, and 3rd in the world.
Only प्रमुख नेशनल and अंतरराष्ट्रीय Airports are shown.
Agency कर्ज़ also ज्ञात as an एजेंसी bond is a security, usually a bond, issued by a U.S. government-sponsored agency.
The offerings of these agencies हैं backed but not guaranteed by the US government चूंकि the agencies हैं private entities.
Some prominent issuers of these securities are Student Loan Marketing संघ ( sallie Mae ), Federal National Mortgage संघ ( fannie Mae ) और Federal घर Loan Mortgage निगम ( फ्रेडी Mac ).
Agency प्रतिभूति are प्रायः exempt from state और local कर, but not federal tax.
Agency debt is also called an agency security.
The susquehanna भाप Electric Station, a खौलते water reactor.
the reactors हैं located अंदर the rectangular containment इमारतें towards the सामने of the cooling towers.
तीन nuclear-powered American warships, ( top to bottom ) nuclear cruisers uss Bainbridge and USS Long Beach साथ USS Enterprise the first nuclear-powered aircraft carrier in 1964.
क्रू सदस्यों are spelling out Einstein 's mass-energy equivalence formula E = mc2 on the flight deck.
The रूसी nuclear-powered icebreaker NS yamal on a 1994 joint expedition साथ the NSF.
Nuclear शक्ति is the use of sustained नाभिकीय परिवर्द्धन to generate heat and electricity.
Nuclear power plants provided about 5.7 % of the संसार 's उर्जा and 13 % of the संसार 's विद्युत, in 2012.
in 2013, the IAEA report कि वहीँ are 437 operational nuclear power रिएक्टरों ( although not all हैं producing electricity ), in 31 countries.
in addition, वहीँ are approximately 140 naval vessels using nuclear propulsion in operation, powered by some 180 reactors.
There is an ongoing बहस about the use of nuclear उर्जा.
proponents, such as the World नाभिकीय Association, the IAEA and Environmentalists for Nuclear उर्जा contend that नाभिकीय power is a चिरस्थायी energy source that reduces carbon emissions.
प्रतिद्वंद्वियों, such as Greenpeace International and nirs, believe कि नाभिकीय शक्ति poses अनेक खतरे to people and the environment.
नाभिकीय power plant accidents शामिल the Chernobyl विपत्ति ( 1986 ), Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster ( 2011 ), and the तीन Mile Island accident ( 1979 ).
वहीँ have also been कुछ nuclear-powered submarine mishaps.
शोध into safety improvements is continuing और नाभिकीय संलयन, believed to be safer, may be used in the future.
As of 2012, according to the IAEA, worldwide there यहूद 68 civil nuclear power reactors under निर्माण in 15 देशों.
in the US the licenses of almost half its reactors have महरूम extended to 60 years, and plans to build another dozen are अंतर्गत गंभीर विचार.
however, जापानी 's 2011 Fukushima daiichi nuclear विपत्ति prompted a rethink of नाभिकीय energy नीति in many countries.
Germany decided to close all its रिएक्टरों by 2022, and इटली has banned nuclear शक्ति.
Following Fukushima, the International उर्जा एजेंसी halved its estimate of additional nuclear generating क्षमता to be built by 2035.
फोटोग्राफ of the Berlin Wall taken from the West पक्ष.
the Wall was निर्मित in 1961 to prevent East Germans from fleeing from Communism.
It was an iconic प्रतीक of the ठंडा War and its fall in 1989 marked the समाप्त of the War.
the ठंडा युद्ध, प्रायः दिनाँक इससे 1947 to 1991, was a sustained राज्य of राजनैतिक and सैन्य टेंशन between शक्तियां in the Western Bloc, वर्चस्व by the United States साथ NATO among इसके allies, and शक्तियां in the पूर्वी Bloc, dominated by the Soviet Union साथ with the वॉरसॉ Pact.
इस began after the success of their temporary wartime गठबंधन विरूद्ध Nazi Germany, leaving the USSR and the us as two superpowers with profound economic and political differences.
a neutral faction arose with the Non-Aligned गति founded by मिश्र, इण्डिया, और Yugoslavia ; इस faction rejected संघ with either the us-led West or the Soviet-led East.
The Cold War थी so नामित क्युकी the दो major powers—each possessing nuclear weapons और thereby threatened साथ mutual assured विनाश —never मिले in direct military कॉम्बैट.
बजाय, in their संघर्ष लिये global influence they engaged in जारी psychological warfare and in regular indirect confrontations through proxy युद्धों.
Cycles of सापेक्ष calm would be followed by high tension, which could have led to world war.
The tensest times were during the Berlin Blockade ( 1948–1949 ), the कोरियाई युद्ध ( 1950–1953 ), the Suez संकट ( 1956 ), the बर्लिन Crisis of 1961, the Cuban missile crisis ( 1962 ), the वियतनाम War ( 1959–1975 ), the Yom Kippur War ( 1973 ), the सोवियत war in Afghanistan ( 1979–1989 ), the Soviet downing of Korean Air लाइनों Flight 007 ( 1983 ), and the `` Able Archer '' NATO military exercises ( 1983 ).
The conflict was expressed through military coalitions, strategic conventional फ़ोर्स deployments, extensive सहायता to client states, espionage, विशाल propaganda campaigns, conventional और nuclear arms races, appeals to न्यूट्रल nations, rivalry at sports events ( in particular the Olympics ), और technological competitions ऐसे as the Space Race.
The us और ussr became शामिल in राजनैतिक and सैन्य विरोध in the Third संसार देशों of लैटिन America, Africa, the Middle East, and Southeast Asia.
to alleviate the risk of a potential नाभिकीय war, both sides sought relief of राजनैतिक तनाव through détente in the 1970s.
in the 1980s, the United राज्य increased राजनयिक, सैन्य, and economic pressures on the Soviet Union, at a time when the communist state was already suffering इससे economic stagnation.
In the mid-1980s, the new सोवियत अध्यक्ष Mikhail Gorbachev introduced the liberalizing reforms of perestroika ( `` reorganization '', 1987 ) और glasnost ( `` खुलेपन '', ca. 1985 ).
Pressures लिये नेशनल स्वतंत्रता grew stronger in पूर्वी Europe, विशेषकर Poland.
They reached a breaking point जब Gorbachev refused to use Soviet troops to support the faltering सरकारी of East Germany in लेट 1989.
भीतर सप्ताह all the satellite states broke free इससे Moscow in a peaceful wave of revolutions ( there was some हिंसा in Romania ).
the pressures escalated अंदर the Soviet Union, जहाँ Communism fell और the USSR थी formally dissolved in late 1991.
the United राज्य remained as the संसार 's only superpower.
The ठंडा युद्ध and its कार्यक्रम have left a significant विरासत, and it is प्रायः referred to in popular culture, especially in media featuring themes of espionage and the threat of नाभिकीय warfare.
pikes Peak State Park is a राज्य park of आयोवा, USA, featuring a bluff overlooking the Upper मिसिसिपी River opposite the confluence of the Wisconsin नदी.
The park is operated by the आयोवा Department of Natural Resources.
It is nearly a हजार acres ( 4 km2 ) in extent.
The nearest city is McGregor, Iowa.
आयोवा Highway 76 approximately defines its उत्तरी boundary.
It gets its name from the Iowa अवतार of Pikes Peak, a particularly high point overlooking the gorge of the Upper Mississippi, और जैसे Pikes Peak in कोलोराडो, is नामित for Zebulon पाइक.
There हैं hiking trails, campgrounds और rv सुविधाएं.
Mountain bikes are permitted in certain portions of the पार्क.
Aside from recreational development, the land in the पार्क was never cleared and to a large extent remains as it थी before the advent of white उपनिवेश.
It is part of a larger जटिल of पार्क, reserves and refuges जिससे शामिल Effigy Mounds नेशनल Monument, the various components of the Yellow River State वन, the enormous Upper Mississippi नदी National Wildlife and Fish शरण and much smaller, much less खूब known Driftless Area National Wildlife Refuge.
The Northeast Iowa विरासत Trail System is undergoing development, and will connect तत्व of these साइट.
Zac Brown बैंड is an American country/folk band आधारित in Atlanta, Georgia.
the लाइनअप consists of zac भूरा ( lead vocals, guitar ), Jimmy De Martini ( चलाऊ, vocals ), John Driskell Hopkins ( bass guitar, vocals ), coy Bowles ( guitar, keyboards ), क्रिस fryar ( drums ), Clay कुक ( guitar, keyboards, mandolin, steel guitar, vocals ), and डेनियल de लॉस Reyes ( percussion ).
The band रै toured throughout the United राज्य, सहित a स्लॉट on the 2009 and 2010 Bonnaroo Music Festival.
वे have भी recorded पाँच studio albums, and charted nine Number One singles on the Billboard देश चार्ट : `` Chicken Fried ``, `` Toes ``, `` Highway 20 सवारी ``, `` Free ``, `` as She 's चलना Away ``, `` colder Weather ``, `` Knee गहन ``, `` Keep me In Mind ``, and `` Goodbye in Her Eyes `` in जोड to the singles `` Whatever It is `` and `` No hurry ``, जिससे peaked at number 2 on the same chart.
बात radio is a radio स्वरूप containing discussion about topical मुद्दे.
सबसे shows are regularly hosted by a single individual, और often विशेषता साक्षात्कार with a number of different अतिथि.
बात radio typically includes an element of listener भागीदारी, usually by प्रसारण सजीव बातचीत between the host and listeners who `` call in '' ( usually via telephone ) to the show.
श्रोता contributions are usually screened by a show 's निर्माता ( s ) in order to अधिकतम audience ब्याज और, in the case of commercial बात रेडियो, आकर्षित advertisers.
generally, the shows हैं organized into खण्ड, each separated by a pause लिये advertisements ; however, in पब्लिक or non-commercial रेडियो, music is sometimes निभाई in place of commercials to separate the program segments.
Variations of talk radio include रूढ़िवादी talk, hot talk, liberal talk और खेल बात.
जबकि talk radio has historically been associated साथ am/fm, starting around 2005 the technology for internet-based talk-radio shows became cost effective in the form of podcasts.
Now, it is possible for an individual to use a variety of सेवाएं to host an Internet-based talk-radio show without carriage by a परंपरागत रेडियो स्टेशन.
In addition tv programming इससे talk and news outlets ऐसे as BBC, CNN, Bloomberg और Fox are now often available expanding the world of बात रेडियो further.
Talk radio सुनना is अभी enjoyed नहीं only on radios, but a wide variety of other devices and सेवाएं सहित PCs using iTunes, स्टेशन निर्देशिका ऐसे as Tunein, show directory smartphones साथ apps ऐसे as Stitcher.
Hippa is a genus of decapod crustaceans in the family hippidae, containing the following species:
Hippa adactyla Fabricius, 1787
Hippa admirabilis ( thallwitz, 1892 )
hippa alcimede ( De man, 1902 )
Hippa australis Hale, 1927
Hippa carcineutes Holthuis & Manning, 1970
Hippa celaeno ( de Man, 1896 )
hippa granulatus ( Borradaile, 1904 )
Hippa hirtipes ( Dana, 1852 )
Hippa indica Haig, Murugan & Balakrishnan Nair, 1986
Hippa marmorata ( Hombron & Jacquinot, 1846 )
hippa ovalis ( A. milne-edwards, 1862 )
Hippa picta ( Heller, 1861 )
Hippa strigillata ( Stimpson, 1860 )
hippa testudinaria ( Herbst, 1791 )
Hippa truncatifrons ( miers, 1878 )
It is closely सम्बन्धित to the genus Emerita, and species have often been transferred between the two genera.
Jakarta ( ), officially known as the Special Capital प्रदेश of Jakarta ( ), is the capital and largest नगर of Indonesia.
स्तिथ on the northwest coast of Java, जकार्ता is the country 's आर्थिक, cultural और political centre, and with a population of 10,187,595 as of नवम्बर 2011, it is the सबसे populous नगर in Indonesia and in Southeast Asia, and is the तेरहवीं सबसे populated city in the world.
the official metropolitan area, known as jabodetabek ( a name formed by combining the आरंभिक syllables of जकार्ता, Bogor, Depok, Tangerang and Bekasi ), is the second largest in the world, yet the metropolis 's उपनगरों still continue beyond it.
जकार्ता is सूचीबद्ध as a वैश्विक city in the 2008 वैश्वीकरण and World शहरों Study समूह and संजाल ( gawc ) शोध.
और has an क्षेत्रफल of.
This area has population of खूब over 28 million, बनाना it one of the संसार 's largest conurbations in terms of क्रमांक of inhabitants.
in 2011, Jakarta ranked 17th among the संसार 's 200 largest शहरों, a jump from its 2007 ranking of 171.
जकार्ता has grown more rapidly than kuala lumpur, बीजिंग and Bangkok.
Established in the fourth सदी, the नगर became an important व्यापार बंदरगाहों लिये the Kingdom of Sunda.
It was the de facto capital of the डच East Indies ( when it was known as batavia ) और has continued as the capital of इंडोनेशिया since the country 's independence थी declared in 1945.
The नगर is the seat of the ASEAN सचिवालय.
जकार्ता is served by the Soekarno–Hatta International Airport, Halim Perdanakusuma International Airport, और tanjung Priok Harbour ; it is कनेक्ट by several intercity and commuter railways, and परोसा by several बस लाइनों running on सुरक्षित busways.
A typical home air कंडीशनिंग window unit.
एयर conditioning is the process of altering the properties of air ( primarily temperature और humidity ) to more favourable शर्तें.
More generally, एयर कंडीशनिंग can refer to any form of technological cooling, हीटिंग, वेंटिलेशन, or disinfection कि modifies the कंडीशन of एयर.
an air कंडीशनर ( प्रायः referred to as air con, AC or A/C, and नहीं to be confused साथ the abbreviation for alternating current ) is a major or home appliance, प्रणाली, or mechanism designed to change the air temperature and आर्द्रता within an area ( used लिये cooling and sometimes हीटिंग depending on the air गुण at a दिए समय ).
The cooling is typically किया using a simple प्रशीतन cycle, but sometimes evaporation is used, commonly for comfort cooling in buildings और motor vehicles.
In construction, a पूरा प्रणाली of heating, वेंटिलेशन और एयर कंडीशनिंग is referred to as `` HVAC ``.
`` 6 पैर 7 Foot '' ( भी styled as `` 6'7 '' ) is a song by American rapper Lil Wayne featuring label mate, कोरी Gunz.
It is taken इससे his नवीं studio album, tha Carter IV ( 2011 ).
It was officially released on iTunes on December 16, 2010.
It was उत्पादित by `` A Milli `` producer Bangladesh.
The song samples `` Day-O ( The banana Boat सोंग ) `` by Harry Belafonte.
dc बात ( styled as dc बात ), is a Grammy -winning Christian rap trio.
the group थी formed in lynchburg, Virginia in 1987 by Toby McKeehan, Michael Tait, and Kevin अधिकतम Smith.
They have released five प्रमुख studio एल्बम together : dc बात ( 1989 ), Nu Thang ( 1990 ), Free at Last ( 1992 ), यीशु Freak ( 1995 ), and Supernatural ( 1998 ).
In 2002, the Encyclopedia of Contemporary Christian म्यूज़िक called DC Talk `` the सबसे लोकप्रिय overtly Christian अधिनियम of all time. ''
In 2000, the group released an EP titled Solo which contained two solo songs from each member.
चूंकि that time, dc बात रै been on an indefinite अंतराल, और the three band सदस्यों have each led solo careers.
They have performed and recorded individual songs together several times during the 2000s, हालांकि the समूह never officially reunited or disbanded.
The समूह 's musical style विकसित significantly throughout उनके career.
Their पहला दो रिलीज, DC Talk और nu Thang, were of the hip hop विधा.
DC बात 's third album, Free at पिछला, भी mainly took influence from the hip hop style, हालांकि their म्यूज़िक began taking on a चट्टान sound.
The तिकड़ी 's पिछला दो albums, Jesus Freak and Supernatural, यहूद predominantly pop rock.
the Bible is a संकलन of अनेक shorter books लिखा at different times और later समवेत into the biblical canon.
All लकिन the shortest of ये books have been divided into अध्याय, generally a page or so in length, चूंकि the early 13th century.
चूंकि the mid-16th century, each chapter has been further divided into `` verses '' of a few छोटी lines or sentences.
Sometimes a sentence spans more than one श्लोक, as in the मामला of, and sometimes वहीँ is more than one वाक्य in a single श्लोक, as in the मामला of.
As the अध्याय and verse divisions were not भाग of the original texts, they form part of the paratext of the Bible.
The Jewish विभाजन of the Hebrew टेक्स्ट differ at various points from those प्रयुक्त by ईसाइयों.
For उदाहरण, in Jewish tradition, the ascriptions to many Psalms हैं regarded as independent verses, making 116 more verses, whereas the established Christian अभ्यास is to गिनती and number each Psalm ascription साथ with the first verse following it.
Some chapter divisions also occur in अलग places, e.g. in Hebrew bibles is गिने as in ईसाई अनुवाद.
An अनुक्रमणिका ( plural : indexes ) is a list of शब्द or phrases ( 'headings ' ) and associated pointers ( 'locators ' ) to where useful material relating to that heading can be मिला in a document.
In a traditional back-of-the-book index the headings will शामिल names of people, places and events, and concepts selected by a person as होने relevant and of interest to a possible reader of the book.
The pointers are typically page संख्याएँ, paragraph numbers or section संख्याएँ.
In a पुस्तकालयों catalog the words are authors, titles, subject headings, etc., and the pointers are कॉल numbers.
अंतरजाल ढूंढें engines, such as Google, और full टेक्स्ट searching help provide अभिगम to सूचना but are not as selective as an index, as वे provide non-relevant links, और may मिस relevant सूचना if it is not phrased in exactly the way they expect.
In संयुक्त States financial regulation, a संदिग्ध कार्यकलाप report ( or SAR ) is a रपट बना by a financial institution to the Financial अपराधों Enforcement Network ( FinCEN ), an एजेंसी of the United States विभाग of the राजकोष, regarding suspicious or potentially suspicious activity.
फेसबुक on the Ad-tech 2010
Facebook is an online सोशल नेटवर्किंग service, whose name तना from the colloquial नाम for the book given to students at the start of the academic year by कुछ university administrations in the United राज्य to सहायता students मिलेंगी to know each other.
It थी संस्थापित in February 2004 by Mark Zuckerberg with उसके college roommates and fellow हार्वर्ड विश्वविद्यालयों students Eduardo Saverin, Andrew McCollum, Dustin moskovitz and Chris ह्यूजेस.
The website 's membership was initially limited by the संस्थापकों to Harvard students, लकिन was expanded to अन्य कॉलेजों in the बोस्टन क्षेत्रफल, the Ivy League, and Stanford विश्वविद्यालयों.
It gradually added support लिये विद्यार्थी at विभिन्न अन्य universities before opening to high school students, and आखिरकार to anyone aged 13 और over.
Facebook now allows any users who declare themselves to be at least 13 years old to become पंजीकृत users of the site.
उपयोक्ता must register पहले using the site, बाद which वे may create a personal प्रोफ़ाइल, add other उपयोक्ता as friends, and एक्सचेंज messages, including automatic सूचनाएं when they update their profile.
additionally, users may जुड़ें common-interest उपयोक्ता groups, organized by workplace, स्कूल or कॉलेज, or other विशेषताएँ, and categorize their friends into lists ऐसे as `` People इससे Work '' or `` Close Friends ''.
as of सितंबर 2012, Facebook has over one billion active उपयोक्ता.
According to a may 2011 उपभोक्ता Reports survey, there हैं 7.5 million children under 13 with खाते और 5 लाख अंतर्गत 10, violating the साईट 's terms of सेवा.
In May 2005, Accel partners invested $ 12.7 million in Facebook, and जिम Breyer added $ 1 million of उसके own money to the pot.
a January 2009 Compete.com पढ़ाई ranked Facebook as the most प्रयुक्त social networking service by worldwide monthly active users.
Entertainment साप्ताहिक included the site on its end-of-the-decade `` best-of '' सूची, saying, `` How on धरती did we stalk our exes, याद हमारी co-workers ' birthdays, bug हमारी friends, and play a rousing खेल of Scrabulous before फेसबुक ? ''
Critics, such as फेसबुक detox, state कि Facebook has turned into a national obsession in the संयुक्त States, resulting in vast amounts of time lost और प्रोत्साहित आत्ममोह.
Quantcast estimates Facebook रै 138.9 million monthly अद्वितीय U.S. visitors in May 2011.
According to Social मीडिया आज, in अप्रैल 2010 an estimated 41.6 % ( 129.5 million ) of the U.S. जनसांख्यिकी had a फेसबुक account.
Nevertheless, Facebook 's मार्केट growth started to stall in some regions, with the site खोने 7 million active users in the United States और Canada in may 2011.
Facebook आखिरकार filed for an initial public offering on फ़रवरी 1, 2012, and थी headquartered in मेनलो Park, California.
Facebook inc. began selling stock to the पब्लिक और trading on the NASDAQ on may 18, 2012.
Sulfonamide कार्यात्मक समूह
Hydrochlorothiazide is a sulfonamide and a thiazide.
furosemide is a sulfonamide, लकिन not a thiazide.
Sulfonamide or sulphonamide is the basis of several groups of drugs.
the original antibacterial sulfonamides ( sometimes called sulfa drugs or sulpha दवाएँ ) हैं सिंथेटिक antimicrobial agents that contain the sulfonamide समूह.
Some sulfonamides are also devoid of जीवाणुरोधी कार्यकलाप, e.g., the anticonvulsant sultiame.
The sulfonylureas और thiazide diuretics हैं नए drug समूह based on the जीवाणुरोधी sulfonamides.
Sulfa allergies are common, hence medications containing sulfonamides are prescribed carefully.
it is important to make a भेद between sulfa drugs और other sulfur-containing दवाएँ and एडिटिव, ऐसे as sulfates and sulfites, which हैं chemically unrelated to the सल्फोनेमाइड group, and do नहीं कारण the same hypersensitivity reactions seen in the sulfonamides.
इस is a सूची of characters इससे George लोपेज़.
घरेलू geese ( आंसर anser domesticus or Anser cygnoides ) are domesticated grey geese ( either Greylag Geese or Swan geese ) kept as poultry लिये their meat, eggs, and down feathers since ancient times.
30 सेकेंड to Mars is an American चट्टान band from Los एंजिल्स, formed in 1998.
चूंकि 2007, the बैंड रै consisted of actor Jared Leto ( lead vocals, लय गिटार, songwriter ), Shannon leto ( ड्रम, percussion ) और Tomo Miličević ( lead guitar, keyboards ).
Following the प्रस्थान of Matt Wachter ( now of Angels & Airwaves ) in 2007, टिम Kelleher became the bassist for the group, performing live तभी साथ both Jared और Miličević recording bass for स्टुडियो रिकार्डिंग, while Braxton olita ( keyboards ) थी added to the touring lineup in 2009.
Previously, the group भी featured guitarists Solon Bixler ( अभी of Great Northern ) and Kevin Drake ( now of polaroid चुंबन ).
to date, 30 सेकेंड to मंगल have released three studio albums – 30 Seconds to Mars ( 2002 ), A Beautiful झूठ ( 2005 ), This is War ( 2009 ) और तीन extended plays – AOL Sessions Undercover ( 2007 ), To the किनारे of the धरती ( 2008 ), और MTV Unplugged : 30 Seconds to Mars ( 2011 ).
30 Seconds to Mars ' म्यूज़िक has been associated ज़्यादातर with neo-prog, प्रगतिशील metal and post-grunge, लकिन वे have also शामिल भावनाएं, screamo, space rock और synthrock into their music.
They have महरूम compared to गुलाबी Floyd ( who were an influence on their कार्य ) and Tool क्युकी of उनके उपयोग of philosophical और आध्यात्मिक lyrics, concept albums और their use of experimental music.
A क्रिसमस Story is a 1983 American Christmas comedy film based on the short कहानियां and semi-fictional anecdotes of लेखक and raconteur Jean गड़रिये, आधारित on उसके किताब In God We Trust, All Others अदा Cash, साथ some elements derived from Wanda Hickey 's Night of सुनहरी Memories.
it was directed by Bob क्लार्क.
The film has चूंकि become a holiday classic और is shown numerous times on टेलीविज़न during the Christmas season on the संजाल TBS, often in a 24-hour marathon.
In 2012, the film थी selected for संरक्षण in the National फिल्मी Registry by the Library of Congress for होने `` culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant ''.
A Joe 's Crab shack branch in सैन Diego, ca.
The building was initially a rowing club and was later converted into the restaurant.
Joe 's Crab Shack is an American कड़ी of beach-themed seafood casual डाइनिंग रेस्तरां owned by Ignite Restaurant Group.
Founded in Houston, Texas, the रेस्तरां now operates locations all across the United States of America.
it serves seafood and अमरीकी cuisine.
the रेस्तरां also have a gift shop that बिकता facetious t-shirts featuring phrases advertising Joe 's seafood choices.
It is based in ह्यूस्टन, टेक्सास.
New York City Cruise Liner Terminal in Hell 's रसोईघर at 52nd Street.
The नई York Passenger जलयान Terminal ( also known as the Luxury Liner पंक्ति or Manhattan Cruise Terminal or New यॉर्क Cruise Terminal ) is a टर्मिनल लिये ocean-going passenger ships on Manhattan 's वेस्ट side.
The टर्मिनल consists of उत्तर नदी Piers 88, 90, 92 और 94 on the हडसन River between वेस्ट 46th और West 54th Street.
( As a general rule, pier numbers in Manhattan can be determined by adding 40 to the corresponding cross-street. )
Ships अभी dock at पियर 88, 90 और 92.
बांध 94 on the उत्तर side is now प्रयुक्त लिये exhibition space.
बांध 86, एकबार used by United राज्य Lines, is now home to the uss Intrepid.
In 2003, the terminal handled 900,000 passengers.
The city is forecasting that 1.5 million will use the terminal by 2017.
The पियर हैं long and apart.
They were पहला completed in 1935 to replace the Chelsea पियर as the city 's लक्ज़री liner terminal.
The new टर्मिनल was built to handle bigger ships that had outgrown the Chelsea पियर.
the piers were renovated in 1970 and हैं currently undergoing another $ 150 million renovation.
The renovated plans call for it to handle three large ships at a time.
In doing renovations, the city is also considering decommissioning बांध 92.
Logo of the नई यॉर्क Cruise terminal.for
दशकों the टर्मिनल was the only ocean-going passenger terminal in New यॉर्क harbor.
With an upsurge in cruise ship traffic and the terminal 's क्षमता to हैंडल comfortably only three large ships at a time, two new terminals have opened in the harbor — the Cape स्वतंत्रता क्रूज Port खोली in 2004 in bayonne, New Jersey ( used by royal Caribbean Cruise लकीर, Celebrity Cruises and Azamara Cruises ), and the ब्रुकलीन Cruise Terminal ( used by the Queen मरियम 2 and other ships of the Carnival निगम cruise brands ) खोली in 2006 in Brooklyn, नई यॉर्क.
the वेस्ट Side राजमार्ग takes a छोटी jog east from the पियर to below West 42nd Street because when the terminal was built जमीन had to be taken away from Manhattan to allow for longer पियर.
the US Army corps of Engineers, who control the waterfront आयाम, would नहीं extend the pierhead line farther into the river, so the city विस्तारित the pier by cutting away at the land.
the city earlier did this for the Chelsea पियर ; however in Chelsea only landfill was taken away.
At the यात्री Terminal actual Manhattan schist was taken away.
From downstream in the नदी
Many major यात्री ships have docked there, including the RMS Queen Mary 2 and स्वतंत्रता of the Seas, पहले the Brooklyn and bayonne terminals खोली.
The SS Normandie caught fire और subsequently capsized at इसके Pier 88 berth during World War II.
The Normandie, renamed USS lafayette, झूठ capsized in the frozen mud at Pier 88 in the शीत of 1942
नॉर्वेजियाई Cruise Line 's soon to be newest ship the Norwegian Breakaway will sail year-round out of the New यॉर्क Passenger जलयान टर्मिनल.
The city होगा खर्च $ 4 million to renovate and उन्नयन the क्रूज terminal to accommodate the जलयान.
This is an overview of the regular, recurring, और other characters of the TV श्रेणी ncis.
Christian right is a term प्रयुक्त in the United States to describe right-wing Christian political समूह that हैं characterized by their strong support of socially conservative policies.
Christian conservatives principally seek to apply उनके understanding of the शिक्षाओं of christianity to politics और पब्लिक नीति by proclaiming the मान of those शिक्षाओं and/or by seeking to use those शिक्षाओं to influence विधि and पब्लिक policy.
In the u.S., the Christian right is an informal coalition formed around a core of evangelical Protestants कि draws `` support from politically conservative catholics, Jews, Mormons, and occasionally secularists '' जो share their goals.
The movement has its roots in American राजनीती going back as दूर the 1940s and has महरूम especially influential since the 1970s.
Their influence draws, in part, from grassroots activism as well as their फ़ोकस on सोशल मुद्दे and ability to motivate the electorate around those issues.
the Christian right is notable today for advancing socially रूढ़िवादी positions on issues including स्कूल prayer, stem cell research, homosexuality, निरोधक, abortion, और pornography.
हालांकि the Christian right is usually associated with the U.S., the गति रै been a कुंजी factor in the राजनीती of Canada, the Netherlands, Northern Ireland and Australia, among अन्य.
Far East Movement ( stylized as Far★East गति or abbreviated FM ) is an American हिप हॉप band quartet based in Los Angeles.
the group formed in 2003 and consists of Kev Nish ( Kevin Nishimura ), Prohgress ( जेम्स Roh ), J-Splif ( Jae choung ), and DJ Virman ( virman Coquia ).
Far East Movement 's पहला claim to कीर्ति थी उनके song `` गोलाकार Round '' प्रदर्शित in the Hollywood movie, The Fast and the Furious : Tokyo बहाव, and इसके subsequent soundtrack, video game और DVD.
Since `` Round Round '', the group has been featured on various network shows including,, अनुगामी, गपशप Girl, and Finishing the Game ( a featured film at Sundance 2007 ).
उनके single `` Like a g6 `` hit क्रमांक one on the बिलबोर्ड hot 100 Chart and on iTunes as well in late October 2010.
Far East Movement also has the भेद of होने the first Asian-American group to earn a # 1 hit on the Billboard Hot 100 in the संयुक्त States.
lr44 is the आईईसी नामांकन for an alkaline 1.5 volt button कोशिका, commonly used in छोटी LED flashlights, digital thermometers, calculators, calipers, watches, घड़ियाँ, toys and laser pointers.
lr44 alkaline cell
The battery nomenclature is पारिभाषित by the अंतरराष्ट्रीय विद्युततकनीकी Commission ( IEC ) in its 60086-3 मानक ( Primary batteries, भाग 3 देखें batteries ).
The अक्षर l indicates the electrochemical system used ; a zinc negative electrode, मैंगनीज dioxide depolarizer और positive electrode, and an alkaline electrolyte.
r44 indicates a round कोशिका 11.4±0.2 mm diameter and 5.2±0.2 mm height as defined by the IEC standard 60086.
Manufacturers have their अपना part numbers लिये IEC प्रकार lr44 batteries including:
lr44, LR44G, LR44GD, LR44H
lr1154, L1154, L1154C, l1154f, l1154g, L1154H
6135-99-792-8475 ( NSN )
1166A
AG13, A613, ag14, AG-14, g13a, G13-A
157, 303, 357
a76, GDA76, GP76A, GPA7, GPA75, GPA76, GPS76A,
1128MP, 208-904, A-76, CA18, ca19, cr44, D76A, KA, KA76, MS76H, PX76A, PX675A, RPX675, RW82, SB-F9, V13GA
4.5-volt, D, C, aa, AAA, AAAA, a23, 9-volt, CR2032 and LR44 बैटरी
अन्य types of batteries are or यहूद made in the R44 आकार.
Formerly, mercury बैटरी were made as button cells ( प्रकार MR44 और NR44 ).
Zinc-air बैटरी type PR44 आवश्यकता एयर to work.
Silver-oxide batteries type sr44 may provide extra क्षमता compared to LR44 types but have slightly अलग voltage characteristics.
प्रदर्शन of a यंत्र meant to use a silver-oxide battery may be degraded with substitution of LR44 types.
Manufacturer 's संख्याएँ for चांदी oxide R44 आकार cells include:
SR44/SR44W/SR44SW
6135-99-651-3240 ( NSN )
SR1154
1107SO
1131sop
SG13
s76
epx76 ( Energizer )
303/357 ( d357h )
hurricane Katrina was the deadliest और most destructive Atlantic hurricane of the 2005 Atlantic hurricane season.
it was the costliest natural विपत्ति, as खूब as one of the five deadliest hurricanes, in the history of the United States.
among recorded Atlantic hurricanes, it थी the sixth strongest overall.
At तनिक 1,833 लोगों died in the hurricane और subsequent floods, बनाना it the deadliest U.S. hurricane since the 1928 Okeechobee hurricane ; total प्रॉपर्टी damage was estimated at $ 81 billion ( 2005 USD ), nearly ट्रिपल the damage brought by Hurricane Andrew in 1992.
hurricane Katrina formed over the बहामा on August 23, 2005 and crossed southern Florida as a मॉडरेट Category 1 hurricane, causing some deaths और flooding there before strengthening rapidly in the गल्फ of मैक्सिको.
the hurricane strengthened to a Category 5 hurricane over the warm Gulf जल, लकिन weakened before making इसके second landfall as a Category 3 hurricane on the morning of Monday, अगस्त 29 in southeast Louisiana.
It caused कठोर destruction along the Gulf coast इससे central Florida to Texas, much of it due to the storm surge.
the most significant number of deaths occurred in नई ऑरलियन्स, Louisiana, which flooded as the levee system catastrophically failed, in अनेक cases hours after the storm had moved inland.
Eventually 80 % of the city और विशाल tracts of neighboring parishes became flooded, और the floodwaters lingered लिये weeks.
However, the worst प्रॉपर्टी damage occurred in तटीय क्षेत्रों, such as सब Mississippi beachfront towns, which were flooded over 90 % in घंटों, as boats और casino barges rammed इमारतें, pushing cars and houses अंतर्देशीय, with waters reaching 6–12 miles ( 10–19 km ) from the beach.
The hurricane surge protection failures in New Orleans हैं माना the worst civil अभियान्त्रिकी disaster in u.S. history and prompted a मुकदमा विरूद्ध the U.S. Army Corps of इंजीनियर्स ( usace ), the designers and builders of the तटबन्ध system as mandated by the Flood Control Act of 1965.
जिम्मेदारी for the failures और flooding was रखी squarely on the Army Corps in January 2008 by Judge stanwood डुवल, U.S. District Court, but the federal agency could not be held financially liable due to sovereign immunity in the Flood Control Act of 1928.
There was also an investigation of the प्रतिक्रियाएँ from संघीय, राज्य and local governments, resulting in the इस्तीफा of Federal आपात प्रबन्धन Agency ( FEMA ) director माइकल D. Brown, और of New ऑरलियन्स पुलिस Department ( NOPD ) Superintendent एडी Compass.
Several agencies including the संयुक्त States Coast गार्ड ( USCG ), National hurricane Center ( NHC ), and National Weather Service ( NWS ) were commended for उनके actions.
They provided accurate hurricane weather tracking forecasts with sufficient सीसे time.
Even the most insistent appeals from national, राज्य and local पब्लिक officials to residents to evacuate पहले the storm किया not warn that the levees could उल्लंघन और fail.
U.S. debt from 1940 to 2011.
Red lines indicate the `` debt held by the public '' and black लाइनों indicate the कुल national debt or gross public debt.
the difference is the `` intragovernmental कर्ज़, '' which includes दायित्वों to government programs ऐसे as Social Security.
stated as a formula, नेशनल कर्ज़ = Debt held by the Public + Intragovernmental Debt.
The second फलक shows the दो debt figures as a percentage of U.S. GDP ( dollar मान of U.S. आर्थिक उत्पादन लिये that year ).
The top panel is deflated so every साल is in 2010 डॉलर.
the United States public debt is the money borrowed by the federal government of the United राज्य through the issuing of securities by the Treasury and other federal सरकारी agencies.
US public debt consists of दो components:
कर्ज़ आयोजित by the पब्लिक includes राजकोष securities held by investors outside the संघीय सरकारी, including that held by individuals, corporations, the संघीय आरक्षित System and विदेशी, state and local governments.
Debt आयोजित by government खाते or intragovernmental debt includes non-marketable Treasury प्रतिभूति held in accounts administered by the federal government कि are owed to कार्यक्रम beneficiaries, ऐसे as the Social सुरक्षा Trust निधि.
कर्ज़ आयोजित by government accounts represents the संचयी surpluses, including interest earnings, of these accounts that have been invested in Treasury securities.
Public debt increases or decreases as a परिणाम of the सालाना एकीकृत budget deficit or surplus.
The संघीय government budget deficit or surplus is the अंतर between government रसीदें and spending, ignoring intra-governmental transfers.
However, some spending कि is excluded इससे the deficit ( supplemental appropriations ) also adds to the debt.
Historically, the us public debt as a share of GDP increased दौरान wars और recessions, and subsequently declined.
लिये उदाहरण, कर्ज़ आयोजित by the public as a share of GDP peaked बस after World War ii ( 113 % of GDP in 1945 ), but तब गिरी over the following 30 years.
In recent decades, however, large बजट deficits और the resulting increases in debt have led to concern about the long-term sustainability of the संघीय government 's fiscal policies.
On 2 April 2013, debt held by the public was approximately $ 11.959 trillion or परिचय 75 % of GDP.
intragovernmental holdings stood at $ 4.846 खरब, giving a संयुक्त कुल पब्लिक debt of $ 16.805 trillion.
as of January 2013, $ 5.6 trillion or approximately 47 % of the debt held by the पब्लिक was owned by foreign निवेशकों, the largest of which were the People 's Republic of China and जापानी at बस over $ 1.1 खरब each.
In बास्केट, an assist is attributed to a खिलाड़ी who passes the बॉल to a teammate in a रास्ता that लीड to a स्कोर by field goal, meaning that he or she was `` assisting '' in the basket.
There is some judgment involved in deciding whether a passer should be credited साथ an assist.
An assist can be scored for the passer भी if the player जो receives the pass makes a basket after dribbling the बॉल.
however, the original definition of an assist किया not include ऐसे परिस्थितियों, so the तुलना of assist statistics across eras is a complex पदार्थ.
तभी the pass directly before the स्कोर may be counted as an assist, so no अधिक than one assist can be अंकित per field goal ( unlike in other खेल, ऐसे as ice hockey ).
A pass कि leads to a shooting foul और scoring by free throws does not count as an assist in the NBA, but करता in FIBA play ( तभी एक assist is awarded per set of free throws in which at least एक free throw is made ).
Point गार्ड tend to get the सबसे assists per game ( apg ), as their role is primarily कि of a passer and ballhandler.
Centers tend to मिलेंगी fewer assists, but centers with शुभ मंजिल presence and court vision can dominate a team by assisting.
होने अंदर the key, the center often रै the best angles और the best position for `` dishes '' and अन्य short passes in the scoring area.
Center wilt चेम्बरलेन led the एनबीए in assists in 1968.
a strong center with inside-scoring prowess, ऐसे as former NBA बीच hakeem Olajuwon, can भी be an effective assistor because the रक्षा 's double-teaming tends to open up offense in the form of shooters.
The NBA single-game assist record is 30, held by Scott Skiles of the Orlando जादू विरूद्ध the Denver टेंडर्स, on December 30, 1990.
The NBA record for most career assists is held by John Stockton with 15,806.
The mill or mille ( ) ( sometimes mil in the UK, जब discussing property taxes in the United States, or previously in Cyprus और माल्टा ) is a now-abstract ईकाई of currency used sometimes in accounting.
in the संयुक्त States, it is a notional unit समतुल्य to of a United States डालर ( a tenth of a cent ).
In the United किंगडम it was प्रस्तावित दौरान the decades of discussion on the decimalization of the pound as a division of the pound स्टर्लिंग.
Several other currencies used the मिल, such as the Maltese lira.
The term comes from the Latin `` millesimum '', meaning `` thousandth part ''.
The greco-persian युद्धों ( also often called the Persian Wars ) were a series of conflicts between the Achaemenid Empire of Persia and city-states of the Hellenic संसार कि started in 499 BC and lasted until 449 BC.
The collision between the fractious political world of the Greeks and the enormous साम्राज्य of the Persians began when Cyrus the Great conquered ionia in 547 bc.
Struggling to नियम the independent-minded cities of Ionia, the Persians नियुक्त tyrants to नियम प्रत्येक of उन्हें.
इस would prove to be the source of much ट्रबल for the यूनानियों और Persians alike.
In 499 BC, the then tyrant of miletus, Aristagoras, embarked on an expedition to conquer the द्वीप of Naxos, with Persian support ; however, the expedition थी a debacle and, pre-empting his dismissal, Aristagoras incited all of हैलेनिक Asia Minor into rebellion against the Persians.
इस was the beginning of the Ionian विद्रोह, which would last until 493 BC, progressively आरेखण more regions of Asia Minor into the विरोध.
Aristagoras secured military support from एथेंस and Eretria, और in 498 BC ये शक्तियां helped to कैप्चर and burn the Persian क्षेत्रीय capital of Sardis.
The Persian king Darius the ग्रेट vowed to have revenge on Athens and eretria for this act.
The revolt continued, with the two पहलू effectively stalemated throughout 497–495 BC.
In 494 bc, the Persians regrouped, and attacked the epicentre of the विद्रोह in Miletus.
At the बैटल of lade, the Ionians suffered a निर्णायक शिकस्त, and the rebellion collapsed, साथ the final members होने stamped out the following year.
Seeking to secure his empire from further revolts and from the interference of the मेनलैंड Greeks, दारा embarked on a योजना to conquer Greece and to सजा Athens and Eretria लिये burning sardis.
The पहला Persian invasion of Greece began in 492 BC, साथ the Persian general Mardonius conquering Thrace और Macedon पहले several mishaps forced an early end to the campaign.
In 490 bc a second force was sent to Greece, this time आरपार the Aegean Sea, अंतर्गत the command of Datis and Artaphernes.
This expedition subjugated the cyclades, before besieging, capturing और razing Eretria.
However, while en route to attack Athens, the पारसी force was decisively defeated by the Athenians at the Battle of Marathon, समाप्ति Persian प्रयत्न for the time होने.
Darius तब began to plan to complete the conquest of Greece, लकिन died in 486 bc and जिम्मेदारी लिये the conquest passed to his son xerxes I.
In 480 BC, Xerxes personally led the second पारसी invasion of Greece साथ एक of the largest प्राचीन armies कभी assembled.
विजय over the 'allied ' Greek states ( led by Sparta और एथेंस ) at the Battle of thermopylae अनुमत the Persians to मशाल Athens and overrun most of Greece.
however, while seeking to नष्ट the combined यूनानी fleet, the Persians suffered a कठोर defeat at the Battle of Salamis.
The following year, the confederated Greeks went on the अप्रिय, defeating the पारसी army at the Battle of Plataea, and ending the invasion of Greece.
the allied यूनानियों followed up their success by destroying the बाकी of the Persian बेड़े at the Battle of Mycale, before expelling Persian garrisons from Sestos ( 479 BC ) and Byzantium ( 478 BC ).
The क्रियाएँ of the सामान्य Pausanias at the घेरा of byzantium alienated many of the यूनानी states from the Spartans, और the anti-Persian गठबंधन was therefore reconstituted around Athenian leadership, as the so-called Delian League.
The delian League continued to अभियान against फारस for the अगला three दशकों, beginning with the expulsion of the remaining पारसी garrisons from Europe.
At the बैटल of the Eurymedon in 466 BC, the League won a दोगुना victory कि finally secured freedom for the cities of ionia.
However, the League 's involvement in an Egyptian revolt ( from 460–454 BC ) resulted in a disastrous defeat, and further campaigning was suspended.
A fleet was sent to Cyprus in 451 bc, but achieved छोटी, and जब it withdrew the greco-persian Wars drew to a quiet end.
Some ऐतिहासिक sources suggest the समाप्त of hostilities was marked by a peace treaty between एथेंस and Persia, the so-called सलाम of callias.
Hooverville near Portland, ऑरेगॉन
A `` hooverville '' is the popular name लिये shanty towns निर्मित by homeless people during the Great अवसाद.
वे were named बाद Herbert Hoover, जो थी अध्यक्ष of the United States during the onset of the Depression and widely blamed लिये it.
The term was coined by Charles Michelson, publicity chief of the Democratic नेशनल कमेटी.
Matthew Michael hasselbeck ( born September 25, 1975 ) is an American football quarterback for the इंडियानापोलिस Colts of the नेशनल Football लीग ( NFL ).
He थी drafted in the sixth गोलाकार of the 1998 NFL Draft by the ग्रीन Bay Packers.
After a season on the अभ्यास squad और two सीज़न backing up Brett favre, he थी traded to the Seattle Seahawks in 2001.
Hasselbeck gained the starting role in 2003, और led Seattle to six playoff appearances and a Super कटोरी रूप ; he was selected to three प्रो Bowls and an All-Pro selection.
Following ten seasons with the सीहॉक्स, Hasselbeck joined the Tennessee Titans in 2011.
Hasselbeck तब signed a अनुबंध साथ the इंडियानापोलिस Colts in 2013 less than 24 घंटों after होने released by the टेनेसी Titans.
आईसीटी is inevitably related to the computer network.
Information and Communications Technology or ( ICT ), is often used as an extended synonym लिये information technology ( it ), but is a more विशिष्ट पद that तनावों the भूमिका of unified communications and the integration of दूरसंचार ( telephone lines and बेतार signals ), कंप्यूटर as खूब as जरुरी enterprise तन्त्र, middleware, storage, and audio-visual प्रणालियों, जिससे enable users to access, store, transmit, और manipulate information.
The phrase आईसीटी had been used by academic researchers चूंकि the 1980s, लकिन it became लोकप्रिय बाद it थी प्रयुक्त in a report to the UK government by Dennis stevenson in 1997 और in the revised नेशनल Curriculum for इंग्लैण्ड, वेल्स and उत्तरी Ireland in 2000.
the पद ICT is now also used to refer to the अभिसरण of audio-visual और टेलीफोन networks with computer संजाल through a सिंगल cabling or कड़ी system.
There are large आर्थिक incentives ( huge लागत बचत due to elimination of the telephone network ) to merge the audio-visual, building management and telephone network with the computer network system using a single unified system of cabling, signal distribution and management.
The term Infocommunications is used in some cases as a shorter form of information and communication ( s ) technology.
In fact infocommunications is the expansion of telecommunications साथ information processing और content handling functions on a आम digital technology base.
लिये a comparison of these and other शर्तें, see.
लिये आईसीटी विकास Index around the संसार, see.
This is a list of characters from जार्ज Lopez.
A schematic presentation of the plum खीर model of the atom ; in Thomson 's mathematical model the `` corpuscles '' ( or modern electrons ) were arranged non-randomly, in rotating बजती
the वर्तमान model of the sub-atomic structure involves a dense केंद्रक घिरी by a probabilistic `` cloud '' of electrons
The plum खीर model of the atom by J. J. thomson, who खोजा the electron in 1897, was प्रस्तावित in 1904 पहले the डिस्कवरी of the atomic nucleus in order to add the electron to the atomic model.
In this model, the atom is रचित of electrons ( which thomson still पुकारा `` corpuscles '', though G. J. stoney had प्रस्तावित कि atoms of electricity be called electrons in 1894 ) घिरी by a soup of positive charge to balance the electrons ' negative charges, जैसे negatively charged `` plums `` surrounded by positively charged `` pudding ``.
The electrons ( as we know them today ) were thought to be positioned throughout the अणु, लकिन with अनेक structures संभावित for positioning multiple electrons, particularly घूर्णन rings of electrons ( see below ).
बजाय of a soup, the atom थी also sometimes said to have था a `` cloud '' of धनात्मक चार्ज.
With इस model, thomson abandoned his earlier `` nebular अणु '' परिकल्पना in which the अणु was रचित of immaterial vortices.
Now, at least भाग of the atom was to be composed of Thomson 's particulate ऋणात्मक corpuscles, हालांकि the rest of the positively charged भाग of the atom remained somewhat nebulous and ill-defined.
The 1904 thomson मॉडल was disproved by the 1909 सुनहरा foil experiment of hans Geiger और Ernest मार्सडेन.
इस was interpreted by Ernest Rutherford in 1911
to imply a very small nucleus of the atom containing a very high धनात्मक charge ( in the case of सुनहरा, पर्याप्त to balance परिचय 100 electrons ), यूँ leading to the रदरफोर्ड model of the अणु.
Although gold रै an परमाणु number of 79, immediately after Rutherford 's पेपर appeared in 1911 Antonius Van den Broek made the intuitive सुझाव कि परमाणु number is नाभिकीय charge.
the matter required experiment to decide.
Henry Moseley 's work showed experimentally in 1913 ( see Moseley 's law ) that the effective nuclear charge थी very बंद to the परमाणु number ( Moseley found only एक ईकाई difference ), और Moseley referenced only the papers of वैन डेन Broek and Rutherford.
This कार्य culminated in the solar-system-like ( but quantum-limited ) bohr model of the अणु in the same year, in जिससे a nucleus containing an परमाणु क्रमांक of positive चार्ज is surrounded by an बराबर क्रमांक of electrons in orbital shells.
Bohr had भी प्रेरित moseley 's work.
thomson 's मॉडल थी compared ( though not by Thomson ) to a British मिठाई called प्लम pudding, hence the name.
thomson 's पेपर was प्रकाशित in the March 1904 edition of the Philosophical Magazine, the अग्रणी British science journal of the दिन.
In thomson 's दृश्य :... the atoms of the elements consist of a number of negatively electrified corpuscles enclosed in a sphere of वर्दी धनात्मक electrification,...
in इस model, the electrons were free to घूर्णन within the blob or cloud of positive substance.
ये orbits were stabilized in the model by the fact कि when an electron स्थानांतरित farther इससे the center of the positive बादल, it लगा a larger net positive inward फ़ोर्स, because there was अधिक material of opposite charge, inside its orbit ( see Gauss 's law ).
in thomson 's model, electrons were फ़्री to rotate in बजती जिससे were further stabilized by interactions between the electrons, and spectra were to be accounted for by उर्जा मतभेद of different ring orbits.
thomson attempted to make his model account लिये some of the major spectral lines known for some elements, but was not notably कामयाब at इस.
Still, thomson 's model ( साथ with a similar Saturnian ring model for atomic electrons, also put forward in 1904 by Nagaoka after James क्लर्क मैक्सवेल 's मॉडल of Saturn 's rings ), were earlier harbingers of the बाद and अधिक successful solar-system-like Bohr model of the अणु.
Typical strip of bacon.
Bacon is a cured मांस prepared इससे a सुअर.
It is first cured using large quantities of salt, either in a brine or in a dry पैकिंग ; the result is fresh bacon ( also ज्ञात as green बेकन ).
Fresh बेकन may then be further dried for weeks or months in cold एयर, or it may be boiled or smoked.
Fresh और dried बेकन is typically पकाया पहले eating.
boiled bacon is ready to खा, as is कुछ smoked बेकन, लकिन may be cooked further before खाने.
Bacon is prepared from several अलग cuts of meat.
It is प्रायः made from side and back कटौती of पोर्क, मगर in the United States, जहाँ it is almost always prepared from पोर्क belly ( typically referred to as `` streaky '', `` fatty '', or `` American style '' बाहर of the US and कनाडा ).
The side cut has more meat and less fat than the belly.
बेकन may be prepared from either of दो distinct back cuts : fatback, which is लगभग pure fat, and pork loin, which is very झुकना.
Bacon-cured पोर्क loin is known as back bacon.
uncooked pork belly बेकन strips.
Bacon may be eaten smoked, boiled, fried, baked, or grilled, or used as a नाबालिग संघटक to स्वाद dishes.
Bacon is also used for barding and larding roasts, especially game, e.g. venison, pheasant.
the word is derived इससे the Old High German bacho, अर्थ `` buttock '', `` ham '' or `` side of बेकन '', और cognate साथ the Old French बेकन.
In महाद्वीपीय Europe, this part of the pig is usually not स्मोक्ड like bacon is in the United राज्य ; it is प्रयुक्त primarily in cubes ( lardons ) as a cooking ingredient, valued both as a source of मोटे and लिये its flavor.
in Italy, इस is called pancetta और is usually cooked in छोटी cubes or served uncooked and thinly sliced as part of an antipasto.
Meat from other पशु, ऐसे as beef, मेमने, chicken, goat, or तुर्कों, may also be cut, cured, or otherwise prepared to resemble bacon, and may भी be referred to as `` bacon ''.
ऐसे use is common in areas with significant Jewish और Muslim populations.
The USDA defines bacon as `` the cured पेट of a swine carcass '' ; other कटौती and characteristics must be separately qualified ( e.g., `` smoked pork loin bacon '' ).
For सुरक्षा, बेकन must be treated to prevent trichinosis, caused by trichinella, a parasitic roundworm जिससे can be नष्ट by हीटिंग, जमने, drying, or धूम्रपान.
Bacon is distinguished from salt pork and हैम by मतभेद in the brine ( or शुष्क packing ).
Bacon brine has added curing ingredients, most notably sodium नाइट्राइट, और occasionally sodium नाइट्रेट or potassium nitrate ( साल्टपीटर ) ; sodium ascorbate or erythorbate are added to accelerate curing and stabilize color.
Flavorings such as brown sugar or maple are used for some products.
if used, sodium polyphosphates are added to improve sliceability और reduce spattering when the bacon is pan fried.
Today, a brine for ham, but नहीं bacon, includes a विशाल amount of शुगर.
Historically, `` ham '' and `` बेकन '' referred to different cuts of मांस कि were brined or packed identically, often together in the same barrel.
The Employee रिटायरमेंट Income Security अधिनियम of 1974 ( ERISA ) (, codified in भाग at ) is a federal law which establishes minimum standards लिये pension plans in private industry और provides लिये extensive नियम on the federal आय tax प्रभाव of transactions associated with employee benefit योजनाएँ.
ERISA was enacted to protect the interests of employee benefit plan भागीदार and उनके beneficiaries by:
Requiring the disclosure of वित्तीय और other information concerning the योजना to beneficiaries ;
establishing standards of conduct for plan fiduciaries ;
Providing लिये appropriate remedies and access to the federal न्यायालयों.
ERISA is sometimes used to refer to the पूरा body of कानून regulating employee benefit plans, which हैं found mainly in the Internal आय Code and erisa itself.
जिम्मेदारी for the interpretation and enforcement of erisa is divided among the Department of Labor, the Department of the Treasury ( विशेषकर the Internal Revenue सेवा ), and the Pension लाभ Guaranty निगम.
Illegal immigration to the संयुक्त States is the act of विदेशी नागरिकों प्रवेश the United राज्य, बगैर government permission and in violation of संयुक्त States nationality विधि, or staying beyond the termination date of a visa, also in उल्लंघन of the law.
A चेतावनी sign at the international boundary between the United States and Canada in Point Roberts, Washington.
A much different दृष्टिकोण at the u.s.-mexico border near el Paso, Texas
The undocumented immigrant population of the United States in 2008 was estimated by the Center for आव्रजन Studies to be about 11 million people, down from 12.5 लाख people in 2007.
अन्य estimates range from 7 to 20 million.
According to a 2005 pew Hispanic Center report, 56 % of undocumented आप्रवासियों were इससे मैक्सिको ; 22 % were from other Latin American countries ; 13 % were from Asia ; 6 % यहूद from Europe और Canada ; and 3 % were from Africa and the rest of the world.
Alvin Independent स्कूल District is a school ज़िला based in Alvin, टेक्सास ( USA ).
एल्विन ISD is a विशाल suburban स्कूल ज़िला दक्षिण of Houston in the समुदायों of एल्विन, Manvel, pearland, Hillcrest, Rosharon, Iowa उपनिवेश, Liverpool, and एम्सटर्डम.
AISD serves pearland नगर 's rapidly growing पश्चिमी portion of the city सहित the new large master-planned communities of Shadow Creek Ranch, South Fork, and Southern Trails.
Alvin ISD covers of land.
In इंसान anatomy, the ulnar nerve is a तंत्रिका which runs near the ulna bone.
the ulnar collateral ligament of कोहनी joint is in relation साथ the ulnar nerve.
The nerve is the largest unprotected nerve in the human देह ( अर्थ unprotected by muscle or अस्थि ), so injury is common.
इस तंत्रिका is directly connected to the little finger, और the adjacent half of the ring finger, supplying the palmar side of these fingers, सहित both front और वापस of the नुस्ख़े, शायद as far वापस as the fingernail beds.
One method of injuring the nerve is to स्ट्राइक the medial epicondyle of the humerus from posteriorly, or inferiorly with the elbow flexed.
The ulnar तंत्रिका is trapped between the bone and the overlying skin at इस point.
इस is commonly referred to as bumping one 's `` funny bone ''.
This name is thought to be a pun, based on the sound resemblance between the name of the bone of the upper arm, the `` humerus `` and the शब्द `` humorous ``.
Alternatively, according to the Oxford English Dictionary it may refer to `` the peculiar sensation अनुभवी when it is struck ''.
Hogwarts स्कूल of Witchcraft और Wizardry, shortened Hogwarts, is a fictional British स्कूल of magic for विद्यार्थी aged eleven to eighteen, and is the primary सेटिंग लिये the first छह books in j.K. Rowling 's Harry Potter series.
रोलिंग has suggested that she may have inadvertently लिया the name from the hogwort plant ( Croton capitatus ), जिससे she had देखी at Kew Gardens some time before writing the श्रेणी, although the names `` The Hogwarts '' and `` Hoggwart '' appear in the 1954 Nigel molesworth book How To Be Topp by geoffrey Willans.
Hogwarts स्कूल was voted as the 36th best Scottish educational establishment in a 2008 online ranking, outranking Edinburgh 's Loretto School.
According to a निदेशक of the Independent Schools संजाल rankings, it थी added to the schools listing `` for fun '' और थी then voted on.
The u.S. subprime mortgage crisis थी a set of events और conditions that led to a वित्तीय संकट and subsequent मंदी that began in 2008.
It was characterized by a rise in subprime बंधक delinquencies and foreclosures, और the resulting मनाही of securities समर्थित by कहा mortgages.
Several major financial संस्थानों collapsed in September 2008, साथ significant disruption in the flow of क्रेडिट to businesses और उपभोक्ता और the onset of a कठोर वैश्विक recession.
There were many कल्याणकारी of the crisis, साथ टीकाकारों assigning different levels of blame to वित्तीय institutions, regulators, credit एजेंसियों, सरकारी housing नीतियों, और consumers, among others.
a proximate cause was the rise in subprime lending.
the percentage of lower-quality subprime mortgages originated during a given year rose from the historical 8 % or निम्नतर range to approximately 20 % from 2004 to 2006, साथ much higher ratios in कुछ भाग of the U.S.
A ऊँची percentage of these subprime mortgages, over 90 % in 2006 for example, यहूद adjustable-rate mortgages.
These two परिवर्तन were part of a broader ट्रेंड of lowered lending मानकों और higher-risk बंधक products.
Further, U.S. households had become increasingly indebted, साथ the ratio of कर्ज़ to disposable personal आय rising इससे 77 % in 1990 to 127 % at the समाप्त of 2007, much of इस increase mortgage-related.
जब u.S. घर prices declined steeply after peaking in mid-2006, borrowers ' ability to refinance उनके loans became more difficult.
as adjustable-rate mortgages began to reset at higher interest rates ( causing higher मासिक भुगतान ), mortgage delinquencies soared.
Securities backed with mortgages, including subprime mortgages, widely आयोजित by financial firms globally, lost most of their मान.
वैश्विक निवेशकों also drastically reduced purchases of mortgage-backed debt और अन्य प्रतिभूति as part of a decline in the capacity और willingness of the private financial system to support lending.
Concerns about the soundness of u.S. credit और financial markets led to tightening credit around the world और slowing economic विकास in the u.S. and यूरोपीय.
the संकट had severe, long-lasting consequences for the U.S. और European economies.
The U.S. डाला a deep recession, साथ nearly 9 million jobs खोया during 2008 and 2009, roughly 6 % of the workforce.
U.S. आवास कीमतें fell nearly 30 % on average और the U.S. भण्डार market गिरी लगभग 50 % by early 2009.
As of early 2013, the U.S. stock market था recovered to its pre-crisis peak but आवास कीमतें remained near their low point और unemployment remained elevated.
Economic growth remained below pre-crisis स्तर.
यूरोपीय also continued to struggle साथ its own economic crisis.
Carl जंग in 1910.
मायर्स and Briggs extrapolated their MBTI सिद्धान्त इससे Jung 's कृतियाँ in his किताब मनोवैज्ञानिक Types.
The myers-briggs प्रकार Indicator ( MBTI ) assessment is a psychometric questionnaire designed to measure psychological preferences in कैसा people perceive the world and make decisions.
These preferences were extrapolated इससे the typological theories proposed by Carl गुस्ताव Jung and first प्रकाशित in उसके 1921 किताब Psychological Types ( English संस्करण, 1923 ).
Jung theorized कि there हैं four प्रिंसिपल psychological functions by जिससे we experience the world : sensation, intuition, feeling, और thinking.
One of ये चार functions is dominant most of the समय.
the original डेवलपर of the personality inventory यहूद katharine कुक Briggs and her daughter, इसाबेल Briggs Myers ; these two, having studied extensively the work of Jung, turned उनके ब्याज of human बर्ताव into a devotion of turning the theory of psychological types to practical use.
They began creating the indicator during World War II, believing that a knowledge of personality वरीयताओं होता help women who यहूद entering the industrial workforce लिये the पहला time to पहचानो the sort of war-time jobs that होता be `` most आरामदायक और प्रभावी ''.
the initial questionnaire grew into the myers-briggs Type indicator, which was first published in 1962.
The mbti focuses on normal populations and emphasizes the value of naturally occurring मतभेद.
Robert Kaplan and Dennis Saccuzzo मानना `` the underlying assumption of the MBTI is कि we all have specific preferences in the रास्ता we construe our experiences, and these वरीयताओं underlie हमारी interests, needs, values, और motivation '' ( p. 499 ).
`` Judas '' is a song by American रिकॉर्डिंग artist Lady Gaga, इससे her दूसरी studio album born This Way ( 2011 ).
It was released by Interscope रिकॉर्ड on अप्रैल 15, 2011, चार days ahead of its scheduled release.
लिखा and उत्पादित by Lady गागा और RedOne, `` यहूदा '' is a dance और electro house सोंग about a woman in love with a man who गद्दारी her.
It embodies the incidents that have haunted Gaga in the past, और its core meaning refers to the ऋणात्मक भाग of उसके life that she ca n't escape.
गागा has further explained कि the song was भी about honoring एक 's भीतरी darkness in order to bring oneself into the light.
The कलाकृति लिये the single was designed by Gaga in Microsoft Word.
In spite of a polarizing प्रभाव on अनेक religious समूह, the सोंग was generally खूब प्राप्त by आलोचकों, who likened the सोंग to `` Bad Romance `` with some noting it should have been the album 's lead single.
the song रै a similar ध्वनि to Gaga 's previous RedOne-produced tracks, सहित `` पोकर फेस ``, `` LoveGame ``, `` ख़राब रोमांस '', and `` Alejandro ``.
It contains तीन distinct hooks and a हाउस -influenced break down.
Gaga explained that the lines spoken during the breakdown talk परिचय her as beyond redemption, regarding the परंपरागत views of what a woman should be.
`` Judas '' initially had a strong sales opening, but थी कम successful commercially in comparison to Gaga 's previous singles.
The सोंग reached the शीर्ष ten of the charts in most प्रमुख म्यूज़िक markets, and also पहुँचे the top of the चार्ट in South Korea.
A music video for the सोंग was filmed in April 2011, co-directed by गागा and Laurieann Gibson and co-starring Norman Reedus.
it has a biblical storyline जहाँ reedus played Judas Iscariot and Gaga played Mary magdalene.
The वीडियो portrays them as modern day missionaries going to जेरूसलम.
It included the Biblical story of Judas betraying यीशु, and ended with Gaga as Magdalene getting stoned to death.
Before its release, the Catholic लीग condemned गागा for the alleged use of religious imagery and her role in the वीडियो.
However, critics generally praised the वीडियो, नहीं ढूंढना any अप्रिय content.
The video was मनोनीत for two पुरस्कार at the 2011 MTV Video Music Awards.
Gaga has performed `` Judas '' on a number of टेलीविज़न shows, including The Graham नॉर्टन Show, Saturday Night सजीव, Good Morning Americas `` Summer Concert Series '', the French x फ़ैक्टर as well as on The Ellen DeGeneres Show.
मारविन Gaye ( April 2, 1939April 1, 1984 ), born मारविन Pentz gay, Jr., was an American singer-songwriter and संगीतकार.
gaye helped to shape the sound of Motown Records in the 1960s साथ a string of हिट्स including `` कैसा Sweet It Is ( To be Loved By You ) `` and `` I सुना It Through the Grapevine `` and duet recordings with Mary Wells और Tammi Terrell, बाद earning the शीर्षक `` प्रिंस of Motown '' और `` Prince of Soul ''.
During the 1970s, Gaye अंकित the concept albums कया 's Going On and Let 's Get It On and became among the first artists in Motown to ब्रेक away from the reins of its production company.
gaye 's later recordings influenced several R & B subgenres ऐसे as शांत storm और neo-soul.
Following a period in यूरोपीय under a कर निर्वासन in the early 1980s, Gaye released the 1982 Grammy award-winning hit `` Sexual Healing `` and the मध्यरात्रि Love album.
चूंकि his death in 1984, Gaye has been posthumously honored by many संस्थानों, सहित the Grammy Lifetime उपलब्धि Award and the Rock and Roll हॉल of कीर्ति.
The Academy Award for Best चित्र is one of the अकादमी Awards of मेरिट प्रस्तुत annually by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences ( AMPAS ) to producers working in the motion picture उद्योग and is the only category in जिससे प्रत्येक member is eligible to मनोनीत for.
बेहतरीन Picture is considered the most important of the Academy Awards, as it represents all the directing, acting, music composing, writing, संपादन and अन्य प्रयत्न put forth into a film.
Consequently, Best Picture is the final पुरस्कार and the conclusion of the annual Academy पुरस्कार ceremony.
The Grand Staircase columns at the Dolby Theatre in Los Angeles, जहाँ the Academy Awards ceremonies have been held since 2002, showcase प्रत्येक film कि has won the Best चित्र title since the पुरस्कार 's inception 85 सालो ago.
Heavy बरसात is an interactive drama action-adventure वीडियो game created by French developer Quantic Dream exclusively for the PlayStation 3.
the game is written और directed by Quantic Dream 's संस्थापक and सीईओ दाउद पिंजरा.
Heavy rains story is a dramatic thriller modelled after फिल्मी noir, featuring four protagonists शामिल with the mystery of the origami Killer, a सीरियल killer who uses विस्तारित अवधि of वर्षा to drown his victims.
Ethan मंगल is trying to save his बेटे from being the next victim, while investigative journalist Madison Paige, एफबीआई profiler Norman Jayden, and निजी जासूस Scott शेल्बी हैं प्रत्येक trying to track down clues to the Origami कातिल 's पहचान.
The player interacts with the game by performing actions highlighted on screen related to motions on the नियंत्रक, and in some मामले, performing a श्रेणी of quick time events during fast-paced action sequences.
The player 's decisions and actions during the game will affect the कथा.
The main characters can be killed, and certain actions may lead to different scenes and endings.
A playable डेमो was released on 11 February 2010.
The demo was released prior to this तिथि for people जो took part in a Four दिन Challenge on 5 February 2010.
a patch to allow उपयोग of the PlayStation Move controller to play the game was released in सितंबर 2010.
Heavy Rain थी critically acclaimed and has sold over two million copies.
It won 2010 's Game of the Year from CNN और Gaming संघ, and Best PS3 खेल of 2010 by GameSpy and IGN.
a modified version of the खेल was released titled Heavy Rain Edition Modifiée exclusively in France, aimed towards a younger दर्शक.
In 2010, the खेल थी included in the book 1001 Video खेल You Must Play Before You die.
Total superannuation industry liabilities : सदस्यों funds और reserves ( A $ millions ) since 1988.
Annual total superannuation industry asset विकास 1996-2005.
Superannuation in Australia refers to the arrangements which लोगों मेक in Australia to have funds available लिये उन्हें in रिटायरमेंट.
In Australia, superannuation arrangements are government-supported and encouraged, और minimum provisions are अनिवार्य for employees.
For example, employers are जरूरी to pay a proportion of an employee 's salaries और wages ( फिलहाल 9 % ) into a superannuation fund, but लोगों are encouraged to put aside अतिरिक्त funds into superannuation.
the न्यूनतम दायित्व required by employers is set to बढ़ाएँ to 12 % धीरे stepping annually इससे 2013 to 2020.
an व्यक्तिगत can withdraw funds out of a superannuation fund when the व्यक्ति meets एक of the conditions of रिलीज contained in अनुसूची 1 of the superannuation उद्योग ( पर्यवेक्षण ) regulations 1994.
This is a list of the characters from the American comedy-drama television series the खेल.
Electoral कॉलेज map showing the results of the 2012 U.S. presidential चुनाव.
President Barack ओबामा ( d - il ) जीती the popular vote in 26 states and the District of Columbia ( denoted in blue ) to capture 332 electoral votes.
पूर्व राज्यपाल Mitt Romney ( R - MA ) won the लोकप्रिय vote in 24 states ( denoted in red ) to capture 206 electoral votes.
Cartogram प्रतिनिधित्व of the Electoral College vote for the 2012 election, साथ each square representing one electoral vote.
the United राज्य चुनावी College is the संस्था that officially elects the President and वाइस President of the संयुक्त States every four सालो.
the President और वाइस President are not निर्वाचित directly by the voters.
Instead, they हैं निर्वाचित by `` electors '' जो are chosen by popular vote on a state-by-state basis.
Electors are apportioned to प्रत्येक state और the District of Columbia, but not to territorial possessions of the United States, such as प्यूर्टो Rico और Guam.
The number of electors in each राज्य is बराबर to the number of members of कॉंग्रेस to which the state is हकदार.
The Twenty-third Amendment रै always resulted in the District of कोलंबिया having three निर्वाचक.
There are 538 निर्वाचक, based on there होने 435 प्रतिनिधि और 100 senators, प्लस the three electors इससे the ज़िला of Columbia.
Electors are pledged to particular अध्यक्षीय and vice presidential candidates, though unpledged electors हैं possible.
in सब राज्य, except maine and नेब्रास्का, निर्वाचक are elected on a `` winner-take-all '' आधार.
कि is, all निर्वाचक pledged to the अध्यक्षीय candidate who wins the most मत in a राज्य become निर्वाचक for that राज्य.
maine and Nebraska use the `` congressional district method '', selecting one elector within each congressional district by popular vote and selecting the बाकी दो electors by a राज्यव्यापी popular vote.
हालांकि no elector is required by संघीय विधि to honor a pledge, there have only been very few occasions when an elector voted contrary to a प्रतिज्ञा.
The Twelfth Amendment specifies how a President and Vice President are elected and requires each elector to cast one vote लिये President and another vote for वाइस President.
Critics argue कि the Electoral College is inherently undemocratic and gives झूले states अनुपातहीन influence in electing the President और वाइस अध्यक्ष.
The Electoral College gives a numeric advantage in the election of the president to the smaller राज्य, as the न्यूनतम number of electors for the small states is three compared to एक for the election of representatives.
On the other hand, the winner-take-all method of voting favors the larger राज्य.
A क्रमांक of constitutional amendments have been प्रस्तावित seeking to alter the चुनावी कॉलेज or replace it with a सीधा popular vote.
Barack hussein Obama II ( ; born August 4, 1961 ) is the 44th और current President of the संयुक्त States, the first African American to hold the office.
born in Honolulu, Hawaii, Obama is a graduate of Columbia University and Harvard विधि School, where he थी अध्यक्ष of the Harvard Law Review.
he थी a community आयोजक in शिकागो before कमाई his law उपाधि.
He worked as a civil अधिकारों attorney in शिकागो and taught संवैधानिक law at the विश्वविद्यालयों of Chicago Law School from 1992 to 2004.
He served three terms representing the 13th District in the Illinois Senate from 1997 to 2004, कार्यशील unsuccessfully for the United राज्य House of Representatives in 2000.
In 2004, Obama प्राप्त national attention during उसके campaign to represent Illinois in the संयुक्त States Senate साथ his victory in the March Democratic पार्टी primary, his keynote address at the Democratic National Convention in July, and उसके election to the Senate in November.
He began his अध्यक्षीय अभियान in 2007, and in 2008, बाद a close primary अभियान against Hillary Rodham Clinton, he won sufficient delegates in the Democratic Party primaries to receive the presidential nomination.
He तब defeated Republican nominee जॉन McCain in the सामान्य चुनाव, and was inaugurated as अध्यक्ष on January 20, 2009.
Nine months later, Obama was named the 2009 Nobel Peace Prize laureate.
He was re-elected अध्यक्ष in November 2012, defeating Republican nominee Mitt romney, and थी sworn in लिये a दूसरी term on जनवरी 20, 2013.
Early in उसके first term in दफ्तर, Obama signed into law economic stimulus विधान in response to the Great Recession in the form of the अमरीकी Recovery और Reinvestment Act of 2009 और the कर Relief, Unemployment बीमे Reauthorization, and Job Creation अधिनियम of 2010.
Other major domestic initiatives in उसके presidency शामिल the रोगी सुरक्षा और Affordable Care Act, often referred to as `` Obamacare '' ; the dodd–frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act ; the Do n't Ask, Do n't बताना Repeal Act of 2010 ; the बजट Control Act of 2011 ; और the American करदाताओं Relief Act of 2012.
in May 2012, he became the first बैठे u.S. president to publicly support same-sex विवाह और in 2013 his administration filed briefs which urged the Supreme अदालत to rule in एहसान of same-sex युगल in दो high-profile मामले.
in विदेशी policy, ओबामा ended U.S. military involvement in the Iraq War, increased troop levels in अफगानिस्तान, हस्ताक्षरित the New START arms control treaty साथ रूस, ordered U.S. military involvement in Libya, and ordered the military operation that resulted in the death of Osama बिन Laden.
The Honda cbr1100xx Super blackbird was a Honda motorcycle बना from 1996 to 2007.
The bike was developed to challenge the Kawasaki Ninja ZX-11 as the संसार 's fastest production मोटरसाइकिल, and होंडा succeeded साथ a top speed of.
Two सालो बाद the title passed to the suzuki Hayabusa, which पहुँचे.
The Blackbird is named after the Lockheed sr-71, also a speed record holder.
Sample view of an electronic health record आधारित on बिंब
Sample view of an electronic health record
An electronic health record ( ehr ) is an evolving concept पारिभाषित as a व्यवस्थित संग्रहण of इलेक्ट्रॉनिक स्वास्थ्य information about individual patients or populations.
It is a record in digital स्वरूप that is theoretically capable of being साझा across different health care settings.
In some cases this sharing can occur by रास्ता of network-connected enterprise-wide information systems and अन्य सूचना networks or exchanges.
ehrs may शामिल a range of data, सहित जनसांख्यिकी, medical history, medication and allergies, immunization औकात, laboratory test results, radiology images, vital signs, निजी stats like age और weight, and billing information.
The मेरिनर up on the mast in a तूफ़ान.
One of the wood-engraved illustrations by gustave doré.
The Rime of the प्राचीन मेरिनर ( originally The Rime of the Ancyent marinere ) is the longest major कविता by the अंग्रेज़ी कवि सैमुएल टेलर Coleridge, written in 1797–98 and published in 1798 in the first edition of Lyrical Ballads.
आधुनिक editions use a later संशोधित version मुद्रित in 1817 that featured a gloss.
साथ with other poems in Lyrical ballads, it थी a signal शिफ़्ट to modern poetry and the beginning of British Romantic literature.
A proxy auto-config ( PAC ) file defines कैसा वेब browsers और other user एजेंटों can automatically choose the appropriate प्रॉक्सी सर्वर ( अभिगम विधि ) for fetching a given url.
A PAC संचिका contains a JavaScript फलन “findproxyforurl ( url, host ) ”.
This फलन returns a string with एक or more access method specifications.
These विशेषताएँ cause the उपयोक्ता agent to use a particular प्रॉक्सी server or to connect सीधे.
अनेक विशेषताएँ provide a fall-back when a proxy fails to respond.
The ब्राउजर fetches इस PAC file before requesting other URLs.
The URL of the PAC file is either configured हस्तचालित or संकल्पित automatically by the वेब Proxy Autodiscovery प्रोटोकॉल.
Zendaya कोलमैन ( born September 1, 1996 ), known mononymously as Zendaya, is an American actress, singer and dancer.
वो सितारों on the Disney Channel sitcom शेक It Up as रॉकी Blue.
She has starred in two films and played one of the lead roles in the film frenemies as Halley Brandon.
She voiced फर्न in the Pixie खोखला खेल.
She appeared in Good Luck Charlie as Rocky Blue and in a शुभ Luck Charlie and Shake It Up crossover title Charlie शेक it Up.
She appeared on PrankStars as herself in the episode `` Walk The Prank '' and on A.N.T. Farm as sequoia Jones in the episode `` Creative सलाहकार. ''
Zendaya is also a संगीतकार.
वो signed a सौदे with Hollywood Records on अगस्त 8, 2012 and प्रारंभ रिकॉर्डिंग songs for उसके debut album on August 12, 2012.
वो released a single from an स्वतंत्र लेबल called `` Swag it Out `` और another सिंगल with Bella Thorne पुकारा `` Watch Me, '' which is featured on the Break it bas एल्बम.
On March 20, 2012, zendaya and Bella Thorne released an album together called शेक It Up : Live 2 Dance, each have उनके own song on it, along साथ a mash-up of both songs together as one.
On अगस्त 21, 2012, Zendaya and Bella Thorne released an ep called शेक It up : Made In Japan.
zendaya has a Christmas song पुकारा `` शेक Santa Shake, '' which is on the Disney Channel Holiday Playlist cd, which was released on October 2, 2012.
On कूच 5, 2013 the third Shake it Up साउंडट्रैक was released, entitled I < 3 Dance ; on it, Zendaya रै दो गीतों with Bella - `` Contagious प्रेम '' और `` This is My Dance Floor '' - as खूब as one solo song, `` ताल of My ढोल. ''
This is a सूची of airports in Pennsylvania ( a u.S. state ), grouped by type and sorted by location.
it contains सब public-use and सैन्य airports in the state.
कुछ private-use और former एयरपोर्ट may be included where notable, such as एयरपोर्ट that यहूद previously public-use, those with commercial enplanements अंकित by the FAA or airports assigned an iata airport code.
iOS ( previously iPhone os ) is a मोबाईल operating system developed and distributed by Apple Inc. Originally released in 2007 लिये the iPhone और iPod Touch प्लेटफ़ॉर्म, it has been extended to support other Apple devices such as the iPad and Apple tv.
Unlike microsoft 's Windows Phone and Google 's Android, Apple does not license iOS लिये installation on non-apple hardware.
, Apple 's App स्टोर contained more than 700,000 iOS अनुप्रयोग, which have collectively महरूम downloaded more than 30 billion times.
It had a 21 % share of the smartphone mobile operating system units shipped in the fourth क्वार्टर of 2012, behind only google 's एंड्रॉइड.
In जून 2012, it accounted for 65 % of मोबाईल web आंकड़ा consumption ( including use on both the iPod Touch and the iPad ).
At the half of 2012, there यहूद 410 million devices activated.
According to the खास media event held by Apple on September 12, 2012, 400 million devices have महरूम sold through June 2012.
The user interface of iOS is based on the अवधारणा of direct हेरफेर, using multi-touch इशारों.
Interface control elements consist of sliders, switches, and buttons.
Interaction with the os includes gestures such as swipe, tap, pinch, और reverse pinch, all of which have विशिष्ट परिभाषाएं भीतर the context of the आईओएस operating system and its multi-touch interface.
Internal accelerometers are प्रयुक्त by some applications to respond to shaking the device ( one common result is the undo command ) or rotating it in तीन आयाम ( one आम result is switching from portrait to लैंडस्केप mode ).
iOS is derived from OS x, साथ which it साझा the Darwin foundation.
iOS is ठहराना 's mobile version of the os X ऑपरेटिंग system used on Apple computers.
In आईओएस, there are four abstraction layers : the Core OS layer, the Core सेवाएं layer, the मीडिया परत, and the cocoa Touch परत.
The current version of the ऑपरेटिंग प्रणाली ( iOS 6.1.3 ) dedicates 1-1.5 gb of the device 's flash memory for the system partition, using roughly 800 mb of कि विभाजन ( varying by model ) for iOS itself.
आईओएस currently runs on iPhone, iPad, iPod टच और Apple tv.
The Plymouth Superbird is famous for its अत्यधिक high पश्च wing.
1987 Audi Sport quattros1 with its large wings at Pikes Peak
A spoiler is an automotive aerodynamic device जिनकी intended design फलन is to 'spoil ' unfavorable air movement across a body of a vehicle in motion, usually described as turbulence or drag.
Spoilers on the सामने of a गाडी are प्रायः called air dams, क्युकी in addition to directing air flow they भी reduce the amount of air flowing underneath the vehicle which generally reduces aerodynamic लिफ्ट and drag.
Spoilers are often fitted to रेस और high-performance खेल cars, although वे have become common on passenger vehicles as well.
कुछ spoilers हैं added to cars primarily for styling purposes and have either little aerodynamic benefit or भी मेक the aerodynamics बदतर.
विघ्न for cars are often incorrectly confused with, or the term used interchangeably साथ, विंग्स.
ऑटोमोटिव wings हैं डिवाइस whose intended design is to generate downforce as air passes around them, नहीं simply disrupt existing airflow patterns.
Mario, जो serves as Nintendo 's mascot, is a fictional character created by game designer Shigeru miyamoto and voiced by Charles martinet.
This is a list of video games जहाँ the character Mario plays a भाग, either as the समर्थक, antagonist, supporting character, as भाग of an ensemble cast, as a cameo, or in a game भीतर a game.
It does नहीं include सरल references to the character, such as the portraits of मारियो मिला in the लेजेंड of Zelda : A Link to the Past.
the year indicated is the year the game was पहला released, सबसे commonly in Japan ; games were sometimes released years बाद in other regions of the world.
the list शामिल ports, remakes and compilations.
It करता n't include कोई आभासी Console re-releases.
`` Man of Constant Sorrow '' ( also known as `` i am A man of निरंतर Sorrow '' ) is a traditional अमरीकी folk song first recorded by Dick burnett, a partially blind fiddler from Kentucky.
The सोंग was originally recorded by Burnett as `` विदाई Song '' मुद्रित in a Richard Burnett songbook, circa 1913.
an early संस्करण थी recorded by Emry आर्थर in 1928 ( Vocalion Vo 5208 ).
Public interest in the सोंग was renewed बाद the रिलीज of the 2000 फिल्मी O bhai, Where Art thou ?
, as it plays a central भूमिका in the फिल्मी 's plot.
The song was also included in the film 's अत्यधिक successful, multiple-platinum selling soundtrack.
जोसेफसन junction array chip developed by the National ब्यूरो of मानकों as a मानक वोल्ट
the volt ( symbol : v ) is the SI derived unit लिये electric संभावित ( वोल्टेज ), electric potential difference, and electromotive force.
The वोल्ट is named in सम्मान of the Italian physicist Alessandro volta ( 1745–1827 ), जो invented the voltaic pile, संभवतः the first chemical बैटरी.
a plaque commemorating the location of the साराजेवो assassination and steps of gavrilo Princip ( image taken in 1987, पहले steps were removed in 1992 and plaque बदला from Cyrillic to Latin script )
A plaque commemorating the location of the साराजेवो assassination ( image taken in 2009 )
on 28 जून 1914, archduke Franz फर्डिनेंड of ऑस्ट्रिया, heir presumptive to the Austro-Hungarian throne, और his wife, Sophie, Duchess of Hohenberg, were shot dead in Sarajevo, by Gavrilo princip, one of a group of छह Bosnian Serb assassins coordinated by डेनियल ilić.
The political objective of the assassination was to break off Austria-Hungary 's south-Slav provinces so वे could be combined into a Greater सर्बिया or a यूगोस्लाविया.
the हत्यारे ' motives यहूद सतत साथ the गति that बाद became ज्ञात as Young Bosnia.
Serbian सैन्य officers stood behind the attack.
At the शीर्ष of these सर्बियाई military conspirators थी मुख्य of Serbian Military Intelligence Dragutin dimitrijević, his righthand man प्रमुख vojislav Tankosić, and Masterspy Rade Malobabić.
प्रमुख Tankosić armed the हत्यारे साथ बम and pistols and trained them.
The हत्यारे were given अभिगम to the वही clandestine tunnel of safe-houses and एजेंटों that rade Malobabić प्रयुक्त for the infiltration of हथियार and operatives into Austria-Hungary.
The हत्यारे, the key members of the clandestine tunnel, and the key सर्बियाई military conspirators who were स्टिल alive यहूद arrested, आजमाया, convicted and punished.
Those who were arrested in Bosnia were tried in Sarajevo in October 1914.
The other conspirators were गिरफ्तार and tried पहले a सर्बियाई कंगारू court on the French-controlled salonika Front in 1916–1917 on unrelated false charges ; Serbia चलाया three of the शीर्ष military conspirators.
Much of कया is known परिचय the assassinations comes इससे ये two trials and related रिकॉर्ड.
कार्यभार of जिम्मेदारी लिये the bombing and murders of 28 June is highly controversial because the attack led to the outbreak of World युद्ध i one month later.
Mission सैन Juan capistrano थी a Spanish मिशन in Southern California, located in present-day San Juan Capistrano.
It was founded on All संतो ' Day November 1, 1776, by Spanish Catholics of the Franciscan अनुक्रम.
Named for giovanni da Capistrano, a 15th century theologian और `` योद्धा पुजारी '' who resided in the abruzzo region of Italy, San Juan capistrano रै the distinction of होने home to the oldest building in California स्टिल in उपयोग, a चैपल built in 1782.
Known alternately as `` सेरा 's चैपल '' और `` Father Serra 's Church, '' it is the only extant structure जहाँ it has been प्रलेखित that the padre Junipero Serra celebrated द्रव्यमान.
One of the best known of the Alta कैलिफ़ोर्निया missions ( और one of the few मिशन to have actually been संस्थापित twice—others being मिशन San Gabriel Arcángel and Mission La purísima concepción ).
The साईट was originally consecrated on October 30, 1775, by Father Fermín Lasuén, लकिन was quickly abandoned due to unrest among the indigenous population in सैन डिएगो.
The success of the settlement is evident in its historical records.
prior to the arrival of the missionaries, some 550 natives were scattered throughout the local area.
By 1790, the number of परिवर्तित Christians था grown to 700, and just six years later nearly 1,000 `` neophytes `` ( recent converts ) lived in or around the मिशन यौगिक.
1,649 baptisms यहूद conducted that year alone, out of the total 4,639 souls converted between 1776 and 1847.
More than 2,000 former निवासियों ( mostly Juaneño इंडियंस ) हैं buried in unmarked क़ब्रों in the Mission 's कब्रिस्तान ( campo santo ).
The remains of Father ( later Monsignor ) St. जॉन O'Sullivan, who पहचाना the property 's historic value और working tirelessly to conserve और rebuild its structures, are buried at the प्रवेश to the cemetery on the west side of the property, and a प्रतिमा raised in उसके honor stands at the head of the crypt.
the surviving चैपल भी serves as the final resting प्लेस of तीन पैड्रेस who passed on while serving at the Mission : fathers जोस Barona, Vicente Fustér, and विसेंट Pascual oliva are all entombed beneath the sanctuary floor.
the Criolla or `` Mission grape, '' थी first planted at San Juan Capistrano in 1779 ; in 1783, the पहला wine produced in alta कैलिफ़ोर्निया उभरा from the मिशन 's winery.
the मिशन entered a long period of gradual decline after secularization in 1833.
Numerous efforts were made over the सालो to restore the Mission to its former glory, लकिन none met with great success until the आगमन of Father o'sullivan in 1910.
Restoration efforts continue, and `` Serra 's Chapel '' is still प्रयुक्त लिये religious सेवाएं.
About half-a-million visitors, including 80,000 school children, आइये to the Mission each साल.
And while the ruins of `` The Great Stone Church '' ( which was all but leveled by an 1812 earthquake ) हैं a renowned architectural अचरज, the Mission is perhaps best ज्ञात लिये the annual `` Return of the Swallows '' which is traditionally observed प्रत्येक March 19 ( Saint Joseph 's दिन ).
Mission San Juan capistrano has परोसा as a favorite विषय लिये many notable artists, and has been immortalized in साहित्य and on film numerous times, perhaps more than any other मिशन.
In 1984, a आधुनिक church complex थी constructed just north और west of the मिशन compound and is अभी ज्ञात as Mission Basilica San Juan Capistrano.
Today, the mission compound serves as a संग्रहालय, with the Serra चैपल भीतर the compound serving as a chapel लिये the mission मोहल्ला.
Better Off Dead is a 1985 American teen रोमांटिक comedy film अभिनीत जॉन Cusack और लिखा and निर्देशित by Savage Steve Holland.
It tells the स्टोरी of ऊँची school student Lane Myer जो is suicidal after his girlfriend breaks up with him.
mercedes-benz Superdome ( originally Louisiana Superdome और commonly the superdome ) is a sports and exhibition stadium, located in the Central कारोबार ज़िला of New ऑरलियन्स, louisiana, USA.
Plans were drawn up in 1967, by the New Orleans modernist architectural firm of Curtis and Davis.
Its steel frame covers a expanse.
इसके dome is made of a Lamella multi-ringed फ़्रेम and रै a diameter of, making it the largest फिक्स्ड domed structure in the world.
It is home to the एनएफएल 's New Orleans संतो, the ncaa 's प्रभाग I-A tulane Green वेव football team ( the largest football स्टेडियम in Conference यूएसए ), the State फार्म Bayou Classic, the r+l वाहक New Orleans Bowl, the Allstate Sugar Bowl and, every fourth year, the BCS National Championship Game.
क्युकी of the आकार and location in एक of the major tourist गंतव्यों in the United States, the superdome routinely makes the `` short list '' of उम्मीदवार being माना for major sporting कार्यक्रम, such as the सुपर Bowl और the Final Four.
in 2005, the Superdome gained international attention of a different type when it housed हज़ारों of लोगों seeking आश्रय from hurricane Katrina.
the भवन suffered extensive damage as a परिणाम of the storm, and was बंद for many months afterward.
On October 3, 2011, it थी announced that German automaker Mercedes-Benz purchased naming rights to the stadium.
The new name took effect on October 23, 2011.
It is the third stadium कि has naming rights इससे mercedes-benz ( और first in the United States ), after the Mercedes-Benz Arena, the stadium of Bundesliga club vfb Stuttgart, in Stuttgart, Germany and the Mercedes-Benz Arena in Shanghai, China.
Lobby of जम्बो हाउस
Giraffe on the savannah at जम्बो House
Disney 's एनिमल Kingdom Lodge is an African-themed deluxe resort at the Walt Disney World रिज़ॉर्ट.
It खोली on अप्रैल 16, 2001.
the रिज़ॉर्ट is स्वामित्व और operated by वॉल्ट Disney Parks and रिसॉर्ट.
Disney 's Animal किंगडम आवास is located in the Animal Kingdom Resort Area, adjacent to Disney 's एनिमल किंगडम.
It gives guests the opportunity to view grazing वन्यजीव outside उनके कक्ष and public areas in the resort within निकटता of the animals, conveying the feeling of being in an African सवाना.
The People 's Party, भी known as the `` Populists '', was a short-lived political पार्टी in the United States established in 1891 during the Populist गति ( संयुक्त राज्य, 19th Century ).
it was most important in 1892-96, and then rapidly faded दूर.
Based among ग़रीब, white cotton किसानो in the South ( विशेषकर North कैरोलिना, अलबामा, and टेक्सास ) and hard-pressed गेहूं किसानो in the मैदान states ( विशेषकर Kansas और नेब्रास्का ), it represented a कट्टरपंथी crusading form of agrarianism and दुश्मनी to बैंको, railroads, and elites generally.
It sometimes formed coalitions साथ labor संघ, और in 1896 the डेमोक्रेट endorsed their presidential nominee, विलियम Jennings ब्रायन.
the terms `` populist '' और `` populism `` are commonly प्रयुक्त लिये anti-elitist appeals in opposition to स्थापित interests and mainstream पार्टियों.
Linguistic map of सीरियल, Cameroon, और बेनिन.
Sign in अंग्रेज़ी, outside the विश्वविद्यालयों of Lagos
There are hundreds of languages spoken in Nigeria.
The प्रमुख languages are योरूबा, हौसा, Igbo, ईदो, Fulfulde, Kanuri, and Ibibio.
the official language of सीरियल, English, the पूर्व colonial language, थी chosen to facilitate the cultural और linguistic एकता of the country.
अंग्रेज़ी, however, remains an विशेष preserve of the country 's urban elite, and is not widely spoken in rural areas, which comprise तीन quarters of the countries population.
Nigeria 's linguistic diversity is a microcosm of Africa as a whole, encompassing तीन प्रमुख African भाषाएं families : afroasiatic, Nilo-Saharan, and Niger–Congo.
Nigeria also has several as-yet unclassified भाषाएं, such as cen Tuum, which may represent a relic of an even वृहद diversity prior to the spread of the current language परिवारों.
a श्रेणी of events led to the attack on Pearl Harbor.
युद्ध between Japan और the संयुक्त States था been a possibility that each स्वदेश 's military forces नियोजित for since the 1920s, though रियल tension किया not शुरू until the 1931 invasion of Manchuria by जापानी.
Over the next decade, Japan expanded धीरे into China, अग्रणी to सब out war between the two in 1937.
In 1940 Japan invaded French इंडोचायना in an प्रयत्न to embargo सब imports into China, including war supplies खरीदा from the U.S.
This move prompted the United राज्य to embargo सब आयल exports, leading the Imperial Japanese Navy to estimate that it had less than two years of बंकर आयल remaining and to support the existing plans to seize oil resources in the Dutch ईस्ट Indies.
Planning had been underway for कुछ time on an attack on the `` Southern Resource Area '' to add it to the Greater East एशिया co-prosperity Sphere that जापानी envisioned in the Pacific.
the Philippine islands, at that समय an American territory, were भी a जापानी निशाना.
The Japanese सैन्य concluded that an आक्रमण of the फिलीपीन होता provoke an American military response.
Rather than seize and fortify the islands, and wait for the अपरिहार्य US counterattack, Japan 's military leaders instead decided on the pre-emptive Pearl Harbor आक्रमण, which they assumed होता negate the American शक्तियां needed for the मुक्ति and reconquest of the islands.
नियोजन लिये the आक्रमण had begun in बहुत जल्दी 1941, by Admiral isoroku Yamamoto.
He finally जीती assent from the Naval High कमांड by, among other बाते, threatening to resign.
The आक्रमण थी approved in the गर्मियाँ at an Imperial सम्मेलन and again at a दूसरी Conference in the fall.
Simultaneously over the साल, pilots यहूद trained, and जहाजों prepared लिये इसके execution.
Authority for the attack was granted at the दूसरी इम्पीरियल Conference if a राजनयिक परिणाम satisfactory to Japan was नहीं reached.
बाद final approval by सम्राट हिरोहितो the अनुक्रम to attack was issued at the beginning of December.
A common office stapler
A आम स्कूल stapler
A stapler is a mechanical device that joins sheets of पेपर or समान material by driving a पतला metal स्टेपल through the चादरें and folding the ends.
Staplers are widely प्रयुक्त in government, business, offices, homes और स्कूलों.
The word `` stapler '' can actually refer to a number of different devices of varying uses.
In जोड to joining paper sheets साथ, staplers can also be प्रयुक्त in a surgical setting to join tissue साथ with सर्जिकल staples to बंद a सर्जिकल wound ( much in the same रास्ता as stitches or sutures ).
Typically, most staplers are used to जुड़ें multiple sheets of paper.
पेपर staplers come in two पृथक types : manual and इलेक्ट्रिक.
हस्तचालित staplers हैं normally hand-held, although models कि are used जबकि set on a desk or other surface हैं not uncommon.
Electric staplers exist in a variety of अलग designs and models.
उनके primary operating function is to join विशाल संख्याएँ of paper sheets together in rapid succession.
Some electric staplers can जुड़ें up to 20 चादरें at a time.
swallowing, known scientifically as deglutition, is the प्रक्रम in the human or animal body that makes कुछ pass from the mouth, to the pharynx, और into the ग्रासनाल, जबकि shutting the epiglottis.
if इस fails और the object goes through the श्वासनली, then choking or pulmonary aspiration can occur.
In the इंसान body it is controlled by the swallowing reflex.
Thaddeus Stevens ( अप्रैल 4, 1792 – August 11, 1868 ), of पेन्सिलवेनिया, थी a leader of the कट्टरपंथी Republican faction of the रिपब्लिकन Party and a fierce opponent of slavery.
He थी one of the सबसे influential members in the इतिहास of Congress.
As chairman of the powerful House तरीके and Means Committee, Stevens, a witty, sarcastic speaker and flamboyant party leader, वर्चस्व the हाउस from 1861 until his death.
He wrote much of the financial legislation that paid for the American सिविल War.
स्टीवंस and Senator चार्ल्स Sumner were the prime leaders of the कट्टरपंथी republicans दौरान the war and पुनर्निर्माण era.
Scholarly views of Stevens have swung sharply चूंकि his death as interpretations of पुनर्निर्माण have changed.
Historians of the Dunning School ( 1890s–1940s ) held Stevens responsible for demanding harsh treatment of the white South and violating American traditions of republicanism, depicting स्टीवंस as a विलेन for his advocacy of harsh measures in the दक्षिण such as disfranchising all ex-Confederates.
इस highly ऋणात्मक characterization आयोजित sway into the 1950s.
The वृद्धि of the neo-abolitionist school in the 1950s led to a strong धनात्मक सराहना of स्टीवंस ' work on civil rights for Freedmen.
A recent biographer characterizes उसे as, `` The Great Commoner, रक्षक of free public education in Pennsylvania, national Republican leader in the struggles against गुलामी in the United States and intrepid mainstay of the attempt to secure racial justice for the Freedmen during Reconstruction, the only member of the हाउस of Representatives ever to have been ज्ञात as the 'dictator ' of Congress. ''
Overview of the translation of eukaryotic messenger rna
Diagram showing the translation of mrna and the synthesis of proteins by a ribosome
in molecular biology and genetics, translation is the प्रक्रम through जिससे cellular ribosomes manufacture proteins.
It is part of the प्रक्रम of gene अभिव्यक्ति.
In translation, मेसेंजर RNA ( mRNA ) produced by transcription is decoded by the ribosome to produce a specific amino acid chain, or polypeptide, that will later मोड़ें into an क्रियाशील protein.
in bacteria, अनुवाद occurs in the cell 's cytoplasm, जहाँ the large and छोटी subunits of the ribosome हैं located, and bind to the mRNA.
In eukaryotes, translation occurs आरपार the membrane of the endoplasmic reticulum in a process called vectorial संश्लेषण.
The राइबोसोम facilitates decoding by inducing the बाइंडिंग of trnas with पूरक anticodon sequences to that of the mrna.
the tRNAs carry specific amino acids that are chained together into a polypeptide as the mrna passes through और is `` read '' by the ribosome in a fashion reminiscent to that of a stock टिकर and टिकर टेप.
In many उदाहरण, the entire ribosome/mRNA complex binds to the outer झिल्ली of the अशिष्ट endoplasmic reticulum and releases the nascent protein polypeptide अंदर for बाद vesicle हस्तांतरण और secretion outside of the cell.
Many types of transcribed RNA, such as transfer rna, ribosomal RNA, और छोटी nuclear rna, do not undergo अनुवाद into proteins.
Translation proceeds in four phases : दीक्षा, elongation, translocation और termination ( all describing the growth of the amino acid chain, or polypeptide that is the product of अनुवाद ).
Amino acids are brought to ribosomes and assembled into proteins.
In सक्रियण, the सही अमीनो एसिड is covalently बंधुआ to the सही ट्रांसफ़र RNA ( tRNA ).
The amino एसिड is joined by its carboxyl group to the 3 ' OH of the tRNA by an ester bond.
When the tRNA has an अमीनो acid linked to it, it is termed `` charged ''.
Initiation involves the small subunit of the ribosome बाइंडिंग to the 5 ' समाप्त of mrna with the सहायता of initiation factors ( IF ).
Termination of the polypeptide happens जब the A site of the ribosome चेहरों a stop codon ( UAA, uag, or UGA ).
no tRNA can recognize or bind to इस codon.
बजाय, the stop codon induces the बाइंडिंग of a release factor प्रोटीन that prompts the disassembly of the entire ribosome/mRNA complex.
A क्रमांक of antibiotics अधिनियम by inhibiting translation ; these शामिल anisomycin, cycloheximide, chloramphenicol, tetracycline, streptomycin, erythromycin, and puromycin, among अन्य.
Prokaryotic ribosomes have a different ढांचा from that of eukaryotic ribosomes, and thus एंटीबायोटिक can specifically निशाना bacterial infections without any detriment to a eukaryotic मेजबान 's cells.
A मल्टीमीडिया message on a mobile phone.
Multimedia Messaging Service ( mms ) is a standard रास्ता to भेजें संदेश that include multimedia content to and from mobile phones.
It extends the core SMS ( छोटी संदेश Service ) काबिलियत that allowed exchange of text messages only up to 160 characters in length.
The most popular उपयोग is to भेजें photographs इससे camera-equipped handsets, although it is also popular as a विधि of delivering न्यूज और entertainment content including वीडियो, pictures, text pages and ringtones.
the standard is developed by the Open Mobile Alliance ( OMA ), हालांकि during विकास it थी part of the 3GPP and वैप समूह.
smallpox was an संक्रामक disease unique to humans, caused by either of दो वायरस variants, Variola major and Variola minor.
the disease is भी ज्ञात by the Latin names Variola or variola वीरा, निकला from varius ( `` spotted '' ) or varus ( `` pimple '' ).
The disease थी originally known in अंग्रेज़ी as the `` pox '' or `` रेड plague '' ; the term `` smallpox '' was first प्रयुक्त in Britain in the 15th century to फर्क variola from the `` great pox '' ( उपदंश ).
The last naturally occurring case of smallpox ( Variola minor ) was diagnosed on 26 October 1977.
Smallpox localized in small blood vessels of the skin और in the मुँह और throat.
In the स्किन it resulted in a characteristic maculopapular rash और, later, raised fluid-filled फफोले.
V. major produces a more serious disease and has an overall मृत्यु rate of 30–35 %.
V. minor causes a milder form of disease ( also ज्ञात as alastrim, cottonpox, milkpox, whitepox, and Cuban itch ) जिससे kills about 1 % of its victims.
Long-term complications of V. major संक्रमण शामिल characteristic scars, commonly on the face, which occur in 65–85 % of survivors.
Blindness resulting इससे corneal ulceration and scarring, and limb deformities due to arthritis और osteomyelitis हैं कम आम complications, देखी in परिचय 2–5 % of cases.
Smallpox is believed to have emerged in इंसान populations परिचय 10,000 BC.
the earliest शारीरिक evidence of it is probably the pustular rash on the mummified body of Pharaoh ramses V of मिश्र.
The disease मारे an estimated 400,000 Europeans annually during the closing years of the 18th century ( सहित five reigning monarchs ), and was जिम्मेदार for a third of all blindness.
of all those संक्रमित, 20–60 % —and over 80 % of infected children—died from the बीमारी.
Smallpox थी responsible लिये an estimated 300–500 लाख deaths during the 20th century.
As recently as 1967, the World स्वास्थ्य Organization ( WHO ) estimated that 15 million लोगों contracted the disease and that two लाख died in that year.
After टीकाकरण campaigns throughout the 19th और 20th सदियां, the जो certified the eradication of smallpox in 1979.
smallpox is एक of दो infectious रोगों to have महरूम eradicated, the other होने rinderpest, which was declared eradicated in 2011.
`` I Want to Hold Your Hand '' is a song by the अंग्रेज़ी rock band the बीटल्स.
लिखा by John लेनन and पॉल mccartney, and recorded in अक्तूबर 1963, it थी the first Beatles record to be बना using four-track उपकरण.
With advance orders exceeding एक लाख copies in the United किंगडम, `` I Want to Hold अपना हाथ '' would ordinarily have gone straight to the top of the अंग्रेजों record charts on its day of release ( 29 नवम्बर 1963 ) had it नहीं been अवरोधित by the group 's first million seller `` She loves You ``, the Beatles ' previous uk सिंगल, which was having a resurgent spell in the top position following intense media कवरेज of the group.
Taking two weeks to dislodge its predecessor, `` I Want to Hold अपना हाथ '' stayed at क्रमांक एक लिये five weeks और remained in the uk top fifty लिये twenty-one weeks in total.
It थी also the group 's first अमरीकी number one, entering the Billboard Hot 100 chart on 18 January 1964 at number forty-five and starting the British invasion of the American music industry.
by 1 February it held the number एक spot — for seven सप्ताह — before being replaced by `` She loves You '', a reverse scenario of कया था occurred in Britain, and remained in the US चार्ट for a कुल of fifteen weeks.
`` I Want to Hold Your हाथ '' became the बीटल्स ' best-selling सिंगल worldwide.
A gasser was a प्रकार of hot rod originating on the dragstrips of the United States in the लेट 1950s and continued until the early 1970s.
gassers यहूद आधारित on उत्पादन models इससे the 1930s to mid-1960s, जिससे have been stripped of extraneous weight and jacked up using a truck beam axle to provide better weight वितरण on acceleration ( Beam axles are also हल्का than an independent सामने suspension ), though a raised stock सामने suspension is common as well.
Common weight reduction तकनीकों include fiberglass body panels, stripped interiors और plexiglass windows ( sometimes color tinted ).
क्युकी they यहूद primarily निर्मित लिये racing, these cars typically had the इंजन swapped to a larger or अधिक शक्तिशाली one, the मौजूदा भण्डार इंजन modified ( often heavily ) or both.
it was very common to अनुरूप a जड़ें supercharger and mechanical fuel injection, such as एक from Algon, Hilborn, or Crower.
साथ form होने dictated by function, their appearance is often very top heavy and ungainly, largely due to सामने ends being raised higher than stock, to assist in the weight transfer during rapid त्वरण ( रेसिंग ).
Having उनके exhaust pipes exit through the सामने फेंडर खूब is a common characteristic of gassers, as is having लाशें painted in flamboyant metalflakes, pearls, and candy finishes complemented by lettering in wild फ़ॉन्ट्स.
The name arose क्युकी वे competed in a gasoline -fueled drag racing class, बल्कि than एक using methanol or nitromethane.
The gasser is the predecessor of the modern Funny Car.
Twelve-lead ईकेजी of a 26-year-old male
electrocardiography ( ईसीजी or EKG from ) is a transthoracic ( across the वक्ष or छाती ) निर्वचन of the electrical activity of the heart over a period of time, as detected by electrodes संलग्न to the surface of the skin और recorded by a device external to the body.
the recording उत्पादित by this noninvasive procedure is termed an electrocardiogram ( भी ईसीजी or ईकेजी ).
An ECG is used to measure the rate and regularity of heartbeats, as well as the size and position of the chambers, the presence of any damage to the heart, and the effects of drugs or devices used to regulate the heart, ऐसे as a pacemaker.
सबसे ecgs are performed for diagnostic or research purposes on इंसान hearts, लकिन may also be performed on animals, usually लिये diagnosis of दिल abnormalities or research.
Donald John Trump, Sr. ( born June 14, 1946 ) is an American कारोबार magnate, टेलीविज़न personality and author.
He is the chairman and president of The Trump संगठन and the founder of Trump entertainment Resorts.
Trump 's हद lifestyle, outspoken manner, and role on the NBC वास्तविकता show The Apprentice have made उसे a well-known celebrity who थी No. 14 on the 2012 Forbes हस्ती 100 list.
Trump is the son of Fred Trump, a धनवान नई York City real-estate developer.
he worked for his पिता 's firm, Elizabeth ट्रम्प & बेटे, while attending the Wharton School of the विश्वविद्यालयों of Pennsylvania, and in 1968 officially joined the company.
He थी दिए control of the कम्पनी in 1971 और renamed it The Trump संगठन.
in 2010, ट्रम्प expressed an ब्याज in बनने a candidate लिये president of the United States in the 2012 election, though in May 2011, he घोषित he would not be a candidate.
In December 2011, Trump was suggested as a संभावित vice अध्यक्षीय selection by मिशेल Bachmann, if वो were to win the रिपब्लिकन nomination.
`` a Change is Gon na Come '' is a 1964 single by R & B singer-songwriter Sam Cooke, written और first recorded in 1963 and released अंतर्गत the आरसीए विक्टर label shortly after his death in लेट 1964.
Though only a modest hit for Cooke in comparison with his previous singles, the song आए to exemplify the 1960s ' Civil Rights Movement.
the सोंग has gained in लोकप्रियता और critical acclaim in the decades चूंकि इसके रिलीज, और is # 12 on Rolling Stone 's 500 Greatest Songs of All Time.
Steam rising from the Nesjavellir geothermal Power Station in Iceland.
Geothermal energy is थर्मल energy generated and भंडारित in the Earth.
थर्मल energy is the energy that determines the temperature of matter.
The Geothermal उर्जा of the Earth 's crust originates from the original formation of the ग्रह ( 20 % ) and from radioactive decay of खनिज ( 80 % ).
The geothermal gradient, which is the difference in temperature between the कोर of the ग्रह and its सतह, ड्राइव a continuous conduction of thermal energy in the form of heat इससे the core to the सतह.
the adjective geothermal originates from the Greek जड़ें γη ( ge ), meaning धरती, and θερμος ( thermos ), meaning hot.
At the कोर of the धरती, thermal energy is created by radioactive decay and temperatures may पहुँचें over 5000 °c ( 9,000 °F ).
Heat conducts from the core to surrounding cooler rock.
The high temperature and pressure cause कुछ rock to melt, creating magma संवहन upward चूंकि it is हल्का than the ठोस rock.
The magma heats rock and water in the crust, sometimes up to 370 °C ( 700 °F ).
इससे hot springs, geothermal उर्जा रै महरूम प्रयुक्त लिये bathing चूंकि paleolithic times and लिये स्पेस हीटिंग since ancient Roman टाइम्स, but it is अभी better ज्ञात लिये electricity पीढी.
विश्वव्यापी, about 10,715 megawatts ( mw ) of geothermal शक्ति is online in 24 countries.
an additional 28 gigawatts of direct geothermal heating capacity is installed for district हीटिंग, space heating, स्पा, औद्योगिक प्रक्रियाओं, desalination and agricultural अनुप्रयोग.
Geothermal power is cost effective, विश्वसनीय, sustainable, and environmentally friendly, but has historically been सीमित to areas near tectonic plate boundaries.
Recent technological advances have dramatically विस्तारित the range and size of viable संसाधन, especially for अनुप्रयोग such as home heating, opening a potential लिये फैली शोषण.
geothermal wells release ग्रीनहाउस gases फंस गहन within the earth, but these emissions हैं much निम्नतर per उर्जा unit than those of fossil fuels.
As a परिणाम, geothermal power has the potential to help mitigate global warming if widely deployed in place of fossil fuels.
The Earth 's geothermal resources हैं theoretically more than पर्याप्त to supply मानवता 's energy needs, but only a बहुत small fraction may be profitably exploited.
खुदाई and exploration for deep resources is बहुत expensive.
forecasts लिये the future of geothermal शक्ति depend on assumptions परिचय technology, energy कीमतें, subsidies, and ब्याज rates.
Pilot programs like EWEB 's customer opt in Green Power कार्यक्रम show that customers would be willing to pay a छोटी more for a renewable energy सोर्स like geothermal.
But as a result of government assisted research and उद्योग अनुभव, the cost of generating geothermal शक्ति has decreased by 25 % over the पास्ट two decades.
In 2001, geothermal energy लागत between दो और टेन cents per सम्पात.
Ownership of property may be private, collective, or आम and the property may be वस्तुएँ, land/real estate, or intellectual property.
Determining स्वामित्व in विधि involves determining who has certain अधिकारों and duties over the property.
ये अधिकारों और duties, sometimes पुकारा a 'bundle of rights ', can be separated and held by different parties.
The question of स्वामित्व reaches back to the ancient philosophers, Plato and अरस्तू, जो आयोजित different opinions on the विषय.
Plato ( 428/427 BC – 348/347 BC ) thought निजी प्रॉपर्टी निर्मित divisive inequalities, while Aristotle ( 384 BC – 322 BC ) thought private प्रॉपर्टी enabled people to प्राप्त the full लाभ of their labor.
Private property can circumvent कया is now referred to as the “ tragedy of the commons ” प्रॉब्लम, जहाँ लोगों tend to रुसवा आम property अधिक than they do private property.
Given a short-sighted owner, however, a private प्रॉपर्टी प्रणाली can मेक these tragedies worse—for example, a private owner of a piece of oil-rich property, depending on his worldview, might be अधिक interested in short-term financial gain than incremental उपयोग साथ an eye toward other 's concerns ( e.g., those of future पीढियां, the disenfranchised, इत्यादि. ).
While Aristotle justified the existence of निजी ownership, he left open questions of ( 1 ) कैसा to allocate property between what is निजी and common और ( 2 ) कैसा to allocate the निजी property within society.
Over the सहस्राब्दियों, and across cultures कया can be property और how it is regarded culturally have varied widely.
Ownership is the आधार for many other concepts that रूप the foundations of ancient and modern societies such as money, trade, कर्ज़, bankruptcy, the criminality of चोरी, और निजी vs. public प्रॉपर्टी.
Ownership is the key building ब्लाक in the development of the capitalist socio-economic प्रणाली.
Adam Smith stated कि one of the sacred कानून of justice was to गार्ड a person 's property and possessions.
The प्रक्रम और mechanics of ownership are fairly जटिल : one can gain, transfer and lose ownership of प्रॉपर्टी in a number of तरीके.
to acquire property one can purchase it साथ money, trade it लिये other property, प्राप्त it as a gift, चोरी it, find it, make, it or होमस्टीड it.
One can transfer or खोना ownership of प्रॉपर्टी by selling it लिये धन, exchanging it लिये other property, giving it as a gift, being robbed of it, it, or having it stripped इससे one 's ownership through legal अर्थात् ऐसे as eviction, foreclosure, seizure, or taking.
Ownership is self-propagating in कि the owner of कोई property will भी अपना the economic benefits of that प्रॉपर्टी.
`` What 's My Name ? '' is a सोंग recorded by Barbadian रिकॉर्डिंग artist Rihanna, for her fifth स्टुडियो album लाउड ( 2010 ).
Featuring guest vocals from Canadian rapper Drake, the song was released as the दूसरी सिंगल इससे Loud on October 29, 2010 through Def Jam Recordings.
The r & B song was उत्पादित by the Norwegian production duo StarGate, and was लिखा by the duo along with Ester Dean, traci Hale, and Drake.
Lyrically, it incorporates विषयवस्तु of sexual intercourse and रोमांस.
Music critics gave the song धनात्मक समीक्षाएँ, citing it some of Rihanna 's बेहतरीन vocal कार्य to तिथि ; there was a तारीफ़ regarding its romantic nature, as well as its यौन tones.
`` कया 's My Name ? '' was a commercial success and topped the US बिलबोर्ड Hot 100 chart, giving रिहाना her third number-one सिंगल in 2010, as well as her eighth overall on the chart.
The सोंग also अव्वल the charts in हंगेरियाई और the United किंगडम and reached the top five in Canada, Ireland, नई जीलैंड, Norway and Slovakia.
The song प्राप्त a nomination at the 54th Grammy Awards for Best Rap/Sung सहयोग.
an accompanying म्यूज़िक video, निर्देशित by Philip Andelman, portrays a romantic encounter between Rihanna और Drake in a किराना store along with रोमांटिक scenes between the pair and रिहाना चलना through Manhattan 's Lower East पक्ष.
`` What 's My नाम ? '' was promoted with live performances across both sides of the अटलांटिक, including Saturday Night Live in अमेरिका and the श्रेणी सात finale of The X फ़ैक्टर in the United Kingdom.
The latter प्रदर्शन resulted in an investigation इससे the देश 's मीडिया regulator, ofcom, for the raunchy nature of रिहाना 's outfit.
a mathematical constant is a special क्रमांक, usually a real क्रमांक, that is `` significantly interesting in some रास्ता ''.
Constants उठता in अनेक different areas of गणित, with constants such as e ( mathematical निरंतर ) | and pi| occurring in such diverse contexts as geometry, क्रमांक theory and calculus.
What it means for a constant to उठता `` naturally '', and what makes a constant `` interesting '', is ultimately a matter of taste, और some mathematical स्थिरांक हैं notable more for historical reasons than लिये उनके intrinsic गणितीय interest.
the अधिक लोकप्रिय constants have been studied throughout the ages and computed to many decimal places.
All गणितीय स्थिरांक are definable numbers and प्रायः हैं also computable numbers ( Chaitin 's constant being a significant exception ).
Elections to the संयुक्त States सीनेट were held on November 2, 2010, for 37 of the United States Senate 's 100 सीटे.
( a special चुनाव on January 19, 2010 in मैसाचुसेट्स थी held earlier in the साल. )
thirty-four of the seats यहूद for six-year शर्तें to the सीनेट 's `` class three '', and three were special चुनावों for shorter terms.
Of the 37 चुनावों, 19 featured लाज़िम डेमोक्रेट ( 7 of whom retired or were defeated in the primary ) और 18 featured incumbent Republicans ( eight of जिसको retired or were defeated in the प्राथमिक ).
After the पिछला elections ( in 2008 ), the United States Senate was composed of 58 Democrats, 40 republicans, and 2 independents जो caucus with the Democrats.
republicans जीती चार seats held by retiring Democrats and Republicans defeated दो incumbent Democrats.
This was the largest number of Republicans gains since the 1994 चुनावों और also the पहला समय since that election that Republicans successfully defended all of their own seats.
This was the fourth consecutive चुनाव of `` क्लास 3 '' senators where Democrats have failed to gain सीटे and the third consecutive mid-term election आयोजित in a अध्यक्ष 's first term जहाँ Republicans have picked-up seats.
Despite these रिपब्लिकन wins, however, the Democrats retained a बहुमत of the सीनेट with 51 seats plus 2 independents जो caucus with उन्हें, compared to the 47 Republicans.
A solstice is an astronomical event that occurs twice प्रत्येक year as the Sun reaches its उच्चतम or न्यूनतम excursion सापेक्ष to the celestial equator on the celestial गोला.
As a result, on the दिन of the solstice, the Sun appears to have reached its उच्चतम or lowest annual ऊँचाई in the आसमान ऊपर the horizon at local solar noon.
The word संक्रांति is derived from the लैटिन सोल ( sun ) और sistere ( to stand still ), because at the solstices, the सूर्य stands स्टिल in declination ; that is, the seasonal movement of the सूर्य 's path ( as देखी from Earth ) comes to a stop before reversing direction.
The solstices, together साथ the equinoxes, हैं connected साथ the seasons.
In many cultures the solstices चिह्नित either the शुरूआत or the midpoint of शीत और summer.
the पद solstice can also be used in a broader sense, as the date ( दिन ) when इस occurs.
the day of the solstice is either the longest day of the year ( in गर्मियाँ ) or the shortest day of the year ( in winter ) for any place outside of the tropics.
Jerry Lee Lewis ( born September 29, 1935 ) is an अमरीकी rock and roll and country music singer-songwriter और pianist.
he is known by the nickname `` The कातिल '' and is often viewed as “rock & roll 's first ग्रेट wild man”.
an early pioneer of rock and roll music, in 1956 Lewis made his first recordings at सूर्य Records.
`` Crazy Arms `` बेची 300,000 नक़ल in the South, but it थी his 1957 hit `` Whole Lotta Shakin ' Going on `` कि shot लुईस to fame worldwide.
Lewis followed इस in that वही year when he recorded songs such as `` Great गेंदें of Fire ``, `` Breathless `` and `` ऊँची School Confidential ``.
लुईस sold more रिकॉर्ड than Elvis Presley at this time.
However, Lewis ' rock 'n ' roll career faltered in the वेक of his marriage to his यंग cousin.
He had little कामयाबी in the charts following the कांड and उसके popularity quickly faded.
His live performance शुल्क plummeted from $ 10,000 per night to $ 250.
In the meantime he was determined to gain back some of उसके popularity.
दौरान the early 60’s he किया n't have much chart success with few अपवाद such as `` What 'd I Say ``.
उसके live performances at इस समय यहूद increasingly wild and energetic.
His album Live at the स्टार Club, Hamburg इससे 1964 is प्रायः regarded by many music पत्रकारों और fans as एक of the wildest and greatest rock and फेंकें concert albums कभी.
After recording songs such as `` I 'm on Fire '' for अनेक years साथ little कामयाबी, in 1968 लुईस made a transition into country music and था हिट्स with गीतों such as `` another Place, Another Time ''.
This reignited his career and throughout the late '60s और '70s he regularly topped the country-western charts.
उसके # 1 देश हिट्स included `` to Make Love Sweeter For तुम ``, `` वहीँ जरूर Be More to Love Than This ``, `` Would You Take another Chance on Me `` and `` Me And Bobby McGee ``.
लुईस 's successes continued throughout the decade and he embraced his rock 'n ' roll past with songs such as a कवर of the Big Bopper 's `` chantilly Lace `` and `` Rockin ' my जीवन Away ``.
in the 21st century Lewis continues to tour to ऑडियंस around the world और still releases new albums.
एक such एल्बम, titled Last man खड़ा, is his best selling to date at over a million copies बेची worldwide.
This was followed by Mean Old man जिससे has received कुछ of the बेहतरीन sales of Lewis’s career.
Lewis has had a dozen gold records in both चट्टान and country, won several Grammy awards, including a Lifetime उपलब्धि Award.
लुईस was inducted into the चट्टान और फेंकें हॉल of कीर्ति in 1986, and his pioneering contribution to the genre has been recognized by the Rockabilly Hall of Fame.
in 1989, his life was chronicled in the फिल्म ग्रेट गेंदें of Fire, starring Dennis quaid.
In 2003, रोलिंग Stone पत्रिका listed उसके box set All कातिल, No Filler : the anthology number 242 on their list of `` 500 greatest albums of all समय ``.
In 2004, they ranked him क्रमांक 24 on their list of the 100 Greatest Artists of सब Time.
Lewis is the last surviving member of Sun Records ' लाख Dollar Quartet और the Class of '55 एल्बम, which also included Johnny नकदी, कार्ल Perkins, रॉय Orbison and Elvis Presley.
Henry लुई Stephens, untitled watercolor ( 1863 ) of a man पढना a newspaper with headline `` Presidential Proclamation / गुलामी ''.
The Emancipation Proclamation was an अनुक्रम जारी to all segments of the Executive branch ( सहित the फौज और नेवी ) of the संयुक्त States by President Abraham Lincoln on January 1, 1863, during the American Civil युद्ध.
It was based on the president 's constitutional authority as कमांडर in मुख्य of the armed forces ; it was not a law passed by Congress.
It proclaimed all those enslaved in Confederate territory to be forever फ़्री, and ordered the Army ( and सब segments of the Executive branch ) to treat as फ़्री सब those enslaved in ten states कि were स्टिल in rebellion, thus applying to 3.1 million of the 4 लाख slaves in the U.S.
The Proclamation could not be enforced in areas still under विद्रोह, but as the army took control of Confederate regions, the स्लेव in those regions were emancipated rather than लौटे to उनके masters.
From 20,000 to 50,000 former slaves in regions जहाँ rebellion had already been subdued यहूद तत्काल emancipated, and over 3 million अधिक were emancipated as the Union army उन्नत.
The Proclamation किया not लागू to the five slave states that यहूद not in rebellion, nor to सबसे regions already controlled by the Union army ; emancipation there would आइये after separate state क्रियाएँ and/or the दिसम्बर 1865 ratification of the Thirteenth Amendment, which made गुलामी illegal everywhere in the U.S.
The Proclamation did नहीं compensate the owners, किया not itself outlaw slavery, and did not make the ex-slaves ( पुकारा freedmen ) citizens.
it made the eradication of गुलामी an सुस्पष्ट war goal, in जोड to the goal of reuniting the Union.
on September 22, 1862, Lincoln had जारी a preliminary proclamation that he would अनुक्रम the emancipation of all स्लेव in कोई राज्य of the confederate States of अमेरिका that किया not return to Union control by January 1, 1863.
none returned, and the अनुक्रम, signed and issued January 1, 1863, took effect मगर in locations where the Union had already mostly regained control.
The उदघोषणा outraged श्वेत southerners जो envisioned a race war, angered कुछ Northern डेमोक्रेट, सक्रिय anti-slavery forces, and weakened forces in यूरोपीय कि wanted to intervene to सहायता the Confederacy.
it also lifted the spirits of अफ़्रीकी Americans both in the Southern and उत्तरी States, and led to many slaves escaping उनके masters and running behind Union lines in अनुक्रम to have their emancipation enforced.
Sucker Punch is a 2011 American fantasy action film directed by Zack Snyder और co-written by him और स्टीव शिबुया.
It is Snyder 's पहला film आधारित on an असली script.
The film सितारों Emily Browning, Abbie cornish, जेना Malone, Vanessa Hudgens, Jamie Chung, and Carla gugino.
the कथानक follows the fantasies of a यंग woman जो is वचनबद्ध to a दिमागी संस्था, as she makes a योजना to escape the hospital पहले suffering a lobotomy.
The film was released in both conventional and IMAX theatres in the United राज्य at midnight on March 25, 2011.
It received generally negative reviews from आलोचकों, but थी a मॉडरेट box दफ्तर success.
Front and वापस of Canon PowerShot A95, a ठेठ pocket-size digital camera
haselblad 503CW with Ixpress v96c डिजिटल back, an उदाहरण of a professional digital camera प्रणाली
a digital camera ( or digicam ) is a camera that takes वीडियो or still photographs by recording बिंब on an electronic image sensor.
Most cameras sold today are digital, and digital cameras are incorporated into many devices ranging from गुस्से and mobile phones ( called camera फोन ) to vehicles.
डिजिटल and फिल्मी cameras share an ऑप्टिकल system, typically using a lens with a variable diaphragm to focus light onto an image पिकअप device.
The diaphragm and शटर admit the correct amount of लाइट to the imager, just as with फिल्मी but the image पिकअप device is इलेक्ट्रॉनिक rather than रासायनिक.
however, unlike फिल्मी cameras, digital cameras can display images on a screen immediately after होने अंकित, and स्टोर and delete बिंब from memory.
Many digital कैमरे can also record moving video with ध्वनि.
Some digital cameras can crop and stitch तस्वीरें and perform other elementary image editing.
The अंदर and सामने of a डेल PowerEdge web server, a computer designed लिये रैक mounting
Multiple web servers may be used for a ऊँची traffic website, here four Sun आग x4200 servers are installed together
Web server can refer to either the hardware ( the computer ) or the software ( the computer application ) कि helps to deliver web content कि can be पहुँचा through the अंतरजाल.
the सबसे आम use of web servers is to मेजबान websites, but there are अन्य uses such as gaming, आंकड़ा storage or कार्यशील enterprise अनुप्रयोग.
the अमरीकी रेड Cross ( ARC ), also known as the अमरीकी National रेड Cross, is a humanitarian organization that provides आपात assistance, विपत्ति relief and education inside the संयुक्त States.
It is the designated u.S. संबद्ध of the International Federation of रेड Cross and Red crescent समाजों.
Today, in addition to domestic disaster राहत, the अमरीकी रेड Cross offers सेवाएं in five other क्षेत्रों : जातियाँ services that सहायता the needy ; communications सेवाएं and comfort लिये military members and their family members ; the collection, प्रसंस्करण and distribution of blood और blood products ; educational programs on preparedness, स्वास्थ्य, and सुरक्षा ; और अंतरराष्ट्रीय राहत और development programs.
Issued a corporate चार्टर by the संयुक्त States Congress under शीर्षक 36 of the United States Code, Section 3001, the American नेशनल Red क्रॉस is governed by स्वयंसेवक and supported by जातियाँ दान, आय from health and सुरक्षा training and उत्पाद, and income from blood products.
The अमरीकी Red Cross is headquartered in Washington, D.C.
the Chairman of the Board of Governors, serving उसके दूसरी three-year term, is Bonnie McElveen-Hunter.
The current President and Chief Executive Officer is गेल J. mcgovern.
a rooster in Kosovo
A मुर्गा, प्रर्दशित wattles, earlobes and comb
A rooster crowing ( साथ audio )
right
A मुर्गा ( भी called a cockerel or मुर्गा ) is a male gallinaceous bird.
It usually refers to a male मुर्गा ( gallus gallus ).
Immature पुरूष chickens कम than one साल बूढ़ा are called cockerels.
The term `` rooster '' originates in the United राज्य, and the पद is widely used throughout उत्तर America, as खूब as ऑस्ट्रेलिया और New जीलैंड.
in the संयुक्त Kingdom और आयरलैंड the older term `` cockerel '' is more commonly प्रयुक्त.
`` मुर्गा '' is in general use as the नाम for a पुरूष of other प्रजाति of बर्ड, for उदाहरण `` Cock गौरैया ''.
`` Roosting '' is the action of perching aloft to sleep at night, and is किया by दोनो sexes.
The मुर्गा is polygamous, but can नहीं गार्ड several nests of eggs at एकबार.
He guards the general क्षेत्रफल where his hens are nesting, और will attack अन्य roosters that enter his territory.
दौरान the daytime, he usually sits on a high perch, usually 3–5 फीट off the मैदान to serve as a lookout for his झुण्ड.
he will sound a distinctive alarm call if predators हैं आसपास.
the Pokémon Trading कार्ड Game ( Pokémon TCG ) is a collectible card खेल based on the Pokémon video game series, first published in October 1996 by Media फैक्टरी in Japan.
In the US, it was initially published by Wizards of the coast, the company that produces, in दिसम्बर 1998.
Nintendo took over publishing in June 2003.
It is एक of निन्टेंडो 's last बाकी strong links to its heritage as a playing card company.
Land Rover is a British car manufacturer with its headquarters in Gaydon, Warwickshire, संयुक्त Kingdom which specialises in four-wheel-drive vehicles.
It is भाग of the Jaguar Land Rover group, a subsidiary of Tata Motors of India.
It is the second oldest four-wheel-drive car brand in the world ( after जीपी ).
The Land Rover name was originally प्रयुक्त by the Rover Company for एक specific vehicle model, named बस the Land रोवर, launched by Rover in 1948.
Over the following सालो it developed into a marque encompassing a दायरा of four-wheel-drive models, including the defender, डिस्कवरी, Freelander, Range Rover, Range रोवर खेल and Range रोवर Evoque.
Land रोवर्स हैं फिलहाल assembled in the company 's Halewood and Solihull plants, with शोध and विकास लेने place at jlr 's gaydon और Whitley engineering centres.
Land Rover sold 194,000 वाहनों विश्वव्यापी in 2009.
Although the ब्रांड originates इससे the original 1948 model, जमीन रोवर as a कम्पनी रै तभी existed चूंकि 1978.
prior to this, it थी a उत्पाद line of the Rover Company which थी subsequently absorbed into the Rover-Triumph division of the अंग्रेजों leyland मोटर Corporation ( BL ) following Leyland मोटर निगम ’s takeover of रोवर in 1967.
The ongoing वाणिज्यिक success of the original Land Rover series मॉडल, and latterly the Range रोवर in the 1970s in the midst of bl’s well प्रलेखित business troubles prompted the establishment of a separate Land Rover company but still अंतर्गत the BL umbrella, remaining भाग of the subsequent Rover समूह in 1988, under the स्वामित्व of British Aerospace after the remains of British Leyland were टूटा up and privatised.
in 1994 Rover Group plc was acquired by BMW.
in 2000, Rover Group थी broken-up by BMW and Land रोवर थी sold to Ford मोटर कम्पनी, बनने part of इसके Premier ऑटोमोटिव समूह.
In 2006 Ford खरीदा the Rover brand इससे bmw for around £6 million.
इस reunited the रोवर and जमीन Rover ब्रांड्स लिये the first time चूंकि 2000 when the रोवर group was broken up by BMW.
In June 2008, Ford बेची both Land रोवर and Jaguar Cars to tata Motors.
This sale also included the dormant Rover brand
The cover of the पहला DVD compilation released by aniplex of The नई Captain shūsuke amagai चाप
The ninth ऋतु of the Bleach दुश्मनी series is named.
The series is आधारित on Tite Kubo 's manga with same नाम.
the episodes हैं निर्देशित by Noriyuki Abe और उत्पादित by TV टोकियो, Dentsu, and Studio pierrot.
The एपीसोड ' प्लाट focuses on the introduction of a new आत्मा reaper captain, shūsuke Amagai, and the mystery surrounding the kasumiōji clan, one of the परिवारों कि constitute the nobility of आत्मा Society.
The season began airing on April 23, 2008 in Japan on TV Tokyo and ended on अक्तूबर 7, 2008.
the English adaptation of the ब्लीच दुश्मनी is licensed by viz Media, and this arc began airing on August 28, 2010 on Cartoon Network 's वयस्क Swim, and finished on जनवरी 29, 2011.
पाँच DVD compilations, each containing four एपीसोड of the season, have been released by Aniplex ; the first dvd compilation was released on नवम्बर 26, 2008 and the fifth on March 25, 2009.
a DVD box will be published by viz Media on दिसम्बर 13, 2011.
the episodes उपयोग three टुकड़े of theme music : एक opening थीम और two closing themes.
The opening theme is `` chu-bura `` by Kelun.
the first closing theme is `` Orange '' by Lil'B, used लिये एपीसोड 168 to 179, और the second closing थीम is `` Gallop '' by pe'zmoku, used for the remainder of the episodes.
The विनियमन of prostitution in the संयुक्त राज्य is not among the enumerated powers of the federal government ; Under the Tenth Amendment to the United States संविधान, it is therefore exclusively the domain of the राज्य to परमिट, prohibit, or वरना विनियमित commercial sex, मगर insofar as Congress may regulate it as part of interstate commerce साथ laws like the मन Act.
In most राज्य, वेश्यावृति is considered a misdemeanor in the category of public order अपराधों, a crime that disrupts the order of a community.
It was at one समय माना to be a vagrancy crime.
Currently, Nevada is the only state to allow brothel prostitution, the शर्तें of which are stipulated in the Nevada Revised statutes.
तभी 8 counties फिलहाल contain active brothels.
सब फ़ॉर्म of prostitution are illegal in Clark County ( which contains the Las Vegas–Paradise metropolitan क्षेत्रफल ), Washoe County ( which contains Reno ), Carson नगर, Douglas काउंटी, और lincoln County.
The अन्य counties theoretically allow brothel prostitution, but some of ये counties currently have no active brothels.
Street prostitution, `` pandering, '' and living off of the proceeds of a वेश्या remain illegal under Nevada law, as elsewhere in the country.
As with other countries, prostitution in the United States can be divided into three broad categories : street वेश्यावृति, brothel prostitution, and अनुरक्षण prostitution.
The ईस्ट Coast of the United States, भी known as the Eastern Seaboard or the Atlantic Seaboard and commonly shortened to ईस्ट Coast, refers to the easternmost coast of the United States along the Atlantic समंदर.
The राज्य which have shoreline on the ईस्ट Coast are, from north to south, the u.S. states of Maine, New हैम्पशायर, मैसाचुसेट्स, rhode Island, Connecticut, नई यॉर्क, नई जर्सी, Delaware, मेरीलैंड, Virginia, North Carolina, South कैरोलिना, Georgia, and Florida.
रिचर्ड Milhous Nixon ( January 9, 1913 – April 22, 1994 ) was the 37th President of the United States, serving इससे 1969 to 1974, जब he became the only president to resign the office.
निक्सन had previously served as a रिपब्लिकन u.S. प्रतिनिधि and senator from California and as the 36th Vice अध्यक्ष of the United States from 1953 to 1961.
Nixon was born in yorba Linda, California.
he ग्रैजुएट from Whittier College in 1934 and ड्यूक University School of Law in 1937, returning to कैलिफ़ोर्निया to practice law.
He and उसके wife, Pat Nixon, moved to वॉशिंगटन to work for the federal government in 1942.
he subsequently served in the United States नेवी दौरान World युद्ध II.
Nixon was निर्वाचित in कैलिफ़ोर्निया to the House of Representatives in 1946 और to the सीनेट in 1950.
His pursuit of the Alger Hiss case established his reputation as a leading anti-communist, and elevated him to नेशनल prominence.
He थी the running mate of Dwight D. Eisenhower, the Republican पार्टी presidential nominee in the 1952 चुनाव.
निक्सन served for eight सालो as vice president.
he waged an unsuccessful अध्यक्षीय अभियान in 1960, narrowly खोने to John F. Kennedy, and lost a race for Governor of California in 1962.
In 1968, he भागा again for the presidency and थी elected.
Although निक्सन initially escalated America 's involvement in the Vietnam War, he subsequently ended u.S. involvement in 1973.
निक्सन 's visit to the People 's गणतंत्र of China in 1972 opened राजनयिक relations between the दो nations, and he initiated détente and the Anti-Ballistic Missile सन्धि with the Soviet Union the वही year.
Domestically, his administration generally embraced policies कि transferred शक्ति इससे वॉशिंगटन to the states.
Among other things, he launched पहलों to fight cancer and illegal drugs, imposed मजदूरी और price controls, enforced desegregation of some दक्षिणी schools, and established the Environmental Protection Agency.
Though he presided over the lunar landings beginning with Apollo 11, he scaled वापस manned स्पेस exploration.
He was re-elected by a landslide in 1972.
Nixon 's दूसरी term देखी an अरब oil embargo, the resignation of his vice अध्यक्ष, spiro agnew, and a continuing series of revelations परिचय the वाटरगेट scandal and अन्य misconduct by members of the administration.
The कांड escalated, costing Nixon much of his political support, and on August 9, 1974, he resigned in the face of लगभग certain impeachment and removal from office.
After his resignation, he controversially received a pardon issued by his successor, Gerald Ford.
In retirement, निक्सन 's कार्य as an elder statesman, authoring several books और undertaking many foreign trips, helped to rehabilitate his पब्लिक image.
He suffered a debilitating stroke on April 18, 1994, and died चार दिनों later at the age of 81.
Sertraline hydrochloride ( trade names Zoloft, lustral ) is an antidepressant of the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor ( SSRI ) class.
It was introduced to the market by Pfizer in 1991.
sertraline is primarily prescribed for प्रमुख depressive disorder in adult outpatients as खूब as obsessive–compulsive, panic, and सोशल anxiety disorders in both adults and children.
in 2011, it was the second-most विहित antidepressant on the U.S. retail market, with 37,208,000 prescriptions.
The efficacy of sertraline for depression is similar to कि of older tricyclic antidepressants, but its side effects are much less pronounced.
मतभेद with newer antidepressants are subtler and also mostly confined to side effects.
Evidence suggests कि sertraline may कार्य बेहतर than fluoxetine ( Prozac ) for some subtypes of depression.
Treatment of panic disorder with sertraline परिणाम in a significant घटी of the क्रमांक of panic हमले and in improved quality of life.
लिये obsessive-compulsive disorder, sertraline is not as प्रभावी as cognitive behavioral चिकित्सा ; the best results have been achieved by combining ये two treatments.
Although स्वीकृत लिये social phobia और posttraumatic तनाव disorder, sertraline leads to तभी modest improvement in these conditions.
sertraline भी alleviates the symptoms of premenstrual dysphoric विकार and can be प्रयुक्त in sub-therapeutic doses or intermittently for इसके उपचार.
Sertraline shares the common side प्रभाव और contraindications of other SSRIs, साथ ऊँची rates of nausea, अतिसार, insomnia, and sexual side effects ; however, it does not cause वज़न gain, और its effects on both संज्ञान and vigilance are relatively mild.
In pregnant women लेने sertraline, the drug थी present in significant concentrations in fetal blood, and was also संबद्ध with a higher rate of various birth defects.
Similarly to other antidepressants, the use of sertraline for depression may be associated with a higher rate of suicidality.
the पाँच Heartbeats is a 1991 musical drama फिल्मी directed by Robert Townsend, who co-wrote the script साथ keenan Ivory Wayans.
Distributed by 20th Century Fox, the film 's main cast शामिल Townsend, माइकल Wright, Leon Robinson, हैरी J. lennix, Tico Wells, Harold निकोलस of the निकोलस Brothers, और diahann कैरल.
the plot of the film ( जिससे is loosely आधारित on the lives of several artists : The Dells, The temptations, Four Tops, Wilson Pickett, जेम्स भूरा, Frankie lymon, sam cooke and अन्य ) follows the three decade career of the R & B vocal group The Five Heartbeats.
The film depicts the rise and fall of a Motown inspired soul act through the eyes of the film 's main समर्थक, Donald `` Duck '' Matthews ( portrayed by टाउनसेंड ), who serves as a narrator throughout the film.
However, a majority of the सिनेमा is प्रस्तुत in a consecutive time लकीर as opposed to traditional फ्लैश backs.
The फिल्मी includes a significant amount of original music conceived by various कलाकारों लिये the film 's soundtrack, including singles such as `` A दिल is a हाउस लिये Love ``, `` We Have n't समाप्त Yet '', and `` Nothing लकिन प्रेम ''.
the film was released to most North American ऑडियंस March 29, 1991 however it थी not made available to ऑडियंस in other continents until 2002 when a DVD was released prior to another dvd release in 2006 for the film 's 15th anniversary.
The movie received मिश्रित reviews इससे critics.
Secretariat ( March 30, 1970 – October 4, 1989 ) was an अमरीकी Thoroughbred racehorse कि in 1973 became the first U.S. Triple क्राउन champion in 25 सालो.
he set race records in all three कार्यक्रम in the Series — the Kentucky Derby ( 1:59.4 ), the Preakness Stakes ( 1:53 ), और the belmont stakes ( 2:24 ) — records कि स्टिल स्टैंड today.
He is माना to be one of the greatest thoroughbreds of सब time.
In 1999, ESPN ranked सचिवालय the 35th best खिलाड़ी of the 20th century, the highest ranking racehorse on the list URL_http.
He क्रमित second behind Man o ' War in the blood-horse 's सूची of the Top 100 U.S. Racehorses of the 20th सदी.
Secretariat थी sired by Bold Ruler out of somethingroyal, by Princequillo.
he was foaled at the Meadow in Caroline County, Virginia.
जैसे his प्रसिद्ध पूर्ववर्ती Man o ' War, Secretariat was a विशाल chestnut colt and was दिए the same nickname, `` Big Red. ''
Secretariat 's grandsire, nasrullah, is also the great-great-grandsire of 1977 Triple क्राउन winner सिएटल Slew.
Owned by Penny Chenery, he थी trained by Lucien Laurin और मुख्यतः ridden by Canadian jockey Ron Turcotte, साथ with प्रशिक्षु jockey पॉल फेलिसियानो ( पहला two races ), and दिग्गज Eddie Maple ( last रेस ).
He raced in Chenery 's Meadow Stable 's blue और white checkered colors and his दूल्हे थी Eddie Sweat.
सचिवालय stood approximately tall, and weighed, साथ a 75-inch girth, in his racing prime.
a typical 12 V, 40 Ah lead-acid car battery
An automotive battery is a type of rechargeable battery that आपूर्तियाँ electric energy to an ऑटोमोबाइल.
Usually इस refers to an SLI बैटरी ( starting, lighting, ignition ) to शक्ति the प्रारंभ मोटर, the lights, और the प्रज्वलन system of a vehicle’s इंजन.
Automotive SLI बैटरी are usually lead-acid type, और are made of six गैल्वानी cells in series to provide a 12 volt system.
प्रत्येक cell provides 2.1 volts लिये a कुल of 12.6 volt at पूरा चार्ज.
भारी vehicles such as highway ट्रक or tractors, प्रायः equipped साथ diesel engines, may have two batteries in series for a 24 वोल्ट प्रणाली, or may have parallel strings of batteries.
Lead-acid batteries हैं बना up of plates of lead और separate plates of lead dioxide, which are submerged into an electrolyte समाधान of about 38 % sulfuric acid and 62 % जल.
This causes a रासायनिक reaction that releases electrons, allowing them to flow through conductors to उपज electricity.
As the battery discharges, the acid of the electrolyte reacts with the materials of the plates, changing their surface to सीसे sulfate.
When the बैटरी is recharged, the रासायनिक reaction is reversed : the lead sulfate reforms into सीसे डाइऑक्साइड and lead.
With the प्लेटों restored to their असली condition, the process may now be repeated.
Battery रीसाइक्लिंग of automotive batteries reduces the need लिये resources required for manufacture of new batteries, diverts toxic सीसे from landfills, and रोकता risk of improper disposal.
Full-time employment is employment in जिससे a person works a न्यूनतम क्रमांक of hours defined as such by his/her employer.
Full-time नियुक्ति प्रायः आता साथ benefits कि are not typically offered to part-time, अस्थाई, or लचीली workers, ऐसे as annual leave, sickleave, और स्वास्थ्य insurance.
full-time कार्य are often considered careers.
वे generally pay अधिक than part-time jobs, और usually carry more घंटों per week.
the Fair Labor Standards Act ( FLSA ) does not define full-time नियुक्ति or part-time employment.
इस is a matter generally to be determined by the employer ( US Department of मजदूर ).
the परिभाषा by employer can vary and is generally published in a company 's कर्मचारी Handbook.
Companies commonly आवश्यकता from 30–35 or 40 hours प्रति week to be defined as full-time और therefore eligible for benefits.
full-time status varies between company और is often आधारित on the shift the कर्मचारी must work दौरान each work week.
The `` standard '' कार्य week consists of five eight-hour days, commonly परोसा between 9:00AM to 5:00PM totaling 40 hours.
जबकि a four-day week generally consists of चार ten-hour days ; it may भी consist of as little as nine hours लिये a total of a 36 घंटा work week.
Twelve-hour shifts are often तीन days per week, unless the company रै the intention of paying out the कर्मचारी overtime.
ओवरटाइम is legally paid out anytime an employee works more than 40 hours per सप्ताह.
The legal minimum for overtime starts at आधार Pay + One-Half.
The increased भुगतान is considered to compensate slightly for the increased थकान which a person अनुभवों on such long shifts.
Shifts can also be बहुत irregular, as in retail, but are still full-time if the required number of hours is reached.
There are some situations जहाँ a person जो needs full-time work is dropped to part-time, जिससे is sometimes a form of constructive dismissal to avoid paying unemployment benefits to a laid-off worker.
seahorse is the title given to 54 species of marine मछली in the genus Hippocampus.
`` Hippocampus '' comes from the Ancient Greek hippos meaning `` horse '' and kampos अर्थ `` sea monster ''.
The Controlled Substances अधिनियम ( CSA ) was enacted into law by the Congress of the संयुक्त States as Title II of the Comprehensive Drug गाली Prevention and कंट्रोल Act of 1970.
the CSA is the संघीय U.S. drug policy under which the manufacture, importation, possession, use and distribution of certain substances is regulated.
The अधिनियम also परोसा as the national implementing विधान for the सिंगल Convention on narcotic Drugs.
The विधान created five schedules ( classifications ), with varying qualifications for a substance to be included in each.
दो संघीय agencies, the Drug Enforcement Administration and the Food and Drug Administration, determine which substances are added to or removed from the विभिन्न schedules, though the statute passed by Congress created the आरंभिक listing, and कॉंग्रेस has sometimes scheduled other substances through legislation such as the Hillory J. farias और सामन्था Reid Date-Rape रोकथाम अधिनियम of 2000, which लगाई gamma hydroxybutyrate in Schedule I. Classification निर्णय are required to be made on criteria including potential लिये abuse ( an अपरिभाषित पद ), फिलहाल accepted medical use in treatment in the United States, और international treaties.
Maya numerals
Maya numerals are a vigesimal ( base - twenty ) numeral प्रणाली used by the Pre-Columbian Maya civilization.
The numerals are made up of तीन symbols ; zero ( शेल आकार ), one ( a dot ) and five ( a bar ).
For example, thirteen is written as तीन dots in a horizontal पंक्ति ऊपर दो horizontal लाइनों stacked above each अन्य.
Lyndon Baines जॉनसन ( August 27, 1908 – January 22, 1973 ), often referred to as lbj, was the 36th President of the United States ( 1963–1969 ), a position he assumed after his service as the 37th Vice अध्यक्ष of the United States ( 1961–1963 ).
He is one of only four people who परोसा in all four निर्वाचित federal कार्यालयों of the संयुक्त States : Representative, Senator, Vice President, और President.
Johnson, a डेमोक्रेट इससे Texas, परोसा as a United राज्य Representative from 1937–1949 and as a Senator इससे 1949–1961, सहित six सालो as United States Senate Majority नेता, दो as Senate Minority Leader और two as Senate Majority Whip.
बाद campaigning unsuccessfully for the लोकतांत्रिक nomination in 1960, Johnson was पूछा by John F. कैनेडी to be his running mate for the 1960 अध्यक्षीय election.
Johnson succeeded to the presidency following the assassination of John F. Kennedy on November 22, 1963, completed Kennedy 's पद and was निर्वाचित President in his own right, winning by a large margin over Barry goldwater in the 1964 election.
जॉनसन was greatly समर्थित by the Democratic Party और as अध्यक्ष, he थी जिम्मेदार लिये डिजाइनिंग the `` Great Society `` legislation that included कानून that upheld civil rights, public प्रसारण, Medicare, Medicaid, environmental सुरक्षा, सहायता to शिक्षा, and his `` युद्ध on Poverty. ''
Johnson was renowned for his domineering व्यक्तित्व and the `` जॉनसन treatment, '' his coercion of शक्तिशाली politicians in order to advance विधान.
Meanwhile, Johnson escalated American भागीदारी in the वियतनाम War, from 16,000 अमरीकी advisors/soldiers in 1963 to 550,000 कॉम्बैट troops in early 1968, as अमरीकी हताहत soared और the सलाम process bogged bas.
The involvement stimulated a large एंग्री antiwar movement based especially on university campuses in the u.S. and abroad.
Summer riots broke out in most major cities after 1965, and crime rates soared, as his opponents raised demands for `` विधि and order '' policies.
The Democratic Party split in अनेक feuding गिरोहों, and after Johnson did poorly in the 1968 New Hampshire primary, he ended उसके बोली for reelection.
Republican Richard Nixon was elected to succeed him.
Historians argue that Johnson 's presidency चिह्नित the peak of modern उदारतावाद in the United States after the New Deal era.
Johnson is ranked favorably by some इतिहासकारों क्युकी of his domestic नीतियों.
Progesterone also known as P4 ( pregn-4-ene-3,20-dione ) is a C-21 स्टेरॉयड हार्मोन शामिल in the female menstrual साईकिल, pregnancy ( supports gestation ) और embryogenesis of इंसानो and other species.
Progesterone belongs to a क्लास of hormones called progestogens, and is the major naturally occurring human progestogen.
Big Bird is a समर्थक of the children 's टेलीविज़न show Sesame Street.
Officially performed by Caroll Spinney since 1969, he is an eight-foot two-inch ( 249 cm ) tall उज्जवल primrose-yellow bird.
He can roller skate, ice skate, नृत्य, गाओ, write poetry, draw and even ride a unicycle.
But despite this wide सरणी of talents, he is prone to बारंबार misunderstandings, on एक occasion भी singing the alphabet as one big long word ( from the सोंग called `` ABC-DEF-GHI, '' सुनाया `` ab-keddef-gajihkel-monop-quristuv-wixyz '' ), pondering what it could ever mean.
he lives in a large घोंसला पीछे the 123 Sesame गली brownstone and रै a teddy bear named Radar.
webtrends is a निजी company headquartered in Portland, Oregon, United States.
It provides web, social, और mobile analytics and अन्य तन्त्र समाधान related to marketing intelligence.
The कम्पनी was संस्थापित in 1993 and अभी serves अधिक than 10,000 विशाल and छोटी कड़s. < ref name='Intelligent Enterprise 2007-05-21 ' >
The Second crusade ( 1145–1149 ) थी the second major crusade launched from यूरोपीय.
the Second Crusade थी started in जवाब to the पतन of the County of Edessa the previous year to the forces of zengi.
the county था been संस्थापित during the First crusade ( 1096–1099 ) by Baldwin of Boulogne in 1098.
जबकि it थी the first Crusader state to be संस्थापित, it was also the first to पतन.
The दूसरी Crusade was घोषित by पोप यूजीन III, and was the first of the crusades to be led by European kings, namely Louis सात of France and कोनराड III of Germany, with help from a क्रमांक of अन्य यूरोपीय nobles.
The armies of the दो kings marched separately आरपार Europe.
After crossing Byzantine territory into आनातोलिया, दोनो सेना were separately defeated by the Seljuq turks.
the main Western ईसाई source, odo of deuil, और Syriac Christian sources claim that the Byzantine emperor Manuel I comnenus secretly hindered the crusaders ' progress, particularly in Anatolia where he is कथित to have deliberately ordered Turks to attack उन्हें.
लुई and Conrad and the remnants of their armies reached Jerusalem और, in 1148, participated in an ill-advised attack on Damascus.
The crusade in the east थी a failure लिये the crusaders और a great विजय for the मुसलमान.
It would ultimately have a key influence on the fall of Jerusalem और दे वृद्धि to the Third crusade at the end of the 12th century.
the only success of the Second Crusade came to a संयुक्त force of 13,000 फ्लेमिश, Frisian, नॉर्मन, English, Scottish, and German crusaders in 1147.
यात्राएं from England, by ship, to the पावन जमीन, the army रोका और helped the छोटी ( 7,000 ) Portuguese army in the capture of लिस्बन, expelling इसके Moorish occupants.
Wal-Mart Stores, inc. ( ), ब्रांडेड as Walmart, is an अमरीकी multinational खुदरा corporation कि runs chains of large discount विभाग स्टोर्स और गोदाम stores.
The company is the world 's तीसरा largest public corporation, according to the सौभाग्य Global 500 list in 2012, the biggest private employer in the संसार with over two million employees, और is the largest रिटेलर in the संसार.
walmart remains a family-owned कारोबार, as the company is controlled by the Walton family, who own a 48 प्रतिशत stake in walmart.
It is also एक of the world 's most valuable companies.
The company was संस्थापित by Sam Walton in 1962, incorporated on अक्तूबर 31, 1969, and सरेआम traded on the नई यॉर्क Stock Exchange in 1972.
It is headquartered in bentonville, अरकंसास.
Walmart is भी the largest grocery retailer in the संयुक्त States.
In 2009, it generated 51 percent of इसके US $ 258 billion sales in the U.S. from grocery business.
It भी owns and operates the Sam 's Club retail warehouses in उत्तर अमेरिका.
by 1988, wal-mart थी the most लाभप्रद retailer in the US, and by November 1990, it outsold K-mart.
by 1991 it outsold Sears in retail, making it अमेरिका 's largest retailer, a distinction it still holds.
walmart has 8,500 स्टोर्स in 15 countries, under 55 अलग names.
The company operates अंतर्गत the Walmart नाम in the United राज्य, including the 50 states and Puerto Rico.
it operates in Mexico as Walmex, in the United Kingdom as Asda, in Japan as seiyu, और in India as बेहतरीन Price.
It has wholly स्वामित्व operations in Argentina, Brazil, and Canada.
walmart 's investments outside उत्तर America have had mixed परिणाम : its operations in the United Kingdom, South अमेरिका, and China are highly successful, whereas ventures in जर्मनी और South Korea were unsuccessful.
रॉबर्ट William गेरी मूर ( 4 April 1952 – 6 February 2011 ), was a उत्तरी Irish musician, most widely recognised as a singer और guitarist.
In a career dating वापस to the 1960s, Moore played with artists including Phil lynott और Brian Downey during his teens, leading him to सदस्यताएँ साथ the Irish bands Skid Row and Thin Lizzy on three पृथक occasions.
Moore shared the स्टेज with such blues और rock luminaries as B.B. किंग, Albert King, Colosseum ii, जार्ज हैरिसन और Greg Lake, as खूब as having a successful solo career.
He guested on a क्रमांक of albums अंकित by high profile musicians, including a cameo appearance playing the lead guitar solo on `` She 's My Baby `` from Traveling Wilburys Vol. 3.
an example of rack mounted servers
A वेब hosting service is a type of Internet hosting service that allows individuals and संगठन to make उनके website accessible via the World Wide वेब.
Web hosts हैं companies कि provide space on a server owned or leased for उपयोग by क्लाइंट, as well as providing Internet connectivity, typically in a data center.
Web hosts can also provide data बीच space and connectivity to the Internet for other सर्वर स्तिथ in their data बीच, called colocation, also ज्ञात as Housing in Latin अमेरिका or France.
The scope of web hosting services varies greatly.
The most basic is वेब page and small-scale file hosting, where files can be uploaded via संचिका Transfer Protocol ( एफटीपी ) or a Web interface.
The फाइलें हैं usually delivered to the Web `` as is '' or with minimal processing.
अनेक अंतरजाल service प्रदाताओं ( ISPs ) प्रस्ताव this सेवा फ़्री to subscribers.
Individuals और संगठन may भी obtain Web page hosting from वैकल्पिक service providers.
Personal web site hosting is typically फ़्री, advertisement-sponsored, or inexpensive.
Business वेब site hosting often has a उच्चतर व्यय depending upon the size and प्रकार of the website.
Single page होस्टिंग is generally sufficient लिये personal web pages.
A जटिल site calls for a more comprehensive package that provides database support and application development प्लेटफ़ॉर्म ( e.g. PHP, Java, माणिक्य on Rails, ColdFusion, or ASP.NET ).
These सुविधाएं allow customers to लिखें or install scripts for applications like forums and content प्रबन्धन.
Also, Secure Sockets परत ( एसएसएल ) is typically used for e-commerce.
The मेजबान may also provide an इंटरफ़ेस or control फलक for managing the Web सर्वर और installing scripts, as well as other मौड्यूल और service applications like e-mail.
Some होस्ट specialize in certain तन्त्र or सेवाएं ( e.g. e-commerce ), which are commonly used by larger कंपनियाँ that outsource संजाल अवसंरचना.
obstetrics ( from the लैटिन obstare, `` to stand by '' ) is the चिकित्सा specialty dealing with the care of सब women 's reproductive tracts and their children during pregnancy ( prenatal period ), childbirth and the postnatal period.
Many obstetricians are also gynecologists, अर्थ they perform in both specialties.
In the संयुक्त States, these physicians are commonly referred to as ob/gyns.
the Wright brothers, Orville ( August 19, 1871 – January 30, 1948 ) और Wilbur ( April 16, 1867 – may 30, 1912 ), were two American brothers, inventors, and विमानन pioneers who were credited with inventing and building the संसार 's पहला कामयाब airplane and making the first controlled, powered and sustained heavier-than-air इंसान flight, on December 17, 1903.
From 1905 to 1907, the भाइयो developed their उड़ती machine into the first practical fixed-wing aircraft.
Although नहीं the पहला to build and fly प्रायोगिक aircraft, the राइट brothers were the पहला to invent aircraft controls that made fixed-wing संचालित flight possible.
The brothers ' आधारभूत भेदन was उनके invention of three-axis control, which enabled the pilot to steer the aircraft effectively और to maintain its संतुलन.
This method became standard and remains standard on fixed-wing aircraft of all kinds.
From the beginning of their aeronautical कार्य, the Wright brothers focused on विकासशील a reliable method of pilot control as the key to solving `` the उड़ती problem ''.
This दृष्टिकोण differed significantly from other experimenters of the time who put more जोर on विकासशील शक्तिशाली engines.
Using a छोटी homebuilt हवा tunnel, the Wrights भी collected more सटीक data than any पहले, enabling them to design और build विंग्स and propellers that were अधिक efficient than any पहले.
Their पहला U.S. पेटेंट, 821,393, did नहीं claim invention of a flying यंत्र, लकिन बल्कि, the आविष्कार of a system of aerodynamic control that manipulated a उड़ती machine 's surfaces.
They gained the mechanical skills essential लिये their success by working for सालो in their दूकान with printing presses, bicycles, मोटर्स, and other machinery.
उनके work with bicycles in particular influenced उनके belief कि an unstable vehicle like a उड़ती machine could be controlled and balanced with अभ्यास.
From 1900 जबतक उनके पहला संचालित फ़्लाइट in लेट 1903, they conducted extensive glider tests that also developed their कौशल as pilots.
उनके bicycle shop कर्मचारी चार्ली Taylor became an महत्वपूर्ण part of the team, भवन उनके first वायुयान engine in close collaboration with the brothers.
the Wright brothers ' औकात as inventors of the airplane has महरूम विषय to counter-claims by विभिन्न parties.
much controversy persists over the many competing दावा of early aviators.
America 's Next Top Model, साईकिल 12 is the twelfth cycle of अमेरिका 's अगला Top Model और the छठे season to air on The cw संजाल.
It premiered on कूच 4, 2009.
the cycle 's कैच phrase is `` मिलेंगी In The Fold. ''
The cycle 's promotional सोंग is Lady Gaga 's `` The Fame ''.
The prizes लिये this cycle are:
A modeling contract साथ Elite Model प्रबन्धन.
a फ़ैशन spread and कवर in सत्रह.
A 100,000 अनुबंध with covergirl कॉस्मेटिक्स.
The first हाफ of the cycle took प्लेस in नई यॉर्क City, moving the show back इससे Los Angeles last ऋतु.
The international destination for this cycle is São Paulo, Brazil, the श्रेणी first visit to South America.
The number of girls was reduced to 13, the first समय चूंकि Cycle 9, बाद being कायम at 14 in the पिछला two cycles.
This was the last time Paulina Porizkova participated as न्यायधीश.
The winner was 20-year-old Teyona एंडरसन इससे Woodstown, नई Jersey.
इस season averaged 4.35 million viewers per episode.
Exxon mobil निगम, or ExxonMobil, is an American multinational oil and gas corporation headquartered in Irving, Texas, United States.
it is a सीधा descendant of जॉन D. rockefeller 's Standard Oil company, और was formed on November 30, 1999, by the merger of exxon और Mobil.
it is affiliated with Imperial Oil which operates in Canada.
exxonmobil is the संसार 's largest company by revenue और in 2013, became the largest सरेआम traded company by market capitalization in the world.
The company is क्रमित # 5 globally in Forbes Global 2000 list in 2013.
exxon Mobil 's reserves यहूद 72 billion oil-equivalent barrels at the समाप्त of 2007 and, at then ( 2007 ) rates of production, are expected to पिछला over 14 years.
साथ 37 oil refineries in 21 countries constituting a combined daily शोधन क्षमता of, exxon Mobil is the largest refiner in the world, a title that was also associated with Standard Oil since its incorporation in 1870.
ExxonMobil is the largest of the संसार 's supermajors with daily production of 3.921 million BOE ( barrels of oil समतुल्य ).
In 2008, इस was approximately 3 % of संसार production, which is less than अनेक of the largest state-owned पेट्रोलियम कंपनियाँ.
जब ranked by oil और gas reserves it is 14th in the world with less than 1 % of the total.
a 2012 आलेख in The Daily Telegraph says कि ExxonMobil has `` grown into one of the planet’s most hated corporations, समर्थ to determine American foreign policy और the भाग्य of entire nations ''.
in terms of its environmental record, ExxonMobil increasingly drills in terrains leased to उन्हें by dictatorships, such as those in chad and भूमध्यरेखीय गिनी.
Lee Raymond, the corporation’s मुख्य executive until 2005, थी `` notoriously sceptical about जलवायु change and disliked सरकारी हस्तक्षेप at कोई level ''.
The company was widely criticized लिये its slow response to cleaning its 1989 Valdez आयल spill in Alaska.
This article is about the Globe Theatre of शेक्सपियर.
For the modern reconstruction in लंदन, देखिए Shakespeare 's Globe.
For other उपयोग, see Globe Theatre ( disambiguation ).
The ग्लोब Theatre was a थिएटर in London associated with William Shakespeare.
It was built in 1599 by Shakespeare 's playing company, the रब Chamberlain 's Men, on जमीन स्वामित्व by Thomas Brend और inherited by his son, Nicholas Brend और grandson सर मैथ्यू Brend, और थी destroyed by fire on 29 June 1613.
A second Globe थिएटर was built on the same साईट by जून 1614 and closed in 1642.
A आधुनिक reconstruction of the Globe, named `` Shakespeare 's Globe ``, opened in 1997 लगभग from the site of the असली theatre.
It 's a अद्भुत Life is a 1946 American Christmas drama film produced and directed by Frank Capra, based on the short story `` the Greatest Gift ``, जिससे Philip Van Doren stern wrote in 1939 and privately published in 1945.
The फिल्मी is माना one of the सबसे loved films in American cinema और has become traditional देखने दौरान the Christmas season, alongside लोकप्रिय classics such as Charles Dickens ' A Christmas कैरोल.
The film stars जेम्स Stewart as George Bailey, a man who has given up his dreams in order to help others and whose निकट आत्महत्या on Christmas Eve brings about the हस्तक्षेप of his guardian angel, क्लेरेंस odbody ( हेनरी Travers ).
क्लेरेंस shows George all the lives he has touched और कैसा different जीवन in his community of Bedford Falls would be had he never been born.
Despite initially performing poorly at the box office due to high उत्पादन costs and stiff competition at the समय of its release, the film has come to be regarded as a classic and is a staple of Christmas टेलीविज़न around the world.
theatrically, the film 's break-even point was actually $ 6.3 million, approximately twice the production लागत, a figure it never आए बंद to achieving in इसके initial रिलीज.
An appraisal in 2006 reported : `` Although it थी not the complete box office failure that today everyone believes... it थी initially a प्रमुख निराशा and confirmed, at तनिक to the studios, that Capra was no longer capable of turning out the populist सुविधाएँ कि made उसके films the must-see, money-making कार्यक्रम वे एकबार were. ''
The film was nominated for five Oscars and रै been recognized by the अमरीकी Film Institute as एक of the 100 best अमरीकी films कभी made, रखकर number 11 on its initial 1998 greatest movie सूची, and होता also प्लेस number one on its list of the most प्रेरणादायक अमरीकी films of सब time.
Data गोदाम Overview
in computing, a data गोदाम or enterprise आंकड़ा warehouse ( DW, dwh, or edw ) is a database प्रयुक्त for रिपोर्टिंग and data विश्लेषण.
It is a central repository of data जिससे is created by integrating आंकड़ा from एक or more disparate sources.
Data warehouses store current as well as historical data and are used for creating trending रिपोर्ट्स for senior management reporting such as सालाना and त्रैमासिक comparisons.
The data stored in the warehouse are uploaded from the operational systems ( ऐसे as marketing, sales etc., shown in the फिगर to the right ).
The data may pass through an operational data store for अतिरिक्त operations पहले वे are प्रयुक्त in the dw लिये रिपोर्टिंग.
The ठेठ etl -based data गोदाम uses staging, data integration, and अभिगम layers to house इसके key कृत्यों.
the स्टेजिंग layer or staging डेटाबेस स्टोर्स raw data निकाली इससे each of the disparate source data systems.
the integration परत integrates the disparate आंकड़ा सेट by transforming the data from the staging layer प्रायः storing this transformed data in an operational data store ( ods ) डेटाबेस.
The integrated data are then moved to yet another database, प्रायः called the data warehouse database, जहाँ the data is arranged into hierarchical groups often called dimensions and into facts and aggregate तथ्य.
The combination of facts and dimensions is sometimes called a star schema.
The access layer helps users retrieve data.
A data गोदाम constructed from an integrated data source systems करता नहीं require ETL, staging databases, or operational data स्टोर databases.
The एकीकृत data source systems may be considered to be a part of a distributed operational data store परत.
Data federation methods or आंकड़ा virtualization methods may be used to access the वितरित एकीकृत source आंकड़ा systems to consolidate और aggregate data सीधे into the आंकड़ा warehouse डेटाबेस tables.
Unlike the ETL-based data गोदाम, the एकीकृत सोर्स data systems और the आंकड़ा गोदाम are सब integrated since there is no transformation of dimensional or सन्दर्भ data.
This integrated data गोदाम architecture supports the drill bas from the aggregate data of the आंकड़ा warehouse to the transactional data of the एकीकृत source data systems.
आंकड़ा warehouses can be subdivided into आंकड़ा marts.
Data marts store subsets of data from a गोदाम.
इस definition of the data warehouse focuses on data storage.
The प्रमुख source of the data is cleaned, transformed, cataloged और made available for उपयोग by managers and other business पेशेवर for data mining, online analytical प्रसंस्करण, मार्केट research and निर्णय support ( Marakas & o'brien 2009 ).
However, the अर्थात् to retrieve and analyze आंकड़ा, to extract, transform and load data, and to manage the data dictionary are also माना essential components of a data warehousing system.
अनेक references to data warehousing उपयोग इस broader context.
यूँ, an expanded definition for data warehousing शामिल business intelligence tools, टूल्स to extract, रूपांतरण and load data into the repository, and टूल्स to मैनेज और retrieve metadata.
Portland stone पाषाण on the Isle of Portland, England
An abandoned construction aggregate quarry निकट Adelaide, South Australia
A पाषाण is a type of open-pit mine इससे which rock or खनिज are निकाली.
Quarries हैं generally used लिये extracting भवन materials, such as dimension stone, निर्माण aggregate, riprap, बालू, and gravel.
They are often collocated साथ concrete और डामर plants due to the आवश्यकता for large amounts of कुल in those materials.
Open mines that produce minerals are typically referred to as खोलें pit mines.
The शब्द quarry can include underground quarrying for स्टोन, such as Bath stone.
Mormons ( ) are a religious and cultural group related to Mormonism, the प्रिंसिपल शाखा of the Latter दिन Saint movement of Restorationist Christianity, which began with the visions of Joseph Smith in upstate नई York दौरान the 1820s.
After Smith 's मौत in 1844 the mormons followed ब्रिघम Young to what would become the Utah Territory.
Today Mormons are understood to be सदस्यों of The Church of यीशु मसीह of Latter-day Saints ( LDS गिरिजाघर ).
Some Mormons are also either independent or non-practicing.
the center of Mormon cultural influence is in Utah, and North अमेरिका रै अधिक Mormons than any other continent, though the बहुमत of Mormons सजीव बाहर the United States.
Mormons have विकसित a strong भाव of communality that stems from their doctrine and history.
During the 19th century mormon converts tended to एकत्रित to a central geographic स्थान, and between 1852 and 1890 a minority of Mormons खुलकर practiced plural marriage, a form of धार्मिक polygamy.
Mormons dedicate large amounts of time and संसाधन to serving in their गिरिजाघर, and many young mormons choose to serve a full-time proselytizing mission.
Mormons have a स्वास्थ्य code that eschews alcoholic beverages, तम्बाकू, coffee, चाय, and other addictive substances.
They tend to be बहुत family-oriented, and have दमदार connections आरपार generations and with extended परिवार, reflective of their belief that परिवारों can be sealed together beyond मौत and throughout eternity.
Mormons भी have a strict law of chastity, requiring abstention इससे यौन relations outside of marriage और सख्त fidelity भीतर marriage.
Mormons self-identify as Christian, हालांकि कुछ of their beliefs differ from mainstream Christianity.
mormons मानना in the बाइबल, as well as अन्य किताबे of scripture, such as the किताब of Mormon.
वे have a अद्वितीय view of cosmology, and believe that all people are spirit-children of God.
Mormons believe that returning to God requires following the उदाहरण of Jesus Christ, और accepting his atonement through ordinances ऐसे as बपतिस्मा.
They believe that Christ 's church थी लौटी through Joseph Smith, और is guided by living prophets and apostles.
Central to Mormon faith is the विश्वास that परमेश्वर speaks to his children और जवाब उनके prayers.
In वित्तीय accounting, assets हैं आर्थिक resources.
Anything tangible or intangible that is capable of being owned or controlled to produce value and that is held to have धनात्मक आर्थिक value is considered an asset.
बस stated, assets represent value of ownership कि can be converted into cash ( हालांकि cash itself is also considered an एसेट ).
The balance sheet of a firm records the monetaryJ.
G. Siegel, N. Dauber & J. K. shim, `` the Vest Pocket CPA '', Wiley, 2005.There हैं different विधि of assessing the monetary मान of the assets अंकित on the संतुलन Sheet.
In some cases, the Historical Cost is used ; such that the value of the asset जब it थी bought in the past is used as the monetary मान.
in अन्य उदाहरण, the उपस्थित मेला मार्केट value of the asset is used to determine the value shown on the balance sheet.
मान of the assets स्वामित्व by the firm.
It is धन और other valuables belonging to an व्यक्तिगत or कारोबार.
Two major एसेट वर्ग are tangible assets और intangible assets.
Tangible एसेट contain विभिन्न subclasses, सहित current एसेट and फिक्स्ड assets.J.
Downes, J.E. गुडमैन, `` शब्दकोष of Finance & Investment Terms '', Baron 's वित्तीय Guides, 2003 Current assets include inventory, while fixed assets शामिल such items as buildings and उपकरण.J. downes, J.E. Goodman, `` शब्दकोष of वित्त & निवेश Terms '', Baron 's Financial मार्गदर्शिका, 2003 ; और J. G. siegel, N. Dauber & J. K. Shim, `` The Vest जेब CPA '', Wiley, 2005.
intangible एसेट हैं nonphysical resources and rights that have a value to the firm because they give the firm some दयालु of advantage in the मार्केट place.
उदाहरण of intangible assets are goodwill, copyrights, trademarks, patents और computer कार्यक्रम, and financial एसेट, including ऐसे वस्तुएं as accounts receivable, bonds and stocks.
A neuron ( or ; also known as a neurone or nerve cell ) is an electrically excitable cell कि processes and transmits information through electrical and chemical सिग्नल.
A chemical signal occurs via a synapse, a specialized कनेक्शन with other cells.
Neurons कनेक्ट to प्रत्येक other to form neural networks.
Neurons हैं the core components of the बेचैन system, which शामिल the दिमाग, spinal cord, and peripheral ganglia.
a number of specialized प्रकार of neurons exist : sensory न्यूरॉन्स respond to touch, sound, light and numerous other stimuli affecting कोशिकाएं of the sensory organs कि then send signals to the स्पाइनल cord and brain.
मोटर neurons प्राप्त signals from the brain and spinal cord, cause मांसपेशी contractions, and affect glands.
Interneurons connect न्यूरॉन्स to अन्य न्यूरॉन्स within the same प्रदेश of the दिमाग or स्पाइनल cord.
A ठेठ neuron possesses a कोशिका देह ( often पुकारा the soma ), dendrites, and an axon.
Dendrites are thin structures that arise from the cell body, often extending for सैंकड़ों of micrometres and branching अनेक टाइम्स, giving rise to a जटिल `` dendritic tree ''.
an axon is a special सेल्यूलर extension that arises from the cell body at a साईट पुकारा the axon hillock and travels for a distance, as far as 1 meter in इंसानो or even more in other species.
the कोशिका देह of a neuron अक्सर gives rise to अनेक dendrites, but never to more than one axon, although the axon may branch सैंकड़ों of टाइम्स before it terminates.
At the बहुमत of synapses, सिग्नल हैं भेजा इससे the axon of one neuron to a dendrite of another.
There are, however, many exceptions to these rules : न्यूरॉन्स that lack dendrites, neurons that have no axon, synapses that connect an axon to another axon or a dendrite to another dendrite, etc.
All न्यूरॉन्स are electrically excitable, maintaining voltage gradients across their membranes by अर्थात् of metabolically driven ion पंपों, जिससे combine with ion channels embedded in the झिल्ली to generate intracellular-versus-extracellular concentration differences of ions such as sodium, potassium, chloride, और कैल्सियम.
Changes in the cross-membrane voltage can alter the function of voltage-dependent आयन चैनल्स.
if the voltage changes by a large enough राशि, an all-or-none electrochemical pulse called an action potential is generated, which travels rapidly साथ the कोशिका 's axon, और activates सिनेप्टिक connections साथ other कोशिकाएं when it arrives.
न्यूरॉन्स do नहीं undergo कोशिका प्रभाग.
In most cases, neurons are उत्पन्न by खास types of stem cells.
astrocytes, a type of glial cell, have भी been observed to turn into neurons by virtue of the stem cell characteristic pluripotency.
In humans, neurogenesis largely ceases during adulthood—but in दो दिमाग areas, the hippocampus and घ्राण bulb, वहीँ is strong evidence for generation of substantial numbers of new neurons.
सुपर Bowl XLIII was an American फ़ुटबॉल खेल between the American फ़ुटबॉल Conference ( afc ) champion पिट्सबर्ग स्टीलर्स and the नेशनल Football Conference ( NFC ) चैंपियन एरिज़ोना कार्डिनल्स to decide the National Football League ( NFL ) champion for the 2008 season.
the स्टीलर्स defeated the Cardinals by the score of 27–23.
the game was played on फ़रवरी 1, 2009, at Raymond जेम्स स्टेडियम in tampa, फ्लोरिडा.
With this win, the Steelers became the first team to win six Super Bowls.
पिट्सबर्ग, जो finished the नियमित ऋतु with a 12–4 रिकार्ड, also won उनके दूसरी Super Bowl in चार years बाद winning Super कटोरी XL at the end of the 2005 season.
The Cardinals entered the game seeking their first NFL title since 1947, the longest चैंपियनशिप drought in the league.
The club became an अनपेक्षित विजेता during the regular season, compiling a 9–7 record, और the playoffs with the aid of head coach Ken Whisenhunt, who थी the Steelers ' offensive coordinator in Super Bowl xl, और the re-emergence of quarterback कर्ट Warner, who थी the सुपर Bowl MVP in Super Bowl XXXIV with उसके पूर्व team, St. Louis मेढ़ों.
पिट्सबर्ग कूद to a 17–7 मध्यांतर lead, aided by linebacker जेम्स Harrison 's सुपर Bowl record 100-yard interception return for a touchdown.
Trailing 20–7 at the start of the fourth क्वार्टर, Arizona scored 16 unanswered अंक, सहित चौड़ी receiver Larry Fitzgerald 's 64-yard touchdown रिसेप्शन, to लो the सीसे साथ 2:37 बाकी in the game.
But the Steelers marched 78 yards to स्कोर on चौड़ी receiver santonio Holmes ' 6-yard game-winning touchdown catch with 35 seconds left.
Holmes, जो caught नौ गुजरता for 131 yards and a touchdown, including चार receptions for 73 yards on that फाइनल game-winning drive, was named सुपर Bowl MVP.
He became the sixth wide receiver to win the पुरस्कार, and also was the third पिट्सबर्ग receiver to win the award, following Lynn Swann and Hines वार्ड.
Despite the global financial crisis और limited amount of ancillary festivities कि हैं normally held पहले the game, the NBC टेलीविज़न network broadcast attracted an औसत U.S. audience of 98.7 million दर्शक, making it the most watched Super कटोरी in इतिहास to that point.
A diagram of the electromagnetic spectrum, showing various गुण across the range of बारंबारता and wavelengths
The electromagnetic वर्णक्रम is the range of all संभावित frequencies of electromagnetic radiation.
the `` electromagnetic spectrum '' of an object has a different meaning, and is instead the characteristic distribution of इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक विकिरण उत्सर्जित or absorbed by that particular object.
The इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक spectrum extends इससे below the कम बारंबारता used for modern रेडियो communication to gamma radiation at the short- wavelength ( high-frequency ) समाप्त, thereby covering wavelengths from हज़ारों of kilometers down to a fraction of the size of an atom.
The सीमा for long wavelengths is the आकार of the universe itself, जबकि it is विचार that the short wavelength सीमा is in the vicinity of the Planck length, although in principle the spectrum is infinite और निरन्तर.
Most parts of the electromagnetic spectrum हैं used in science लिये spectroscopic and other probing interactions, as ways to study and characterize पदार्थ.
in जोड, radiation from various भाग of the वर्णक्रम has found many अन्य uses लिये संचार और manufacturing ( see इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक radiation for अधिक अनुप्रयोग ).
लेजेंड
Marchantia, a liverwort
Bryophyte is a traditional name प्रयुक्त to refer to all embryophytes ( land पौधे ) that do not have true vascular tissue and are इसलिए called ' non-vascular पौधे '.
Some bryophytes do have specialized tissues for the हस्तांतरण of जल ; however since these do not contain lignin, they हैं not माना to be true vascular ऊतक.
Currently bryophytes are विचार not to be a natural or monophyletic group ; however the name is convenient and remains in use as a collective term for mosses, hornworts, और liverworts.
Bryophytes produce enclosed reproductive structures ( gametangia और sporangia ), but they produce neither पुष्प nor seeds, reproducing via spores.
The term bryophyte comes from Greek βρύον, bryon, `` tree-moss, oyster-green '' + φυτόν - phyton `` संयंत्र ''.
A bank is a financial institution and a financial intermediary that accepts deposits and channels those deposits into lending activities, either directly by loaning or indirectly through capital markets.
A बैंको is the connection between customers that have capital deficits and ग्राहक with capital surpluses.
Due to उनके influence भीतर a वित्तीय system और an economy, banks are generally अत्यधिक regulated in most countries.
Most बैंको operate under a system known as fractional reserve banking where they hold only a छोटी reserve of the funds deposited and lend out the rest for profit.
वे हैं generally विषय to minimum capital requirements which are आधारित on an international set of capital standards, ज्ञात as the Basel Accords.
The oldest bank still in अस्तित्व is Monte देई paschi di Siena, headquartered in Siena, इटली, which has been operating continuously since 1472.
It is followed by Berenberg Bank of Hamburg ( 1590 ) and sveriges riksbank of स्वीडन ( 1668 ).
बैंकिंग in its modern sense evolved in rich cities of पुनर्जागरण Italy, such as Florence, Venice and Genoa.
in the इतिहास of बैंकिंग, a number of बैंकिंग dynasties —among them notably Medici, Fugger, Welser, berenberg, Baring and Rothschild —have निभाई a सेंट्रल role over अनेक सदियां.
The एक्सबॉक्स is a वीडियो game console manufactured by Microsoft.
it थी released on November 15, 2001 in उत्तर America, फ़रवरी 22, 2002 in Japan, and March 14, 2002 in Australia and Europe.
It was Microsoft 's first foray into the gaming console मार्केट.
as part of the sixth-generation of gaming, the Xbox competed with Sony 's PlayStation 2, sega 's dreamcast ( which stopped American sales before the Xbox went on sale ), and Nintendo 's GameCube.
the एक्सबॉक्स थी the पहला console offered by an American company after the atari जैगुआर stopped बिक्री in 1996.
The integrated Xbox Live service launched in November 2002 allowed players to खेल खेल online with a ब्रॉडबैंड कनेक्शन.
it first competed with Dreamcast 's online service but later primarily competed with प्लेस्टेशन 2 's online सेवा.
हालांकि these two are free जबकि Xbox सजीव required a subscription, as well as broadband-only connection which थी not completely adopted yet, Xbox Live was a success due to better servers, features such as a buddy list, and पड़ाव शीर्षक like Halo 2 released in November 2004, जिससे is the best-selling Xbox video खेल and was by far the most popular online game लिये सालो.
Xbox 's successor, the Xbox 360, was शुभारम्भ in November 2005.
The Xbox was discontinued in late 2005 in Japan where sales were poor.
it थी discontinued in late 2006 in Europe and early 2007 in उत्तर America.
The last एक्सबॉक्स खेल in Europe was Tony हॉक 's Project 8 released in November 2006, and the last game in उत्तर अमेरिका थी Madden NFL 09 released in अगस्त 2008.
Support for out-of-warranty Xbox consoles was discontinued on March 2, 2009, stating कि कोई in-warranty repair now needed will not be undertaken.
Xbox access to Xbox Live was stopped on अप्रैल 15, 2010.
The इन्जील According to John ( यूनानी τὸ κατὰ Ἰωάννην εὐαγγέλιον ), commonly referred to as the Gospel of John or simply John and often referred to in नई Testament स्कॉलरशिप as the Fourth Gospel, is an खाता of the public मंत्रालय of यीशु.
it begins with the witness और प्रतिज्ञान by जॉन the Baptist और concludes with the death, burial, क़यामत, and post-resurrection appearances of Jesus.
This account is चौथी of the canonical gospels, after the synoptics मैथ्यू, चिह्नित और ल्यूक.
states that the किताब derives from the गवाही of the ' disciple जिसको यीशु loved. '
Along with Peter, the बेनाम disciple is especially close to यीशु, और early-church tradition identified him as John the Apostle, one of यीशु ' Twelve रसूलों.
The gospel is closely related in स्टाइल और सामग्री to the three surviving Epistles of John such कि टीकाकारों treat the four किताबे साथ, yet, according to most modern scholars, John थी not the लेखक of कोई of these books.
हाल Christian scripture scholarship more and more has लगाई John within a first-century Jewish कॉन्टेक्स्ट.
रेमंड E. Brown did pioneering work to trace the development of the परंपरा from which the gospel arose.
The प्रवचन seem to be concerned साथ the actual मुद्दे of the church-and-synagogue बहस at the time when the Gospel was written.
It is notable कि, in the gospel, the जातियाँ still appears to define itself primarily against judaism, rather than as part of a wider ईसाई गिरिजाघर.
Though Christianity started as a movement भीतर Judaism, gradually ईसाइयों and यहूदियों became bitterly opposed.
John presents a `` higher '' Christology than the synoptics, meaning that it describes Jesus as the incarnation of the divine Logos through whom all बाते were made, as the object of veneration, and more explicitly as God incarnate.
तभी in John does यीशु बात at length परिचय himself और his दैवी role, often shared साथ the disciples only.
Against the synoptics, John focuses largely on different चमत्कार ( सहित resurrecting Lazarus ), दिए as signs meant to engender faith.
Synoptic तत्व such as parables and exorcisms हैं not मिला in John.
it presents a एहसास eschatology in which मोक्ष is already present लिये the आस्तिक.
The Plagues of Egypt ( ), also called the Ten plagues ( ) or the Biblical Plagues, were ten calamities कि, according to the biblical किताब of Exodus, Israel 's परमेश्वर, Yahweh, inflicted upon मिश्र to persuade Pharaoh to release the ill-treated israelites from slavery.
Pharaoh capitulated after the tenth plague, triggering the exodus of the Jewish people.
The plagues were designed to कंट्रास्ट the power of Yahweh with the नपुंसकता of Egypt 's विभिन्न gods.
Some commentators have संबद्ध several of the plagues with judgment on specific gods संबद्ध with the Nile, fertility और natural phenomena.
The plagues of मिश्र are also mentioned in the कुरान ( 7,133–136 ).
according to the Book of Exodus, God proclaims that all the gods of Egypt will be judged through the दसवाँ and final plague:
John Martin 's painting of the plague of hail और fire ( 1823 ).
A role-playing game ( आरपीजी and sometimes roleplaying खेल ) is a game in जिससे players assume the भूमिकाएँ of वर्ण in a fictional setting.
Players take responsibility लिये acting out these भूमिकाएँ within a narrative, either through literal acting or through a process of संरचित decision-making or अक्षर development.
क्रियाएँ taken within अनेक games succeed or fail according to a formal system of नियम and guidelines.
There are several forms of RPG.
The original रूप, sometimes called the tabletop RPG, is conducted through discussion, whereas in सजीव कार्रवाई role-playing games ( LARP ) players physically perform their characters ' actions.
in both of these फ़ॉर्म, an arranger पुकारा a game निपुण ( GM ) usually decides on the rules and सेटिंग to be प्रयुक्त और acts as referee, जबकि each of the अन्य खिलाड़ी plays the role of a single अक्षर.
Several किस्में of RPG भी exist in electronic media, such as multi-player text-based MUDs and their graphics-based successors, massively एकाधिक online role-playing games ( MMORPGs ).
role-playing games also शामिल single-player offline role-playing video games in which players control a character or team जो undertake quests, और may include capabilities that advance using statistical mechanics.
These games often share settings और rules with tabletop RPGs, but emphasize अक्षर उन्नति more than collaborative storytelling.
despite this variety of फ़ॉर्म, कुछ game forms such as trading card games and wargames that हैं सम्बन्धित to role-playing खेल may not be included.
role-playing activity may sometimes be उपस्थित in such खेल, but it is not the primary focus.
the term is also sometimes used to describe roleplay सिमुलेशन खेल and exercises used in शिक्षण, training, and academic research.
The अमरीकी सिविल युद्ध ( ACW ), also known as the War between the States or simply the Civil War ( see naming ), थी a civil war fought from 1861 to 1865 between the United राज्य ( the `` संघ '' or the `` उत्तर '' ) and several दक्षिणी स्लेव states that declared their secession and formed the confederate States of America ( the `` Confederacy '' or the `` South '' ).
the war had its उत्पत्ति in the समस्या of गुलामी, especially the extension of slavery into the western territories.
Foreign powers किया not intervene.
After four years of खूनी combat that बाएँ over 600,000 soldiers dead and नष्ट much of the दक्षिण 's infrastructure, the confederacy collapsed, गुलामी was abolished, और the difficult पुनर्निर्माण process of restoring national unity and guaranteeing rights to the freed slaves began.
in the 1860 presidential चुनाव, republicans, led by Abraham Lincoln, opposed expanding गुलामी into संयुक्त States ' territories.
Lincoln won, but before his उद्घाटन on कूच 4, 1861, seven cotton-based स्लेव states formed the Confederacy.
outgoing Democratic अध्यक्ष James बुकानन and the incoming republicans अस्वीकृत secession as illegal.
Lincoln 's inaugural address घोषित his administration would not initiate civil युद्ध.
Eight remaining slave states जारी to अस्वीकृत calls लिये secession.
Confederate शक्तियां seized numerous federal forts within territory claimed by the Confederacy.
A Peace सम्मेलन failed to find a compromise, और both sides prepared लिये war.
The Confederates assumed that यूरोपीय देशों were so निर्भर on `` King Cotton `` कि they would intervene ; none did and none recognized the new Confederate States of अमेरिका.
Hostilities began on April 12, 1861, जब confederate forces fired upon फोर्ट sumter, a कुंजी fort held by संघ troops in South Carolina.
Lincoln पुकारा लिये each state to provide सैनिकों to retake the fort ; consequently, चार more slave states joined the Confederacy, bringing उनके total to eleven.
The Union जल्द नियंत्रित the border राज्य and established a naval blockade कि अबोध the southern अर्थव्यवस्था.
the Eastern Theater थी inconclusive in 1861–62.
The autumn 1862 Confederate campaign into मेरीलैंड ( a संघ state ) ended with Confederate retreat at the बैटल of Antietam, dissuading British हस्तक्षेप.
Lincoln issued the Emancipation Proclamation, which बना ending slavery a war लक्ष्य.
to the west, by summer 1862 the संघ destroyed the confederate river नेवी, then much of their western armies, और the संघ at vicksburg विभाजित the confederacy in two at the Mississippi River.
In 1863, रॉबर्ट E. Lee 's confederate incursion north ended at the Battle of Gettysburg.
Western successes led to Ulysses S. Grant कमांड of all Union सेना in 1864.
In the पश्चिमी थिएटर, William T. Sherman drove ईस्ट to capture Atlanta and marched to the समुद्र, destroying Confederate infrastructure along the way.
The Union marshaled the resources and manpower to attack the confederacy इससे all directions, and could afford to लड़ो battles of अपघर्षण through the overland अभियान towards Richmond, the confederate capital.
The defending Confederate army विफल, leading to Lee 's surrender to ग्रान्ट at Appomattox Court हाउस on April 9, 1865.
The अमरीकी Civil War was one of the earliest सच्चा industrial युद्धों.
railroads, the टेलीग्राफ, steamships, and mass-produced weapons were employed extensively.
The mobilization of civilian factories, खानों, shipyards, banks, परिवहन and food आपूर्तियाँ all foreshadowed World War i.
it remains the deadliest war in अमरीकी history, resulting in the deaths of an estimated 750,000 सैनिको and an undetermined number of civilian casualties.
Historian John Huddleston estimates the death टोल at ten percent of all Northern males 20–45 years बूढ़ा, and 30 प्रतिशत of all दक्षिणी श्वेत males aged 18–40.
the definition of the world 's व्यस्ततम airport has महरूम specified by the एयरपोर्ट परिषद अंतरराष्ट्रीय in Geneva, Switzerland.
The aci defines and measures the following three types of airport traffic:
यात्री ट्रैफ़िक : total यात्री emplaned and deplaned, passengers in पारगमन गिने once
Cargo traffic : loaded and unloaded भाड़ा and mail in मीट्रिक tonnes
Traffic movements : landings and take-offs of aircraft
World War I ( wwi ) was a वैश्विक war centred in यूरोपीय that began on 28 July 1914 and lasted जबतक 11 November 1918.
It was predominantly called the World युद्ध or the ग्रेट युद्ध from इसके occurrence जबतक the start of World War ii in 1939, and the First World युद्ध or World War I thereafter.
It शामिल all the world 's great powers, जिससे were assembled in दो opposing alliances : the Allies ( based on the ट्रिपल Entente of the संयुक्त किंगडम, France and Russia ) and the सेंट्रल शक्तियां ( originally the Triple Alliance of Germany, austria-hungary and इटली ; but, as Austria–Hungary had लिया the offensive against the agreement, इटली did not डालें into the war ).
ये alliances were both reorganised and विस्तारित as अधिक nations डाला the war : Italy, Japan and the United States joined the Allies, and the उस्मानी साम्राज्य and Bulgaria the Central Powers.
Ultimately, more than 70 million military personnel, including 60 million Europeans, were mobilised in one of the largest wars in history.
More than 9 million combatants were killed, largely क्युकी of technological advancements कि led to enormous increases in the lethality of weapons without corresponding improvements in protection or mobility.
it was the fifth- deadliest conflict in world इतिहास, subsequently paving the रास्ता for विभिन्न राजनैतिक परिवर्तन, such as revolutions in many of the nations involved.
एक of the long-term causes of the war थी the resurgence of imperialism in the foreign नीतियों of the ग्रेट powers of Europe.
अधिक immediately, the assassination of archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria, the heir to the throne of Austria-Hungary, on 28 June 1914 by Yugoslav राष्ट्रवादी Gavrilo Princip in Sarajevo triggered a diplomatic crisis जब Austria-Hungary subsequently वितरित an ultimatum to the Kingdom of सर्बिया.
अनेक alliances formed over the previous दशकों were invoked.
Within weeks, the प्रमुख powers were at war and, via उनके colonies, the विरोध जल्द स्प्रेड around the world.
On 28 July, the Austro-Hungarians fired the first shots of the war as preparation लिये the आक्रमण of Serbia.
While the Russians mobilised, the Germans invaded न्यूट्रल Belgium and Luxembourg on the way to France, providing a casus belli for Britain 's declaration of युद्ध विरूद्ध Germany.
After the German कूच on Paris was brought to a halt—the so-called चमत्कार of the marne —the Western सामने settled into a स्थिर battle of attrition साथ a गर्त line कि changed little until 1917.
on the Eastern Front, the Russian army was successful विरूद्ध the Austro-Hungarians, लकिन was रोका in its आक्रमण of East Prussia by the germans.
In नवम्बर the Ottoman Empire joined the war, खोलने up fronts in the Caucasus, मेसोपोटामिया and the sinai.
Italy and Bulgaria गई to युद्ध in 1915 and Romania in 1916.
in Russia, the त्सार 's government collapsed in March 1917 and a subsequent क्रान्ति in November brought the Russians to terms with the Central Powers.
After a 1918 German offensive along the western front, the Allies drove back the Germans in a श्रेणी of successful offensives and American forces began entering the trenches.
जर्मनी, जिससे had इसके own trouble with revolutionaries, agreed to an armistice on 11 November 1918.
the युद्ध ended in victory for the Allies.
Events on the home fronts यहूद as tumultuous as on the battle fronts, as the participants tried to mobilize their manpower and economic resources to लड़ो a total war.
by the end of the war, चार major imperial powers—the German, Russian, Austro-Hungarian and Ottoman empires—ceased to exist.
The successor states of the former two खोया a great amount of territory, while the latter two यहूद dismantled entirely.
The मैप of central Europe was redrawn into several smaller राज्य.
The लीग of Nations थी formed in the आशा of preventing another ऐसे conflict.
The यूरोपीय nationalism spawned by the युद्ध और the breakup of empires, the परखना of Germany 's शिकस्त और समस्याएं साथ the Treaty of Versailles हैं सहमत to be factors contributing to World War II.
the Deepwater क्षितिज आयल spill ( also referred to as the bp आयल spill, the BP oil disaster, the गल्फ of मैक्सिको आयल spill, and the macondo blowout ) was an आयल spill in the Gulf of मैक्सिको on the BP -operated Macondo prospect, माना the largest accidental marine आयल spill in the इतिहास of the पेट्रोलियम उद्योग, estimated to be between 8 % and 31 % larger in volume than the earlier Ixtoc I आयल spill.
Following the विस्फोट and sinking of the deepwater Horizon oil rig, which claimed 11 जीवनदान, a sea-floor आयल gusher flowed unabated for 87 दिनों, until it थी capped on 15 July 2010.
The total निर्वहन is estimated at.
A massive response ensued to protect beaches, wetlands and estuaries इससे the spreading oil utilizing skimmer जहाजों, floating booms, नियंत्रित burns and of Corexit oil dispersant.
After several विफल प्रयत्न to contain the प्रवाह, the well was declared sealed on 19 September 2010.
Some रिपोर्ट्स indicate the खूब site continues to leak.
Due to the months-long spill, along साथ प्रतिकूल effects from the जवाब and क्लीनअप activities, extensive damage to समुद्री and wildlife habitats, fishing and पर्यटन industries, and इंसान health समस्याएं have continued through 2013.Three years after the spill, tar गेंदें could still be found on the मिसिसिपी coast.
Numerous investigations explored the causes of the explosion and record-setting spill.
Notably, the U.S. government 's September 2011 report pointed to defective cement on the well, faulting mostly bp, but भी well operator Transocean and contractor Halliburton.
Earlier in 2011, a श्वेत House commission likewise blamed BP and इसके साझेदार for a series of cost-cutting निर्णय and an insufficient safety प्रणाली, लकिन भी concluded that the spill resulted from `` systemic '' root causes and `` absent significant reform in both उद्योग practices and government नीतियों, might well recur ''.
in November 2012, BP and the United राज्य Department of इंसाफ settled federal दण्ड charges with BP pleading अपराधी to 11 counts of manslaughter, two misdemeanors, and a felony count of lying to Congress.
bp also agreed to four years of सरकारी monitoring of its safety practices और आचार, and the पर्यावरणीय Protection एजेंसी announced कि BP would be temporarily banned इससे new अनुबंध with the us सरकारी.
BP and the Department of Justice सहमत to a record-setting $ 4.525 billion in fines और other payments लकिन further विधिक proceedings not expected to conclude जबतक 2014 are जारी to determine payouts and fines under the Clean जल अधिनियम and the Natural Resources Damage Assessment.
as of फ़रवरी 2013, दण्ड and सिविल settlements and payments to a trust fund had cost the company $ 42.2 billion.
`` जहाँ the गलियों Have No Name '' is a सोंग by rock band U2.
it is the opening track from their 1987 album The जोशुआ Tree और was released as the एल्बम 's third single in August 1987.
the song 's आँकड़ा is a repeating गिटार arpeggio using a delay effect, played during the सोंग 's introduction and again at the end.
सीसे vocalist बोनो wrote the lyrics in response to the notion that it is संभावित to identify a व्यक्ति 's धर्म and income based on the street on which they lived, particularly in belfast.
During the band 's difficulties recording the song, producer Brian Eno considered erasing the song 's tapes to have them प्रारंभ from scratch.
`` Where the Streets Have No नाम '' was praised by critics और became a commercial success, peaking at number thirteen in the us, number चौदह in Canada, क्रमांक टेन in the नीदरलैंड्स, and क्रमांक four in the United किंगडम.
The song has become one of the band 's most popular songs and has remained a staple of their live अधिनियम since the song debuted in 1987 on the जोशुआ Tree Tour.
The song थी notably performed on a Los Angeles छत for the filming of its music video, which जीती a Grammy Award for Best Performance Music Video.Recently the song has been used by the एनएफएल 's बाल्टीमोर ravens as उनके entrance song in Super कटोरी XLVII
थामस जेफरी `` tom '' हैंक्स ( born July 9, 1956 ) is an American actor, producer, writer, and director.
Hanks is known for उसके roles in Apollo 13, Big, That बात You Do !
, the Green Mile, You 've Got Mail, Sleepless in Seattle, Charlie विल्सन 's War, कैच me if तुम can, Forrest गंप, Cast दूर, A League of Their Own, the Da विंची Code, फ़रिश्ते & राक्षसों, as खूब as animated films जैसे the Toy Story film श्रेणी, the Polar Express, and The Simpsons Movie.
He has earned and been nominated for numerous awards during his career, including जीतना a Golden Globe लिये Best Actor and an अकादमी Award for बेहतरीन Actor लिये his role in Philadelphia and a सुनहरी ग्लोब, an Academy Award, a Screen Actors Guild Award, and a People 's चुनाव Award for बेहतरीन कर्ता लिये his role in Forrest Gump, and earning the Stanley Kubrick Britannia पुरस्कार for Excellence in Film from the baftas in 2004.
Hanks is also known for his सहयोग with फिल्मी director Steven Spielberg on छायांकन Private रयान and the mini-series Band of Brothers, जिससे शुभारम्भ Hanks also as a successful director, producer and लेखक.
As of 2012, हैंक्स ' films have grossed over $ 4.2 billion at the United States box दफ्तर alone, and over $ 8.5 billion विश्वव्यापी making him the highest all-time box office star.
The केप is an American superhero नाटक series.
It premiered on एनबीसी दौरान the 2010–2011 टेलीविज़न season as a mid-season replacement beginning with a two-hour pilot एपीसोड on Sunday, January 9, 2011 at 9 pm Eastern and Pacific Time.
An encore played on सोमवार, January 10, साथ follow-up episodes continuing on Monday evenings in the 9 pm timeslot beginning on जनवरी 17.
NBC subsequently काटें the कुल क्रमांक of एपीसोड to be aired from 13 to 10 as a result of कम ratings.
on March 2, 2011, NBC announced that the श्रेणी finale would तभी be aired on the network 's website.
Halley 's धूमकेतु or Comet Halley ( or ), officially designated 1p/halley, is the best-known of the short-period comets and is visible इससे Earth प्रत्येक 75–76 सालो.
Halley is the only short-period comet that is clearly visible to the naked नजर from धरती, and thus the only naked-eye comet कि might appear twice in a human lifetime.
Other naked-eye धूमकेतुओं may be brighter और अधिक spectacular, but will appear तभी once in thousands of सालो.
Halley 's रिटर्न to the भीतरी Solar System have been observed और recorded by खगोलशास्त्रियों since at least 240 BCE.
Clear records of the comet 's appearances यहूद made by Chinese, Babylonian, and मध्यकालीन European chroniclers, but were नहीं recognized as reappearances of the वही object at the time.
The धूमकेतु 's periodicity was first determined in 1705 by अंग्रेज़ी astronomer edmond हैली, after जिसको it is now नामित.
Halley 's Comet last appeared in the inner Solar प्रणाली in 1986 and will next appear in mid-2061.
During इसके 1986 apparition, Halley became the पहला comet to be observed in विवरण by spacecraft, providing the पहला observational data on the structure of a comet nucleus and the mechanism of coma और tail formation.
These observations supported a number of longstanding hypotheses about comet निर्माण, particularly Fred whipple 's `` गंदा snowball '' model, जिससे correctly predicted that Halley would be composed of a mixture of volatile ices – such as water, carbon डाइऑक्साइड और ammonia – और धूल.
The मिशन भी provided आंकड़ा which substantially reformed and reconfigured these ideas ; for instance it is now समझा कि Halley 's surface is largely रचित of dusty, non-volatile सामग्री, and that only a छोटी portion of it is icy.
The following is a list of the सबसे populous incorporated places of the संयुक्त राज्य of अमेरिका.
as defined by the United राज्य जनसांख्यिकी Bureau, an `` incorporated place `` includes a variety of designations, सहित city, कस्बा, village, बरो, and नगरपालिका.
A few असाधारण Census Designated Places ( CDPs ) are also included in the जनसांख्यिकी Bureau 's listing of incorporated स्थान.
संचित city-counties represent a distinct type of सरकारी कि includes the entire जनसांख्यिकी of a काउंटी, or county समतुल्य.
Some संचित city-counties, however, include multiple incorporated places.
This list presents only कि portion ( or `` संतुलन '' ) of ऐसे consolidated city-counties that are not a part of another incorporated प्लेस.
नोट that this सूची refers only to the population of individual municipalities within उनके defined हद, which करता not include other municipalities or unincorporated suburban areas within urban agglomerations.
A अलग ranking is evident when considering U.S. महानगर क्षेत्रफल populations.
The Mayflower थी the ship that in 1620 transported 102 English तीर्थयात्रियों, सहित a कोर group of Separatists, to New इंग्लैण्ड.
Their story is एक of travail and अस्तित्व in a harsh New World environment.
a New जीलैंड forward ( in white ) takes a शॉट on goal against Cameroon in the 2011 FIFA U-20 World Cup.
आगे, also known as strikers, are the खिलाड़ी on a team in संघ फ़ुटबॉल who खेल निकटतम to the opposing team 's लक्ष्य, and हैं therefore principally responsible for scoring goals.
इस very advanced position and its सीमित रक्षात्मक जिम्मेदारियों औसत forwards normally score अधिक लक्ष्य than other players.
This position requires intelligence, speed, और power, दोनो of execution और of thought, to perform the role well.
आधुनिक team formations usually शामिल one to three forwards ; two is the सबसे common.
कोच typically field one striker जो plays in an उन्नत स्थिति ( the centre forward ), and another attacking आगे who plays somewhat deeper और assists in making goals as खूब as scoring ( the second striker ).
It चाहिए be noted कि inside forwards develop इससे attacking midfield positions and hence are naturally midfielders.
Barcelona FC star Lionel मेस्सी is a typical attacking Midfielder seen as a forward due to his shot accuracy.
A California domestic partnership is a विधिक relationship उपलब्धियाँ to same-sex युगल, और to certain opposite-sex couples in जिससे at least one party is at least 18 years of आयु.
it affords the couple `` the वही अधिकारों, protections, और benefits, and... the वही responsibilities, दायित्वों, and duties under law... '' as married spouses.
enacted in 1999, the घरेलू partnership registry was the first of its kind in the United राज्य created by a legislature बगैर court हस्तक्षेप.
Initially, घरेलू partnerships enjoyed very few privileges—principally just hospital-visitation rights and the right to be claimed as a अगला of kin of the estate of a मृतक partner.
the legislature has चूंकि विस्तारित the पैमाना of California domestic partnerships to include all of the अधिकारों और जिम्मेदारियों common to marriage.
As such, California घरेलू partnerships are functionally equivalent to civil संघ offered in अनेक other राज्य.
हालांकि the कार्यक्रम enjoys broad support in California, it has been the source of some controversy.
Groups opposed to the recognition of same-sex families have challenged the expansion of घरेलू partnerships in अदालत.
Conversely, advocates of same-sex marriage contend that anything less than full marriage rights विस्तारित to same-sex partners is analogous to the `` separate but equal '' racial laws of the Jim Crow era.
Mark A. Jackson ( born April 1, 1965 ) is an American basketball coach, and former player who is the वर्तमान head कोच of the सुनहरी राज्य Warriors of the NBA.
A पाइंट गार्ड from St. जॉन 's विश्वविद्यालयों, he निभाई for the New York Knicks, Indiana Pacers, Los एंजिल्स Clippers, Denver Nuggets, Toronto Raptors, Utah Jazz and Houston Rockets in the एनबीए in a career spanning from 1987 to 2004.
Jackson has also worked as a commentator for ESPN and एबीसी alongside his former coach Jeff वैन gundy and play-by-play man Mike Breen.
he was previously an NBA analyst for the YES संजाल 's New Jersey नेट खेल.
South Africa has ग्यारह official languages : अफ्रीकी, English, Ndebele, Northern Sotho, sotho, Swazi, Tswana, सोंगा, Venda, Xhosa and Zulu.
कम than two percent of South Africans बोलो a first language other than an official one.
Most South Africans can बोलो more than one language.
डच and अंग्रेज़ी were the पहला आधिकारिक languages of South Africa from 1910 to 1925.
Afrikaans थी added as a भाग of डच in 1925.
डच was replaced by Afrikaans when South अफ़्रीकी became a republic in 1961, and डच थी dropped in 1983, so between 1983 and 1994, दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी had two आधिकारिक languages : English और Afrikaans.
The English version of the South African constitution refers to the languages by the names in those languages : isiZulu, isiXhosa, Afrikaans, sepedi ( referring to Northern sotho ), Setswana, English, Sesotho ( referring to Southern sotho ), Xitsonga, siswati, Tshivenda और isindebele ( referring to Southern ndebele ).
In दक्षिण Africa, दक्षिणी Ndebele is known simply as Ndebele, as सबसे speakers of Northern Ndebele live in Zimbabwe.
The 1993 version of the संविधान referred to Northern Sotho as Sesotho sa Leboa, लकिन the 1996 संस्करण referred to the language as Sepedi.
Different government departments and आधिकारिक bodies use different terms to denote Northern sotho.
the main language of government is अंग्रेज़ी even if South africans often take pride in using indigenous भाषाएं for any purpose.
Afrikaans also features prominently in commerce साथ with English as the भाषाएं with the highest क्रमांक of fluent speakers हैं Afrikaans और English.
in शर्तें of linguistic classification, the आधिकारिक भाषाएं शामिल दो west-germanic languages ( अंग्रेज़ी और Afrikaans ) and nine bantu languages.
Four of these are Nguni languages ( ज़ुलू, ख़ोसा, स्वाति और Ndebele ) and three are Sotho–Tswana languages ( Northern Sotho, Southern Sotho और Tswana ).
Tsonga is a Tswa–Ronga language.
South African Sign Language is a distinct हालांकि incompletely emerged नेशनल standard language जिससे also subsumes a क्लस्टर of semi-standardised dialects.
Aluminium nitrate is a salt of aluminium and nitric एसिड, मौजूदा सामान्यतः as a crystalline hydrate, सबसे commonly as aluminium nitrate nonahydrate, Al ( NO3 ) 3·9H2O.
The नई York Jets हैं a professional football team headquartered in Florham पार्क, नई Jersey, representing the New यॉर्क महानगर area.
The team is a सदस्य of the Eastern Division of the American Football Conference ( AFC ) in the नेशनल Football League ( NFL ).
In a unique arrangement for the लीग, the jets share MetLife Stadium in East रदरफोर्ड, New Jersey with the नई यॉर्क Giants.
The franchise is legally और corporately registered as नई York Jets, LLC.
The team was founded in 1959 as the टाइटन्स of New York, an original member of the American फ़ुटबॉल League ; later, the मताधिकार joined the NFL in the afl–nfl merger.
The team began to play in 1960 at the Polo Grounds.
Under new ownership, the current name was अपनाया in 1963 और the franchise was relocated to shea Stadium in 1964 and then to the Meadowlands Sports Complex in 1984.
The Jets उन्नत to the playoffs for the first time in 1968 and went on to compete in Super Bowl III where they defeated the Baltimore कोल्टस, becoming the first AFL team to defeat an NFL club in an AFL-NFL World चैंपियनशिप Game.
Since 1968, the Jets have appeared in the playoffs thirteen टाइम्स, and in the afc Championship Game four times, most recently losing to the Pittsburgh Steelers in 2010.
however, the jets have never returned to the Super Bowl, बनाना them one of three NFL teams to win उनके lone Super Bowl appearance, साथ with the New Orleans Saints and Tampa खाड़ी Buccaneers.
The team 's प्रशिक्षण facility, Atlantic Health Jets प्रशिक्षण बीच, जिससे opened in 2008, is located in Florham पार्क.
the टोली currently holds उनके सालाना प्रशिक्षण camp सत्र on the campus of the State University of नई यॉर्क at Cortland in Cortland, New यॉर्क while holding occasional सत्र at the florham Park complex.
Psilocybe semilanceata
psilocybin मशरूम, also known as साइकेडेलिक मशरूम, are fungi कि contain psychoactive indole alkaloids.
There हैं अनेक colloquial terms लिये psilocybin मशरूम, the most common being shrooms and magic mushrooms.
Biological genera containing psilocybin मशरूम include Agrocybe, Conocybe, Copelandia, Galerina, Gerronema, Gymnopilus, Hypholoma, inocybe, Mycena, Panaeolus, Pluteus, and psilocybe.
There are approximately 190 species of psilocybin mushrooms and most of them fall in the genus psilocybe.
Psilocybin मशरूम have संभावित महरूम used since प्रागैतिहासिक times और may have महरूम depicted in चट्टान art.
अनेक cultures have प्रयुक्त these mushrooms in धार्मिक rites.
In modern Western society वे हैं used recreationally for their साइकेडेलिक effects.
Recent studies किया at इम्पीरियल College London and Johns Hopkins School of Medicine conclude that when प्रयुक्त properly, psilocybin acts as an anti-depressant as सुझाया by fmri brain scans.
Alaska ( ) is a state in the United States, situated in the उत्तरपश्चिम extremity of the North American महाद्वीप, with the अंतरराष्ट्रीय boundary साथ Canada to the ईस्ट, the Arctic Ocean to the north, and the Pacific Ocean to the west and south, साथ Russia further वेस्ट आरपार the Bering Strait.
अलास्का is the largest राज्य in the United States by area, the 4th least populous and the least densely populated of the 50 United States.
लगभग half of अलास्का 's 731,449 निवासियों live भीतर the Anchorage metropolitan क्षेत्रफल.
Alaska 's economy is dominated by the oil, natural गैस, and फ़िशिंग उद्योग ; it has these resources in प्रचुरता.
Alaska was purchased from Russia on March 30, 1867, लिये $ 7.2 लाख ( $ समायोजित for महंगाई ) at approximately two cents per acre ( $ 4.74/km2 ).
The land went through several administrative changes before becoming an व्यवस्थित ( or incorporated ) territory on may 11, 1912, and the 49th राज्य of the U.S. on जनवरी 3, 1959.
The name `` अलास्का '' ( аляска ) थी already introduced in the रूसी colonial काल, when it was प्रयुक्त तभी for the peninsula and is derived from the Aleut alaxsxaq, meaning `` the मेनलैंड '' or, अधिक literally, `` the object towards which the action of the sea is directed ''.
it is also known as Alyeska, the `` great land '', an Aleut word derived from the वही root.
The 101 French विभाग are विभाजित into 342 arrondissements, which may be अनूदित into अंग्रेज़ी as districts.
the capital of an arrondissement/district is पुकारा a subprefecture.
जब an arrondissement contains the prefecture ( capital ) of the department, that prefecture is the पूंजी of the arrondissement, acting both as a prefecture and as a subprefecture.
arrondissements हैं further divided into cantons and communes.
The योनि ( from Latin vāgīna, literally `` sheath '' or `` scabbard `` ) is a tubular ट्रैक्ट which is a sex अंग and has two main functions ; sexual intercourse and childbirth.
in humans, इस passage लीड from the opening of the vulva to the uterus ( womb ), लकिन the vaginal tract ends at the cervix.
Unlike men, जो have only one genital orifice, महिलाओं have दो, the urethra and the योनि.
The vaginal खोलने is much larger than the urethral खोलने, and both openings are protected by the labia.
The inner mould of the vagina has a foldy बनावट which can create friction for the penis during मैथुन.
दौरान arousal, the vagina gets moist to facilitate the entrance of the शिश्न.
the Latinate plural `` vaginae '' is rarely used in English.
colloquially, the word vagina is प्रायः प्रयुक्त to refer to the vulva or to the female गुप्तांग in सामान्य.
however, by इसके dictionary and anatomical परिभाषाएं, vagina refers exclusively to the specific internal structure.
The Cincinnati Reds are a Major लीग Baseball team based in सिनसिनाटी, Ohio.
वे हैं members of the National League Central Division.
स्थापित in 1881 as an स्वतंत्र club, the टोली became a charter सदस्य of the American संघ in 1882, और joined the National लीग in 1890.
the club traditionally traces इसके उत्पत्ति to baseball 's first openly professional team in 1869.
The लाल have जीती five संसार Series शीर्षक, एक American Association pennant, nine नेशनल लीग pennants and ten division titles.
The Reds played in the National League West between 1969 and 1993 and have महरूम in the नेशनल League सेंट्रल since 1994.
Since 2003, the Reds have played at Great American Ball Park, built next to उनके home from 1970 to 2002, Riverfront Stadium.
Bob Castellini रै owned the Cincinnati Reds since 2006.
A prank stink bomb.
a stink bomb is a device designed to create an unpleasant महकते.
They range in effectiveness from simple pranks to military grade malodorants or riot control रासायनिक agents.
the Guinness Book of Records सूचियाँ two smelliest substances.
One is `` US Government मानक Bathroom malodor '' ; a mixture of eight chemicals with a stench resembling human मल, तभी much stronger, designed to test the efficacy of deodorizers and एयर fresheners.
Another one, `` Who me ? ``, is a mixture of पाँच sulfur-containing रसायन और खुश्बू जैसे rotting खाना and carcasses.
The कहावत `` A picture is लायक a thousand शब्द '' refers to the notion कि a complex idea can be conveyed साथ just a single still चित्र.
it also aptly characterizes one of the प्रमुख goals of visualization, namely making it संभावित to absorb large amounts of data quickly.
the अभिव्यक्ति `` Use a चित्र.
It 's worth a thousand शब्द. '' appears in a 1911 newspaper article quoting newspaper editor आर्थर Brisbane discussing journalism और publicity.
1913 newspaper advertisement
A similar phrase, `` एक dekh Is Worth a Thousand Words '', appears in a 1913 समाचारपत्र advertisement for the piqua स्वचालित Supply हाउस of Piqua, ओहियो.
An जल्दी use of the exact phrase appears in an 1918 समाचारपत्र advertisement for the San Antonio Light which says : One of the Nation 's महानतम Editors Says : One चित्र is Worth a हजार Words The सैन अंतोनियो लाइट 's सचित्र Magazine of the War Exemplifies the truth of the above statement -- judging from the warm रिसेप्शन it रै received at the hands of the Sunday Light readers.
it is believed by some कि the आधुनिक use of the phrase stems from an article by Fred R. Barnard in the advertising व्यापार journal मुद्रक ' स्याही, promoting the उपयोग of images in advertisements that appeared on the sides of streetcars.
the December 8, 1921 issue carries an ad entitled, `` एक Look is Worth A Thousand Words. ''
another ad by Barnard appears in the March 10, 1927 issue साथ the phrase `` One Picture लायक Ten हजार Words, '' where it is labeled a Chinese कहावत ( 一圖勝萬言 ).
the घर Book of Proverbs, Maxims, और परिचित वाक्यांश quotes Barnard as saying he called it `` a Chinese कहावत, so that लोगों होता take it seriously. ''
Soon after, the proverb would become popularly attributed to Confucius.
The discussion of `` One Picture लायक हजार शब्द '' बनाम `` One चित्र लायक टेन Thousand शब्द '' Wan येन i hua और 10.000 miles worth 10.000 किताबे is cited in Information graphics where the concept of many in अलग disciplines और cultures.
A picture is लायक a हजार words
Despite this आधुनिक उत्पत्ति of the लोकप्रिय phrase, the sentiment रै been expressed by earlier writers.
For example the रूसी लेखक इवान Turgenev लिखा ( in Fathers and बेटे in 1862 ), `` A picture shows me at a glance कया it takes दर्जनों of pages of a book to expound. ''
Computer programmer and लेखक Fred Brooks makes an opposite बयान regarding programming in The mythical man-month : `` Show me your flowcharts and छिपाते अपना टेबल, and I shall continue to be mystified.
Show me your टेबल, and I won’t usually need अपना flowcharts ; they’ll be obvious. ''
The phrase has भी been spoofed by John McCarthy, the famous कंप्यूटर scientist, to make the opposite point : `` As the Chinese say, 1001 words is worth more than a चित्र. ''
a ऋतु is a subdivision of the year, चिह्नित by परिवर्तन in weather, ecology, और hours of daylight.
Seasons परिणाम इससे the वार्षिक revolution of the Earth around the सूर्य and the tilt of the Earth 's अक्ष relative to the plane of revolution.
In शीतोष्ण और polar regions, the seasons हैं marked by परिवर्तन in the intensity of धूप कि reaches the धरती 's सतह, variations of which may कारण animals to go into hibernation or to migrate, and plants to be dormant.
During May, जून and July, the northern hemisphere is exposed to more direct sunlight क्युकी the गोलार्ध faces the sun.
the वही is true of the southern hemisphere in November, दिसम्बर और January.
it is the tilt of the Earth that causes the सूर्य to be higher in the sky during the summer months जिससे increases the सौर flux.
however, due to मौसमी lag, जून, July and August are the hottest months in the northern hemisphere और December, January and February हैं the hottest months in the southern hemisphere.
In temperate और subpolar regions, generally four calendar -based seasons ( with their adjectives ) are recognized : spring ( vernal ), summer ( estival ), पतझड़ ( autumnal ) and winter ( hibernal ).
however, ecologists ज़्यादातर use a छह ऋतु model for temperate climate regions कि includes pre-spring ( prevernal ) and late summer ( serotinal ) as distinct seasons along with the traditional four.
Hot regions have two or three seasons ; the rainy ( or wet, or मानसून ) season और the dry season, and in कुछ tropical areas, a cool or mild ऋतु.
In some parts of the world, special `` seasons '' are loosely defined based on important कार्यक्रम such as a hurricane season, tornado season or a दावानल ऋतु.
the six ecological सीज़न
the four पंचांग सीज़न, depicted in an प्राचीन Roman मोज़ेक इससे ट्यूनीशिया
डच निर्यात in 2006
at the time of writing the Netherlands is the 17th largest अर्थव्यवस्था of the संसार.
( see : List of countries by GDP ( nominal ) )
जीडीपी per capita is roughly $ 42,000 जिससे puts it in the top 10 of richest nations in the संसार ( see : List of देशों by GDP ( PPP ) प्रति capita ).
between 1996 and 2000 annual economic विकास ( GDP ) averaged over 4 %, खूब above the European average.
Growth slowed considerably in 2001-05 as part of the global economic slowdown.
2006 and 2007 however दिखाया economic growth of 3.4 % and 3.9 %.
The Dutch अर्थव्यवस्था was hit considerably by the ongoing global वित्तीय crisis and the ensuing European कर्ज़ crisis.
Several banks went bankrupt, और a number of others had to receive governmental सहायता.
In 2009 the economy declined साथ 3.5 %, followed by two years of mild growth.
The Dutch economy is फिलहाल in a recession again, with an आर्थिक decline of 0.5 % in 2012.
महंगाई is at 3.2 % in फ़रवरी 2013.
Unemployment रै been अपेक्षाकृत low compared to other EU राष्ट्र for decades but बाद mid-2012 it रै seen a तेज़ increase and in February 2013 it रै hit 7.7 %.
the Netherlands managed to maintain its AAA rating at least until March 2013 according to the three major क्रेडिट rating agencies.
Historically, the डच introduced और invented the भण्डार market by the merchandise trading through Dutch West India Company.
The Netherlands is a founding सदस्य of the European संघ, the OECD and the World Trade Organization.
Loyal to the Game is the tenth studio एल्बम और sixth studio album by Tupac shakur.
It contains remixes of previously unreleased music recorded by Shakur पहले उसके मौत in 1996.
Released in the United States on दिसम्बर 14, 2004 ( December 12 in the United Kingdom ), Loyal to the Game was produced by एमिनेम.
The original फलक of The View ; मेरेडिथ Vieira, Star Jones, Debbie matenopoulos and Barbara Walters in 1997.
The View is an American talk show ब्रॉडकास्ट on ABC that debuted in 1997 as part of the network 's daytime प्रोग्रामिंग block.
Created by बारबरा Walters and Bill Geddie, who दोनो also serve as the show 's executive producers, the program सुविधाएँ a panel of women as co-hosts.
साथ साथ Walters, the वर्तमान panel includes Whoopi Goldberg, जो serves as the moderator, आनन्द behar, Elisabeth Hasselbeck, and Sherri गड़रिये.
International versions of the program are aired in several countries.
As of the 2012–13 season, its 16th, the दृश्य is the fourth-longest running national daytime talk show in इतिहास, behind The Phil Donahue Show ( 29 ), the variously-named Live !
कार्यक्रम ( 25 ), and The ओपरा Winfrey Show ( 25 ).
prunus virginiana, commonly called bitter-berry, chokecherry, Virginia बर्ड चेरी and western chokecherry ( also ब्लैक chokecherry for P. virginiana var. demissa ), is a species of bird cherry ( Prunus subgenus Padus ) native to उत्तर America ; the natural historic range of P. virginiana includes most of the महाद्वीप, except for the far north and far south.
Los एंजिल्स International विमानक्षेत्र is the primary airport सेवारत the वृहद Los Angeles Area, the second-most आबादी महानगर area in the United राज्य.
it is most प्रायः referred to by its IATA विमानक्षेत्र code lax, with the letters pronounced individually.
LAX is located in southwestern Los Angeles along the Pacific coast in the पड़ोस of westchester, from the downtown core and is the प्राथमिक airport of Los Angeles World Airports ( lawa ), an एजेंसी of the लॉस Angeles city सरकारी formerly known as the विभाग of Airports.
In 2011, LAX थी the sixth busiest airport in the world after hartsfield-jackson अटलांटा International विमानक्षेत्र, Beijing Capital अंतरराष्ट्रीय Airport, London Heathrow Airport, Chicago O'Hare अंतरराष्ट्रीय Airport, and Tokyo Haneda अंतरराष्ट्रीय विमानक्षेत्र with 61,862,052 passengers.
The airport holds the claim for `` the संसार 's busiest origin and destination ( O & d ) airport '' in 2011 कि involves non-connecting passenger traffic.
It is भी the तभी विमानक्षेत्र to rank among the शीर्ष five U.S. एयरपोर्ट लिये both passenger and कार्गो traffic.
lax is the busiest airport in the वृहद लॉस Angeles Area, लकिन अन्य airports including Bob Hope Airport, John Wayne Airport, Long Beach Airport, LA/Ontario International विमानक्षेत्र, and Palm Springs अंतरराष्ट्रीय विमानक्षेत्र also serve the region.
LAX is also the व्यस्ततम airport in California and the West Coast of the United States in शर्तें of flight operations, passenger traffic and air cargo कार्यकलाप, leading it to be referred to as the `` गेटवे to the Pacific Rim ``.
Peyton Williams Manning ( born March 24, 1976 ) is an American football quarterback लिये the Denver Broncos of the नेशनल Football लीग ( NFL ).
He played लिये the Indianapolis Colts लिये 14 seasons from 1998 to 2011.
He is the son of former NFL क्वार्टरबैक Archie Manning and an elder brother of नई यॉर्क Giants quarterback एली मैनिंग.
Manning played college football for the University of Tennessee, अग्रणी the स्वयंसेवक to the 1997 सेक चैंपियनशिप in उसके senior ऋतु.
However, No. 3 Tennessee lost to the No. 2 Nebraska Cornhuskers 42-17 in the Orange Bowl giving नेब्रास्का and tom ओसबोर्न their 3rd national championship in 4 years.
He was चुनी by the Indianapolis Colts with the first overall चुनें in the 1998 NFL Draft.
इससे 1998 to 2010, he led the Colts to eight ( seven AFC South and one AFC East ) division championships, दो AFC championships, and to a Super Bowl championship ( Super Bowl XLI ).
He रै जीती a रिकार्ड four league सबसे मूल्यवान player awards, was the सबसे valuable player of Super Bowl XLI, has been named to बारह प्रो Bowls, has बारह 4,000-yard passing seasons, और is the Indianapolis Colts ' all-time leader in passing yards ( 54,828 ) and touchdown गुजरता ( 399 ).
in 2009, he was नामित the best player in the एनएफएल और फॉक्स खेल along साथ खेल illustrated named him the NFL player of the दशक of the 2000s.
in may 2011, he underwent गर्दन सर्जरी to alleviate गर्दन pain and arm weakness he dealt साथ during the previous few seasons before signing a five-year, $ 90 लाख contract एक्सटेंशन with the Colts in July 2011.
Manning had hoped to play in the 2011 ऋतु, but in September 2011, he underwent a much more serious second सर्जरी : a level एक सर्वाइकल संलयन कार्यविधि.
मैनिंग had never missed an एनएफएल game in his career, but थी forced to miss the entire 2011 ऋतु.
he was released by the Colts on March 7, 2012, और after an almost two-week period जहाँ he visited with और worked out for अनेक NFL टीमों, he हस्ताक्षरित साथ the डेनवर Broncos on March 20, 2012.
Manning 's pre-snap दिनचर्या has earned him the nickname, `` The Sheriff '' और is one of the most recognizable and parodied in the NFL.
The इंडियानापोलिस Colts ' almost exclusive use of the hurry-up ठोकर led to Manning using an array of gestures and verbal कमांड to call the खेल at the line of scrimmage rather than in the huddle.
the अमेरिका Tower of the American General Center, the headquarters of बेकर ह्यूजेस
Baker Hughes is one of the world 's largest oilfield services companies.
It operates in over 90 countries, providing the oil and gas industry with products and services for drilling, formation evaluation, completion, उत्पादन and reservoir consulting.
Baker Hughes has its headquarters in the America Tower in the अमरीकी General बीच in Neartown, ह्यूस्टन.
Baker Hughes Incorporated was formed when बेकर अंतरराष्ट्रीय और Hughes Tool Company merged in 1987.
Baker Hughes operates विश्वव्यापी with major offices in Liverpool, संयुक्त Kingdom ; Singapore ; Dubai ; a शोध और maintenance facility in celle, Germany ; lafayette, Louisiana ; Houston, टेक्सास ; Pescara, Italy ; and Kuala lumpur, मलेशिया.
The company is administered broadly in दो hemispheres : the eastern hemisphere with five regions ( Europe, अफ़्रीकी, the मध्य East, Asia Pacific and russia/caspian ) and the western hemisphere with चार regions ( कनाडा, us जमीन, US Gulf, and Latin अमेरिका ).
Each of these regions is subdivided into बाज़ार.
The United States one- cent coin, commonly known as a पैनी, is a unit of currency equaling one one-hundredth of a संयुक्त States डालर.
The cent 's symbol is ¢.
Its obverse has प्रदर्शित the profile of अध्यक्ष Abraham Lincoln since 1909, the centennial of his birth.
From 1959 ( the sesquicentennial of Lincoln 's birth ) to 2008, the रिवर्स featured the lincoln Memorial.
चार different रिवर्स designs in 2009 सम्मानित Lincoln 's 200th birthday and a new, permanent reverse – the Union शील्ड – थी introduced in 2010.
the सिक्का is 0.75 inches ( 19.05 mm ) in diameter और 0.061 inches ( 1.55 mm ) in thickness.
The U.S. Mint 's official name for a पैनी is `` '' and the U.S. Treasury 's official नाम is `` one cent piece ''.
the colloquial term पैनी derives इससे the British सिक्का of the same नाम, the pre-decimal version of which had a समान मान.
In American English, pennies is the plural form, अन्य plural फ़ॉर्म पेंस and pee ( मानक उपयोग in British English ) are not used.
As of 2012, it लागत the U.S. Mint 2.00 सेंट to make a cent because of the लागत of सामग्री and production.
This फिगर शामिल the Mint’s fixed components लिये distribution and fabrication, estimated at $ 13 million in FY 2011.
It also शामिल Mint overhead allocated to the penny, which was $ 17.7 million for 2011.
Fixed costs and overhead would have to be absorbed by other circulating coins without the penny.
The loss in profitability due to producing the एक cent coin in the संयुक्त States for the साल of 2012 was $ 58,000,000.
This was a पतला घटी from 2011, the year पहले, which had a उत्पादन loss of $ 60,200,000.
or अधिक specifically, are ornamental varieties of domesticated common carp ( Cyprinus carpio ) that are kept लिये decorative purposes in outdoor कोई ponds or water gardens.
Koi varieties हैं विशिष्ट by coloration, patterning, और scalation.
Some of the major रंगों are white, ब्लैक, रेड, पीला, blue, and cream.
The most लोकप्रिय category of koi is the Gosanke, जिससे is बना up of the kohaku, Taisho Sanshoku, and showa Sanshoku varieties.
the American Federation of Government Employees ( AFGE ) is an American labor union representing over 650,000 कर्मचारी of the federal government, about 5,000 कर्मचारी of the District of Columbia, and a few सौ private सेक्टर employees, mostly in and around federal facilities.
AFGE is the largest union लिये civilian, non- postal federal कर्मचारी and the largest union for District of Columbia employees who report directly to the महापौर ( i.e., बाहर of d.C. पब्लिक schools ).
It is affiliated साथ the afl-cio.
A late सिल्यूरियन sporangium.
Green : a spore tetrad.
Blue : A spore bearing a trilete mark – the -shaped scar.
the spores are about 30-35 μm आरपार
The evolution of plants has resulted in increasing स्तर of complexity, इससे the earliest algal mats, through bryophytes, lycopods, ferns to the जटिल gymnosperms and angiosperms of today.
While many of the groups which appeared earlier continue to thrive, विशेषकर in the environments in which they evolved, for a समय each new grade of संगठन became more `` successful '' than इसके predecessors.
In the Ordovician period, around, the first land plants appeared.
ये began to diversify in the late Silurian Period, around, and the परिणाम of their diversification हैं displayed in remarkable detail in an early Devonian fossil assemblage from the Rhynie chert.
This chert preserved early plants in cellular विवरण, petrified in volcanic springs.
by the middle of the devonian Period, सबसे of the features recognised in plants आज हैं present, including roots, leaves और secondary लकडी ; and, by late Devonian times, seeds had evolved.
Late devonian पौधे था thereby पहुँचे a उपाधि of sophistication that allowed them to form वनों of tall trees.
विकासवादी नवीनता जारी into the carboniferous period and is still जारी आज.
Most plant groups were अपेक्षाकृत unscathed by the Permo-Triassic extinction event, although the structures of समुदायों changed.
इस may have set the झाँकी लिये the रूप of the flowering plants in the triassic ( ~ ), and their later diversification in the Cretaceous and Paleogene.
The latest major समूह of plants to evolve were the grasses, which became important in the mid-Paleogene, from around.
The grasses, as खूब as many other groups, विकसित new mechanisms of metabolism to survive the low and गरम, शुष्क शर्तें of the ऊष्णकटिबन्ध over the पिछला.
the winning Super Bowl team receives the विंस Lombardi Trophy.
The Super Bowl is an annual American football खेल that determines the champion of the National Football League ( NFL ).
The प्रतियोगिता is आयोजित in an अमरीकी city that is chosen three to four years beforehand, usually in warm-weather or domed साइट.
Since 1971, the विजेता of the अमरीकी Football Conference ( AFC ) Championship खेल रै faced the winner of the National फ़ुटबॉल Conference ( nfc ) Championship Game in the culmination of the NFL playoffs.
पहले the 1970 विलय between the American Football League ( AFL ) and the नेशनल Football League ( NFL ), the two लीग met in four ऐसे contests.
The first दो were known as the `` afl-nfl World Championship Game. ''
Super कटोरी iii in 1969 थी the first such game that carried the `` Super Bowl '' moniker, the names `` Super Bowl I `` and `` सुपर कटोरी ii `` यहूद retroactively applied to the first दो games.
The NFC /NFL leads in सुपर कटोरी wins with 25, while the AFC /AFL रै won 22.
Eighteen अलग franchises, सहित teams that relocated to another city, have won the Super कटोरी.
The Pittsburgh स्टीलर्स have won the सबसे Super Bowls with six championships ( record 6–2 ), while both the Dallas cowboys and San फ्रांसिस्को 49ers have five wins प्रत्येक ( Cowboys 5–3 ; 49ers 5–1 ).
Dallas और Pittsburgh have the most Super कटोरी appearances with eight, while the भैंस Bills have the most लगातार appearances with four losses in a पंक्ति इससे 1990 to 1993.
The New England Patriots, Denver Broncos और मिनेसोटा वाइकिंग्स have भी lost a record four Super Bowls.
भैंस and Minnesota are both 0–4, डेनवर is 2–4 and New England is 3–4.
The record for लगातार wins is two and is shared by seven franchises : the 1966-67 Green Bay पैकर्स, the 1972-73 Miami Dolphins, the 1974-75 और 1978-79 Pittsburgh Steelers ( the only team to accomplish इस feat twice ), the 1988-89 San Francisco 49ers, the 1992-93 Dallas Cowboys, the 1997-98 डेनवर Broncos, और the 2003-04 New England Patriots.
The only टोली साथ multiple Super Bowl appearances and no losses is the Baltimore Ravens, who in winning Super कटोरी xlvii unseated and replaced the 49ers in that स्थिति.
Four current NFL teams have never appeared in a सुपर कटोरी, सहित franchise relocations and renaming : the क्लीवलैंड Browns, Detroit Lions, jacksonville Jaguars, and ह्यूस्टन Texans, though both the Browns and Lions had won NFL चैंपियनशिप games prior to the creation of the सुपर कटोरी.
Martin County is a काउंटी located in the u.S. state of टेक्सास.
As of the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी, इसके population थी 4,799.
Its seat is stanton.
The county is named for Wylie Martin, an early settler.
Martin County is one of 30 निषेध, or entirely dry, counties in the state of Texas.
Alkaline phosphatase ( ALP, alkp ) ( ) is a hydrolase एंजाइम responsible for removing फास्फेट groups from many प्रकार of molecules, including nucleotides, proteins, and alkaloids.
the process of removing the phosphate group is पुकारा dephosphorylation.
As the नाम suggests, क्षारीय phosphatases are most effective in an क्षारीय environment.
It is sometimes प्रयुक्त synonymously as basic phosphatase.
Triticale ( × triticosecale ), ( ) is a hybrid of wheat ( Triticum ) and rye ( Secale ) first bred in laboratories during the late 19th सदी.
the grain थी originally bred in Scotland और स्वीडन.
commercially उपलब्धियाँ triticale is almost सदा a दूसरी generation hybrid, i.e., a cross between two kinds of प्राथमिक ( first क्रॉस ) triticales.
As a rule, triticale combines the उपज potential और grain quality of wheat with the disease और environmental tolerance ( including मृदा conditions ) of rye.
Only recently has it been developed into a commercially viable crop.
depending on the cultivar, triticale can more or less resemble either of its parents.
It is grown mostly for forage or fodder, although some triticale-based भोजन can be purchased at health food स्टोर्स or are to be मिला in some breakfast cereals.
जब क्रासिंग wheat और rye, गेहूं is प्रयुक्त as the female parent और rye as the पुरूष parent ( pollen donor ).
the resulting संकर is बंध्य, and must be treated साथ colchicine to induce polyploidy और thus the ability to reproduce itself.
The प्राथमिक producers of triticale are Poland, Germany, France, Belarus and Australia.
In 2009, according to the खाना and Agriculture Organization ( FAO ), 15.0 लाख tons were harvested in 29 countries across the world.
The triticale संकरण are all amphidiploid, which means the plant is diploid लिये two genomes derived from अलग species.
In other शब्द, triticale is an allotetraploid.
In earlier years, most work थी किया on octoploid triticale.
अलग ploidy levels have been created and evaluated over time.
the tetraploids showed little promise, but hexaploid triticale was successful पर्याप्त to find वाणिज्यिक application.
the CIMMYT triticale improvement कार्यक्रम wanted to improve food उत्पादन and पोषण in developing देशों.
triticale has संभावित in the उत्पादन of bread and other food products, such as cookies, pasta, pizza dough and नाश्ता cereals.
The प्रोटीन content is higher than that of गेहूं, although the glutenin भिन्न is less.
The grain has also महरूम stated to have उच्चतर levels of lysine than गेहूं.
Assuming increased acceptance, the milling industry will have to adapt to triticale, as the मिलिंग तकनीकों employed for wheat are unsuited to triticale.
Sell et al. found triticale could be प्रयुक्त as a feed grain, and later research मिला its starch was विशेषकर readily digested.
As a feed grain, triticale is already खूब established and of high आर्थिक importance.
It has प्राप्त attention as a potential energy crop, and research is currently होने conducted on the use of the crop 's बायोमास in bioethanol उत्पादन.
`` कश, the Magic ड्रैगन '' is a सोंग लिखा by Leonard Lipton और Peter Yarrow, and made लोकप्रिय by Yarrow 's समूह Peter, Paul and Mary in a 1963 recording.
The song achieved great popularity.
A college football national championship in the highest level of कॉलेजिएट खेल in the संयुक्त राज्य, फिलहाल the National कॉलेजिएट Athletic Association ( ncaa ) Division I Football कटोरी Subdivision ( FBS ), is a designation awarded annually by various third-party organizations to उनके चयन ( s ) of the best कॉलेज फ़ुटबॉल team ( s ).
प्रभाग I FBS ( formerly Division I-A ) football is the तभी NCAA sport in which a yearly champion is not determined by an NCAA sanctioned championship event.
Because the championship team is not determined by a NCAA चैंपियनशिप or tournament event, it is sometimes unofficially referred to as a `` mythical national championship ``.
चूंकि the NCAA, the sport 's governing body, does not determine or declare a national champion in this फ़ील्ड, determination of such has often engendered controversy.
A championship टोली is independently घोषित by various individuals और संगठन, प्रायः referred to as `` चयनकर्ताओं ''.
These चुनाव are sometimes at हालात साथ each other.
जबकि the NCAA has never officially endorsed an annual championship team, it रै documented the चुनाव of several चयनकर्ताओं in the official NCAA Football Bowl Subdivision Records.
In addition, various third पार्टी विश्लेषकों have independently published उनके अपना सूचियाँ of what they have determined to be the सबसे legitimate selections for each season.
These are भी प्रायः at हालात with each other as well as individual school 's दावा on national championships, जिससे, for any particular season, may or may नहीं correlate to the selections published elsewhere.
Currently, two widely recognized national champions selectors are the Associated Press, which conducts a poll of फ़ुटबॉल sportswriters, and the USA आज Coaches ' Poll, a poll of American फ़ुटबॉल कोच Association active coaches that is contractually obligated to नाम the winner of the Bowl Championship Series चैंपियनशिप खेल as its नेशनल चैंपियन.
The Milwaukee Brewers are a पेशेवर बेसबॉल team based in Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
The team is a सदस्य of the Central Division of प्रमुख League बेसबॉल 's नेशनल League और plays its home खेल at Miller Park.
the team is so named because of the city 's association with the brewing उद्योग.
The Washington नागरिकों are a professional baseball team आधारित in Washington, d.c.
The Nationals are a member of the East Division of the National League of Major League Baseball ( MLB ).
the टोली 's home ballpark is Nationals Park, located on South Capitol Street in Southeast D.C., निकट the Anacostia नदी.
The park opened in 2008, replacing rfk स्टेडियम, the team 's home from 2005 to 2007.
The Nationals ' name derives इससे the former Washington baseball टोली that had the same name ( प्रयुक्त interchangeably with सीनेटरों ).
Their उपनाम is `` the Nats '' —a shortened version कि was भी used by the बूढ़ा D.C. teams.
an expansion franchise, the क्लबों थी founded in as the Montreal Expos, the first प्रमुख league टोली in Canada.
वे यहूद based in Montreal, Quebec, and played their home games at Jarry पार्क Stadium and later in ओलम्पिक Stadium.
In, the Expos जीती a division championship, won उनके first-ever playoff series by defeating the फिलाडेल्फिया Phillies, 3–2, and advanced to the National लीग Championship Series, where वे would go on to खोना to the Los Angeles Dodgers, 3–2, in their only postseason appearance दौरान the strike-shortened ऋतु.
The expos had their highest जीतना percentage in the strike-shortened season of, जब the team था the बेहतरीन record in बेसबॉल.
the team 's subsequent shedding of खिलाड़ी caused fan interest to drop बंद.
After the 2001 ऋतु, MLB माना revoking the team 's franchise, along with either the मिनेसोटा Twins or the tampa Bay Devil Rays.
बाद being purchased by MLB in 2002, the टोली was moved before the ऋतु to Washington और renamed the Nationals, the first relocation since the second वॉशिंगटन Senators स्थानांतरित to Arlington, Texas, and became the टेक्सास Rangers in.
The Nationals हैं one of two एमएलबी franchises, और the only one in the National League, that has never निभाई in a संसार Series ( the Seattle Mariners are the other ).
A निर्भर fee ( in the United States ) or सशर्त शुल्क ( in इंग्लैण्ड and Wales ) is कोई शुल्क लिये services provided where the fee is payable only if there is a favourable result.
In the law, it is defined as a `` fee charged for a वकील 's services only if the मुकदमा is कामयाब or is favorably settled आउट of court....
Contingent fees हैं usually गणना as a percentage of the client 's जाल recovery. ''
In the English legal प्रणाली, it is generally referred to as no जीत no fee.
A conditional शुल्क अनुबंध between a law firm and a client.
The usual form of this agreement is that the solicitor will take a विधि case on the समझना that if खोया, no payment is बना.
However, if the case is won, the lawyer will be entitled to the normal fee based on hourly billing, प्लस a success fee.
The success fee in इंग्लैण्ड must be as a percentage no वृहद than 100 % of the normal fee.
This contrasts with the आकस्मिकता fee in the US, which gives the successful attorney a प्रतिशत of the damages awarded in एहसान of his क्लाएंट.
This makes it easier for the poor to pursue their civil rights चूंकि वरना, to sue someone for a अपकृत्य, one must first be wealthy पर्याप्त to pursue such litigation in the पहला प्लेस.
however, because of the high रिस्क, few attorneys होगा take cases on a contingency basis unless they feel the case रै शुभ merit.
according to a 2004 book by law professor Herbert Kritzer, निर्भर शुल्क यहूद allowed as of that year in the following countries : Australia, Brazil, Canada, the Dominican Republic, France, Greece, Ireland, Japan, नई जीलैंड, the United Kingdom and the United States.
वे हैं also allowed in personal injury क्रियाएँ in लिथुआनिया.
Recently, वे have been अनुमत in Belgium as well.
A Convocation ( Latin 'calling together ', translating the Greek ecclesia ) is a group of लोगों formally assembled for a special purpose.
Sons of Anarchy is a television नाटक series created by Kurt Sutter about the lives of a close-knit गैरकानूनी मोटरसाइकिल club operating in आकर्षक, a fictional town in California 's Central Valley.
the show centers on protagonist Jackson `` Jax '' Teller ( Charlie Hunnam ), the then-vice अध्यक्ष of the क्लबों, जो begins questioning the club and himself.
Sons of Anarchy premiered on सितंबर 3, 2008, on केबल संजाल fx.
The तीसरा ऋतु of the series आकर्षित an औसत of 4.9 लाख दर्शक per week, making it FX 's highest rated series कभी, surpassing fx 's other hits The Shield, Nip/Tuck, and Rescue Me.
On February 3, 2012, Sons of Anarchy was renewed for दो अतिरिक्त seasons, a पांचवां और a छठे.
Those शामिल in the production of the series imply that a seventh and final ऋतु is creator कर्ट Sutter 's plan.
the Grímsvötn sub-glacial lakes ( ; vötn = `` waters '', singular : ) and the ज्वालामुखी of the same नाम हैं in South-East आइसलैंड.
वे are in the highlands of आइसलैंड at the northwestern पक्ष of the Vatnajökull ice-cap.
the झीलों are at, at an elevation of.
beneath the lakes is the magma chamber of the Grímsvötn volcano.
grímsvötn is a basaltic volcano which has the highest eruption frequency of all the volcanoes in Iceland and has a southwest-northeast-trending fissure system.
The massive climate-impacting Laki fissure eruption of 1783–1784 was a part of the same fissure system.
grímsvötn was erupting at the same time as Laki during 1783, लकिन continued to erupt until 1785.
Because सबसे of the volcano lies underneath vatnajökull, most of its eruptions have been subglacial and the interaction of magma and meltwater from the बर्फ causes phreatomagmatic explosive कार्यकलाप.
On 21 May 2011 at 19:25 UTC, an eruption began, with ऊँची plumes accompanied by अनेक भूकंप, resulting in cancellation of 900 flights in Iceland, and in the United Kingdom, ग्रीनलैंड, Germany, Ireland and नार्वे on 22–25 May.
Until 25 may the फटना scale had been larger than कि of the 2010 फटना of Eyjafjallajökull.
the eruption रोका at 02:40 utc on 25 May 2011, although there was some explosive कार्यकलाप इससे the tephra vents affecting only the क्षेत्रफल around the crater.
Vetting is the process of performing a background check on किसी before offering उन्हें नियुक्ति, conferring an पुरस्कार, etc.
a prospective person or project may be vetted before making a hiring decision.
In जोड, in intelligence gathering, एसेट हैं vetted to determine their उपयोगिता.
Former headquarters और वर्तमान कॉरपोरेट offices
caesars Entertainment Corporation ( formerly Harrah 's entertainment इससे 1995 to 2010 ) is an American public गेमिंग corporation that owns and operates over 50 casinos, hotels, and सात golf पाठ्यक्रम under several brands.
the कम्पनी, based in Paradise, नेवाडा, is the largest गेमिंग company in the world, with सालाना revenues of $ 8.9 billion ( 2010 ).
caesars is a पब्लिक कम्पनी, साथ a joint venture of Apollo वैश्विक प्रबन्धन and टेक्सास Pacific Group ownig a large portion of the स्टेक और Blackstone समूह also पकड़कर a significant stake.
The नाम बदलें from `` harrah 's Entertainment inc. '' to `` Caesars entertainment निगम '' थी made official on November 23, 2010.
Harrah 's remains a key brand in the कम्पनी.
on November 5, 2010, Harrah 's announced an initial पब्लिक offering of 31,250,000 साझा लकिन retracted this offering on नवम्बर 19.
A स्थाई Resident in कनाडा is a व्यक्ति who is not a कनाडाई citizen but who has महरूम granted अनुमति to live and work in Canada बगैर कोई time limit on his or her stay.
A permanent resident must live in Canada for two years आउट of every पाँच or रिस्क losing that status.
A Permanent Resident holds अनेक of the same rights और जिम्मेदारियों as a Canadian citizen, among अन्य the right to work for any एंटरप्राइज़ as well as for the federal or provincial सरकारी ( under restriction of अभिगम rights to certain regulated professions ).
The main मतभेद हैं that residents can not :
vote in elections in Canada ;
चलाएं for elected office ;
थाम Canadian passports ;
In जोड, they may be allowed to join कनाडा 's armed forces if the नेशनल interest would not be prejudiced.
Permanent residents also risk प्रत्यर्पण लिये गंभीर crimes committed जबकि resident in Canada.
स्थाई residents may apply for कनाडाई citizenship after तीन years in कनाडा ; however इस is not mandatory.
Erica केन is a fictional character from the American एबीसी Daytime soap opera All my Children.
The character थी portrayed by अभिनेत्री Susan Lucci from उसके डेब्यू on जनवरी 16, 1970 until the last ब्रॉडकास्ट television episode aired on September 23, 2011.
On February 11, 2013, it थी announced that Lucci होगा guest-star on the prospect Park 's continuation of All My children.
In the U.S., एरिका is considered to be the सबसे popular character in साबुन opera history.
regarding the North-American मार्केट, tv Guide calls उसके `` unequivocally the सबसे प्रसिद्ध soap ओपेरा अक्षर in the history of daytime tv '', and शामिल her in their 2013 list of The 60 Nastiest Villains of All Time.
A graph of the US CPI from 1913 to 2006 ( in blue ), और its percent annual change ( in red )
a consumer price index ( CPI ) उपायों changes in the price level of a market बास्केट of उपभोक्ता goods and services purchased by households.
The CPI in the United States is defined by the ब्यूरो of Labor Statistics as `` a माप of the औसत change over time in the कीमतें paid by urban consumers for a मार्केट बास्केट of consumer goods और सेवाएं. ''
the CPI is a statistical estimate constructed using the prices of a sample of representative वस्तुएं जिनकी prices हैं एकत्रित periodically.
Sub-indexes and sub-sub-indexes are computed for अलग categories and sub-categories of goods and services, होने combined to produce the overall अनुक्रमणिका with weights reflecting उनके shares in the total of the उपभोक्ता expenditures covered by the index.
It is one of several price indices गणना by most national सांख्यिकीय एजेंसियों.
The annual percentage बदलें in a CPI is प्रयुक्त as a measure of महंगाई.
a CPI can be used to index ( i.e., समायोजन for the प्रभाव of inflation ) the real value of मजदूरी, salaries, pensions, for regulating prices और लिये deflating monetary magnitudes to show परिवर्तन in रियल values.
In most countries, the CPI is, साथ साथ the population census and the USA नेशनल Income और Product खाते, एक of the सबसे closely watched नेशनल economic statistics.
Knocking on wood, or to टच लकडी, refers to the apotropaic tradition in western लोकगीत of वस्तुतः touching/knocking on wood, or merely stating that you are doing or intend वही, in अनुक्रम to avoid `` tempting भाग्य `` after बनाना a favourable observation, a boast, or declaration concerning one 's own मौत.
रॉकर arm
generally referred to within the कॉन्टेक्स्ट of the आतंरिक combustion engine of automotive, marine, मोटरसाइकिल और प्रत्यागमनी aviation इंजन, the रॉकर arm is an oscillating लीवर that conveys radial movement from the cam lobe into linear movement at the poppet valve to open it.
एक समाप्त is raised और lowered by a rotating lobe of the camshaft ( either directly or via a tappet ( lifter ) and pushrod ) जबकि the other end acts on the valve stem.
When the camshaft lobe raises the बाहर of the भुजा, the inside presses down on the valve stem, opening the valve.
When the बाहर of the arm is permitted to वापसी due to the camshafts rotation, the inside rises, allowing the वाल्व spring to close the वाल्व.
The drive cam is driven by the camshaft.
This pushes the rocker भुजा up and down परिचय the trunnion pin or rocker शाफ्ट.
Friction may be घटाया at the point of सम्पर्क with the valve stem by a roller कैम follower.
a similar व्यवस्था transfers the motion via another roller cam अनुसरणकर्ता to a second rocker भुजा.
This rotates about the rocker shaft, and हस्तांतरण the motion via a tappet to the poppet valve.
in इस मामला इस opens the सेवन valve to the cylinder head.
the effective leverage of the arm ( और यूँ the फ़ोर्स it can exert on the valve स्टेम ) is determined by the rocker arm ratio, the अनुपात of the distance from the rocker arm 's बीच of rotation to the tip विभाजित by the distance from the center of rotation to the पाइंट acted on by the camshaft or pushrod.
Current ऑटोमोटिव design favors rocker भुजा ratios of about 1.5:1 to 1.8:1.
However, in the past smaller धनात्मक ratios ( the valve लिफ्ट is greater than the cam लिफ्ट ) and भी ऋणात्मक ratios ( valve लिफ्ट smaller than the कैम लिफ्ट ) have been used.
अनेक pre-ww2 engines उपयोग 1:1 ( neutral ) ratios.
लिये car इंजन the rocker arms are generally स्टील stampings, providing a reasonable संतुलन of strength, वज़न और किफायती cost.
Because the rocker arms are, in part, reciprocating वज़न, excessive mass विशेषकर at the lever ends limits the इंजन 's क्षमता to reach high operating speeds.
`` The Night the लाइट्स Went आउट in Georgia '' is a दक्षिणी Gothic song written by songwriter Bobby Russell and performed in 1972 by his then-wife Vicki Lawrence.
reba mcentire later covered it in 1991.
Recorded in late October 1972 in United/Western studios on सूर्यास्त in हॉलीवुड और released less than two weeks later in November 1972, the song centers around the older brother of the narrator, falsely convicted of और executed लिये a murder, जिससे the narrator herself has वचनबद्ध.
In डाक मेल, a return address is an explicit inclusion of the पता of the person sending the संदेश.
It provides the recipient ( and sometimes authorized intermediaries ) with a means to determine कैसा to respond to the sender of the message if needed.
the वापसी address need not include a sender 's name, but should include address or P.O. box विवरण in the वही way as the delivery पता should.
In some countries, the वापसी पता is conventionally located in the upper left hand corner of the envelope, card, or लेबल.
In the United Kingdom, the return address is प्रायः placed on the reverse of the envelope, निकट the top.
Businesses often use लिफाफे preprinted with a return पता.
Many individuals have sheets of adhesive लेबल्स preprinted with their घर पता to affix to their correspondence.
Charities sometimes include ऐसे sheets in mailshots.
Rolls of Return Address Labels can be purchased from companies that sell personalized labels to provide individuals an easy way to peel and स्टिक वापसी address labels to उनके लिफाफे.
The return पता is not जरूरी on postal मेल.
However, lack of a वापसी पता prevents the डाक service from होने able to return the item if it proves undeliverable ; ऐसे as from damage, postage due, or invalid गंतव्य.
ऐसे mail may thus become dead अक्षर mail.
Should the return address be of a different state or country, the मेल may be routed through that स्थान for ease of return.
a nerve guidance conduit ( भी referred to as an artificial nerve conduit or artificial तंत्रिका graft, as opposed to an autograft ) is an artificial अर्थात् of guiding axonal regrowth to सुकर nerve regeneration and is one of several clinical treatments for nerve injuries.
जब direct suturing of the two आउट of a severed nerve can not be accomplished without टेंशन, the standard clinical treatment for परिधीय nerve injuries is autologous nerve grafting.
Due to the सीमित availability of donor ऊतक और कार्यात्मक recovery in autologous nerve grafting, neural ऊतक अभियान्त्रिकी research has focused on the development of bioartificial तंत्रिका guidance conduits as an alternative treatment, especially for large दोषों.
Similar तकनीकों are also होने explored लिये nerve repair in the स्पाइनल cord but nerve regeneration in the central बेचैन प्रणाली poses a greater challenge क्युकी its axons do not regenerate appreciably in their native environment.
the creation of कृत्रिम conduits is भी known as entubulation क्युकी the तंत्रिका ends and intervening gap are enclosed within a tube composed of biological or synthetic materials.
Whether the conduit is in the रूप of a biologic tube, synthetic ट्यूब or tissue-engineered conduit, it should सुकर neurotropic and neurotrophic संचार between the proximal and distal ends of the तंत्रिका gap, block external inhibitory factors, और provide a physical guidance for axonal regrowth.
The most basic objective of a nerve guidance conduit is to combine physical, chemical, and biological cues under शर्तें that होगा foster ऊतक formation.
सामग्री कि have been used to make biologic tubes include blood vessels और skeletal मांसपेशियां, while nonabsorbable and bioabsorbable सिंथेटिक tubes have महरूम बना from silicone and polyglycolide respectively.
Tissue-engineered nerve guidance conduits are a combination of many elements : scaffold structure, scaffold सामग्री, cellular therapies, neurotrophic कारकों और biomimetic materials.
the चुनाव of जिससे physical, रासायनिक and biological cues to use is based on the properties of the nerve environment, जिससे is critical in creating the most वांछनीय पर्यावरण for axon regeneration.
The factors that control material चयन शामिल biocompatibility, biodegradability, mechanical अखंडता, controllability during तंत्रिका विकास, implantation and sterilization.
हार्डकोर Pawn is an American वास्तविकता television श्रेणी produced by RDF यूएसए ( later Zodiak USA ) and Richard Dominick Productions लिये truTV परिचय the day-to-day operations of अमरीकी Jewelry और Loan, a family-owned pawn shop located at 20450 Greenfield Road, between 8 Mile सड़क and the John C. Lodge Freeway in Detroit, Michigan.
The series premiered on August 16, 2010, delivering दो million viewers, setting a record as truTV 's most-watched series प्रीमियर ever.
Amoxicillin BP
amoxicillin ( INN ), formerly amoxycillin ( BAN ), and abbreviated amox, is a moderate-spectrum, bacteriolytic, β-lactam antibiotic used to treat बैक्टीरियल infections caused by susceptible microorganisms.
it is usually the drug of choice भीतर the क्लास क्युकी it is better absorbed, following oral प्रशासन, than other β-lactam antibiotics.
amoxicillin is one of the most common antibiotics prescribed for children.
the drug became available in 1972.
Amoxicillin is susceptible to degradation by β-lactamase -producing bacteria, which हैं resistant to a व्यापक spectrum of β-lactam antibiotics, such as पेनिसिलीन.
For इस reason, it is प्रायः combined साथ clavulanic acid, a β-lactamase inhibitor.
This increases effectiveness by reducing इसके susceptibility to β-lactamase प्रतिरोध.
Lyndon Baines Johnson ( August 27, 1908 – जनवरी 22, 1973 ), often referred to as LBJ, was the 36th अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त States ( 1963–1969 ), a position he assumed after उसके service as the 37th Vice अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त States ( 1961–1963 ).
he is one of only four people who परोसा in सब चार निर्वाचित संघीय offices of the संयुक्त States : Representative, सीनेटर, Vice President, और President.
Johnson, a Democrat from टेक्सास, served as a संयुक्त States Representative from 1937–1949 and as a Senator from 1949–1961, including six years as United States Senate Majority Leader, दो as Senate अल्पसंख्यक Leader और two as Senate बहुमत Whip.
After campaigning unsuccessfully for the Democratic नामांकन in 1960, Johnson was asked by John F. Kennedy to be उसके running mate for the 1960 presidential election.
Johnson succeeded to the प्रेसिडेंसी following the assassination of जॉन F. Kennedy on नवम्बर 22, 1963, completed Kennedy 's term and was निर्वाचित अध्यक्ष in उसके own right, winning by a large हाशिया over Barry Goldwater in the 1964 election.
Johnson was greatly समर्थित by the Democratic Party और as President, he थी responsible लिये designing the `` Great Society `` legislation that शामिल laws कि upheld civil rights, public broadcasting, Medicare, Medicaid, पर्यावरणीय protection, aid to education, और his `` War on गरीबी. ''
Johnson थी renowned लिये उसके domineering personality and the `` जॉनसन treatment, '' his coercion of powerful politicians in अनुक्रम to advance legislation.
Meanwhile, जॉनसन escalated American involvement in the Vietnam War, from 16,000 American advisors/soldiers in 1963 to 550,000 combat troops in जल्दी 1968, as American casualties soared and the peace प्रक्रम bogged down.
The involvement stimulated a विशाल एंग्री antiwar movement based विशेषकर on विश्वविद्यालयों campuses in the U.S. and abroad.
Summer दंगे broke out in most प्रमुख cities after 1965, and crime दरों soared, as उसके प्रतिद्वंद्वियों raised मांगे for `` law and order '' policies.
The लोकतांत्रिक Party split in multiple feuding गिरोहों, and after Johnson did poorly in the 1968 New Hampshire प्राथमिक, he ended उसके bid for reelection.
रिपब्लिकन Richard Nixon was निर्वाचित to succeed उसे.
Historians argue that Johnson 's presidency चिह्नित the peak of modern liberalism in the United States after the New Deal era.
Johnson is ranked favorably by some historians क्युकी of उसके domestic policies.
The बिग Bang सिद्धान्त cast at Comic Con 2009, इससे left : Kunal Nayyar, Simon Helberg, Kaley cuoco, जिम Parsons, and जॉनी Galecki
The अमरीकी sitcom The बिग Bang सिद्धान्त, created and executive उत्पादित by चक Lorre and Bill prady, premiered on CBS on सितंबर 24, 2007.
the दिखाएँ centers on five characters : roommates शेल्डन Cooper and Leonard Hofstadter, two Caltech physicists ; Penny, a वेट्रेस and aspiring अभिनेत्री जो जीवनदान across the हॉल ; and Leonard and Sheldon 's friends और co-workers aerospace engineer Howard Wolowitz, and astrophysicist Rajesh koothrappali.
over time, several supporting characters have been promoted to starring roles : Leslie winkle ( season 1 पुनरावर्ती ; season 2 नियमित ; ऋतु 3 guest ), a physicist colleague, and, at different times, a प्रेमी of both Leonard और हावर्ड ; bernadette Rostenkowski-Wolowitz ( season 3 recurring ; season 4-present regular ), a microbiologist, Howard 's fiancée and subsequent wife, and former part-time वेट्रेस alongside Penny ; neuroscientist Amy farrah Fowler ( season 3 अतिथि ; season 4 पुनरावर्ती ; ऋतु 4-present नियमित ), जो joins the समूह after होने matched to शेल्डन on a डेटिंग जालस्थल ; and comic book store-owner, Stuart Bloom ( seasons 2–5 पुनरावर्ती ; ऋतु 6-present regular ), who replaces Howard as राज 's best dost when Howard is in space.
The show also features numerous supporting वर्ण, each of whom plays a prominent भूमिका in a small group of episodes.
The American Civil War ( ACW ), also known as the War between the States or simply the Civil युद्ध ( see naming ), was a सिविल युद्ध fought from 1861 to 1865 between the United States ( the `` संघ '' or the `` North '' ) and several Southern slave राज्य कि declared उनके secession and formed the confederate States of America ( the `` Confederacy '' or the `` South '' ).
The war had its उत्पत्ति in the issue of गुलामी, विशेषकर the एक्सटेंशन of slavery into the western territories.
Foreign powers did not intervene.
After four years of bloody combat that left over 600,000 soldiers dead और नष्ट much of the South 's infrastructure, the confederacy collapsed, slavery was abolished, and the difficult पुनर्निर्माण process of restoring नेशनल unity and guaranteeing rights to the freed slaves began.
In the 1860 presidential election, republicans, led by Abraham Lincoln, opposed expanding slavery into United States ' territories.
Lincoln जीती, but before his उद्घाटन on March 4, 1861, seven cotton-based slave states formed the Confederacy.
Outgoing Democratic अध्यक्ष James Buchanan और the incoming republicans rejected secession as illegal.
Lincoln 's inaugural address घोषित उसके administration would not initiate civil war.
Eight बाकी स्लेव states continued to reject calls for secession.
Confederate शक्तियां seized numerous federal forts within territory claimed by the Confederacy.
A Peace Conference failed to find a compromise, और both sides prepared लिये war.
the Confederates assumed that यूरोपीय countries were so निर्भर on `` King कपास `` that they would intervene ; none did and none recognized the new confederate States of America.
Hostilities began on April 12, 1861, when Confederate forces fired upon Fort Sumter, a कुंजी fort आयोजित by संघ troops in South Carolina.
Lincoln called for each state to provide सैनिकों to retake the फोर्ट ; consequently, four more स्लेव states joined the Confederacy, bringing their कुल to eleven.
The Union soon controlled the border राज्य and established a naval नाकेबंदी that अबोध the दक्षिणी economy.
the Eastern थिएटर was inconclusive in 1861–62.
The autumn 1862 Confederate campaign into Maryland ( a संघ state ) ended with confederate रिट्रीट at the Battle of Antietam, dissuading British intervention.
lincoln issued the Emancipation उदघोषणा, which made ending गुलामी a war goal.
To the west, by गर्मियाँ 1862 the संघ destroyed the Confederate river navy, तब much of उनके पश्चिमी armies, and the संघ at Vicksburg split the confederacy in दो at the मिसिसिपी River.
In 1863, Robert E. ली 's Confederate incursion north ended at the Battle of Gettysburg.
Western successes led to Ulysses S. ग्रान्ट command of all Union सेना in 1864.
in the Western Theater, William T. शरमन drove east to capture Atlanta and marched to the sea, destroying confederate अवसंरचना साथ the रास्ता.
the Union marshaled the resources और manpower to attack the Confederacy from all directions, and could afford to fight battles of attrition through the Overland अभियान towards Richmond, the Confederate capital.
The defending confederate army failed, अग्रणी to Lee 's आत्मसमर्पण to Grant at Appomattox अदालत House on अप्रैल 9, 1865.
the American Civil War थी एक of the earliest true industrial wars.
railroads, the टेलीग्राफ, steamships, और mass-produced weapons were employed extensively.
The mobilization of civilian factories, mines, shipyards, banks, transportation and food supplies all foreshadowed World War I.
It remains the deadliest war in American history, resulting in the deaths of an अनुमानित 750,000 सैनिको and an undetermined क्रमांक of civilian हताहत.
Historian John huddleston estimates the death toll at टेन percent of all Northern males 20–45 years old, and 30 percent of all दक्षिणी white males aged 18–40.
इंसान evolution refers to the evolutionary process leading up to the रूप of modern humans.
जबकि it began साथ the last common पूर्वज of all जीवन, the topic usually कवर तभी the विकासवादी history of primates, in particular the genus होमो, and the emergence of होमो sapiens as a distinct प्रजाति of hominids ( or `` great apes '' ).
The पढ़ाई of इंसान evolution involves many scientific disciplines, including physical मानवशास्त्र, primatology, पुरातत्व, linguistics, विकासवादी psychology, भ्रूणविज्ञान and genetics.
According to जेनेटिक अध्ययन, primates diverged from अन्य स्तनधारियों परिचय in the Late Cretaceous period, और the earliest जीवाश्मों appear in the paleocene, around.
The family Hominidae diverged from the hylobatidae ( Gibbon ) family 15-20 million years पहले, और around, the ponginae ( orangutans ), diverged from the Hominidae family.
bipedalism is the basic adaption of the Hominin line, and the earliest bipedal Hominin is considered to be either sahelanthropus or orrorin, साथ ardipithecus, a full bipedal, coming somewhat बाद.
The gorilla और chimpanzee diverged around the same time, about 4-6 million years ago, और either sahelanthropus or orrorin may be our last साझा ancestor with them.
the जल्दी bipedals eventually evolved into the australopithecines and बाद the genus होमो.
the earliest documented सदस्यों of the genus Homo are होमो habilis which evolved around ; the earliest species लिये जिससे there is positive evidence of उपयोग of stone टूल्स.
the दिमाग of these early hominins were about the वही size as that of a chimpanzee.
During the next million सालो a process of encephalization began, and with the आगमन of Homo erectus in the fossil record, cranial capacity had doubled to 850 cm3.
Homo erectus and Homo ergaster were the first of the hominina to छोड़ अफ़्रीकी, and these species स्प्रेड through Africa, Asia, और Europe between.
It is believed that ये species were the पहला to use fire और complex टूल्स.
According to the Recent अफ़्रीकी Ancestry theory, modern इंसानो विकसित in Africa संभवतः from Homo heidelbergensis, Homo rhodesiensis or होमो antecessor और migrated out of the continent some 50,000 to 100,000 years पहले, replacing लोकल populations of Homo erectus, Homo denisova, Homo floresiensis और होमो neanderthalensis.
Archaic होमो sapiens, the forerunner of anatomically आधुनिक इंसानो, विकसित between 400,000 and 250,000 years पहले.
Recent DNA प्रमाण suggests that अनेक haplotypes of Neanderthal origin are present among all non-African populations, and Neanderthals और other hominids, such as Denisova hominin may have contributed up to 6 % of their genome to present-day इंसानs. < ref name= '' 10.1126/science.1209202 '' > anatomically modern इंसानो evolved from archaic Homo sapiens in the मध्य paleolithic, परिचय 200,000 years ago.
The transition to behavioral modernity साथ the विकास of symbolic संस्कृति, language, और specialized lithic technology happened around 50,000 years पहले according to अनेक anthropologists although some suggest a क्रमिक change in behavior over a longer समय span.
Lisa Cuddy, m.d., is a fictional character on the Fox संजाल चिकित्सा drama House.
She is portrayed by Lisa edelstein.
Cuddy was the डीन of आयुर्विज्ञान and hospital administrator of the fictional Princeton-Plainsboro Teaching Hospital in New Jersey.
She also becomes हाउस 's love interest through the सालो to start a संबंध with उसे in ऋतु seven.
Cuddy quit her job after the events of ऋतु seven 's finale `` Moving On ``.
Track और फ़ील्ड is a sport comprising विभिन्न competitive एथलेटिक contests based on कार्यशील, कूद, and फेंकना.
the name of the खेल derives from the competition venue : a stadium with an oval running track around a ग्रास field.
The throwing and jumping कार्यक्रम generally लो place in the सेंट्रल enclosed area.
Track और field falls अंतर्गत the umbrella sport of athletics, जिससे also includes road running, cross देश running, और race walking.
The two most prestigious अंतरराष्ट्रीय track and field competitions हैं held under the banner of एथलेटिक्स : the एथलेटिक्स competition at the Olympic Games and the IAAF संसार Championships in एथलेटिक्स.
The अंतरराष्ट्रीय Association of Athletics Federations is the international governing body लिये track और फ़ील्ड.
Track और field events are generally individual sports with athletes चुनौतीपूर्ण each other to decide a single victor.
The racing events are won by the खिलाड़ी with the fastest time, while the कूद and फेंकना events are जीती by the athlete who has achieved the greatest distance or height in the contest.
The running events are categorised as sprints, middle and long-distance events, relays, and hurdling.
Regular jumping events include long जम्प, triple jump, ऊँची जम्प and pole vault, जबकि the most common throwing events हैं shot put, javelin, discus and hammer.
There हैं also `` combined events '', ऐसे as heptathlon और decathlon, in which एथलीट compete in a number of the above events.
Records are रखा of the best performances in विशिष्ट events, at संसार and नेशनल levels, सही down to a निजी level.
However, if athletes are deemed to have violated the इवेंट 's rules or regulations, they are disqualified इससे the competition and their marks are erased.
In North America, the term track और field may be used to refer to athletics in general, बल्कि than specifically track and field कार्यक्रम.
the Gulf War ( 2 August 1990 – 28 February 1991 ), codenamed आपरेशन मरुस्थल तूफ़ान ( 17 January 1991 – 28 फ़रवरी 1991 ) थी a युद्ध waged by a u.n.-authorized Coalition force इससे 34 nations led by the United States, against इराकी in response to Iraq 's invasion and annexation of Kuwait.
The युद्ध is also ज्ञात अंतर्गत other names, such as the Persian गल्फ War, First Gulf War, गल्फ War I, or the पहला Iraq War, before the term `` Iraq War '' became identified instead with the 2003 Iraq War ( भी referred to in the U.S. as `` Operation Iraqi स्वतंत्रता '' ).
Kuwait 's invasion by Iraqi troops that began 2 August 1990 थी मिले साथ international condemnation, and brought immediate economic sanctions विरूद्ध Iraq by members of the U.N. Security Council.
U.S. President George H. W. Bush तैनात U.S. forces into Saudi Arabia, and urged other countries to send their own forces to the scene.
An array of nations joined the गठबन्धन.
The great बहुमत of the Coalition 's सैन्य forces were from the U.S., with Saudi अरब, the United Kingdom and मिश्र as leading contributors, in कि order.
Saudi Arabia paid around US $ 36 अरब of the US $ 60 billion cost.
The war was marked by the beginning of सजीव न्यूज on the front लाइनों of the fight, साथ the primacy of the u.S. network सीएनएन.
The war रै भी earned the उपनाम Video Game War after the daily broadcast images on board the u.S. बमवर्षक दौरान Operation Desert तूफ़ान.
the आरंभिक conflict to expel Iraqi troops from कुवैत began with an aerial bombardment on 17 January 1991.
This थी followed by a ground assault on 24 February.
इस was a निर्णायक victory for the Coalition forces, who liberated कुवैत and advanced into Iraqi territory.
The Coalition ceased their advance, और declared a cease-fire 100 hours after the ground campaign started.
Aerial and ground कॉम्बैट थी confined to इराकी, Kuwait, और areas on Saudi Arabia 's border.
Iraq launched scud missiles against Coalition military लक्ष्य in Saudi Arabia and against Israel.
The nickel, in American usage, is a five- cent सिक्का issued by the United States Mint.
रचित of 75 % copper and 25 % nickel, the piece has been struck since 1866.
The silver हाफ dime, equal to पाँच cents, had been issued चूंकि the 1790s.
The American सिविल War caused economic hardship, driving gold और silver from परिसंचरण ; in जवाब, in place of low-value coins, the government at first issued पेपर currency.
In 1865, Congress abolished the five-cent fractional currency note after Spencer M. क्लार्क, head of the Currency ब्यूरो ( today the ब्यूरो of Engraving और मुद्रण ), placed his own पोर्ट्रेट on the denomination.
After successful परिचय of two-cent और three-cent टुकड़े, without अनमोल metal, कॉंग्रेस also प्राधिकृत a five-cent piece consisting of base मेटल ; the Mint began striking this version in 1866.
The आरंभिक design of the Shield nickel थी struck जबतक 1883, तब replaced by the Liberty सिर nickel.
The Buffalo nickel was introduced in 1913 as part of a drive to increase the beauty of American coinage ; in 1938, the Jefferson निकल followed.
In 2004 and 2005, special designs in honor of the bicentennial of the Lewis and Clark Expedition यहूद जारी.
In 2006, the Mint reverted to using Jefferson निकल पंक्तियां फेलिक्स Schlag 's original reverse ( or `` tails '' side ), although a new obverse, by जेमी Franki, was substituted.
As of 2013, it costs more than ग्यारह cents to उपज a nickel ; the Mint is exploring the possibility of reducing cost by using कम expensive metals.
a poster with flowers or clusters of flowers produced by twelve प्रजाति of flowering plants from different families
a flower, sometimes ज्ञात as a bloom or blossom, is the reproductive structure found in flowering plants ( plants of the division Magnoliophyta, also पुकारा angiosperms ).
the biological फलन of a flower is to effect जनन, usually by providing a mechanism लिये the संघ of शुक्राणु with eggs.
Flowers may facilitate outcrossing ( fusion of sperm and eggs इससे different individuals in a जनसांख्यिकी ) or allow selfing ( fusion of sperm and egg from the same पुष्प ).
Some पुष्प उपज diaspores without fertilization ( parthenocarpy ).
Flowers contain sporangia and are the site where gametophytes develop.
पुष्प दे वृद्धि to फल and seeds.
Many flowers have evolved to be attractive to animals, so as to कारण them to be सदिश for the transfer of pollen.
in जोड to facilitating the reproduction of flowering पौधे, flowers have long been admired और used by इंसानो to beautify their environment, and also as objects of रोमांस, ritual, religion, medicine और as a source of खाना.
The McDonnell Douglas ( अभी Boeing ) F-15 Eagle is a twin-engine, all-weather tactical fighter designed by mcdonnell डगलस to gain और maintain air superiority in aerial combat.
It is माना among the सबसे successful modern fighters, with over 100 aerial combat victories साथ no नुकसान in dogfights.
Following reviews of proposals, the संयुक्त States एयर Force चयनित McDonnell Douglas ' design in 1967 to meet the service 's need for a dedicated air superiority fighter.
The त्रिभुज first flew in July 1972, and entered सेवा in 1976.
Since the 1970s, the त्रिभुज has been exported to Israel, जापानी, Saudi अरब, and other राष्ट्र.
The f-15 was originally envisioned as a pure air superiority aircraft.
इसके डिज़ाइन शामिल a secondary ground-attack काबिलियत that was largely अप्रयुक्त.
the डिज़ाइन proved flexible enough that an all-weather strike डेरिवेटिव, the F-15E स्ट्राइक Eagle, was later विकसित, और डाला service in 1989.
The f-15 Eagle is expected to be in service with the U.S. Air Force पास्ट 2025.
mimio is a brand नाम of a लकीर of प्रौद्योगिकी products aimed at the education market.
The primary products हैं केन्द्रित around कंप्यूटर whiteboard इंटरैक्टिव teaching डिवाइस.
MimioCapture devices also allow users to capture all of the ink strokes कि are लिखा on the whiteboard.
जब प्रयुक्त in conjunction साथ a video projector it turns the ordinary whiteboard surface into a fully interactive whiteboard.
the product line was originally designed by Virtual Ink.
On अक्तूबर 4, 2006 Newell Rubbermaid acquired the Mimio interactive whiteboard ( iWB ) product line.
Rahab of Jericho
rahab, ( ; ; ) was, according to the Book of Joshua, a स्त्री who lived in Jericho in the promised Land and assisted the Israelites in capturing the city.
nearly all अंग्रेज़ी translations of Joshua describe उसके as a बदचलन or prostitute.
the Organization of American States ( स्पेनी : Organización de los Estados Americanos, Portuguese : organização dos Estados Americanos, French : Organisation des États américains ), or the OAS, is a क्षेत्रीय international organization.
the oas was founded on 30 April 1948, and रै its मुख्यालय in Washington, D.C., United राज्य.
Its सदस्यों are the 35 independent states of the Americas.
चूंकि 26 May 2005, the Secretary General of OAS has महरूम José Miguel insulza.
Christopher कोलंबस ( Italian : Cristoforo Colombo ; Spanish : cristóbal Colón ; Portuguese : Cristóvão कोलोन ; पहले 31 अक्तूबर 145120 May 1506 ) was an Italian एक्सप्लोरर, navigator, and colonizer, born in the Republic of Genoa, in what is आज northwestern Italy.
Under the auspices of the कैथोलिक monarchs of Spain, he completed चार voyages across the अटलांटिक Ocean that led to general European awareness of the American continents.
Those voyages, and उसके efforts to establish स्थाई settlements on the island of हिस्पानिओला, initiated the Spanish colonization of the नई World.
in the कॉन्टेक्स्ट of emerging western साम्राज्यवाद and economic प्रतियोगिता between European kingdoms seeking माल through the establishment of व्यापार routes and colonies, Columbus 's speculative proposal, to reach the ईस्ट Indies by sailing westward, eventually received the support of the Spanish crown, which saw in it a वादा, however remote, of gaining the upper hand over rival powers in the contest for the lucrative मसाला व्यापार with Asia.
दौरान his first voyage in 1492, बजाय of reaching Japan as he had intended, Columbus उतरा in the Bahamas archipelago, at a locale he named San Salvador.
Over the course of three more voyages, Columbus visited the Greater and Lesser Antilles, as well as the Caribbean coast of Venezuela and Central अमेरिका, claiming them for the Spanish Empire.
Though Columbus थी not the first European एक्सप्लोरर to reach the Americas ( having महरूम preceded by the Norse expedition led by Leif Ericson in the 11th century ), Columbus 's voyages led to the पहला lasting European contact with the Americas, inaugurating a period of European खोजी, conquest, और colonization कि lasted for several centuries.
They had, इसलिए, an enormous impact in the historical विकास of the modern Western संसार.
Columbus himself saw his accomplishments primarily in the लाइट of the spreading of the Christian धर्म.
Never admitting कि he था पहुँचे a continent previously unknown to Europeans, rather than the ईस्ट Indies he had नियत out for, Columbus called the निवासियों of the lands he visited indios ( Spanish लिये `` इंडियंस `` ).
Columbus 's strained relationship with the स्पेनी crown और its appointed औपनिवेशिक प्रशासकों in America led to उसके arrest and dismissal as governor of the settlements on the द्वीप of Hispaniola in 1500, और later to protracted वाद over the benefits जिससे कोलंबस and his heirs claimed were owed to them by the crown.
Bred in Germany, the Boxer is a breed of stocky, medium-sized, short-haired dogs.
the coat is smooth and tight-fitting ; रंगों are fawn or brindled, with or without श्वेत markings, which may cover the entire body.
Boxers are brachycephalic ( they have broad, छोटी skulls ), and have a square muzzle, mandibular prognathism ( an underbite ), very strong jaws, and a powerful काटना आदर्श लिये hanging on to large prey.
The Boxer was bred from the बूढ़ा English Bulldog और the now extinct bullenbeisser, and is part of the molosser group.
मुक्केबाज were पहला exhibited in a श्वान दिखाएँ लिये st. Bernards in Munich in 1895, the first Boxer club being founded the next year.
Based on 2012 American Kennel Club statistics, Boxers आयोजित स्थिर as the seventh most popular breed of dog in the United राज्य for the तीसरा लगातार साल.
सीरियल ata ( SATA ) is a computer bus interface that connects host बस adapters to mass storage devices such as hard disk drives और optical drives.
Serial ATA replaces the older AT Attachment standard ( ATA ; later referred to as Parallel ATA or PATA ), offering several advantages over the पुरानी interface : reduced cable size और cost ( seven conductors instead of 40 ), native hot swapping, faster data transfer through उच्चतर signalling दरों, और more कुशल ट्रांसफ़र through an ( optional ) I/O queuing protocol.
SATA host adapters और devices communicate via a high-speed serial केबल over two pairs of conductors.
in contrast, parallel ATA ( the redesignation for the legacy ata विशेषताएँ ) used a 16-bit wide data bus साथ अनेक additional support and control signals, all operating at much निम्नतर frequency.
to ensure पिछड़ा संगतता with legacy ATA तन्त्र and applications, sata उपयोग the वही basic ATA and ATAPI command-set as विरासत ata devices.
SATA has replaced parallel ATA in consumer डेस्कटॉप and laptop computers, and has largely replaced PATA in new अंतःस्थापित applications.
SATA 's market share in the desktop PC market was 99 % in 2008.
PATA remains widely used in industrial और embedded applications that use compactflash भंडार, even हालांकि the नई cfast standard is based on sata.
सीरियल ATA industry संगतता विशेषताएँ originate from The Serial ata अंतरराष्ट्रीय Organization ( aka.
SATA-IO, serialata.org ).
The SATA-IO group collaboratively creates, reviews, ratifies, and publishes the interoperability विशेषताएँ, the test cases, और plug-fests.
As साथ many other industry compatibility standards, the SATA सामग्री ownership is transferred to अन्य industry bodies : primarily the INCITS T13 उपसमिति ATA, the INCITS T10 subcommittee ( scsi ) ; a subgroup of T10 जिम्मेदार for Serial संलग्न SCSI ( sas ).
The पूरा specification from SATA-IO.
The remainder of this article will try to use the शब्दावली और विशेषताएँ of SATA-IO.
The history of the Internet began with the विकास of electronic computers in the 1950s.
The public was पहला introduced to the concepts that would सीसे to the Internet when a message थी sent over the ARPANet from कंप्यूटर science Professor Leonard kleinrock 's laboratory at University of कैलिफ़ोर्निया, Los Angeles ( ucla ), after the दूसरी piece of संजाल equipment was संस्थापित at स्टैनफोर्ड Research संस्थान ( SRI ).
पैकेट switched networks such as ARPANET, चिह्नित I at NPL in the UK, CYCLADES, मेरिट Network, Tymnet, and Telenet, were developed in the late 1960s and early 1970s using a किस्में of प्रोटोकॉल.
The ARPANET in particular led to the विकास of protocols लिये internetworking, in which multiple पृथक networks could be joined साथ into a संजाल of संजाल.
In 1982, the Internet protocol suite ( TCP/IP ) थी मानकीकृत, and consequently, the concept of a world-wide संजाल of interconnected TCP/IP networks, पुकारा the Internet, was introduced.
Access to the arpanet was expanded in 1981 जब the National विज्ञान Foundation ( NSF ) developed the Computer Science Network ( CSNET ) and again in 1986 when nsfnet provided access to महासंगणक sites in the United States from research and education organizations.
वाणिज्यिक Internet service providers ( isps ) began to emerge in the late 1980s और जल्दी 1990s.
The ARPANET was decommissioned in 1990.
The अंतरजाल was commercialized in 1995 when NSFNET was decommissioned, removing the last प्रतिबंध on the उपयोग of the Internet to carry वाणिज्यिक traffic.
चूंकि the mid-1990s, the अंतरजाल has था a revolutionary impact on culture and commerce, including the वृद्धि of near-instant संचार by electronic mail, instant messaging, Voice over Internet Protocol ( voip ) `` phone calls '', two-way interactive video calls, और the World Wide Web with its discussion forums, blogs, social नेटवर्किंग, and online shopping sites.
The research and शिक्षा जातियाँ continues to develop and use advanced networks such as NSF 's very ऊँची speed रीढ़ Network Service ( vBNS ), Internet2, और National LambdaRail.
Increasing amounts of आंकड़ा हैं transmitted at उच्चतर and उच्चतर speeds over fiber optic networks operating at 1-Gbit/s, 10-gbit/s, or more.
The अंतरजाल 's takeover over the global communication लैंडस्केप was लगभग instant in historical terms : it only communicated 1 % of the information flowing through two-way दूरसंचार networks in the year 1993, already 51 % by 2000, and अधिक than 97 % of the telecommunicated information by 2007.
Today the Internet continues to grow, driven by ever greater amounts of online सूचना, commerce, entertainment, and social networking.
the Gift is the second album by Scottish singer Susan Boyle, which थी released on 8 नवम्बर 2010.
Boyle hinted that the album रै a 1960s feel `` क्युकी that थी [ उसके ] era ''.
on 30 November 2011, the album received a nomination in 54th ग्रैमी Awards for Best Traditional Pop गायन Album.
`` इस Is Just to Say '' ( 1934 ) is a famous imagist कविता by William Carlos Williams.
Professor Albus पर्सिवल Wulfric Brian Dumbledore is a प्रमुख character and protagonist of J. K. रोलिंग 's Harry Potter श्रेणी.
For सबसे of the श्रेणी, he is the headmaster of the wizarding school हॉग्वार्ट्स.
as part of his backstory, it is नाज़िल कि he is the संस्थापक और leader of the अनुक्रम of the Phoenix, an organisation dedicated to fighting the प्रमुख antagonist of the series, रब Voldemort.
Dumbledore is portrayed by Richard Harris in the film adaptions of Harry कुम्हार and the Philosopher 's स्टोन और हैरी Potter and the Chamber of रहस्य.
After हैरिस ' मौत, माइकल Gambon portrayed Dumbledore for सब of the remaining films.
रोलिंग stated वो chose the name Dumbledore, जिससे is an Early Modern अंग्रेज़ी word for `` bumblebee ``, because of Dumbledore 's love of म्यूज़िक : she imagined him चलना around `` humming to himself a lot ''.
calcitonin ( also known as thyrocalcitonin ) is a 32-amino acid linear polypeptide हार्मोन that is उत्पादित in इंसानो primarily by the parafollicular cells ( भी ज्ञात as C-cells ) of the thyroid, and in अनेक अन्य animals in the ultimobranchial body.
It अधिनियमों to reduce blood calcium ( ca2+ ), opposing the effects of parathyroid हार्मोन ( PTH ).
calcitonin has महरूम found in fish, reptiles, birds, and mammals.
Its importance in humans रै नहीं been as well established as its importance in अन्य पशु, as its function is प्रायः not significant in the regulation of सामान्य calcium homeostasis.
it belongs to calcitonin-like protein family.
A mousepad with a padded wrist rest.
A mousepad ( US ) or mouse mat ( UK ) is a surface लिये रखकर and moving a कंप्यूटर mouse.
A mousepad enhances the usability of the mouse compared to using a mouse सीधे on a table by providing a सतह to allow the ट्रैकिंग led or बॉल ( in former models ) to माप movement accurately and बगैर jitter.
कुछ mousepads increase ergonomics by providing a padded कलाई rest.
The stadium seen from above in 1980
December 29, 2002 implosion
The riverfront Stadium site in June, 2006.
This फ़ोटो was taken from the western concourse of Great American बॉल पार्क.
A small portion of the riverfront Stadium site is now occupied by the लाल ' हॉल of Fame and संग्रहालय and प्रमुख Street, which was extended जब the new park थी निर्मित.
The सिनसिनाटी bengals ' Paul Brown Stadium is in the distance.
riverfront Stadium ( 1970–1995 ), later known as Cinergy Field ( 1996–2002 ), was the home of the Cincinnati लाल नेशनल League baseball टोली and the Cincinnati Bengals नेशनल Football League team.
स्तिथ on the Ohio नदी in downtown Cincinnati, the stadium was बेहतरीन known as the home of `` The Big Red Machine ``, as the Reds were often called in the 1970s.
Construction began on February 1, 1968, and थी completed at a लागत of कम than $ 50 लाख.
On June 30, 1970, the Reds hosted the अटलांटा Braves in their grand opening, with हांक Aaron hitting the first ever home run at Riverfront.
Two सप्ताह बाद on July 14, 1970, Riverfront hosted the 1970 प्रमुख League Baseball All-Star Game.
This game is best remembered for the often-replayed collision at घर थाली between लाल स्टार Pete Rose और catcher Ray Fosse of the Cleveland इंडियंस.
in सितंबर 1996, Riverfront Stadium थी renamed `` Cinergy Field '' in a प्रायोजन deal with Greater Cincinnati 's energy company, Cinergy Corporation.
In 2001, to make room लिये Great American Ball Park, the seating क्षमता at Cinergy Field was reduced to 39,000.
There was a विशाल wall in Center Field visible after the renovations, to serve as the batter 's eye.
The stadium थी demolished by implosion on December 29, 2002.
Nexen टायर is a tire manufacturer, headquartered in Yangsan, दक्षिण Gyeongsang Province, and सियोल, both in South Korea.
Its major घरेलू competitors are Hankook Tire and Kumho Tires.
the कम्पनी 's name is reflected in the company slogan, `` Next Century टायर. ''
The मूक बहुमत is an unspecified विशाल majority of people in a देश or समूह who do not एक्स्प्रेस their opinions सरेआम.
The term was popularized ( though not first used ) by U.S. President Richard Nixon in a November 3, 1969, speech in which he कहा, `` And so tonight—to you, the ग्रेट silent majority of my fellow Americans—I पूछो for your support. ''
In this usage it referred to those Americans who किया नहीं join in the large demonstrations against the वियतनाम युद्ध at the time, who किया not जुड़ें in the counterculture, और जो किया नहीं participate in public प्रवचन.
Nixon along साथ many others saw this group of Middle Americans as होने निष्प्रभ in the media by the अधिक vocal minority.
the phrase was प्रयुक्त in the 19th century as a euphemism referring to all the लोगों जो have died, and others have प्रयुक्त it before and after Nixon to refer to groups of voters in various nations of the संसार.
Sam, a rhesus मंकी, flew to an ऊँचाई of 88 km in 1959.
( NASA )
Before humans गई into space, several animals were launched into space, including numerous monkeys, so that scientists could investigate the biological effects of space travel.
The United राज्य launched flights containing primate कार्गो primarily between 1948-1961 with one उड़ान in 1969 and one in 1985.
फ़्रांस launched दो monkey-carrying flights in 1967.
the Soviet संघ and Russia launched monkeys between 1983 और 1996.
सबसे monkeys were anesthetized before lift-off.
overall thirty-two बंदरों flew in the space program ; none flew more than एकबार.
numerous back-up monkeys also went through the कार्यक्रम but never flew.
Monkeys from several species were used, सहित rhesus बंदरों, cynomolgus बंदरों, गिलहरी बंदरों, and pig-tailed macaques.
कुछ chimpanzees ( which हैं apes बल्कि than monkeys ) were also used.
रेड ( redundant array of स्वतंत्र disks, originally अनावश्यक सरणी of inexpensive disks ) is a storage technology कि combines multiple डिस्क drive components into a logical unit.
Data is distributed आरपार the drives in एक of several तरीके called `` RAID levels '', depending on the level of अतिरेक और प्रदर्शन required.
The पद `` रेड '' was first defined by David Patterson, Garth A. Gibson, and Randy Katz at the University of California, बर्कली in 1987.
Marketers representing industry RAID निर्माताओं later attempted to reinvent the term to describe a redundant array of स्वतंत्र disks as a means of disassociating a low-cost expectation from RAID technology.
RAID is now used as an umbrella term for computer data storage schemes कि can divide and replicate data among अनेक physical drives : रेड is an example of भंडार आभासीकरण and the array can be पहुँचा by the operating system as one single ड्राइव.
The different schemes or architectures are named by the word रेड followed by a number ( e.g. रेड 0, RAID 1 ).
Each scheme provides a different संतुलन between the key goals : reliability and उपलब्धता, प्रदर्शन and capacity.
RAID levels greater than RAID 0 provide protection against unrecoverable ( sector ) read errors, as well as पूरे डिस्क failure.
A lymphocyte is a type of white रक्त cell in the vertebrate immune प्रणाली.
Under the microscope, lymphocytes can be divided into large lymphocytes and small lymphocytes.
विशाल granular lymphocytes include natural killer cells ( NK cells ).
छोटी lymphocytes consist of T cells and B कोशिकाएं.
The Big Lebowski is a 1998 dark comedy फिल्मी written and directed by Joel and Ethan Coen.
जेफ़ Bridges सितारों as जेफ़ Lebowski, an बेरोजगार Los Angeles slacker और avid बॉलर, nicknamed `` the यार. ''
After a मामला of mistaken identity, The Dude is introduced to a करोड़पति also named जेफरी Lebowski.
When the करोड़पति Lebowski 's trophy wife is बाद kidnapped, he commissions The Dude to deliver the ransom to सुरक्षित उसके रिलीज.
The plan goes awry when The Dude 's friend Walter Sobchak ( जॉन गुडमैन ) schemes to रखना the full ransom.
स्टीव buscemi, Philip Seymour Hoffman, दाउद Huddleston, Julianne Moore, Tara Reid, and John Turturro also star in the film, जिससे is narrated by a काउंटी known only as `` The Stranger '', played by Sam Elliott.
The film is loosely inspired by the work of Raymond Chandler.
जोएल Coen stated : `` We चाही to do a चांडलर दयालु of story – how it चालें episodically, and deals with the वर्ण trying to unravel a mystery, as खूब as having a hopelessly जटिल प्लाट कि 's ultimately महत्वहीन. ''
the original स्कोर was composed by Carter Burwell, a longtime collaborator of the Coen Brothers.
the बिग Lebowski was a disappointment at the U.S. box दफ्तर and received mixed reviews at the time of its release.
Reviews have trended towards the positive over time, and the film रै become a cult पसंदीदा, विख्यात for इसके idiosyncratic characters, dream sequences, unconventional dialogue, and eclectic soundtrack.
सेवेरस Snape is a fictional character in the Harry Potter book series लिखा by j.K. Rowling.
in the first novel of the श्रेणी, he is hostile toward हैरी and is built up to be the primary विपक्षी जबतक the final chapters.
As the series progresses, snape 's character becomes more layered and जटिल.
Rowling does not fully खुलासा the details of his सच्चा loyalties जबतक the end of the final किताब, Harry कुम्हार and the Deathly Hallows.
Over the course of the series, Snape 's portrayal evolves from that of a malicious and partisan teacher to that of a pivotal character of considerable complexity and moral ambiguity.
Snape primarily सिखाती Potions at हॉग्वार्ट्स, though in the sixth novel he teaches Defence विरूद्ध the Dark Arts, a position जिससे he was known to have desired throughout the श्रेणी.
he ultimately becomes Headmaster of Hogwarts in the final novel.
Rowling has described उसे as `` a gift of a character ''.
grits refers to a ground-corn खाना of Native American उत्पत्ति, that is आम in the दक्षिणी संयुक्त राज्य and मुख्यतः खाया at breakfast.
Modern grits हैं commonly made of alkali-treated corn known as hominy.
Grits are similar to अन्य मोटा maize-based porridges from around the world ऐसे as polenta or the thinner farina.
`` Instant grits '' have महरूम processed to speed cooking.
The शब्द `` grits '' derives from the Old English शब्द `` grytt, '' meaning coarse meal.
This word originally referred to wheat and other porridges now known as groats in parts of the U.K..
Maize, unknown in Europe in the Middle Ages, is a food derived from corn ( a New World plant ) and `` corn '' had been used to describe wheat products in many यूरोपीय regions.
`` Grits '' may be either singular or plural ; historically, in the American South the word was invariably एकवचन notwithstanding its plural form ( cf. such food names as `` spaghetti '' or `` linguine '', likewise बहुवचन in रूप, but एकवचन in use ).
Sometimes, grits हैं called sofkee or sofkey ( from a देशी American Muskogee word ).
In आणविक biology, human chorionic gonadotropin ( hCG ) is a hormone produced by the fertilized egg बाद धारणा.
बाद during pregnancy it is made by the विकासशील placenta, and later by the placental component syncytiotrophoblast.
Some cancerous tumors उपज this hormone ; therefore, elevated स्तर measured when the रोगी is not pregnant can lead to a cancer diagnosis.
However, it is नहीं known whether this production is a contributing कारण or an प्रभाव of tumorigenesis.
The pituitary analogue of hCG, known as luteinizing hormone ( LH ), is produced in the pituitary gland of males and females of all आयु.
, the FDA रै निषिद्ध the बिक्री of `` होम्योपैथिक '' and over the काउंटर hCG आहार products and declared them fraudulent and illegal.
The Las वेगास Strip World of Coca-Cola museum in 2003
Coca-Cola is a carbonated soft drink sold in stores, restaurants, and वेंडिंग मशीने in प्रत्येक country except Cuba और उत्तर Korea.
It is उत्पादित by the Coca-Cola Company of Atlanta, Georgia, and is often referred to simply as कोक ( a registered trademark of The coca-cola Company in the United States since March 27, 1944 ).
originally intended as a पेटेंट आयुर्विज्ञान जब it was invented in the लेट 19th century by John pemberton, Coca-Cola was bought आउट by businessman Asa griggs Candler, whose विपणन tactics led Coke to its dominance of the संसार soft-drink market throughout the 20th सदी.
The कम्पनी produces concentrate, which is तब बेची to licensed Coca-Cola bottlers throughout the world.
The bottlers, जो hold territorially exclusive अनुबंध साथ the company, produce finished product in डिब्बे and bottles इससे the concentrate in combination with filtered water और sweeteners.
The bottlers then sell, distribute and merchandise Coca-Cola to retail stores and vending मशीने.
ऐसे bottlers शामिल Coca-Cola Enterprises, जिससे is the largest single coca-cola bottler in North अमेरिका and पश्चिमी Europe.
The Coca-Cola Company भी बिकता concentrate लिये soda fountains to major restaurants and खाना सेवा distributors.
The coca-cola Company has, on occasion, introduced other cola drinks under the Coke brand name.
The most आम of these is Diet कोक, साथ others including Caffeine-Free Coca-Cola, Diet Coke caffeine-free, Coca-Cola चेरी, Coca-Cola शून्य, coca-cola Vanilla, और special versions साथ lemon, lime or coffee.
Based on Interbrand 's best वैश्विक brand 2011, Coca-Cola थी the संसार 's सबसे valuable brand.
an ombudsman is an official, usually appointed by the government or by parliament but with a significant degree of independence, who is charged with representing the interests of the public by investigating and संबोधित complaints of maladministration or violation of rights.
In कुछ countries an Inspector General, नागरिक Advocate or अन्य official may have कर्तव्य similar to those of a नेशनल ombudsman, and may also be नियुक्त by the legislature.
नीचे the national level an ombudsman may be appointed by a state, local or नगरपालिका सरकारी, and unofficial ombudsmen may be appointed by, or even कार्य for, a corporation such as a utility प्रदायक or a newspaper, for an NGO, or for a पेशेवर नियामक body.
Whether appointed by the legislature, the executive, or an संगठन ( or, less frequently, elected by the constituency that he or she serves ), the typical duties of an ombudsman हैं to investigate शिकायत and attempt to निराकरण them, usually through सुझाव ( binding or not ) or मध्यस्थता.
ombudsmen sometimes also aim to identify प्रणालीगत issues leading to ग़रीब सेवा or breaches of people 's rights.
at the national level, सबसे ombudsmen have a wide mandate to deal with the entire public sector, and sometimes भी elements of the private sector ( for example, contracted service प्रदाताओं ).
In some cases, there is a more restricted mandate, for example साथ particular sectors of society.
अधिक recent developments have शामिल the creation of specialised Children 's ombudsman and Information Commissioner agencies.
in some jurisdictions an ombudsman charged with the handling of concerns about नेशनल सरकारी is more formally referred to as the `` Parliamentary Commissioner '' ( e.g. the United Kingdom Parliamentary Commissioner for Administration, और the Western ऑस्ट्रेलियाई state Ombudsman ).
In many countries where the ombudsman 's remit extends beyond dealing with alleged maladministration to promoting और protecting human अधिकारों, the ombudsman is recognised as the national human अधिकारों institution.
the post of ombudsman had by the end of the 20th century been instituted by सबसे governments and by कुछ intergovernmental संगठन such as the यूरोपीय Union.
Making a शिकायत to an ombudsman is usually free of charge.
Sign at georgetown University Washington DC
चिह्न in Banjul, The गाम्बिया
Autumn in New England, watercolor, Maurice prendergast.
Ca. 1910–1913
पतन foliage in the town of Stowe, Vermont
New इंग्लैण्ड is a प्रदेश in the northeastern corner of the United States consisting of the six राज्य of Maine, New Hampshire, वर्मांट, Massachusetts, Rhode द्वीप, और कनेक्टिकट.
New England is bordered by New यॉर्क state to the दक्षिणपश्चिम, क्यूबेक to the northwest, और New Brunswick और the अटलांटिक Ocean to the east.
In one of the earliest English settlements in North अमेरिका, Pilgrims from England first settled in New इंग्लैण्ड in 1620, to form plymouth Colony.
Ten years later, the Puritans settled north of Plymouth Colony in बोस्टन, thus forming Massachusetts Bay Colony.
Over the next 130 years, New England fought in चार French and Indian Wars, until the अंग्रेजों पराजित the French and उनके देशी allies in उत्तर America.
In the लेट 18th century, the New England Colonies initiated the resistance to the British पार्लियामेंट 's efforts to impose नई taxes without the consent of the colonists.
The Boston Tea Party थी a विरोध to जिससे ग्रेट ब्रिटेन responded साथ a series of punitive laws stripping मैसाचुसेट्स of self-government, which were termed the `` Intolerable Acts `` by the colonists.
The confrontation led to open warfare in 1775, the expulsion of the अंग्रेजों authorities from New इंग्लैण्ड in spring 1776, और the Declaration of Independence in जुलाई 1776.
Some of the first movements of अमरीकी literature, philosophy, और शिक्षा originated in नई इंग्लैण्ड.
The region played a prominent role in the गति to abolish गुलामी, and was the first प्रदेश of the United States to be transformed by the Industrial Revolution.
आज, New England is a प्रमुख world center of education, high प्रौद्योगिकी, बीमे, और medicine.
Boston is इसके सांस्कृतिक, वित्तीय, educational, medical and transportation center.
प्रत्येक state is principally subdivided into छोटी incorporated municipalities known as New England कस्बों, which are often governed by town meeting.
The only unincorporated territory in New इंग्लैण्ड exists in the sparse, northern regions of Vermont, New Hampshire, और Maine.
चूंकि 1970, voters have more often समर्थित liberal उम्मीदवार at the राज्य और federal level than those of any अन्य region in the United States.
New England is the only one of the United States Census Bureau 's nine regional divisions जिनकी name does नहीं derive from its geography, and it is the तभी multi-state region with clear, consistent boundaries.
It maintains a दमदार sense of cultural पहचान set apart इससे the rest of the country, although the शर्तें of this identity are प्रायः contested, combining puritanism साथ liberalism, agrarian life with industry, और isolation साथ immigration.
Emergency !
is an American television series that combines the चिकित्सा drama और action-adventure genres.
It थी produced by Mark सात सीमित and distributed by सार्वभौमिक Studios.
it debuted as a midseason replacement on January 15, 1972, on एनबीसी, replacing the two short-lived series the Partners and The शुभ Life, and ran until September 3, 1977, with छह अतिरिक्त two-hour टेलीविज़न films during the following two years.
आपात !
थी created और produced by जोकर Webb and Robert A. Cinader, both of whom यहूद also responsible लिये the पुलिस dramas Adam-12 and dragnet.
The Eastern Time Zone ( et ) encompasses 17 U.S. states in the eastern भाग of the contiguous United States, parts of Canada and तीन countries in South अमेरिका.
Places that उपयोग Eastern Standard समय ( EST ) जब observing मानक time ( autumn/winter ) are 5 घंटों behind Coordinated Universal Time ( ).
Eastern daylight Time ( EDT ), when observing daylight छायांकन समय ( spring/summer ) is 4 hours behind Coordinated Universal समय ( ).
in the उत्तरी भाग of the time zone, during the second Sunday in March, at 2:00 a.m. EST, clocks हैं उन्नत to 3:00 a.m. EDT leaving a one hour `` gap. ''
दौरान the पहला संडे in नवम्बर, at 2:00 a.m. EDT, घड़ियाँ are स्थानांतरित back to 1:00 a.m. EST, thus `` duplicating '' one घंटा.
Southern भाग of the मण्डल ( पनामा and the Caribbean ) do not observe daylight छायांकन.
मानक form of the आवधिक table.
The colors represent अलग categories of elements explained नीचे.
The periodic table is a table display of the chemical तत्व, organized on the basis of their परमाणु numbers, electron configurations, and recurring chemical properties.
तत्व हैं presented in order of increasing atomic number ( number of protons ).
The मानक रूप of table comprises an 18 × 7 grid or main body of elements, positioned ऊपर a छोटी double row of elements.
The table can भी be deconstructed into चार rectangular ब्लॉक : the s-block to the left, the p-block to the right, the d-block in the middle, और the f-block below that.
The rows of the तालिका हैं called अवधि ; the columns of the s-, d-, and p-blocks are पुकारा groups, साथ some of these having names ऐसे as the halogens or the noble gases.
चूंकि, by परिभाषा, a periodic तालिका incorporates recurring trends, any such table can be प्रयुक्त to derive संबंध between the गुण of the elements and predict the गुण of नई, yet to be discovered or synthesized, तत्व.
as a result, a periodic table—whether in the standard form or some other variant—provides a useful framework लिये analyzing chemical बर्ताव, and such टेबल are widely used in chemistry and other sciences.
हालांकि precursors exist, Dmitri mendeleev is generally credited साथ the publication, in 1869, of the पहला widely पहचाना आवधिक तालिका.
He developed his table to illustrate periodic trends in the properties of the then-known elements.
mendeleev also predicted some properties of then-unknown elements that would be expected to fill gaps in इस table.
Most of his predictions यहूद proved correct when the तत्व in question यहूद subsequently discovered.
Mendeleev 's periodic table रै since been expanded and refined with the डिस्कवरी or synthesis of further new elements और the development of new theoretical models to बताइये chemical behavior.
सब elements from atomic numbers 1 ( hydrogen ) to 118 ( ununoctium ) have महरूम discovered or synthesized.
The elements from 1 to 98 ( californium ) have been found to मौजूद naturally, although some are found तभी in trace amounts and were initially discovered by संश्लेषण in laboratories.
The elements after 98 have only been synthesized in laboratories.
Production of elements beyond ununoctium is being pursued, with the question of how the periodic table may need to be modified to accommodate any such additions होने a matter of ongoing debate.
Numerous synthetic radionuclides of naturally occurring elements have also been उत्पादित in laboratories.
Minecraft is a सैंडबॉक्स indie game originally created by Swedish programmer Markus `` पायदान '' Persson and बाद विकसित and published by Mojang.
it was publicly released for the PC on May 17, 2009, as a developmental अल्फा संस्करण और, after gradual updates, was published as a full release संस्करण on November 18, 2011.
A version for Android थी released a month पहले on October 7, and an iOS version was released on November 17, 2011.
on May 9, 2012, the game थी released on एक्सबॉक्स 360 as an Xbox Live Arcade खेल, co-developed by 4J studios.
सब versions of Minecraft receive periodic updates.
The रचनात्मक and भवन aspects of Minecraft allow players to build constructions out of textured घन in a 3D procedurally उत्पन्न world.
अन्य activities in the game include exploration, महफ़िल resources, crafting and combat.
Gameplay in its वाणिज्यिक रिलीज has two principal modes : survival, which requires players to acquire resources and maintain their health and hunger ; और creative, where players have an असीमित supply of resources, the ability to fly, और no health or hunger.
A third gameplay mode named hardcore is the same as survival, differing only in difficulty ; it is set to hardest setting और respawning is disabled, forcing खिलाड़ी to delete their worlds upon death.
Minecraft प्राप्त five awards from the 2011 Game डेवलपर Conference : it थी awarded the Innovation Award, बेहतरीन Downloadable Game Award, and the बेहतरीन डेब्यू Game Award इससे the Game Developers Choice Awards ; और the Audience Award, as well as the seumas mcnally Grand पुरस्कार, from the Independent Games Festival in 2011.
In 2012, Minecraft was awarded a Golden Joystick Award in the category Best downloadable खेल.
As of April 8, 2013, the game has sold over 10 million copies on pc और as of जनवरी 22, 2013, over 20 million नक़ल across all platforms.
The Dark Knight is a 2008 British-American superhero film directed, produced, and co-written by Christopher Nolan.
आधारित on the DC Comics character Batman, the film is the second part of नोलन 's Batman फिल्मी series and a sequel to 2005 's Batman Begins.
Christian Bale reprises the lead भूमिका of Bruce wayne/batman, with a returning cast of Michael Caine as Alfred Pennyworth, Gary Oldman as James Gordon और Morgan Freeman as लुसियस Fox.
The film introduces the character of Harvey Dent ( आरोन Eckhart ), गोथम 's newly निर्वाचित District Attorney and the consort of ब्रूस वेन 's बाल्यकाल friend रेचल Dawes ( Maggie जिलएनहॉल ), who joins Batman and the police in combating the new rising threat of a criminal mastermind calling himself `` the Joker `` ( Heath लेजर ).
Nolan 's inspiration for the film was the जोकर 's comic book डेब्यू in 1940, the 1988 ग्राफिक novel, and the 1996 series, which retold two-face 's origin.
The nickname `` the Dark नाईट '' was first applied to Batman in बैटमैन no. 1 ( 1940 ), in a story written by Bill Finger.
The अंधेरा नाईट was filmed primarily in Chicago, as well as in अनेक other locations in the United States, the संयुक्त Kingdom, और हांग काँग.
Nolan प्रयुक्त an imax कैमरा to film some sequences, including the Joker 's first appearance in the फिल्मी.
On January 22, 2008, some months बाद he था completed फिल्मांकन on The Dark Knight and छह महीने before the film 's release, Heath लेजर died from a विषाक्त combination of prescription drugs, leading to intense ध्यान इससे the press और movie-going पब्लिक.
Warner भाईs. had initially निर्मित a viral marketing अभियान for The अंधेरा Knight, विकासशील promotional websites and trailers highlighting स्क्रीन shots of Ledger as the जोकर, but after लेजर 's death, the studio refocused its promotional campaign.
The Dark Knight was released on July 16, 2008 in ऑस्ट्रेलिया, on जुलाई 18, 2008 in उत्तर America, and on जुलाई 24, 2008 in the United Kingdom.
Considered एक of the best films of the 2000s और one of the best superhero films ever made, the फिल्मी received highly धनात्मक समीक्षाएँ और नियत numerous records during its theatrical चलाएं.
With over $ 1 billion in revenue worldwide, it is the 14th-highest-grossing film of all time, unadjusted for महंगाई.
The फिल्मी received eight Academy Award nominations ; it won the award for बेहतरीन Sound Editing and Ledger was posthumously awarded Best Supporting Actor.
the अंधेरा नाईट उदय, the final भाग of the trilogy, was released on जुलाई 20, 2012.
The timeline of radio lists within the history of radio, the प्रौद्योगिकी और events that produced instruments कि use radio waves and activities that लोगों undertook.
Later, the history is dominated by programming and contents, which is closer to general history.
the सिडनी Opera House is a multi-venue performing arts centre in New South Wales, ऑस्ट्रेलिया.
it was conceived and largely built by Danish architect Jørn Utzon, opening in 1973 after a long gestation कि began साथ उसके competition-winning design in 1957.
जोसेफ Cahill 's नई South Wales Government gave the go-ahead लिये work to begin in 1958.
The government 's bold निर्णय to select Utzon 's design is प्रायः निष्प्रभ by the कांड that followed.
it is on Bennelong पाइंट in Sydney Harbour, बंद to the सिडनी Harbour Bridge.
It sits at the northeastern टिप of the Sydney central business district ( the CBD ), surrounded on three sides by the harbour ( Sydney Cove और फार्म Cove ) and अंतर्देशीय by the Royal Botanic gardens.
Contrary to its name, it houses अनेक प्रदर्शन venues.
It is among the busiest performing arts केंद्रों in the संसार, hosting over 1,500 performances each year attended by some 1.2 million people.
it provides a स्थान लिये many performing-arts कंपनियाँ, सहित the four key निवासी companies Opera Australia, The Australian बैले, the Sydney Theatre Company and the Sydney Symphony Orchestra, and presents a wide range of productions on इसके own account.
it is also one of the most popular visitor attractions in ऑस्ट्रेलिया, with more than seven million people visiting each year, 300,000 of whom लो a हिदायत tour.
It is administered by the Sydney Opera House Trust, under the New South Wales Ministry of the कला.
On 28 June 2007, it was made a युनेस्को World Heritage साईट.
it is एक of the 20th century 's most distinctive इमारतें और एक of the most प्रसिद्ध performing arts केंद्रों in the world.
A graph of देह द्रव्यमान index as a फलन of body mass and body ऊँचाई is shown ऊपर.
the dashed लाइनों represent subdivisions भीतर a major class.
लिये instance the `` underweight '' classification is further divided into `` कठोर '', `` मॉडरेट '', और `` mild '' subclasses.
The body mass अनुक्रमणिका ( BMI ), or Quetelet index, is a माप for इंसान देह आकार आधारित on an individual 's weight and ऊँचाई.
It was devised between 1830 and 1850 by the belgian polymath Adolphe quetelet दौरान the कोर्स of developing `` सोशल physics ''.
देह mass अनुक्रमणिका is पारिभाषित as the individual 's body mass divided by the वर्गाकार of their height.
the formulae universally used in आयुर्विज्ञान उपज a unit of माप of kg/m2.
BMI can also be संकल्पित using a बीएमआई chart, which प्रदर्शक BMI as a function of weight ( horizontal अक्ष ) and ऊँचाई ( लंबवत axis ) using contour लाइनों for different मान of BMI or colors for अलग BMI categories.
† The फ़ैक्टर for uk/us units is more precisely 703.06957964, लकिन that level of परिशुद्धता is नहीं meaningful लिये this calculation.
To कार्य from stone and pounds पहला multiply the स्टोन by 14 तब add the पाउंड to दे the whole mass in pounds ; to कार्य from feet और inches first गुणा the फीट by 12 then add the इंच to दे the whole height in inches.
Thomas Paine ( January 29, 1737 ( ns February 9, 1737 ) – June 8, 1809 ) was an english-american political activist, author, राजनैतिक theorist and revolutionary.
as the author of two highly influential pamphlets at the start of the अमरीकी Revolution, he inspired the Patriots in 1776 to declare स्वतंत्रता from Britain.
उसके ideas reflected Enlightenment era rhetoric of transnational इंसान अधिकारों.
He रै been called `` a corsetmaker by trade, a journalist by profession, and a propagandist by inclination. ''
Born in Thetford, England, in the county of Norfolk, Paine emigrated to the British American colonies in 1774 साथ the help of Benjamin Franklin and he arrived in time to participate in the अमरीकी Revolution.
His principal योगदान were the powerful, widely पढ़ा pamphlet Common भाव ( 1776 ), the all-time best-selling American book that advocated colonial अमेरिका 's independence इससे the किंगडम of ग्रेट Britain, और The American Crisis ( 1776–83 ), a pro-revolutionary pamphlet series.
Common Sense was so influential that John Adams कहा, `` Without the कलम of the author of Common भाव, the sword of Washington होता have been raised in vain.”
paine जिया in फ़्रांस for most of the 1790s, becoming deeply involved in the फ्रेंच क्रान्ति.
He wrote the अधिकारों of man ( 1791 ), in part a defence of the French Revolution against इसके critics.
His हमले on British लेखक एडमंड Burke led to a विचारण और conviction in absentia in 1792 लिये the अपराधों of seditious मानहानि.
In 1792, despite नहीं being able to speak French, he थी elected to the French National सम्मेलन.
The girondists regarded him as an ally.
Consequently, the Montagnards, especially Robespierre, regarded उसे as an enemy.
In December 1793, he was गिरफ्तार and imprisoned in Paris, then released in 1794.
he became notorious because of the Age of कारण ( 1793–94 ), his book that advocates deism, promotes reason and freethinking, and argues against institutionalized religion in general and Christian doctrine in particular.
he also wrote the pamphlet Agrarian Justice ( 1795 ), discussing the origins of property, and introduced the concept of a guaranteed minimum income.
In 1802, he returned to अमेरिका where he died on जून 8, 1809.
Only six लोगों attended his funeral as he had been ostracized for his ridicule of christianity.
Clinical trials are sets of tests in medical शोध और drug development कि generate safety और efficacy data ( or अधिक specifically, सूचना about adverse drug reactions and adverse प्रभाव of other treatments ) लिये health interventions ( e.g., drugs, diagnostics, devices, therapy प्रोटोकॉल ).
They are conducted only बाद संतोषजनक information रै been gathered on the quality of the non clinical सुरक्षा, और health authority/ethics committee approval is granted in the country where स्वीकृति of the drug or device is sought.
previously, many emerging देशों did not require local ट्रायल for उत्पाद approvals.
Now, हालांकि emerging countries still accept data from u.s./europe, they also require some लोकल trials.
Depending on the प्रकार of product and the stage of its development, investigators initially enroll volunteers and/or patients into small pilot अध्ययन, and subsequently conduct larger स्केल studies in मरीजों that often compare the new उत्पाद with others already approved for the affliction of interest.
As positive safety and efficacy data हैं gathered, the number of patients is typically increased.
नैदानिक trials can vary in size, and can involve a सिंगल शोध entity in one country or many ऐसे entities in multiple countries.
A full series of trials may incur sizable costs, और the burden of paying लिये all the जरुरी लोगों and services is usually borne by the sponsor, which may be a सरकारी संगठन or a pharmaceutical, biotechnology or medical device company.
When the diversity of required support roles exceeds the संसाधन of the sponsor, a नैदानिक trial is managed by an outsourced संगी, such as a contract research organization or a clinical ट्रायल unit in the academic sector.
the Green Bay Packers are an American football team based in Green Bay, Wisconsin.
वे are सदस्यों of the North Division of the नेशनल Football सम्मेलन ( nfc ) in the National Football League ( NFL ).
Green Bay is the third-oldest franchise in the NFL, having been organized और playing in 1919.
the Packers are the only non-profit, community-owned major league पेशेवर sports team in the संयुक्त राज्य.
The Packers are the last vestige of `` small town teams '' that were once common in the NFL during the 1920s और 1930s.
Founded in 1919 by Earl `` Curly '' Lambeau ( hence the name lambeau Field on which the team plays ) and जार्ज व्हिटनी Calhoun, the Green Bay पैकर्स can trace their lineage to other semi-professional teams in ग्रीन Bay डेटिंग back to 1896.
in 1919 and 1920 the पैकर्स competed as a semi-professional football team against clubs इससे around विस्कॉन्सिन और the मिडवेस्ट.
They joined the अमरीकी पेशेवर फ़ुटबॉल Association ( apfa ) in 1921, the forerunner to what is known today as the National Football League ( एनएफएल ).
Although Green खाड़ी is the last NFL `` small town '' टोली, its local प्रशंसक आधार और media extends into nearby मिल्वौकी ; the team also निभाई चयनित home games वहीँ between 1933 और 1994.
The Green Bay Packers have जीती 13 league championships ( more than any अन्य टोली in the NFL ), सहित नौ NFL championships prior to the Super Bowl era और four Super Bowl victories —in 1967 ( सुपर Bowl i ), 1968 ( सुपर Bowl ii ), 1997 ( Super कटोरी XXXI ) और 2011 ( Super Bowl XLV ).
The Packers have long-standing, कड़वा rivalries with their NFC North ( formerly the NFC Central ) प्रतिद्वंद्वियों, the शिकागो Bears, Minnesota Vikings and the Detroit Lions.
The Bears-Packers rivalry is one of the oldest rivalries in एनएफएल history, डेटिंग back to 1921.
Ethanol fuel is ethanol ( ethyl दारू ), the वही type of दारू found in alcoholic beverages.
It is सबसे often used as a motor fuel, मुख्यतः as a biofuel additive for gasoline.
World ethanol production for transport fuel tripled between 2000 and 2007 from 17 billion to अधिक than 52 billion liters.
From 2007 to 2008, the share of ethanol in global gasoline प्रकार fuel use increased from 3.7 % to 5.4 %.
in 2011 worldwide इथेनॉल ईंधन production reached 22.36 अरब U.S. liquid gallons ( bg ) ( 84.6 billion liters ), with the United States as the top निर्माता with 13.9 bg ( 52.6 अरब liters ), हिसाब लिये 62.2 % of वैश्विक production, followed by ब्राज़ील with 5.6 bg ( 21.1 अरब liters ).
Ethanol ईंधन has a `` गैसोलीन गैलन equivalency `` ( GGE ) value of, जिससे means 1.5 gallons of ethanol produce the energy of one गैलन of गैसोलीन.
Ethanol fuel is widely used in Brazil और in the संयुक्त States, और together both countries were responsible लिये 87.1 % of the संसार 's ethanol ईंधन production in 2011.
सबसे cars on the road today in the U.S. can run on blends of up to 10 % ethanol, and ethanol represented 10 % of the U.S. gasoline fuel supply derived from domestic sources in 2011.
Since 1976 the Brazilian government has made it अनिवार्य to blend ethanol साथ गैसोलीन, and चूंकि 2007 the legal blend is around 25 % ethanol और 75 % gasoline ( E25 ).
by दिसम्बर 2011 Brazil had a fleet of 14.8 million flex-fuel automobiles and लाइट trucks और 1.5 million flex-fuel motorcycles that regularly उपयोग neat ethanol fuel ( ज्ञात as E100 ).
Bioethanol is a रूप of renewable energy कि can be उत्पादित इससे agricultural feedstocks.
It can be made इससे बहुत common फसलों such as sugar cane, potato, manioc and मकई.
There has been considerable बहस about how उपयोगी bioethanol will be in replacing गैसोलीन.
Concerns परिचय its production और use relate to increased food prices due to the large amount of arable land required for crops, as well as the उर्जा and pollution संतुलन of the whole cycle of ethanol production, विशेषकर from corn.
Recent developments with cellulosic ethanol production और commercialization may allay कुछ of these concerns.
cellulosic इथेनॉल offers promise because cellulose मछली, a प्रमुख and सार्वभौमिक component in plant cells दीवारें, can be प्रयुक्त to उपज ethanol.
According to the अंतरराष्ट्रीय उर्जा एजेंसी, cellulosic इथेनॉल could allow ethanol fuels to play a much bigger role in the future than previously विचार.
Saab 9-3 SportCombi BioPower.
the second e85 flexifuel मॉडल introduced by Saab in the Swedish market.
A प्लैक commemorating the स्थान of the साराजेवो assassination और steps of gavrilo Princip ( चित्र लिया in 1987, पहले steps यहूद removed in 1992 and plaque बदला इससे Cyrillic to Latin स्क्रिप्ट )
A plaque commemorating the location of the साराजेवो assassination ( image taken in 2009 )
on 28 June 1914, Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria, heir presumptive to the Austro-Hungarian throne, and his wife, Sophie, Duchess of hohenberg, were shot मुर्दे in साराजेवो, by Gavrilo Princip, one of a group of छह बोस्नियाई Serb assassins coordinated by डेनियल Ilić.
The राजनैतिक objective of the assassination was to ब्रेक off Austria-Hungary 's south-slav प्रांतों so they could be combined into a वृहद Serbia or a यूगोस्लाविया.
The हत्यारे ' motives were सतत with the गति that later became ज्ञात as Young Bosnia.
सर्बियाई military officers stood पीछे the attack.
At the top of ये सर्बियाई military conspirators was मुख्य of Serbian सैन्य Intelligence dragutin Dimitrijević, his righthand man Major Vojislav tankosić, and masterspy Rade Malobabić.
Major Tankosić हथियारबंद the assassins with bombs और pistols and प्रशिक्षित उन्हें.
the हत्यारे were दिए access to the same clandestine tunnel of safe-houses और agents that Rade Malobabić used for the infiltration of weapons और operatives into austria-hungary.
The assassins, the key members of the clandestine टनल, और the कुंजी Serbian military षड्यंत्रकारियों जो were still alive were arrested, आजमाया, convicted and punished.
those जो यहूद arrested in Bosnia were आजमाया in साराजेवो in अक्तूबर 1914.
the अन्य conspirators were arrested and tried before a Serbian kangaroo अदालत on the French-controlled Salonika सामने in 1916–1917 on unrelated false आरोप ; Serbia चलाया three of the top military षड्यंत्रकारियों.
Much of कया is known about the assassinations comes from these two trials and सम्बन्धित records.
Assignment of responsibility for the bombing और murders of 28 June is highly controversial because the attack led to the outbreak of World युद्ध I one माह later.
renée Kathleen Zellweger ( born April 25, 1969 ) is an American actress और producer.
Zellweger पहला gained फैली attention for her role in the फिल्मी Jerry Maguire ( 1996 ), and subsequently प्राप्त two nominations for the अकादमी पुरस्कार for बेहतरीन अभिनेत्री for her roles as Bridget Jones in the कॉमेडी Bridget जोन्स 's Diary ( 2001 ), और as Roxie Hart in the musical शिकागो ( 2002 ).
वो won the अकादमी पुरस्कार लिये Best Supporting Actress for her performance in the नाटक Cold पहाड़ ( 2003 ).
She रै won an Academy पुरस्कार, three सुनहरी Globe पुरस्कार, three स्क्रीन Actors Guild Awards, and a bafta पुरस्कार ; was named Hasty खीर 's Woman of the साल in 2009 ; और established herself as one of the highest-paid Hollywood actresses as of 2007.
The ossicles ( also called auditory ossicles ) are the तीन smallest हड्डियों in the human body, the malleus, the incus and the stapes.
वे are contained within the middle कान space और serve to संचारण ध्वनि from the एयर to the fluid-filled व्यामोह ( cochlea ).
The अनुपस्थिति of the auditory ossicles would constitute a moderate-to-severe hearing घाटा.
The term `` ossicles '' literally means `` छोटा bones '' and commonly refers to the auditory ossicles, though the term may refer to any small bone throughout the body.
The नई वचन ( Hebrew • • — यूनानी • • diatheke kaine ) is a biblical निर्वचन originally निकला from a phrase in the किताब of यिर्मयाह, in the Hebrew Scriptures.
it is often विचार of as an eschatological मुक्तिदाता Age or संसार to come और is सम्बन्धित to the biblical अवधारणा of the किंगडम of परमेश्वर.
generally, Christians believe that the New वचन was instituted at the पिछला भोजन as भाग of the eucharist, which in the Gospel of जॉन includes the New commandment.
There हैं several Christian eschatologies that further define the नई Covenant, as an example an inaugurated eschatology defines and describes the नई वचन as an जारी संबंध between Christian believers and परमेश्वर that होगा be in पूरा fruition after the Second coming of मसीह ; that is, it होगा नहीं only be in full fruition in believing hearts, but in the भविष्य external world as खूब.
the connection between the रक्त of Christ and the New Covenant is seen in most modern अंग्रेज़ी translations of the नई Testament with the saying : `` इस कप कि is poured out for you is the नई वचन in my रक्त ''.
Christians believe that यीशु is the mediator of the नई Covenant, and that the Blood of Christ shed at उसके crucifixion is the required blood of the covenant.
As with all covenants between God और man वर्णित in the Bible, the New Covenant is माना `` a बंध in रक्त sovereignly administered by God. ''
It has been theorized कि the New वचन is the विधि of Christ as spoken during उसके उपदेश on the Mount.
the following List of लोगों pardoned or granted clemency by the अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त States documents the most prominent cases of each presidency.
As granted by the Constitution ( Article II, Section 2, Clause 1 ), राष्ट्रपतियों have the power to ग्रान्ट दया in one or अधिक of the following ways : the ability to grant a full pardon, to भ्रमण a वाक्य, or to तोड़ना a ठीक.
U.S. Presidents have no शक्ति to grant clemency लिये crimes prosecuted under state law.
As to the अंतर between a pardon and a commutation:
A pardon is an कार्यपालिका अनुक्रम vacating a conviction.
a commutation is the mitigation of the sentence of someone currently serving a वाक्य लिये a crime pursuant to a conviction, बगैर vacating the conviction itself.
Approximately 20,000 pardons and clemencies यहूद issued by U.S. presidents in the 20th century alone.
The records of acts of दया यहूद public until 1934.
In 1981 the दफ्तर of the pardon Attorney थी निर्मित and records from President H. W. Bush आगे हैं now listed.
This list includes pardons and commutations.
Tampa ( ) is a city in the u.S. state of फ्लोरिडा.
it serves as the काउंटी सीट for hillsborough काउंटी and is located on the वेस्ट coast of Florida, on Tampa Bay near the Gulf of मैक्सिको.
The जनसांख्यिकी of Tampa in 2011 थी 346,037.
The current location of Tampa was एकबार inhabited by indigenous peoples of the Safety हार्बर संस्कृति, most notably the tocobaga and the Pohoy, who lived along the shores of Tampa Bay.
It was briefly छान by Spanish explorers in the early 16th century, but वहीँ were no permanent American or यूरोपीय settlements भीतर आज 's city हद until after the संयुक्त राज्य था acquired फ्लोरिडा from स्पेन in 1819.
In 1824, the United States फौज established a frontier चौकी called Fort ब्रुक at the mouth of the Hillsborough River, निकट the site of today 's tampa Convention बीच.
The first civilian residents यहूद pioneers who settled near the fort for protection इससे the nearby Seminole population.
The कस्बा grew slowly until the 1880s, when railroad links, the डिस्कवरी of फास्फेट, and the arrival of the cigar industry jump-started Tampa 's development and helped it to grow into an important city by the जल्दी 1900s.
Today, Tampa is a भाग of the metropolitan area most commonly referred to as the Tampa खाड़ी क्षेत्रफल.
लिये U.S. Census purposes, tampa is भाग of the Tampa-St. Petersburg-Clearwater, Florida Metropolitan Statistical Area.
The four-county area is रचित of roughly 2.7 लाख निवासियों, making it the second largest metropolitan statistical area ( MSA ) in the state, और the fourth largest in the southeastern संयुक्त States, behind मियामी, Washington, d.C., and Atlanta.
The Greater tampa Bay area has just over 4 million residents and generally includes the Tampa और sarasota मैट्रो areas.
The Tampa खाड़ी Partnership और U.S. जनसांख्यिकी आंकड़ा showed an average annual growth of 2.47 प्रतिशत, or a gain of approximately 97,000 residents per साल.
Between 2000 and 2006, the वृहद tampa Bay Market experienced a combined growth rate of 14.8 percent, growing from 3.4 million to 3.9 लाख and hitting the 4 million people mark on April 1, 2007.
A 2012 अनुमान shows the Tampa Bay area population to have 4,310,524 people और a 2017 projection of 4,536,854 लोगों.
Tampa has a number of खेल teams, such as the Tampa Bay Buccaneers of the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल League, the Tampa Bay Lightning of the नेशनल हॉकी League, and the Tampa Bay Storm of the एरिना फ़ुटबॉल League.
The Tampa खाड़ी Rays in Major League बेसबॉल and the tampa Bay Rowdies of the North अमरीकी सॉकर League खेल their home games in neighboring St. Petersburg, Florida.
In 2008, Tampa was क्रमित as the 5th best outdoor नगर by Forbes.
A 2004 survey by the NYU समाचारपत्र वॉशिंगटन Square News ranked Tampa as a शीर्ष city for `` twenty-somethings. ''
Tampa is now ranked as a `` Gamma '' संसार city by loughborough University.
according to Loughborough, tampa बाँधने alongside अन्य world cities ऐसे as Phoenix, सेंटो Domingo, and ओसाका.
in recent years tampa has देखी a notable upsurge in high-market demand from उपभोक्ता, signaling अधिक wealth concentrated in the क्षेत्रफल.
tampa hosted the 2012 Republican National Convention.
The Chevrolet cavalier was a कॉम्पैक्ट ऑटोमोबाइल produced from 1982 to 2005 by General Motors.
Built on the कम्पनी 's J platform, the cavalier produced the उच्चतम sales in 1984.
at & T Mobility LLC ब्रांडेड and referred to as AT & t ( formerly Cingular बेतार LLC ), is a wholly स्वामित्व subsidiary of AT & t Inc. that provides बेतार सेवाएं to 107 million subscribers in the United States, including प्यूर्टो Rico and the U.S. वर्जिन Islands.
AT & t Mobility is the दूसरी largest बेतार telecommunications provider in the United राज्य and प्यूर्टो Rico, पीछे Verizon Wireless, which serves 115.78 million customers as of the चौथी क्वार्टर of 2012.
AT & T Mobility is headquartered in the Lenox Park क्षेत्रफल of DeKalb Co. Georgia, बस outside Atlanta.
originally Cingular बेतार llc from 2000 to 2007, a संयुक्त venture between SBC संचार and BellSouth, the company acquired the old AT & T Wireless in 2004 ; sbc later acquired the original AT & T and re-branded as `` AT & T ''.
Cingular became wholly owned by AT & T in December 2006 as a result of at & T 's अधिग्रहण of BellSouth.
In January 2007, Cingular confirmed it होता re-brand itself under the AT & T नाम.
Although the legal corporate name change occurred immediately, for both regulatory and brand-awareness reasons दोनो brands were used in the company 's साइनेज and advertising during a transition period.
the परिवर्तन concluded in late June, बस prior to the rollout of the Apple iPhone.
on March 20, 2011, at & T गतिशीलता घोषित its intention to acquire T-Mobile USA from Deutsche Telekom for $ 39 अरब.
if it had received government और regulatory approval, at & T would have had more than 130 million subscribers.
However, the U.S. Department of Justice, the Federal Communications आयोग, and AT & t Mobility 's प्रतिस्पर्धी ( such as Sprint nextel ) opposed the मूव on the grounds कि it would reduce competition in the cellular communications मार्केट.
In December 2011, in the face of both governmental and widespread उपभोक्ता विपक्ष, AT & T withdrew their offer to पूरा the merger.
मार्टिन Luther किंग, Jr. ( January 15, 1929 – April 4, 1968 ) was an American clergyman, activist, and leader in the african-american Civil Rights Movement.
he is बेहतरीन known for his भूमिका in the advancement of civil rights using nonviolent civil disobedience.
King has become a national icon in the history of American progressivism.
A Baptist minister, King became a सिविल rights activist early in उसके करियर.
He led the 1955 Montgomery बस Boycott and helped found the दक्षिणी Christian Leadership Conference ( SCLC ) in 1957, सेवारत as its पहला president.
साथ the SCLC, किंग led an unsuccessful संघर्ष against segregation in albany, Georgia, in 1962, and organized nonviolent विरोध in Birmingham, Alabama, कि आकर्षित national attention following television news कवरेज of the क्रूर police response.
King भी helped to व्यवस्थित the 1963 कूच on वॉशिंगटन, where he delivered his `` I Have a सपना `` वाक.
There, he स्थापित his reputation as one of the greatest orators in अमरीकी history.
He also स्थापित उसके reputation as a radical, and became an object of the Federal Bureau of Investigation 's COINTELPRO for the rest of his life.
FBI agents investigated him for possible communist ties, अंकित उसके extramarital liaisons and reported on them to government officials, and on one occasion, mailed King a threatening anonymous letter कि he interpreted as an attempt to make him commit आत्महत्या.
On October 14, 1964, King received the नोबेल Peace Prize लिये combating racial inequality through nonviolence.
In 1965, he और the SCLC helped to व्यवस्थित the selma to Montgomery marches and the following साल, he took the movement north to शिकागो.
In the final years of his life, King expanded his focus to include गरीबी और the Vietnam War, alienating many of his उदार allies with a 1967 speech titled `` Beyond Vietnam ''.
King was नियोजन a national occupation of Washington, d.C., पुकारा the ग़रीब People 's Campaign.
किंग was assassinated on April 4, 1968, in मेम्फिस, Tennessee.
उसके death थी followed by riots in अनेक U.S. cities.
दोषारोपण that James Earl Ray, the man convicted of हत्या किंग, had been framed or acted in कॉन्सर्ट with सरकारी एजेंटों persisted for decades बाद the shooting, and the jury of a 1999 civil trial मिला Loyd Jowers to be complicit in a षड्यंत्र विरूद्ध King.
King थी awarded the अध्यक्षीय Medal of Freedom and the Congressional सुनहरा Medal मरणोपरांत.
Martin Luther King, Jr. दिन was स्थापित as a U.S. federal अवकाश in 1986.
Hundreds of गलियों in the U.S. have महरूम renamed in उसके सम्मान.
A memorial statue on the National Mall थी opened to the पब्लिक in 2011.
The tiger ( Panthera tigris ) is the largest cat species, reaching a कुल देह लंबाई of up to और weighing up to.
it is the third largest land carnivore ( behind only the polar भालू and the brown bear ).
Its most recognizable feature is a pattern of अंधेरा vertical stripes on reddish-orange फर with a हल्का underside.
it has exceptionally stout teeth, and the canines are the longest among जीना felids साथ a crown height of as much as or even.
In zoos, tigers have जिया लिये 20 to 26 years, which also seems to be उनके longevity in the wild.
वे are territorial और generally solitary but social animals, often requiring large contiguous areas of habitat कि support their शिकार requirements.
This, coupled with the fact that they are indigenous to some of the more densely populated places on धरती, रै caused significant conflicts साथ humans.
Tigers once ranged widely across Asia, इससे Turkey in the west to the eastern coast of Russia.
over the past 100 years, they have lost 93 % of their historic दायरा, और have been extirpated from southwest and सेंट्रल Asia, from the आइलैंड्स of जावा and Bali, and from विशाल areas of Southeast and Eastern Asia.
आज, they दायरा इससे the Siberian ताइगा to open grasslands और tropical mangrove swamps.
The remaining छह tiger subspecies have been classified as endangered by आईयूसीएन.
The global population in the जंगली is estimated to number between 3,062 and 3,948 individuals, down from around 100,000 at the start of the 20th सदी, with सबसे remaining populations occurring in छोटी pockets isolated from each other.
Major reasons for population मनाही शामिल आवास विनाश, आवास fragmentation and poaching.
The extent of area occupied by टाइगर्स is अनुमानित at कम than, a 41 % मनाही इससे the area estimated in the mid-1990s.
Tigers हैं among the सबसे recognisable और लोकप्रिय of the world 's charismatic megafauna.
वे have प्रदर्शित prominently in ancient mythology और folklore, and continue to be depicted in आधुनिक films and साहित्य.
Tigers appear on many ध्वज, coats of arms, and as mascots for sporting teams.
the बंगाल tiger is the national animal of दोनो India और Bangladesh.
The simplified internal structure of a chloroplast
Overview of the Calvin cycle and carbon fixation
The light-independent reactions of photosynthesis are रासायनिक प्रतिक्रियाएँ कि बदलें कार्बन dioxide and other यौगिकों into glucose.
ये reactions occur in the stroma, the fluid-filled क्षेत्रफल of a chloroplast outside of the thylakoid membranes.
These प्रतिक्रियाएँ take the light-dependent reactions and perform further रासायनिक processes on उन्हें.
There are three phases to the light-independent प्रतिक्रियाएँ, collectively पुकारा the Calvin cycle : carbon fixation, reduction reactions, and ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate ( RuBP ) regeneration.
Despite its name, इस process occurs only when लाइट is उपलब्धियाँ.
Plants do नहीं carry out the Calvin साईकिल by night.
They, बजाय, रिलीज sucrose into the phloem from their मंड reserves.
This प्रक्रम happens जब लाइट is available स्वतंत्र of the kind of photosynthesis ( C3 carbon fixation, C4 कार्बन fixation, and crassulacean Acid चयापचय ) ; CAM plants स्टोर malic एसिड in their vacuoles प्रत्येक night और रिलीज it by दिन in order to मेक this process work.
A linen रूमाल with pulled thread कढ़ाई around the edges
Linen cloth recovered इससे Qumran Cave 1 near the Dead Sea.
लिनेन ( ) is a textile made इससे the fibers of the flax संयंत्र, Linum usitatissimum.
Linen is labor-intensive to manufacture, but when it is made into garments, it is valued for its exceptional coolness and ताजगी in hot weather.
The word `` लिनेन '' is of वेस्ट Germanic origin और cognates with the Latin name लिये the flax plant linum, और the earlier यूनानी λινόν ( linon ).
This word history रै given rise to a number of other terms in English, the most notable of which is the English word line, निकला इससे the use of a लिनेन ( flax ) लड़ी to determine a सीधा line.
Textiles in a लिनेन बुनते texture, even when बना of cotton, hemp and other non-flax fibers are also loosely referred to as `` linen ''.
Such fabrics generally have their own विशिष्ट names other than linen ; लिये example, ठीक cotton yarn in a linen-style weave is called Madapolam.
the collective पद `` linens `` is still often प्रयुक्त generically to describe a class of woven और भी knitted bed, bath, तालिका and रसोईघर textiles.
The name linens is retained because traditionally, linen was used लिये many of these वस्तुएं.
in the past, the शब्द `` linens '' थी also used to mean lightweight undergarments such as shirts, chemises, waistshirts, lingerie ( a शब्द also cognate साथ लिनेन ), और detachable कमीज़ छल्लों and cuffs, which were historically बना लगभग exclusively out of linen.
the inside cloth layer of fine composite clothing garments ( as for उदाहरण jackets ) थी traditionally made of linen, and इस is the origin of the शब्द अस्तर.
लिनेन textiles appear to be some of the oldest in the world : their इतिहास goes वापस many thousands of years.
Fragments of straw, seeds, मछली, yarns, and various types of fabrics which date back to about 8000 bc have been found in Swiss झील dwellings.
Dyed flax fibers found in a prehistoric cave in जॉर्जिया suggest the use of woven लिनेन fabrics इससे wild flax may date back even पहले to 36,000 BP.
लिनेन थी sometimes प्रयुक्त as करेंसी in ancient मिश्र.
Egyptian mummies were wrapped in लिनेन because it थी seen as a symbol of light and पवित्रता, and as a display of wealth.
कुछ of ये fabrics, woven from hand spun yarns, were very fine लिये उनके दिन, but हैं coarse compared to modern linen.
आज, लिनेन is usually an expensive textile, और is produced in relatively छोटी quantities.
It has a long `` staple '' ( individual रेशा length ) relative to cotton and other natural मछली.
Many products हैं made of linen : aprons, bags, तौलिये ( swimmers, bath, beach, body और धो towels ), napkins, bed linens, linen चौके, धावक, chair कवर, और men 's & women 's wear.
The FIFA संसार कप, प्रायः simply the संसार कप, is an international association फ़ुटबॉल competition contested by the senior मेन 's national टीमों of the सदस्यों of Fédération Internationale de Football संघ ( फीफा ), the sport 's वैश्विक शासी देह.
The championship has महरूम awarded every चार years since the inaugural tournament in 1930, except in 1942 and 1946 when it was not held because of the Second World युद्ध.
The current champions are स्पेन, who won the 2010 टूर्नामेंट.
The current format of the tournament involves 32 टीमों स्पर्धा for the title at venues within the host nation ( s ) over a काल of about a माह ; this phase is often called the World Cup Finals.
A qualification phase, which currently takes प्लेस over the preceding three years, is used to determine which teams qualify for the tournament साथ with the मेजबान nation ( s ).
the 19 World Cup tournaments have महरूम जीती by eight अलग नेशनल टीमों.
Brazil have जीती five times, and they are the only team to have played in प्रत्येक टूर्नामेंट.
the other World Cup winners हैं इटली, with four titles ; Germany, with three titles ; अर्जेंटीना और inaugural winners Uruguay, साथ दो शीर्षक each ; and England, France, and Spain, with one title प्रत्येक.
The World Cup is the world 's most widely viewed sporting event ; an estimated 715.1 million people watched the final मैच of the 2006 FIFA World Cup held in Germany.
the अगला three World Cups will be hosted by Brazil in 2014, रूस in 2018, and क़तर in 2022.
The is an विस्तार यंत्र for the वी Remote video game controller for the वी that allows it to more accurately capture complex motion.
According to निन्टेंडो, the सेंसर in the device पूरक the accelerometer and सेंसर बार capabilities of the वी Remote to enable क्रियाएँ to be rendered identically on the screen in रियल time.
The Wii 's successor console, the Wii U, supports the Wii MotionPlus और इसके peripherals in games where use of its touchscreen-built-in primary controller is not necessary.
majulah Singapura ( onward सिंगापुर ) is the national anthem of सिंगापुर.
Composed by Zubir कहा in 1958 as a थीम song for official functions of the City Council of Singapore, the song was चयनित in 1959 as the island 's anthem when it attained self-government.
Upon full independence in 1965, Majulah Singapura was formally adopted as सिंगापुर 's नेशनल anthem.
by विधि the anthem may only be sung साथ its original Malay lyrics, हालांकि there exist authorized translations of the lyrics of the गान in सिंगापुर 's three अन्य आधिकारिक भाषाएं : English, Mandarin and Tamil.
Originally रचित in the कुंजी of G प्रमुख, in 2001 the नेशनल गान थी officially relaunched in the lower key of F प्रमुख as इस was said to allow लिये a `` grander and more inspiring arrangement ''.
the नेशनल anthem is regularly performed or sung in schools और हथियारबंद शक्तियां camps at ceremonies आयोजित at the beginning and/or the समाप्त of each day, during which the national ध्वज is also raised and lowered and the नेशनल pledge is लिया.
Singaporeans are especially प्रोत्साहित to गाओ the नेशनल गान on occasions of national जश्न or national significance such as at the नेशनल दिन Parade, at National Day observance ceremonies conducted by educational institutions और government departments, and at sporting कार्यक्रम at which Singapore टीमों are participating.
An expedition 's shipwrights building a brigantine, 1541.
shipbuilding is the construction of ships and फ्लोटिंग vessels.
It normally takes place in a specialized facility known as a shipyard.
Shipbuilders, भी पुकारा shipwrights, follow a specialized occupation कि traces इसके जड़ें to पहले recorded इतिहास.
shipbuilding और ship repairs, दोनो वाणिज्यिक and military, are referred to as `` naval engineering ''.
The construction of boats is a similar activity called boat भवन.
The dismantling of ships is called जलयान breaking.
Wakonda is a कस्बा in Clay County, South Dakota, संयुक्त States.
The जनसांख्यिकी was 321 at the 2010 census.
the following is a list of the most populous incorporated places of the United States of America.
As पारिभाषित by the संयुक्त States Census ब्यूरो, an `` incorporated प्लेस `` includes a variety of designations, including city, कस्बा, गाँव, borough, and municipality.
a few exceptional Census Designated Places ( cdps ) हैं भी included in the जनसांख्यिकी Bureau 's लिस्टिंग of incorporated स्थान.
संचित city-counties represent a distinct type of सरकारी that includes the entire population of a county, or county समतुल्य.
कुछ consolidated city-counties, however, include multiple incorporated places.
This सूची presents तभी कि portion ( or `` balance '' ) of such consolidated city-counties कि are not a part of another incorporated place.
Note कि इस list refers only to the population of व्यक्तिगत municipalities भीतर their defined हद, which करता नहीं शामिल other municipalities or unincorporated suburban क्षेत्रों within शहरी agglomerations.
A different ranking is evident जब considering u.S. metropolitan area populations.
alt=Larger flashcart, shown साथ small कार्ड and U.S. quarter for size
Nintendo DS storage devices are डिवाइस used to store a licensed developer 's work-in-progress बिंब, homebrew video खेल and downloaded वाणिज्यिक games ( चूंकि the Nintendo DS is not बेची with a rewritable storage medium ).
Licensed डेवलपर, however, can use a blue Intelligent Systems Nitro emulator बक्सा to फ्लैश cards.
These devices are also known as `` flashcarts '' or `` flashcards ''.
वहीँ are two प्रमुख classes of flashcarts : पुरानी डिवाइस which अनुरूप in Slot-2 ( the Game लड़के Advance Game Pak slot ) और newer डिवाइस that fit in slot-1 ( the ds Game Card slot ).
Slot-2 ( or first-generation ) डिवाइस have been historically cheaper due to economies of स्केल ( inherited from their use with Game लड़के Advance ), लकिन आवश्यकता a booting tool in Slot-1 in अनुक्रम to उपयोग the touch screen and other ds features.
Second-generation devices ( those which only उपयोग Slot-1 ) do not कार्य with GBA homebrew, लकिन became less expensive and easier to use, rivaling अनेक Slot-2 devices in price.
first-generation डिवाइस include GBA flash cartridges, GBAMP CF, SuperCard, and M3.
Second-generation devices include R4 क्रान्ति, cyclods, G6 Real and ds-x.
The storage यंत्र either contains flash मेमोरी or a slot for a memory card to store homebrew.
Storage devices with a memory-card slot प्रायः have अधिक भंडार क्षमता than flash-memory डिवाइस.
Although flash-memory क्षमता is usually measured in megabits ( mb ), memory-card capacity is usually measured in megabytes ( mb ) ( where 8 Mb is 1 mb ).
Storage-device brands differ in their support for homebrew ; ds and खेल लड़के Advance ROMs ; खास features ( ऐसे as ability to play मीडिया files ) ; शारीरिक size और cost.
Strictly बोलना, a storage device is not जरुरी लिये DS with FlashMe संस्थापित because homebrew can be भेजा to the DS using WMB.
however, इस is नहीं an easily-portable method because the DS needs to be within range of a suitable Wi-Fi कार्ड.
are American people of Japanese विरासत.
Japanese Americans have historically been among the three largest Asian अमरीकी communities, but in recent decades, it रै become the sixth largest समूह at roughly 1,304,286, including those of mixed-race or mixed-ethnicity.
In the 2010 census, the largest जापानी American communities यहूद मिला in कैलिफ़ोर्निया with 272,528, Hawaii with 185,502, New York with 37,780, Washington with 35,008, and Illinois with 17,542.
दक्षिणी कैलिफ़ोर्निया रै the largest japanese-american population in उत्तर America.
200px
This is a comprehensive listing which हाइलाइट significant achievements and milestones based upon Billboard पत्रिका 's singles charts, सबसे notably the Billboard hot 100.
This list spans इससे the समस्या dated January 1, 1955 to present.
The Billboard Hot 100 began with the issue dated अगस्त 4, 1958, and is फिलहाल the standard लोकप्रिय music chart in the United States.
Prior to the creation of the Hot 100, Billboard प्रकाशित four singles charts : `` Best Sellers in Stores '', `` Most निभाई by Jockeys '', `` सबसे Played in Jukeboxes '' and `` The Top 100 ''.
These charts, जिससे ranged from 20 to 100 slots, यहूद phased आउट at different times between 1957 and 1958.
Though technically नहीं part of the Hot 100 chart history, their data is included लिये computational purposes, and to avoid unenlightening or भ्रामक characterizations.
All items listed below are from the Hot 100 era, unless otherwise विख्यात ( pre-Hot 100 charts ).
v is an American science fiction टेलीविज़न series that भागा लिये two सीज़न on एबीसी, from November 3, 2009 to March 15, 2011.
A remake of the 1983 miniseries निर्मित by Kenneth Johnson, the new श्रेणी chronicles the आगमन on Earth of a technologically advanced alien प्रजाति जिससे ostensibly comes in सलाम, but actually रै sinister motives.
v सितारों Morena Baccarin, Lourdes Benedicto, Morris Chestnut, जोएल gretsch, लोगन huffman, Charles Mesure, Elizabeth Mitchell, Laura Vandervoort और Scott Wolf, and थी कार्यपालिका उत्पादित by Scott Rosenbaum, यवेस simoneau, Scott पीटर्स, और jace Hall.
The series थी उत्पादित by The Scott Peters Company, HDFilms and Warner भाईs. टेलीविज़न.
geocaching is an बाहरी recreational activity, in which the participants उपयोग a वैश्विक Positioning System ( GPS ) receiver or mobile device and other navigational techniques to hide and तलाश containers, called `` geocaches '' or `` caches '', anywhere in the world.
a typical संचय is a small waterproof container containing a logbook जहाँ the geocacher enters the date they मिला it and signs it with their स्थापित code name.
After signing into the log, the संचय must be लगाई back exactly where the person found it.
larger containers such as plastic भंडार containers ( Tupperware or similar ) or ammunition boxes can also contain items for व्यापार, usually toys or trinkets of छोटी value.
Geocaching साझा many aspects साथ benchmarking, trigpointing, orienteering, treasure-hunting, letterboxing, और waymarking.
Boogie Down प्रोडक्शन्स was a hip hop group that was originally composed of KRS-One, d-nice, and DJ Scott La Rock.
DJ Scott la Rock was murdered on August 27, 1987, months after the रिलीज of BDP 's debut एल्बम, Criminal minded.
The name of the group, Boogie bas, derives from a nickname for the South Bronx खण्ड of the Bronx, one of the five boroughs of New यॉर्क नगर.
the group pioneered the संलयन of dancehall रेगी and hip हॉप music and their डेब्यू LP Criminal Minded contained frank descriptions of life in the दक्षिण Bronx of the लेट 1980s thus setting the stage लिये कया would आखिरकार become gangsta rap.
A municipal बंध is a bond issued by a local government, or their agencies.
Potential issuers of municipal bonds include राज्य, cities, काउंटी, redevelopment agencies, special-purpose districts, school districts, पब्लिक यूटिलिटी districts, publicly owned airports and seaports, और कोई अन्य governmental entity ( or group of governments ) at or below the state स्तर.
नगरपालिका bonds may be general obligations of the issuer or secured by specified revenues.
In the संयुक्त States, ब्याज income प्राप्त by holders of municipal bonds is often exempt from the संघीय आय tax and from the income tax of the state in which they are issued, हालांकि नगरपालिका bonds issued for certain purposes may नहीं be tax exempt.
Unlike new issue stocks कि हैं brought to market with price प्रतिबंध until the deal is बेची, municipal bonds हैं free to व्यापार at any time एकबार वे हैं purchased by the investor.
Professional व्यापारियों regularly trade और retrade the same bonds several times a week.
`` gim me कुछ Lovin ' '' is a song लिखा by Steve winwood, Spencer डेविस and Muff winwood, और originally performed by The Spencer डेविस समूह.
the मौलिक रिफ of the song was borrowed इससे the Homer बैंको सोंग `` ( Ai n't That ) A Lot of प्रेम '', written by Banks and Willie Dean `` Deanie '' Parker.
`` Gim me Some Lovin ' '' थी a uk # 2 in the Autumn of 1966 and a us # 7.
The song is ranked # 247 on the Rolling Stone पत्रिका 's list of the 500 Greatest Songs of All समय.
The संस्करण जारी in the UK ( and probably सबसे of Europe ) is अलग from that issued in the US on the United कलाकारों label, being धीमा, and lacking the बैकिंग vocals and `` सजीव sounding '' performance found on the US single.
( The us version रै more often been used on reissue CDs, even those coming इससे Europe. )
The single features the ध्वनि of the हैमंड B-3 अंग.
The Internet Movie Database ( IMDb ) is an online database of सूचना सम्बन्धित to films, टेलीविज़न कार्यक्रम, and वीडियो खेल.
This शामिल actors, production crew कर्मियों, and fictional वर्ण featured in ये three visual entertainment media.
It is one of the सबसे popular online entertainment destinations, with over 100 million अद्वितीय उपयोक्ता each month and a ठोस और rapidly growing मोबाईल उपस्थिति.
आईएमडीबी was शुभारम्भ on October 17, 1990, and in 1998 was acquired by Amazon.com.
as of अप्रैल 27, 2013, IMDb had 2,503,783 शीर्षक ( includes episodes ) and 5,192,493 personalities in its database, as well as 43 million registered उपयोक्ता.
The जालस्थल has an Alexa rank of 48.
Fibre Channel Host Bus Adapter ( 64-bit PCI-X card )
SCSI मेजबान बस Adapter ( 16-bit ISA कार्ड )
In कंप्यूटर hardware, a मेजबान controller, host एडाप्टर, or मेजबान bus एडाप्टर ( hba ) connects a host प्रणाली ( the computer ) to other network और भंडार devices.
The terms are primarily used to refer to devices लिये connecting SCSI, Fibre Channel and esata डिवाइस.
However, devices for connecting to IDE, Ethernet, FireWire, usb and other systems may भी be called host adapters.
Recently, the आगमन of iSCSI and Fibre Channel over Ethernet has brought परिचय Ethernet HBAs, जिससे are different from Ethernet NICs in that they शामिल TCP Offload Engines.
There हैं also converged HBAs that support दोनो Ethernet और Fibre Channel called converged Network adapters ( CNAs ).
Cashmere Scarves
Modern men 's cashmere sweaters for sale.
Cashmere wool, usually बस ज्ञात as cashmere, is a रेशा प्राप्त from Cashmere बकरियों and other types of goat.
the word cashmere derives इससे an old spelling of काश्मीर.
cashmere is fine in texture, दमदार, light, and नरम.
Garments बना from it provide excellent insulation.
in the United States, under the U.S. Wool Products Labeling Act of 1939, as amended, ( 15 uction 68b ( a ) ( 6 ) ), states कि a wool or textile उत्पाद may not be labeled as containing cashmere unless:
such wool उत्पाद is the ठीक ( dehaired ) undercoat fibers produced by a cashmere goat ( capra hircus laniger ) ;
the औसत diameter of the fiber of such wool product does not exceed 19 माइक्रोन ; and
such wool product does नहीं contain more than 3 percent ( by weight ) of cashmere fibers with average diameters that exceed 30 माइक्रोन.
The average fiber व्यास may be subject to a coefficient of विभिन्नता around the औसत that shall not exceed 24 percent.
Jennifer Convertibles Inc. is the owner and licensor of sofabed और leather specialty retail stores in the संयुक्त States, with stores located throughout the Eastern seaboard, in the मिडवेस्ट, on the West Coast और in the दक्षिणपश्चिम.
The company was संस्थापित in 1975 and is based in woodbury, New यॉर्क.
On July 19, 2010, the company announced कि it था filed for bankruptcy as a consequence of `` substantial losses ''.
according to Furniture आज the company थी number 48 among फर्नीचर रिटेलर with US $ 114 लाख in बिक्री for the year ending August 29, 2009.
It subsequently emerged from Chapter 11 under the control of its प्रमुख प्रदायक, the Haining Mengnu Group.
Egg roll is a पद used for अनेक different foods around the world.
2__Egg_roll __ Varieties of egg rolls are found in mainland चीन, अनेक Chinese-speaking regions of Asia, and Chinese अप्रवासी communities around the world.
अंडा rolls as referred to in China.
In Guangdong and हांग Kong, अंडा roll usually refers to biscuit roll.
This is a type of biscuit.
The संघटक included egg, आटा and sugar.
अंडा roll भी is a डिश in कैण्टन and Hong काँग, इस is usually made साथ सब्ज़ी.
Within China egg रोल्स are खाया predominantly in the southeast and हैं not as commonly consumed in the north और western parts of चीन.
In American Chinese cuisine, an egg roll is a savory dish typically served as an appetizer.
It is usually भरवां साथ chicken, pork or shrimp, cabbage, गाजर, tomatoes, bean sprouts and other सब्जियां, and then deep fried.
इस variety of the अंडा roll is very आम and popular, across भी regional varieties of American चाइनीज food, and is often included as part of a `` combination platter ''.
In मॉन्ट्रियल, कनाडा, open-ended eggrolls are a Jewish-Chinese संलयन dish.
They can be either kosher certified or merely kosher style.
पीड़ा and suffering is the legal पद for the physical और emotional stress caused इससे an injury ( see also पीड़ा and कष्ट ).
Some damages that might be under इस श्रेणी would be : aches, temporary and permanent limitations on कार्यकलाप, potential shortening of life, अवसाद or scarring.
When दाखिल a lawsuit as a परिणाम of an injury, it is आम for किसी to seek धन दोनो in मुआवजे for वास्तविक money कि is खोया and for the pain और stress associated with virtually any injury.
In a suit, पीड़ा and suffering is part of the `` सामान्य damages '' section of the claimant 's claim, or, alternatively, it is an element of `` compensatory '' non-economic damages that allows recovery for the दिमागी anguish and/or physical pain endured by the claimant as a result of injury for जिससे the अभियोक्ता seeks redress.
अलावा इससे धन damages awarded in trial, money क्षतिपूर्ति are also दिए informally outside the judicial system in mediations, arbitration ( दोनो of जिससे may be अदालत annexed or non litigated दावा ) as खूब as in routine insurance settlements.
व्यक्तिगत claimants or those represented by lawyers often उपस्थित demands to insurers to settle for money.
ये demand for bodily चोट compensation monies often set out क्षतिपूर्ति that are similarly प्रयुक्त in the अदालत litigated pleadings.
Demands are usually written summaries of a claimant 's medical care और the तथ्य which resulted in the चोट.
नमूना of a medallion signature गारंटी stampIn
the संयुक्त States and Canada, a medallion signature guarantee is a special signature guarantee for the ट्रांसफ़र of securities.
it is a guarantee by the transferring financial institution that the हस्ताक्षर is वास्तविक and the financial institution स्वीकृत liability लिये any जालसाजी.
Signature guarantees protect shareholders by preventing unauthorized transfers and possible investor losses.
वे also सीमा the liability of the ट्रांसफ़र agent who accepts the certificates.
अलग institutions have अलग policies as to what type of पहचान they require to provide the गारंटी और whether they charge a fee लिये ऐसे सेवा ( usually nominal if any ).
सबसे संस्थानों होगा नहीं गारंटी a signature of किसी who has नहीं already महरूम their customer.
A medallion हस्ताक्षर guarantee is नहीं the same as an acknowledgment by a नोटरी public, in the sense that a `` हस्ताक्षर guarantee '' is a certification by the institution that the signature is प्रामाणिक, and an acknowledgment is a प्रमाणन by a notary public attesting that the signer हस्ताक्षरित a दस्तावेज़ voluntarily.
Some बैंको may no longer provide इस service, however, many still do as well as other वित्तीय संस्थानों ऐसे as a Savings and Loans and Credit संघ.
At उनके sole discretion, these institutions may still decline to provide the medallion Signature Guarantees.
When us citizens are विदेश, some financial संस्थानों may accept United राज्य दूतावास seals, in place of the Medallion Signature Guarantee Stamp.
प्रशांत इलेक्ट्रिक रेल streetcars stacked at a junkyard on टर्मिनल Island, Los Angeles काउंटी, कैलिफ़ोर्निया, कूच 1956
The सामान्य Motors स्ट्रीटकार conspiracy ( also ज्ञात as the ग्रेट अमरीकी स्ट्रीटकार scandal ) refers to दोषारोपण and convictions in relation to a कार्यक्रम by General Motors ( GM ) और other companies who खरीदा and तब dismantled streetcar and electric ट्रैन systems in many American शहरों.
Between 1936 and 1950, National City Lines and Pacific नगर Lines —with investment from GM, Firestone टायर, Standard Oil of California, Phillips Petroleum, Mack Trucks, and the Federal Engineering corporation—bought over 100 electric surface-traction प्रणालियों in 45 cities including बाल्टीमोर, न्यूर्क, Los Angeles, नई York City, ओकलैंड and San Diego and परिवर्तित them into bus आपरेशन.
Several of the कंपनियाँ involved were convicted in 1949 of conspiracy to monopolize interstate commerce लकिन यहूद acquitted of conspiring to monopolize the ownership of these companies.
Some suggest कि this program निभाई a कुंजी role in the decline of public transit in शहरों आरपार the United राज्य ; notably Edwin J. Quinby, जो first खींचा ध्यान to the कार्यक्रम in 1946, and then Bradford C. Snell, an anti-trust attorney for the संयुक्त States Senate whose controversial 1974 testimony to a Senate inquiry brought the issue to national जागरूकता.
दोनो Quinby और snell argued that the deliberate destruction of streetcars थी part of a larger strategy to धक्का the संयुक्त States into automobile dependency.
अन्य कह that independent economic कारकों brought about changes in the transit system, including the Great Depression, the Public Utility Holding कम्पनी अधिनियम of 1935, labor अशांति, मार्केट forces, rapidly increasing traffic congestion, urban sprawl, taxation policies कि favored private vehicle ownership, and general enthusiasm for the automobile.
One writer on the subject has suggested that Snell and others गिरी into simplistic conspiracy सिद्धान्त thinking, bordering on paranoid delusions saying `` clearly, GM waged a war on electric traction.
It थी indeed an सब आउट assault, but by no means the सिंगल reason for the विफलता of rapid transit.
भी, it is just as साफ that actions and inactions by सरकारी contributed significantly to the elimination of electric कर्षण. ''
तभी a small handful of U.S. cities have surviving प्रभावी rail-based urban हस्तांतरण प्रणालियों आधारित on streetcars or trams, सहित Newark, Philadelphia, सैन Francisco, Pittsburgh, और बोस्टन ; others हैं re-introducing them.
The story has been explored several times in छपाई, film और अन्य मीडिया, notably in Who framed Roger Rabbit, Taken for a सवारी and The End of Suburbia.
corwin हाउस, Salem, Massachusetts, built ca. 1660, First Period English
American colonial architecture includes several building design styles associated with the औपनिवेशिक period of the संयुक्त States, including First Period अंग्रेज़ी ( late-medieval ), French औपनिवेशिक, स्पेनी Colonial, डच Colonial and जॉर्जियाई.
These शैलियाँ are associated साथ the houses, churches and government इमारतें of the काल from about 1600 through the 19th century.
`` In the Mood '' is a big band era # 1 hit recorded by अमरीकी bandleader Glenn मिलर.
it topped the charts in 1940 in the U.S. और one साल बाद was featured in the movie Sun Valley serenade.
In 1999, National Public Radio ( NPR ) included the 1939 Glenn Miller recording on आरसीए Bluebird on the npr 100, the list of `` The 100 most important American musical works of the 20th century ''.
NEPTUNE logo
The वरुण Canada project is the world’s first regional-scale underwater ocean observatory कि plugs सीधे into the Internet.
चूंकि December 2009, it has allowed people to `` लहरे '' the seafloor while समंदर scientists चलाएं deep-water प्रयोग from labs और विश्वविद्यालयों around the world.
Along with इसके सिस्टर project, VENUS, NEPTUNE offers a unique approach to ocean science.
traditionally, ocean वैज्ञानिकों have relied on infrequent ship cruises or space-based satellites to carry out their research, जबकि the वरुण प्रोजेक्ट uses a remotely संचालित क्रॉलर.
A gramophone रिकार्ड, commonly known as a phonograph record ( in American अंग्रेज़ी ), vinyl record ( in सन्दर्भ to vinyl, the material most commonly प्रयुक्त after about 1950 ), or colloquially, `` a रिकार्ड '', is an एनालॉग sound storage medium consisting of a flat disc with an inscribed, modulated spiral groove.
The groove usually starts निकट the periphery और ends near the बीच of the डिस्क.
Phonograph records are generally described by their diameter in inches ( 12-inch, 10-inch, 7-inch, इत्यादि. ), the rotational speed at which वे are played ( `` 33 आरपीएम ``, `` 78 '', `` 45 '', etc. ), their समय capacity ( `` long playing '' ), उनके reproductive accuracy, or `` fidelity `` ( `` high fidelity '', `` Orthophonic '', `` full-range '', इत्यादि. ), और the क्रमांक of चैनल्स of audio provided ( `` mono ``, `` stereo ``, `` quadraphonic ``, etc. ).
Phonograph रिकॉर्ड were the प्राथमिक medium used for म्यूज़िक reproduction for most of the 20th century, replacing the phonograph cylinder, with which it था co-existed, by the 1920s.
By the late 1980s, digital media था gained a larger market share, and the vinyl record left the mainstream in 1991.
They continue to be manufactured and sold in the 21st century.
In 2008, nearly 2.9 million units shipped, the सबसे in any साल since 1998 and the format has continued to slowly regain लोकप्रियता.
They हैं especially प्रयुक्त by DJs and audiophiles for many types of music.
as of 2013, विनाइल रिकॉर्ड continue to be used for distribution.
घासभूमि in the Santa रोजा पठार, कैलिफ़ोर्निया.
Grassland in the Antelope Valley, California
The Konza tallgrass prairie in the चकमक Hills of northeastern कान्सास.
A grassland in the Philippines.
An Inner Mongolian grassland in the People 's Republic of चीन
Grasslands are areas जहाँ the vegetation is वर्चस्व by grasses ( Poaceae ), however sedge ( Cyperaceae ) and फटाफट ( Juncaceae ) परिवारों can भी be found.
Grasslands occur naturally on all महाद्वीपों except Antarctica.
In शीतोष्ण latitudes, such as northwestern यूरोपीय and the Great Plains and California in North America, देशी grasslands are dominated by perennial bunch grass species, whereas in warmer climates annual species form a greater component of the vegetation.
grasslands are मिला in सबसे ecoregions of the Earth.
For example there are पाँच स्थलीय ecoregion classifications ( subdivisions ) of the temperate grasslands, savannas, and shrublands biome ( ' ecosystem ' ), which is one of आठ स्थलीय ecozones of the धरती 's surface.
Henna ( lawsonia inermis, also called हिना tree ) or Hina is a flowering plant, the sole species in the genus lawsonia in the family Lythraceae.
The अंग्रेज़ी name `` henna '' आता from the अरबी ( ALA-LC : ḥinnāʾ / सुनाया ) or colloquially, loosely pronounced.
The नाम is भी प्रयुक्त लिये dye preparations निकला from the plant, और for the art of temporary गोदना आधारित on those dyes.
Henna has been used चूंकि antiquity to dye skin, hair, and fingernails, as well as fabrics including Silk, ऊन and leather.
Additionally, the name is misused लिये other स्किन and hair dyes, ऐसे as ब्लैक henna or neutral henna, which are नहीं निकला from the संयंत्र.
A पतला film is a layer of material ranging from भिन्नों of a nanometer ( monolayer ) to अनेक micrometers in thickness.
Electronic सेमीकंडक्टर devices and ऑप्टिकल coatings are the प्रमुख applications benefiting from thin-film construction.
A familiar अनुप्रयोग of thin films is the household mirror, which typically has a thin metal कोटिंग on the back of a sheet of glass to रूप a परावर्तक interface.
The process of silvering थी once commonly प्रयुक्त to उपज mirrors.
A very-thin-film coating ( less than a nanometer thick ) is used to उपज two-way mirrors.
The performance of ऑप्टिकल coatings ( e.g. antireflective, or ar, coatings ) हैं typically उन्नत when the thin-film coating consists of अनेक परतों having varying thicknesses and refractive indices.
similarly, a आवधिक structure of alternating thin films of different सामग्री may collectively रूप a so-called superlattice which exploits the phenomenon of quantum कारावास by restricting इलेक्ट्रॉनिक phenomena to two-dimensions.
Work is being किया साथ ferromagnetic and ferroelectric thin films for उपयोग as computer मेमोरी.
it is also होने applied to दवाएँ, via thin-film drug delivery.
Thin-films are used to उपज thin-film batteries.
Thin films are also used in dye-sensitized सौर cells.
Ceramic पतला films are in wide use.
The relatively high hardness और inertness of ceramic materials make this type of thin coating of interest for सुरक्षा of substrate materials against संक्षारण, oxidation and wear.
in particular, the उपयोग of ऐसे coatings on cutting tools can extend the जीवन of these items by several orders of परिमाण.
Research is being किया on a new class of thin-film अकार्बनिक oxide सामग्री, पुकारा amorphous heavy-metal cation multicomponent oxides, जिससे could be used to make पारदर्शी transistors that हैं inexpensive, stable, and environmentally benign.
Gears of War is a सैन्य science fiction third-person शूटर वीडियो game विकसित by Epic Games and published by Microsoft Game studios.
It was initially released as an विशेष title for the Xbox 360 in November 2005 in North America, Australia, and सबसे of Europe और included a `` सीमित Collector 's संस्करण '' साथ added content and an art book titled नष्ट Beauty that detailed much of the खेल 's back-story.
Despite the initial statements of Xbox 360 exclusivity, a Microsoft खिड़कियाँ version of the game थी विकसित in conjunction साथ People Can Fly and released a year later, featuring new सामग्री including additional अभियान levels, a new multiplayer game विधि, and Games for Windows Live कार्यक्षमता.
The खेल focuses on the troops of Delta Squad as they wield a desperate, last-ditch attempt to सहेजें the remaining human inhabitants of the fictional planet Sera इससे a relentless and seemingly अजेय subterranean enemy known as the Locust Horde.
The खिलाड़ी assumes the role of Marcus fenix ( लकिन can भी play as Dominic Santiago ), a पूर्व कैदी and war-hardened soldier.
the game is आधारित on the use of कवर and रणनीतिक fire लिये the player to advance through the scenarios ; a second player can play cooperatively through the main campaign to assist.
The game also features अनेक online multiplayer game मोड्स लिये up to eight players.
Gears of युद्ध बेची over three million copies in just ten weeks and was the fastest-selling video game of 2005 as खूब as the second-most played game over Xbox Live दौरान.
It currently stands as the 5th best selling Xbox 360 game of सब time.
The खेल has चूंकि बेची over five million copies by September 2008.
The game was well प्राप्त by आलोचकों, who praised इसके gameplay और detailed visuals, और it जीती several `` Game of the Year '' awards in 2006.
The कामयाबी of the खेल has led to the development of the गियर्स of War franchise, सहित the 2008 sequel Gears of युद्ध 2 और its follow-up, Gears of War 3, जिससे was released on September 20, 2011, बाद having initially been नियत to have been released on April 5, 2011, the date upon जिससे एपिक Games ' Cliff Bleszinski was a guest on Late Night साथ jimmy Fallon.
Adaptations to books, comics, as well as a feature फिल्मी are to be अपेक्षित.
A Tree grows in Brooklyn is a 1943 अनोखा लिखा by Betty Smith.
the स्टोरी focuses on an Irish-American family in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, New York नगर.
The novel is set in the first और second decades of the 20th सदी.
The book थी an immense success.
The प्रमुख metaphor of the book is the हार्डी Tree of Heaven, native to China और Taiwan, now considered invasive, and common in the vacant lots of नई York City.
World map with the intertropical मण्डल highlighted in red.
तीव्र climate zones of the Earth जहाँ all बारह months have mean temperatures above 18 °C ( 64 °F ).
The ऊष्णकटिबन्ध is a region of the धरती surrounding the Equator.
It is सीमित in अक्षांश by the Tropic of Cancer in the northern hemisphere at लगभग n and the tropic of Capricorn in the southern गोलार्ध at S ; these latitudes correspond to the अक्षीय tilt of the Earth.
the tropics are भी referred to as the तीव्र zone और the torrid zone ( see भौगोलिक zone ).
The ऊष्णकटिबन्ध शामिल सब the क्षेत्रों on the धरती where the सूर्य reaches a point directly overhead at least once during the सौर year.
The ऊष्णकटिबन्ध are distinguished from the अन्य climatic and biomatic regions of Earth, the मध्य latitudes and the polar regions on either side of the भूमध्यरेखीय zone.
For the INXS song, see What तुम need ( song ).
`` What तुम Need '' is an episode of the American television anthology series The Twilight Zone.
it is आधारित on the short story of the वही name by Lewis Padgett ( Henry Kuttner और C. L. Moore ).
playhousesquare, in the Cleveland Theater District in downtown क्लीवलैंड, Ohio, is the second-largest theater जटिल in the United States, दूसरी तभी to New यॉर्क नगर 's lincoln Center ).
Constructed in a span of 19 महीने in the early 1920s, the theaters were subsequently closed bas, but यहूद revived through a grassroots effort.
Their renovation और reopening helped usher in a new era of downtown revitalization in Cleveland, and was पुकारा `` one of the top टेन सफलताओं in Cleveland इतिहास. ''
The driver and passenger front airbags, after having been तैनात, in a British Peugeot 306 car.
An airbag is a vehicle सुरक्षा यंत्र.
It is an occupant restraint system consisting of a flexible कपड़ा envelope or cushion designed to inflate rapidly दौरान an ऑटोमोबाइल collision.
इसके purpose is to cushion occupants during a crash and provide protection to their लाशें when they strike आंतरिक objects ऐसे as the steering व्हील or a window.
Modern vehicles may contain अनेक airbag modules in विभिन्न side and frontal locations of the passenger seating स्थितियाँ, and सेंसर may deploy एक or more airbags in an impact मण्डल at variable rates आधारित on the प्रकार, कोण and severity of impact ; the airbag is designed to only inflate in मॉडरेट to कठोर frontal crashes.
airbags are normally designed साथ the intention of supplementing the protection of an occupant who is correctly restrained साथ a seatbelt.
Most designs are inflated through pyrotechnic means and can तभी be संचालित once.
नए side-impact airbag modules consist of compressed air cylinders that हैं triggered in the इवेंट of a side impact vehicle impact.
The first commercial designs यहूद introduced in passenger ऑटोमोबाइल during the 1970s with limited कामयाबी.
Broad वाणिज्यिक अपनाना of airbags occurred in अनेक बाज़ार during the late 1980s and early 1990s साथ a driver airbag, and a front passenger airbag as well on some गाड़ियाँ ; और many modern vehicles now include four or more इकाई.
IRS कर forms are used लिये taxpayers and tax-exempt organizations to report financial सूचना to the Internal Revenue Service ( IRS ) of the United States.
वे हैं used to रपट आय, calculate कर to be सशुल्क to the संघीय government of the United States, and disclose अन्य information as जरूरी by the Internal Revenue Code ( आईआरसी ).
There are over 800 various forms and schedules.
The best-known of these is Form 1040 used by individuals.
in the संयुक्त राज्य, ड्राइवर 's licenses हैं जारी by each individual state ( सहित Washington, d.C. और territories ), बल्कि than the federal government क्युकी of the political concept of federalism.
Drivers हैं normally required to obtain a license from their state of निवास and सब states recognize प्रत्येक other 's licenses लिये temporary visitors subject to normal age requirements.
A state may also बर्खास्तगी an individual 's ड्राइविंग privilege within its सीमायें for traffic उल्लंघनों.
Many states share a common system of अनुज्ञा classes, साथ some अपवाद, and commercial license classes हैं मानकीकृत by संघीय regulation at 49 CFR भाग 383.
China has महरूम the सोर्स of many inventions, including the चार Great Inventions : papermaking, the compass, gunpowder, and printing ( both woodblock and movable प्रकार ).
The सूची below contains these and अन्य आविष्कारों.
the Chinese invented technologies involving mechanics, hydraulics, और गणित लागू to horology, metallurgy, खगोलशास्त्र, कृषि, engineering, music theory, craftsmanship, nautics, and warfare.
By the युद्धरत States Period ( 403–221 bc ), वे had advanced metallurgic technology, including the धमाका furnace और cupola भट्टी, while the finery forge and puddling process were known by the Han Dynasty ( 202 BC – AD 220 ).
A sophisticated आर्थिक system in China दिया birth to inventions such as paper money during the Song राजवंश ( 960–1279 ).
The आविष्कार of बारूद by the 10th सदी led to an array of आविष्कारों such as the fire lance, जमीन mine, naval मेरा, hand cannon, exploding गोलों, multistage rocket, and rocket bombs with aerodynamic wings and explosive payloads.
With the navigational सहायता of the 11th-century compass and ability to steer at ऊँची sea with the 1st-century sternpost rudder, premodern Chinese sailors sailed as far as East Africa और Egypt.
in water-powered clockworks, the premodern चाइनीज had प्रयुक्त the escapement mechanism since the 8th century और the endless power-transmitting chain drive in the 11th सदी.
वे भी बना large mechanical कठपुतली theaters driven by waterwheels and carriage wheels and wine-serving automatons driven by चप्पू wheel boats.
The contemporaneous Peiligang and Pengtoushan cultures represent the oldest Neolithic संस्कृतियों of चीन and were formed around 7000 BC.
कुछ of the first inventions of Neolithic, prehistoric China include semilunar and आयताकार stone knives, स्टोन hoes और spades, the cultivation of millet, rice and the सोयाबीन, the refinement of sericulture, the भवन of rammed धरती structures with lime -plastered हाउस floors, the सृष्टि of the कुम्हार 's wheel, the सृष्टि of pottery with cord-mat-basket designs, the creation of pottery tripods और pottery steamers, and the विकास of ceremonial vessels and scapulimancy for purposes of divination.
Francesca Bray argues that the domestication of the ox and भैंस during the Longshan संस्कृति ( c. 3000–c. 2000 bc ) period, the absence of Longshan-era irrigation or high-yield crops, पूरा evidence of longshan cultivation of dry-land cereal फसलों जिससे gave ऊँची yields `` only when the soil was carefully cultivated, '' सुझाएँ that the हल was known at तनिक by the Longshan culture period and explains the ऊँची agricultural उत्पादन yields which अनुमत the rise of चाइनीज civilization during the Shang Dynasty ( c. 1600–c. 1050 BC ).
With बाद आविष्कारों such as the multiple-tube seed ड्रिल and भारी moldboard iron plow, China 's agricultural output could sustain a much larger जनसांख्यिकी.
For the purposes of this सूची, inventions हैं regarded as technological firsts developed in China, and as such करता not include विदेशी technologies जिससे the Chinese acquired through contact, ऐसे as the windmill from the Middle East or the telescope इससे Early modern यूरोपीय.
It भी does not include technologies developed elsewhere और later invented separately by the Chinese, such as the odometer and chain pump.
वैज्ञानिक, mathematic or प्राकृतिक discoveries, changes in minor concepts of design or style और artistic innovations can not be regarded as inventions and do not appear on the सूची.
सकल domestic उत्पाद in 2011 US डॉलर प्रति capita, adjusted for inflation and purchasing power parity ( log स्केल ) from 1860 to 2011, साथ population ( disk area ) लिये the us ( yellow ), UK ( orange ), Japan ( रेड ), China ( रेड ), and India ( blue ).
Globalization ( or globalisation—see spelling differences ) is the process of अंतरराष्ट्रीय संयोजन arising from the इंटरचेंज of world views, products, ideas, and other aspects of culture.
Put in simple शर्तें, globalization refers to processes कि promote world-wide exchanges of नेशनल and सांस्कृतिक resources.
Advances in transportation and telecommunications infrastructure, including the rise of the अंतरजाल, हैं प्रमुख कारकों in globalization, generating further interdependence of आर्थिक and सांस्कृतिक activities.
हालांकि several scholars place the origins of globalization in आधुनिक टाइम्स, अन्य trace its इतिहास long पहले the यूरोपीय age of discovery and voyages to the New संसार.
Some even ट्रेस the origins to the तीसरा millennium bce.
Since the beginning of the 20th सदी, the pace of वैश्वीकरण has intensified at a rapid rate, especially during the Post Cold युद्ध era.
The term globalization has been in increasing use चूंकि the mid-1980s and विशेषकर चूंकि the mid-1990s.
In 2000, the अंतरराष्ट्रीय Monetary Fund ( imf ) identified four basic पहलुओं of वैश्वीकरण : व्यापार and ट्रांजेक्शन, capital and निवेश movements, migration and movement of लोगों and the dissemination of knowledge.
Further, environmental challenges such as climate change, cross-boundary water और एयर pollution, and over-fishing of the समंदर हैं linked with globalization.
Globalizing processes affect और हैं affected by कारोबार and कार्य organization, economics, socio-cultural resources, and the प्राकृतिक पर्यावरण.
The replacements is a 2000 अमरीकी sports comedy film directed by Howard Deutch.
It stars कियानू Reeves, Gene Hackman, और Brooke Langton.
an American एयरलाइंस aircraft takes off इससे dallas/fort Worth International Airport.
This airport is the airline 's largest हब.
American Airlines उड़ता to 79 domestic destinations and 78 अंतरराष्ट्रीय destinations in 48 देशों.
( as of दिसम्बर 2012 )
The list includes the city, country, the कोड of the International एयर Transport Association ( IATA airport code ) and the International Civil Aviation संगठन ( icao airport code ), और the airport 's name, साथ the airline 's hubs, focus cities and seasonal destinations marked.
The list also contains गंतव्यों no longer served by the airline, जिससे are marked as terminated destinations.
It करता नहीं include destinations served for अमरीकी Airlines by its regional affiliates अमरीकी Eagle Airlines, कार्यपालिका Airlines, and AmericanConnection.
`` Day-O ( The Banana Boat Song ) '' is a परंपरागत Jamaican mento folk song, the best-known संस्करण of which थी sung by Harry Belafonte and an alternate version interspersed साथ another Jamaican folksong, हिल and गुल्ली Rider, by Dame शर्ली Bassey.
Despite the song 's mento influences, `` day-o ( the Banana Boat सोंग ) '' is widely known as an उदाहरण of calypso music.
It is a work song, from the पाइंट of दृश्य of dock workers working the रात्रि shift loading bananas onto जहाजों.
daylight रै come, the shift is over और वे want their कार्य to be गिने up so that वे can go home.
World युद्ध I ( WWI ) थी a global war centred in यूरोपीय कि began on 28 जुलाई 1914 and lasted until 11 नवम्बर 1918.
It was predominantly called the World युद्ध or the Great War from इसके occurrence until the प्रारंभ of World युद्ध ii in 1939, और the First World War or World युद्ध I thereafter.
it involved all the संसार 's ग्रेट powers, which were assembled in दो opposing alliances : the Allies ( आधारित on the Triple entente of the United किंगडम, France and Russia ) and the Central Powers ( originally the Triple Alliance of जर्मनी, Austria-Hungary and Italy ; but, as Austria–Hungary था taken the offensive against the agreement, Italy did not enter into the war ).
These alliances were both reorganised and विस्तारित as अधिक राष्ट्र डाला the war : इटली, Japan and the United States joined the Allies, and the Ottoman Empire और बुल्गारिया the Central Powers.
Ultimately, more than 70 million military personnel, including 60 लाख europeans, were mobilised in one of the largest युद्धों in इतिहास.
More than 9 million combatants were killed, largely because of technological advancements that led to enormous increases in the lethality of weapons without corresponding improvements in protection or mobility.
It was the fifth- deadliest conflict in world history, subsequently paving the way for various political changes, ऐसे as revolutions in many of the nations involved.
One of the long-term causes of the युद्ध was the resurgence of imperialism in the foreign policies of the great powers of Europe.
More तत्काल, the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand of ऑस्ट्रिया, the heir to the सिंहासन of Austria-Hungary, on 28 जून 1914 by यूगोस्लाव nationalist Gavrilo princip in Sarajevo triggered a राजनयिक crisis जब austria-hungary subsequently वितरित an ultimatum to the Kingdom of Serbia.
Several alliances formed over the previous decades यहूद invoked.
Within weeks, the major powers were at war and, via उनके colonies, the conflict soon स्प्रेड around the world.
On 28 July, the Austro-Hungarians fired the पहला shots of the war as preparation for the invasion of Serbia.
While the russians mobilised, the germans invaded न्यूट्रल Belgium और Luxembourg on the way to France, providing a casus belli लिये Britain 's declaration of war against जर्मनी.
After the जर्मनी march on Paris थी brought to a halt—the so-called चमत्कार of the Marne —the पश्चिमी Front settled into a static बैटल of attrition with a trench line कि changed little जबतक 1917.
On the पूर्वी Front, the Russian army थी successful against the Austro-Hungarians, but was stopped in इसके आक्रमण of ईस्ट Prussia by the germans.
in November the Ottoman Empire joined the war, खोलने up fronts in the काकेशस, Mesopotamia और the sinai.
इटली and Bulgaria went to war in 1915 and Romania in 1916.
in रूस, the tsar 's government collapsed in March 1917 and a subsequent revolution in नवम्बर brought the Russians to शर्तें with the Central Powers.
After a 1918 जर्मनी अप्रिय along the western front, the Allies drove back the germans in a series of successful offensives and American forces began entering the trenches.
Germany, जिससे had its अपना trouble with revolutionaries, agreed to an armistice on 11 November 1918.
The war ended in victory लिये the Allies.
कार्यक्रम on the home fronts were as tumultuous as on the battle fronts, as the participants tried to mobilize their जनशक्ति and economic resources to लड़ो a total war.
By the end of the war, four major imperial powers—the German, रूसी, Austro-Hungarian and Ottoman empires—ceased to मौजूद.
the successor states of the पूर्व two lost a great amount of territory, while the latter two were dismantled entirely.
the मैप of central यूरोपीय was redrawn into several smaller states.
The League of Nations was formed in the hope of preventing another ऐसे conflict.
The European nationalism spawned by the war and the breakup of empires, the परखना of जर्मनी 's defeat और problems with the Treaty of versailles are agreed to be factors contributing to World War ii.
नर्स Jackie is an अमरीकी series कि premiered on June 8, 2009, on Showtime, फिल्म सेंट्रल and The Movie Network.
The श्रेणी stars Edie Falco as the title character Jackie Peyton, an emergency department nurse at All Saints ' Hospital in New यॉर्क नगर.
For Jackie, `` प्रत्येक day is a high wire act of juggling patients, doctors, fellow नर्स and her own indiscretions. ''
Keeping Up with the Kardashians ( often referred to simply as The Kardashians ) is an American वास्तविकता television series that premiered on अक्तूबर 14, 2007, on E !.
It फ़ॉलो the lives of the Kardashian/Jenner family, including sisters Kourtney, Kim, और Khloé Kardashian.
The series ' कामयाबी रै led to the spin-offs Kourtney and Kim Take New York, Khloé & Lamar, कोर्टनी and Khloé लो मियामी, and कोर्टनी and Kim Take मियामी.
Afghanistan ( ; ; ), officially the इस्लामी Republic of Afghanistan, is a landlocked sovereign राज्य forming part of South एशिया, Central Asia, and to some extent Western Asia.
It has a जनसांख्यिकी of around 30 लाख inhabiting an क्षेत्रफल of approximately, making it the 42nd most populous और 41st largest nation in the world.
it is bordered by पाकिस्तानी in the south और the east, Iran in the west, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan और ताजिकिस्तान in the north, और चीन in the far northeast.
Afghanistan has महरूम an प्राचीन फोकल point of the रेशा Road और human migration.
Archaeologists have found evidence of human habitation from as far back as the Middle Paleolithic.
Urban civilization may have begun in the area as early as 3,000 to 2,000 bce.
Sitting at an महत्वपूर्ण geostrategic location that connects the मध्य ईस्ट संस्कृति with Central Asia और the Indian उपमहाद्वीप, the जमीन has been home to विभिन्न peoples through the आयु और witnessed अनेक military campaigns, notably by सिकंदर the Great, Genghis Khan, and in modern era पश्चिमी शक्तियां.
the जमीन also परोसा as a source इससे जिससे the greco-bactrians, kushans, hephthalites, Saffarids, Ghaznavids, ghorids, Khiljis, Timurids, मुगलों, durranis, and others have risen to form major empires.
The political history of the modern state of Afghanistan begins in 1709, when the Hotaki dynasty was स्थापित in Kandahar followed by अहमद शाह Durrani 's वृद्धि to power in 1747.
In the लेट 19th सदी, Afghanistan became a बफ़र state in the `` Great खेल `` between the British और Russian empires.
Following the 1919 Anglo-Afghan युद्ध, King Amanullah began a यूरोपीय style modernization of the देश but was stopped by the ultra-conservatives.
During the Cold War, after the वापसी of the अंग्रेजों इससे neighboring इण्डिया in 1947, the संयुक्त States and the सोवियत संघ began spreading प्रभाव in Afghanistan, जिससे led to a bloody युद्ध between the us-backed मुजाहिदीन शक्तियां और the Soviet-backed Afghan government in which over a million Afghans lost their lives.
इस was followed by the 1990s सिविल युद्ध, the rise और पतन of the extremist Taliban government और the 2001–present युद्ध.
In दिसम्बर 2001, the संयुक्त Nations Security Council प्राधिकृत the सृष्टि of the अंतरराष्ट्रीय Security Assistance फ़ोर्स ( ISAF ) to help maintain सुरक्षा in Afghanistan और assist the Karzai administration.
Three decades of war made अफगानिस्तान one of the world 's most dangerous countries, including the largest निर्माता of refugees and asylum seekers.
While the international community is पुनर्निर्माण war-torn Afghanistan, terrorist समूह such as the Haqqani संजाल and hezbi Islami are actively involved in a nationwide Taliban -led insurgency, which शामिल hundreds of assassinations and suicide attacks.
According to the United Nations, the insurgents यहूद responsible लिये 80 % of civilian casualties in 2011 and 2012.
the American Civil War ( acw ), भी known as the युद्ध between the States or बस the Civil War ( देखिए नामकरण ), was a सिविल युद्ध fought from 1861 to 1865 between the United राज्य ( the `` Union '' or the `` उत्तर '' ) and several Southern slave राज्य कि घोषित their secession and formed the Confederate States of अमेरिका ( the `` confederacy '' or the `` South '' ).
the war had its origin in the समस्या of गुलामी, especially the एक्सटेंशन of गुलामी into the पश्चिमी territories.
विदेशी powers did not intervene.
After चार years of bloody कॉम्बैट that left over 600,000 सैनिको dead and destroyed much of the दक्षिण 's infrastructure, the Confederacy collapsed, slavery was abolished, and the मुश्किल Reconstruction process of restoring national unity and guaranteeing rights to the freed slaves began.
In the 1860 अध्यक्षीय election, Republicans, led by Abraham Lincoln, opposed expanding slavery into United राज्य ' territories.
Lincoln जीती, but before his उद्घाटन on कूच 4, 1861, seven cotton-based स्लेव राज्य formed the Confederacy.
outgoing Democratic President James Buchanan and the incoming Republicans अस्वीकृत secession as illegal.
Lincoln 's inaugural address declared his administration होता नहीं initiate civil war.
Eight बाकी slave states continued to अस्वीकृत calls लिये secession.
Confederate शक्तियां जब्त numerous संघीय दुर्गों within territory claimed by the Confederacy.
A Peace सम्मेलन failed to ढूँढें a compromise, and both sides prepared for युद्ध.
The Confederates assumed कि European देशों यहूद so dependent on `` किंग कपास `` कि they would intervene ; none did and none पहचाना the new confederate States of अमेरिका.
hostilities began on अप्रैल 12, 1861, when Confederate forces fired upon Fort sumter, a कुंजी फोर्ट आयोजित by Union troops in दक्षिण Carolina.
Lincoln called for प्रत्येक state to provide troops to retake the fort ; consequently, four more slave states joined the confederacy, bringing their कुल to ग्यारह.
the Union जल्द controlled the border states और स्थापित a naval नाकेबंदी that crippled the दक्षिणी economy.
the Eastern Theater was inconclusive in 1861–62.
The autumn 1862 Confederate campaign into Maryland ( a Union state ) ended साथ Confederate retreat at the Battle of Antietam, dissuading British intervention.
lincoln जारी the Emancipation उदघोषणा, which made ending गुलामी a war लक्ष्य.
to the west, by गर्मियाँ 1862 the संघ नष्ट the Confederate river navy, then much of their western सेना, and the Union at Vicksburg split the Confederacy in two at the मिसिसिपी नदी.
In 1863, Robert E. ली 's Confederate incursion north ended at the बैटल of Gettysburg.
Western सफलताओं led to Ulysses S. Grant command of all संघ armies in 1864.
In the Western Theater, विलियम T. Sherman drove ईस्ट to capture अटलांटा and marched to the sea, destroying confederate infrastructure along the way.
The Union marshaled the resources और manpower to attack the confederacy from all दिशानिर्देश, and could afford to लड़ो लड़ाइयों of attrition through the Overland Campaign towards रिचमंड, the Confederate पूंजी.
the defending Confederate army failed, leading to ली 's surrender to Grant at Appomattox Court House on अप्रैल 9, 1865.
The American Civil War was one of the earliest true औद्योगिक wars.
Railroads, the telegraph, steamships, और mass-produced हथियार were employed extensively.
The mobilization of civilian कारखानों, mines, shipyards, banks, परिवहन and food supplies सब foreshadowed संसार युद्ध I.
It remains the deadliest war in अमरीकी इतिहास, resulting in the deaths of an estimated 750,000 soldiers और an undetermined क्रमांक of civilian casualties.
इतिहासकार जॉन Huddleston estimates the death toll at ten प्रतिशत of all Northern males 20–45 years old, and 30 प्रतिशत of सब Southern white males aged 18–40.
Cost of goods sold ( COGS ) refer to the inventory लागत of those goods a business रै बेची during a particular काल.
Costs हैं associated with particular goods using एक of several formulas, सहित specific identification, first-in first-out ( FIFO ), or average cost.
Costs शामिल सब costs of खरीदें, costs of conversion and other costs incurred in bringing the inventories to उनके present location and condition.
Costs of goods made by the business include material, labor, and allocated ओवरहेड.
The costs of those goods नहीं yet sold हैं deferred as costs of inventory जबतक the inventory is sold or written down in value.
freak Lunchbox candy स्टोर in Halifax, Nova Scotia
A confectionery स्टोर ( more commonly referred to as a मीठी दूकान in the United किंगडम, a candy store in the North अमेरिका, or a lolly दूकान in Australia ) sells confectionery और is usually targeted to children.
Most confectionery स्टोर्स are filled with an assortment of sweets far larger than a पंसारी or convenience store could accommodate.
They often offer a selection of old fashioned treats, and sweets इससे अलग देशों.
Very often अपरिवर्तित in layout since their inception, confectioneries are ज्ञात for उनके वार्मिंग and nostalgic feel.
The village of Pateley Bridge claims to have the oldest confectionery store in इंग्लैण्ड.
The oldest sweet shop in England, in the village of pateley Bridge
ओक्लाहोमा ( ) ( Pawnee : Uukuhuúwa, Cayuga : Gahnawiyoˀgeh ) is a state located in West South Central United States.
Oklahoma is the 20th सबसे extensive and the 28th most populous of the 50 संयुक्त States.
the state 's name is derived from the Choctaw words okla and humma, meaning `` red लोगों '', and it is known informally by its nickname, the sooner State.
formed by the combination of Oklahoma Territory and Indian territory on November 16, 1907, Oklahoma was the 46th state to enter the union.
Its residents हैं known as oklahomans or, informally `` Okies '', and इसके capital और largest city is Oklahoma City.
A major निर्माता of natural गैस, oil, और agriculture, Oklahoma relies on an economic base of विमानन, energy, दूरसंचार, और biotechnology.
It रै one of the fastest growing economies in the nation, रैंकिंग among the top states in per capita income growth और सकल domestic product growth.
Oklahoma City and Tulsa serve as Oklahoma 's primary economic anchors, with nearly two thirds of Oklahomans living भीतर उनके metropolitan statistical areas.
साथ small पहाड़ सीमाएँ, prairie, mesas, and eastern वनों, most of Oklahoma lies in the Great Plains and the u.s. Interior Highlands —a region विशेषकर prone to severe weather.
In addition to having a व्यापकता of English, German, Scottish, आयरिश and Native American ancestry, अधिक than 25 Native अमरीकी languages are spoken in Oklahoma, second तभी to California.
Oklahoma is स्तिथ on a संगम of तीन major American cultural regions and historically served as a route for cattle ड्राइव, a destination for southern settlers, और a government-sanctioned territory for देशी Americans.
Stacked and standing car tires
a tire ( or टायर ) is a ring-shaped covering कि fits around a wheel 's rim to protect it and enable better vehicle प्रदर्शन.
Most tires, such as those for automobiles और bicycles, provide कर्षण between the गाडी and the road while providing a flexible cushion that absorbs shock.
The materials of modern न्यूमेटिक tires are synthetic rubber, प्राकृतिक रबर, fabric and wire, साथ with carbon ब्लैक and other chemical compounds.
They consist of a tread and a body.
The tread provides कर्षण जबकि the body provides containment लिये a मात्रा of संपीडित air.
पहले रबर was विकसित, the first संस्करण of टायर यहूद simply bands of metal that fitted around wooden wheels to prevent wear and tear.
Early rubber tires were solid ( not pneumatic ).
Today, the majority of tires are pneumatic inflatable structures, comprising a doughnut-shaped देह of cords and wires encased in rubber and generally filled with संपीडित air to रूप an inflatable cushion.
न्यूमेटिक tires are used on many प्रकार of vehicles, including cars, bicycles, मोटरसाइकिल, trucks, earthmovers, and aircraft.
मेटल tires are स्टिल used on इंजनों और railcars, और solid rubber ( or other polymer ) tires हैं still प्रयुक्त in various non-automotive applications, ऐसे as कुछ casters, carts, lawnmowers, और wheelbarrows.
Dr. Joseph Warren ( June 11, 1741 – June 17, 1775 ) was an American डॉक्टर who played a leading भूमिका in American Patriot संगठन in बोस्टन in early days of the American Revolution, eventually सेवारत as अध्यक्ष of the revolutionary मैसाचुसेट्स Provincial Congress.
वारेन enlisted पॉल Revere and William Dawes on April 18, 1775, to leave Boston and spread the alarm कि the British garrison in Boston was setting out to रेड the town of concord and arrest rebel leaders John Hancock और Samuel एडम्स.
Warren participated in the next day 's Battles of lexington और Concord, जिससे are commonly considered to be the opening engagements of the American Revolutionary War.
वारेन had been commissioned a प्रमुख General in the colony 's militia shortly before the June 17, 1775 बैटल of Bunker Hill.
बल्कि than exercising उसके rank, वारेन served in the battle as a private सिपाही, and was मारे in combat जब British सैनिकों stormed the redoubt atop Breed 's हिल.
His death, immortalized in John trumbull 's painting, The Death of सामान्य Warren at the Battle of Bunker 's हिल, जून 17, 1775, galvanized the rebel forces, और he has महरूम memorialized in many place names in the United States.
stm image of self-assembled supramolecular chains of the organic semiconductor Quinacridone on ग्रेफाइट.
an सशुल्क सेमीकंडक्टर is an organic material with semiconductor properties, that is, with an विद्युत conductivity between that of insulators and that of metals.
सिंगल molecules, छोटी chain ( oligomers ) and organic polymers can be semiconductive.
semiconducting small अणुओं ( खुशबूदार hydrocarbons ) include the polycyclic aromatic compounds pentacene, anthracene, and rubrene.
polymeric सशुल्क semiconductors शामिल poly ( 3-hexylthiophene ), poly ( p-phenylene vinylene ), as खूब as polyacetylene and its derivatives.
वहीँ हैं two major अतिव्यापी classes of सशुल्क semiconductors.
These are organic charge-transfer complexes और various linear-backbone conductive polymers निकला from polyacetylene.
Linear backbone organic semiconductors include polyacetylene itself and its derivatives polypyrrole, और polyaniline.
At least locally, charge-transfer complexes often exhibit समान conduction mechanisms to inorganic semiconductors.
Such mechanisms arise इससे the presence of hole and electron conduction layers separated by a band gap.
While such क्लासिक mechanisms are महत्वपूर्ण locally, as with inorganic amorphous semiconductors, tunnelling, localized राज्य, mobility gaps, और phonon -assisted hopping भी significantly योगदान to conduction, विशेषकर in polyacetylenes.
Like अकार्बनिक semiconductors, organic semiconductors can be doped.
सशुल्क semiconductors susceptible to doping such as polyaniline ( Ormecon ) और हैं भी known as organic metals.
Typical current carriers in organic semiconductors हैं holes and electrons in π-bonds.
लगभग all सशुल्क solids are insulators.
But when their constituent अणुओं have π-conjugate प्रणालियों, electrons can मूव via π-electron cloud overlaps, especially by hopping, tunnelling and related mechanisms.
polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons और phthalocyanine नमक crystals are उदाहरण of इस type of सशुल्क semiconductor.
Mainly due to low mobility, even unpaired electrons may be stable in charge-transfer complexes.
ऐसे unpaired electrons can function as current carriers.
This type of semiconductor is also प्राप्त by pairing an electron दाता molecule with an इलेक्ट्रॉन acceptor अणु.
Female स्खलन is the expulsion of द्रव by human females from the paraurethral नलिकाएं through and around the female urethra during or before an orgasm.
It is भी ज्ञात colloquially as gushing or squirting, although these are considered to be different phenomena in कुछ research publications.
The exact सोर्स and nature of the द्रव continue to be a topic of बहस among चिकित्सा professionals, which is also related to doubts over the existence of the G-Spot.
The FIFA Women 's संसार Cup is an international association football competition लडे by the वरिष्ठ महिलाओं 's national teams of the members of Fédération Internationale de Football Association ( FIFA ), the खेल 's global governing body.
The championship has been awarded every four years since the inaugural टूर्नामेंट in 1991.
Japan won the 2011 tournament in a दंड गोलीबारी.
the current स्वरूप of the tournament involves 16 teams competing for the शीर्षक at venues भीतर the host nation ( s ) over a period of about three सप्ताह ; – this phase is प्रायः पुकारा the World Cup Finals.
A qualification phase, which currently takes place over the preceding three सालो, is used to determine which टीमों qualify for the tournament साथ साथ the host स्वदेश ( s ).
The FIFA Women 's संसार कप is recognized as the सबसे important अंतरराष्ट्रीय competition in women 's football and is निभाई amongst महिलाओं 's नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल teams of the member states of FIFA, the sport 's global governing देह.
The first Women 's World कप टूर्नामेंट, named the Women 's World Championship, was held in 1991, sixty-one years after the मेन 's first FIFA World कप tournament in 1930.
The six संसार कप tournaments have been जीती by four different नेशनल teams.
The अगला संसार कप will be hosted by Canada in 2015.
Scorpions is a young adult अनोखा written by Walter Dean Myers, first प्रकाशित in the United States by Harper & Row on जून 20, 1988.
Front page of a 17th century Hebrew Bible by Joseph Athias, now at Beth Hatefutsoth, इसराईल
'Son of man ' is the अनुवाद of various Hebrew and यूनानी phrases used in both the Hebrew Bible and the नई Testament.
it रै विविध meanings, ranging इससे a normal human being to a prophesied अनन्त, दैवी ruler.
The Hebrew अभिव्यक्ति `` son of man '' ( בן–אדם i.e. ben-'adam ) appears one सौ और seven times in the यहूदी Bible.
इस is the सबसे common Hebrew construction लिये the एकवचन but is used mostly in ezekiel ( 93 times ) and 14 times elsewhere.
In thirty two cases the phrase appears in intermediate plural रूप `` sons of men '', i.e. human beings.
As generally interpreted by Jews, it denotes humankind generally.
In the Koine यूनानी of the New Testament, `` the son of man '' is invariably used as `` ὁ υἱὸς τοὺ ἀνθρώπου '' with a definite article.
The उपयोग of the definite article in `` the son of man '' in the ईसाई gospels is novel, और before its use वहीँ, no records of its उपयोग in कोई of the surviving Greek documents of प्राचीनता exist.
Geza vermes रै stated कि `` the Son of man '' in the Christian gospels is unrelated to Hebrew बाइबल usages.
in Christian usage, unlike the Son of God title, which has been an अनिवार्य तत्व of ईसाई creeds चूंकि the Apostolic age, the उदघोषणा of `` Jesus as the Son of man '' has never been an article of faith in Christianity.
the interpretation of the उपयोग of `` the Son of man '' in the New वसीयत रै remained चुनौतीपूर्ण and after 150 years of debate no consensus on the issue has emerged among scholars.
Master of foxhounds leads the फ़ील्ड इससे Powderham Castle in Devon, इंग्लैण्ड, with the hounds in front.
Fox शिकार is an activity involving the tracking, chase, and sometimes killing of a फॉक्स, traditionally a red फॉक्स, by trained foxhounds or अन्य scent hounds, and a group of unarmed followers led by a निपुण of foxhounds, who follow the hounds on foot or on horseback.
फॉक्स शिकार originated in the form practised until recently in the United Kingdom in the 16th century, but is practised all over the संसार, including in Australia, कनाडा, France, Ireland, Italy and the संयुक्त States.
In Australia, the term भी refers to the hunting of foxes साथ firearms समान to spotlighting or हिरण hunting.
In much of the संसार hunting in general is समझा to सुनाना to any game animals or weapons ( e.g., deer hunting साथ धनुष and तीर ) ; in ब्रिटेन and Ireland, `` hunting '' बगैर qualification implies फॉक्स शिकार ( or other forms of hunting साथ hounds- beagling, stag hunting, मिंक शिकार, drag शिकार or hunting the clean boot ) as वर्णित here.
The sport is controversial, विशेषकर in the UK, where it थी banned in Scotland in 2002, and in England and Wales in November 2004 ( law enforced from February 2005 ), though शूटिंग foxes as vermin remained legal.
Proponents of fox hunting view it as an महत्वपूर्ण part of ग्रामीण culture and useful लिये reasons of conservation और pest control, while opponents argue that it is cruel और unnecessary.
तम्बाकू advertising is the advertising of tobacco products or use ( typically सिगरेट धूम्रपान ) by the tobacco industry through a variety of media including sponsorship, particularly of sporting events.
It is now एक of the सबसे highly regulated फ़ॉर्म of marketing.
Some or सब फ़ॉर्म of तम्बाकू advertising are बैन in many देशों.
Bally Technologies, inc. is a निर्माता of स्लॉट machines and other gaming प्रौद्योगिकी आधारित in लास Vegas, नेवाडा.
the company थी founded in 1968 as Advanced पेटेंट Technology.
It eventually बदला इसके name to गठबंधन गेमिंग and acquired, in 1996, Bally Gaming International, a पूर्व प्रभाग of Bally Manufacturing.
In 2006, the entire कम्पनी adopted the Bally नाम, a trademark that originated in 1932 by the Bally Manufacturing Corporation.
Gustave Doré 's engravings illustrated the Divine कॉमेडी ( 1861–1868 ) ; यहाँ, Dante is lost in Canto 1 of the Inferno.
inferno ( इतालवी for `` Hell `` ) is the first part of दांते Alighieri 's 14th-century epic कविता दैवी Comedy.
it is followed by purgatorio और Paradiso.
It is an allegory telling of the journey of Dante through Hell, guided by the Roman poet वर्जिल.
In the poem, Hell is depicted as nine circles of कष्ट located within the Earth.
Allegorically, the दैवी Comedy represents the journey of the soul towards परमेश्वर, with the Inferno describing the recognition and rejection of sin.
Smirnoff is a brand of vodka owned and उत्पादित by the अंग्रेजों company Diageo.
The Smirnoff brand began with a vodka distillery संस्थापित in Moscow by Pyotr arsenievich Smirnov ( 1831–1898 ).
it is now distributed in 130 countries.
It is उत्पादित in several देशों सहित India, Ireland, Italy, the United किंगडम और the संयुक्त States.
स्मरनॉफ products शामिल वोदका, flavoured vodka, और malt beverages.
In कूच 2006, diageo North अमेरिका claimed कि Smirnoff वोदका was the best-selling distilled spirit brand in the संसार.
Big Brown ( foaled अप्रैल 10, 2005 in Kentucky ) is a retired चैंपियन अमरीकी thoroughbred racehorse और winner of the 2008 केंटकी Derby और 2008 Preakness Stakes.
Bred by dr. Gary B. नैप 's Monticule Farms in Lexington, Kentucky, he won his पहला five रेस starts.
He थी sired by Grade III winner boundary, a बेटे of North American Champion sire Danzig, a बेटे of Northern नर्तकी.
Big Brown 's बांध थी Mien, भी a granddaughter of Northern Dancer through her sire, nureyev.
The Serenity Prayer is the common name for an originally untitled दुआ by the अमरीकी theologian Reinhold Niebuhr ( 1892–1971 ).
It has been adopted by Alcoholics Anonymous and other twelve-step कार्यक्रम.
the best-known रूप is : God, ग्रान्ट me the serenity to accept the things I can not change,
The हिम्मत to change the things i can,
And अक्ल to know the difference.
the Declaration and resolves of the पहला Continental कॉंग्रेस ( भी known as the Declaration of Colonial अधिकारों, or the Declaration of अधिकारों ), थी a बयान अपनाया by the First Continental कॉंग्रेस on अक्तूबर 14, 1774, in response to the Intolerable Acts passed by the British Parliament.
The घोषणा outlined colonial objections to the Intolerable अधिनियमों, listed a colonial bill of rights, and provided a detailed सूची of grievances.
it was similar to the Declaration of Rights और Grievances, passed by the Stamp अधिनियम कॉंग्रेस a decade पहले.
the Declaration concluded with an outline of Congress 's plans : to डालें into a boycott of अंग्रेजों व्यापार ( the Continental Association ) until their grievances were redressed, to प्रकाशित addresses to the people of Great Britain and British अमेरिका, and to send a petition to the King.
Pulse pressure is the pressure that is लगा when अहसास the pulse.
measured in millimeters of पारा ( mmHg ), the pressure difference between the systolic and diastolic pressures is the pressure बदलें to create the pulse, जिससे is the पल्स pressure.
if resting blood दबाव is ( systolic/diastolic ) 120/80 millimeters of mercury ( mmHg ), पल्स दबाव is 40.
The Hills is a reality television series which originally aired on MTV इससे May 31, 2006 जबतक July 13, 2010.
The show उपयोग a reality टेलीविज़न format, following the निजी जीवनदान of several young adults living in Los Angeles, California, but tends towards a narrative format more commonly found in scripted genres such as soap operas.
the series originally followed the निजी जीवन of पूर्व Laguna बीच स्टार Lauren Conrad and her मित्रों ' नई lives in Los एंजिल्स.
After five seasons, कोनराड left the श्रेणी and was replaced by another former Laguna बीच star, Kristin Cavallari, शुरूआत in the second half of the fifth season.
The series concluded at the end of the छठे ऋतु.
entertainment Weekly ranked The Hills 82nd on their list of `` The 100 बेहतरीन shows of the Last 25 Years, '' stating that the series थी a `` नई क्लासिक. ''
एओएल TV पुकारा it TV 's biggest Guilty Pleasure.
The series premiered in syndication in the fall of 2009 alongside Laguna Beach : the Real नारंगी County.
in पोकर, ख़राब ताल is a subjective term for a hand in which a player with what appear to be strong ताश nevertheless loses.
It most often occurs where one खिलाड़ी bets the clearly stronger hand और their opponent makes a ग़रीब call that eventually `` hits '' और विन्स.
There is no consensus among poker players as to what exactly constitutes a bad ताल and often players will असहमत about whether a particular hand was a bad beat.
The goldfish ( Carassius auratus auratus ) is a freshwater fish in the family Cyprinidae of order Cypriniformes.
It was one of the earliest fish to be domesticated, और is one of the most commonly रखा aquarium मछली.
a relatively small member of the carp परिवार ( which also includes the koi carp and the crucian carp ), the goldfish is a domesticated version of a less-colorful कार्प ( carassius auratus ) देशी to east Asia.
it was पहला domesticated in China more than a thousand सालो ago, and several distinct breeds have since been developed.
goldfish breeds vary greatly in आकार, देह आकार, fin विन्यास और coloration ( विभिन्न combinations of white, पीला, नारंगी, red, भूरा, and black are known ).
uncooked Rouladen
rouladen ( or rinderroulade, एकवचन : roulade ) is a German मांस roulade प्रायः consisting of bacon, प्याज, सरसों and अचार wrapped in thinly sliced बीफ which is तब पकाया.
In some countries, the roulade is also known as `` beef ज़ैतून ''.
बीफ or वील is used as meat हालांकि कुछ food scholars tend to believe that the original संस्करण was संभवतः venison or pork, and pork is still popular in कुछ क्षेत्रों.
the बीफ rouladen as we जान them today have become popular over the last century.
The cut is usually topside beef or silverside since इस is the सस्ता काटें.
The more expensive version would be the round स्टीक, भी known as rump स्टीक.
The meat is cut into large, पतला slices.
The filling is a मिश्रण of smoked and cooked पोर्क पेट, chopped प्याज and chopped pickles ( gurken ) which is at times varied by adding minced meat, sausage मांस, pine nuts और mustard.
The mixture varies from region to region.
Rouladen are traditionally served लिये dinner.
Red wine is often परोसा with this डिश.
Typical eukaryotic cell.
Cellular respiration is the set of the metabolic प्रतिक्रियाएँ और processes कि take place in the कोशिकाएं of जीवों to convert biochemical उर्जा from nutrients into adenosine triphosphate ( ATP ), and then release waste products.
The reactions शामिल in श्वसन are catabolic reactions, जिससे ब्रेक विशाल molecules into smaller ones, releasing energy in the process as कमजोर so-called `` high-energy '' bonds हैं replaced by stronger bonds in the products.
श्वसन is one of the key तरीके a cell gains useful energy to fuel cellular activity.
Cellular respiration is considered an ऊष्माक्षेपी redox प्रतिक्रिया.
The overall reaction is broken into many smaller ones when it occurs in the body, most of which are redox प्रतिक्रियाएँ themselves.
हालांकि technically, cellular respiration is a combustion reaction, it clearly does not resemble एक जब it occurs in a living cell.
This difference is क्युकी it occurs in many पृथक कदम.
While the overall reaction is a दहन प्रतिक्रिया, no single reaction कि comprises it is a combustion reaction.
Nutrients कि are commonly used by animal and plant कोशिकाएं in respiration include शुगर, amino acids और वसीय acids, and a common oxidizing agent ( electron acceptor ) is आणविक oxygen ( O2 ).
the energy stored in ATP ( इसके तीसरा फास्फेट समूह is weakly bonded to the बाकी of the molecule and is cheaply broken allowing stronger bonds to form, thereby transferring उर्जा for उपयोग by the कोशिका ) can तब be प्रयुक्त to drive processes requiring energy, सहित biosynthesis, locomotion or परिवहन of अणुओं across कोशिका membranes.
देशों by 2011 GDP ( nominal ) according to the CIA World Factbook.
This आलेख शामिल a सूची of countries in the world sorted by उनके gross घरेलू उत्पाद ( GDP ), the market मान of all final goods and services from a nation in a given साल.
the जीडीपी डालर estimates presented here are calculated at market or government official exchange rates.
Several economies which हैं नहीं considered to be countries ( world, the EU, and some dependent territories ) are included in the सूचियाँ क्युकी वे appear in the sources.
These economies are not ranked in the charts यहाँ, लकिन हैं सूचीबद्ध where लागू.
The figures प्रस्तुत here do नहीं take into account differences in the लागत of living in different देशों, और the परिणाम can vary greatly from one year to another आधारित on fluctuations in the exchange rates of the country 's currency.
Such fluctuations may change a country 's ranking from one साल to the next, even हालांकि वे often मेक little or no अंतर to the standard of जीना of इसके population.
इसलिए these आंकड़े should be प्रयुक्त साथ सावधानी.
Some countries/regions may have citizens जिससे हैं on average wealthy.
These countries/regions could appear in इस list as having a small जीडीपी.
This would be क्युकी the country/region listed रै a छोटी population, and इसलिए छोटी कुल economy ; the GDP is calculated as the जनसांख्यिकी times the wealth प्रति capita.
comparisons of national wealth are भी अक्सर बना on the आधार of खरीदना शक्ति parity ( PPP ), to समायोजन for मतभेद in the लागत of living in different देशों.
( See List of countries by GDP ( PPP ) )
PPP largely removes the एक्सचेंज rate problem, but has इसके अपना drawbacks ; it does नहीं reflect the value of economic output in international trade, and it also requires अधिक estimation than nominal जीडीपी.
on the whole, ppp per capita figures हैं अधिक narrowly spread than nominal GDP per capita figures.
the first list includes आंकड़ा compiled by the United राष्ट्र Statistics प्रभाग for 2011.
The second list largely includes data ( estimate ) compiled by the International Monetary निधि for 2012.
the third list shows the World Bank 's ज़्यादातर 2011 estimates, and the fourth list includes mostly 2012 estimates from the सीआईए World Factbook.
Lapping is a machining प्रक्रम, in which two सतहों are rubbed together with an abrasive between them, by हाथ movement or by way of a machine.
इस can लो two forms.
The first type of lapping ( traditionally called पीस ), typically involves rubbing a brittle material such as glass against a surface such as iron or glass itself ( भी known as the `` गोद '' or grinding tool ) with an abrasive such as aluminum oxide, jeweller 's रूज, optician 's rouge, एमरी, सिलिकॉन कार्बाइड, diamond, etc., in between उन्हें.
This produces microscopic conchoidal fractures as the abrasive रोल्स about between the two surfaces and removes material इससे both.
the other form of lapping involves a softer सामग्री such as pitch or a ceramic लिये the lap, which is `` charged '' with the abrasive.
The lap is तब प्रयुक्त to काटें a harder material—the workpiece.
the abrasive embeds within the softer material which holds it and permits it to score across and cut the harder material.
Taken to a finer limit, इस होगा produce a polished सतह such as साथ a polishing cloth on an automobile, or a पॉलिशिंग cloth or पॉलिशिंग pitch upon कांच or स्टील.
Taken to the ultimate सीमा, with the सहायता of accurate interferometry and specialized polishing machines or skilled hand polishing, lensmakers can produce surfaces कि are flat to better than 30 nanometers.
This is one twentieth of the wavelength of light from the commonly used 632.8 nm helium neon laser light source.
Surfaces this चपटा can be molecularly बंधुआ ( optically contacted ) by bringing them together under the right conditions.
( इस is not the same as the wringing प्रभाव of Johansson ब्लॉक, although it is similar ).
The पद `` America 's Team '' is a popular nickname in the United States that refers to the Dallas cowboys in the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल League.
the उपनाम originated with the team 's 1978 हाइलाइट film, where the narrator opens साथ the following परिचय : The पद is recognized and often used by मीडिया outlets, including ईएसपीएन, Yahoo !, HBO खेल, and Sports Illustrated.
My Babysitter 's a Vampire ( फ्रेंच : ma gardienne est un पिशाच ) is a 2011 Canadian television series, based on the television film of the वही name.
In Canada, the series premiered in फ्रेंच on Télétoon on फ़रवरी 28, 2011, in English on Teletoon on March 14, 2011, और on डिज़्नी चैनल in the United States on June 27, 2011.
the show थी निर्मित by Fresh tv, creators of 6teen and कुल Drama.
The show follows ethan Morgan ( Matthew Knight ), who, in the टेलीविज़न film, learns कि his babysitter Sarah ( वैनेसा मॉर्गन ) is a पिशाच.
in the film, he learns he is able to have visions and his best friend Benny वीयर ( atticus Mitchell ) is a spellmaster.
the श्रेणी फ़ॉलो the तीन as they take on supernatural forces और have adventures, with occasional help इससे fellow vampires Rory ( Cameron Kennedy ) और Erica ( केट Todd ), while dealing with the troubles of regular high school life.
A second season थी confirmed to start उत्पादन in सितंबर 2011 and it पहला premiered on Disney Channel on जून 29, 2012, it premiered on Teletoon September 6, 2012.
Télétoon प्रारंभ featuring season 2 sneak-peak एपीसोड on अक्तूबर 28, 2012 और premiered it on January 10, 2013
चकमा B श्रेणी utility circa 1950, driven by अल्बर्ट Namatjira
A पिकअप truck or pick-up, प्रायः simply referred to as a पिकअप, is a light motor vehicle साथ an open-top, पश्च कार्गो क्षेत्रफल ( bed ).
In North अमेरिका, the पद pickup is प्रयुक्त for light trucks साथ a lighter duty chassis और factory built, integrated bed, as well as लिये coupé utility वाहनों, often आधारित on a personal car chassis, but also often on a खास dedicated chassi for such उपयोग.
कुछ countries have their अपना शर्तें similar to pickup, such as ute in ऑस्ट्रेलिया और New Zealand, or bakkie in दक्षिण Africa.
Large pickup trucks are somewhat विरल in Europe, जहाँ vans and light lorries are commonly used for similar roles.
The अध्यक्ष of the United States of America ( POTUS ) is the सिर of state and head of सरकारी of the संयुक्त States.
The president leads the executive branch of the federal सरकारी और is the commander-in-chief of the संयुक्त States Armed शक्तियां.
Article ii of the U.S. संविधान vests the कार्यपालिका power of the United States in the president और आरोप him with the निष्पादन of federal law, alongside the responsibility of appointing federal कार्यपालिका, diplomatic, नियामक, and judicial अधिकारियों, and concluding treaties साथ foreign powers, with the advice and सहमति of the Senate.
The अध्यक्ष is further empowered to ग्रान्ट संघीय pardons and reprieves, and to convene and adjourn either or दोनो houses of Congress under extraordinary circumstances.
चूंकि the founding of the United राज्य, the power of the president और the संघीय सरकारी have grown substantially and प्रत्येक modern president, despite possessing no औपचारिक legislative शक्तियां beyond signing or vetoing congressionally passed bills, is largely responsible for dictating the legislative कार्यसूची of his party and the विदेशी and domestic नीति of the United States.
the president is अक्सर described as the most powerful person in the world.
The president is indirectly elected by the people through the Electoral College to a four-year term, और is एक of only two nationally निर्वाचित federal officers, the other being the वाइस President of the United States.
The twenty-second Amendment, अपनाया in 1951, prohibits anyone इससे कभी being elected to the presidency for a तीसरा full पद.
It also prohibits a व्यक्ति from being निर्वाचित to the presidency more than एकबार if that person previously had परोसा as president, or acting अध्यक्ष, for more than two सालो of another person 's term as president.
In सब, 43 individuals have परोसा 55 four-year terms.
On January 20, 2009, Barack Obama became the 44th और current president.
On नवम्बर 6, 2012, he was re-elected and is scheduled to serve until जनवरी 20, 2017.
बोतलबंद mineral जल
Bottled water is drinking water ( e.g., खूब जल, distilled जल, Mineral जल, or spring जल ) packaged in plastic or glass जल बोतलों.
Bottled water may be carbonated or नहीं.
आकार दायरा इससे छोटी single सेवारत bottles to large carboys लिये water coolers.
Map of the प्रमुख नदियाँ, lakes, and reservoirs in India
Map प्रर्दशित rivers और flood prone areas in India
Rivers of India play an महत्वपूर्ण role in the lives of the Indian people.
The river systems provide irrigation, potable water, cheap transportation, electricity, और the livelihoods for a large number of people all over the country and to rural areas.
This easily explains why nearly सब the major cities of India हैं located by the banks of rivers.
The नदियाँ also have an important role in Hindu mythology और are माना holy by all Hindus in the country.
सात प्रमुख rivers along साथ their numerous tributaries make up the river system of इण्डिया.
Most of the rivers pour their waters into the Bay of Bengal ; however, कुछ of the rivers whose courses take them through the western भाग of the country and towards the east of the state of Himachal Pradesh empty into the arabian Sea.
भाग of लद्दाख, northern parts of the Aravlli range and the arid भाग of the थार Desert have inland drainage.
Dr.Francis Buchanan surveyed the courses of the नदियाँ of इण्डिया along साथ their tributaries और शाखाओं in 1810-11 AD and presented a minute खाता of it.
The shifting of the courses और bed over the centuries is very remarkable.
अनेक of the channels mentioned in that सर्वेक्षण have now become मुर्दे, dried or even extinct.
All प्रमुख नदियाँ of इण्डिया originate from one of the three main watersheds :
the हिमालय और the काराकोरम सीमाएँ
Vindhya and satpura सीमाएँ and Chotanagpur plateau in central इण्डिया
Sahyadri or पश्चिमी Ghats in western India
the Bretton वुड्स प्रणाली of monetary management स्थापित the rules for commercial and financial relations among the world 's major औद्योगिक states in the mid-20th सदी.
The Bretton Woods system was the first example of a fully negotiated monetary अनुक्रम intended to govern monetary relations among independent nation-states.
Preparing to rebuild the international economic system as संसार War II was still raging, 730 delegates from all 44 अलाइड nations gathered at the Mount वॉशिंगटन Hotel in Bretton Woods, New Hampshire, United States, लिये the United Nations Monetary और Financial Conference.
the delegates deliberated दौरान 1–22 July 1944, and हस्ताक्षरित the Agreement on its फाइनल day.
सेटिंग up a प्रणाली of नियम, institutions, and procedures to विनियमित the international मौद्रिक प्रणाली, the planners at bretton वुड्स established the International Monetary निधि ( IMF ) and the International बैंको for Reconstruction and Development ( ibrd ), जिससे आज is part of the World Bank समूह.
ये organizations became operational in 1945 after a sufficient क्रमांक of countries had ratified the agreement.
The मुख्य features of the Bretton वुड्स system यहूद an दायित्व लिये प्रत्येक देश to adopt a monetary policy that maintained the exchange rate by tying its currency to the U.S. dollar और the क्षमता of the IMF to सेतु temporary imbalances of payments.
On 15 August 1971, the United States unilaterally terminated convertibility of the US $ to सुनहरा.
इस brought the bretton Woods system to an end और देखी the dollar become fiat currency.
This action, referred to as the निक्सन shock, निर्मित the हालात in जिससे the संयुक्त States dollar became a reserve currency प्रयुक्त by अनेक states.
at the वही time, अनेक fixed currencies ( such as GBP, for example ), also became free floating.
Ducati Motor Holding S.p.A. is an Italian company कि designs and manufactures मोटरसाइकिल.
headquartered in बोलोग्ना, Italy, Ducati is owned by Audi through its Italian subsidiary Lamborghini.
a credit स्कोर is a numerical अभिव्यक्ति based on a सांख्यिकीय analysis of a person 's credit files, to represent the creditworthiness of that person.
a credit स्कोर is primarily based on credit report सूचना typically sourced from credit bureaus.
lenders, such as banks and क्रेडिट card companies, उपयोग credit scores to evaluate the potential रिस्क posed by lending धन to उपभोक्ता and to mitigate losses due to bad debt.
Lenders use credit scores to determine जो qualifies for a loan, at what interest rate, and what क्रेडिट limits.
lenders also use credit scores to determine which customers are likely to bring in the most आय.
The use of credit or identity स्कोरिंग prior to authorizing अभिगम or granting credit is an implementation of a trusted system.
Credit scoring is नहीं limited to banks.
Other संगठन, such as mobile phone companies, insurance कंपनियाँ, landlords, and सरकारी विभाग employ the same तकनीकों.
Credit स्कोरिंग भी has a lot of overlap साथ data mining, which उपयोग अनेक similar techniques.
These तकनीकों combine thousands of factors लकिन they are more or less similar or the same.
the सात SI base units and the interdependency of their definitions : for example, to निकालें the definition of the मीटर from the गति of light, the definition of the second must be ज्ञात while the ampere and candela are both dependent on the definition of energy जिससे in फेरे is defined in terms of length, द्रव्यमान and time.
The International System of Units ( SI ) defines seven units of माप as a basic नियत from which all other SI units are derived.
These SI आधार units and उनके physical quantities are:
मीटर for length ( us English : meter )
किलोग्राम for द्रव्यमान ( note : not the ग्राम )
दूसरी for समय
ampere for electric current
केल्विन for temperature
candela for luminous तीव्रता
mole for the amount of substance.
The SI आधार quantities रूप a set of mutually स्वतंत्र आयाम as required by dimensional विश्लेषण commonly employed in विज्ञान और technology.
However, in a given realization of these units they may well be interdependent, i.e. defined in शर्तें of each other.
The names of SI इकाई are written in लोअरकेस वर्ण ( the 'degree Celsius ' meets इस rule, as 'degree ' is the ईकाई, and 'Celsius ' is a modifier ).
The symbols of units are लिखा in lowercase ( e.g. metre has the symbol m ), except कि प्रतीकों लिये इकाई named बाद persons are written with an initial capital letter ( e.g., the hertz has the अपरकेस प्रतीक Hz ).
Many other units, ऐसे as the litre ( US अंग्रेज़ी : liter ), हैं formally not भाग of the SI, but are accepted for use with si.
स्मारक canyon
Colorado National स्मारक ( locally referred to as The Monument ) is a part of the National Park Service near the नगर of ग्रैंड Junction, कोलोराडो.
Spectacular canyons काटें गहन into sandstone और even granite–gneiss–schist चट्टान formations, in कुछ areas.
This is an area of desert land high on the कोलोराडो Plateau, साथ pinion and juniper वनों on the पठार.
the park hosts a wide range of wildlife, including red-tailed hawks and golden eagles, ravens, jays, desert bighorn sheep, और coyotes.
Activities include hiking, horseback riding, road bicycling, और scenic drives ; a visitor center on the west side contains a natural history museum और gift shop.
There are भव्य दृश्य from trails and the Rim Rock Drive, which winds along the plateau.
आसपास are the Book Cliffs, and the largest flat-topped mountain in the world, the Grand Mesa.
Its feature attraction is Monument Canyon, which रनों the width of the पार्क, and शामिल rock formations such as स्वतंत्रता Monument, the चुंबन Couple, and Coke Ovens.
The स्मारक शामिल 20,500 acres ( 32 square miles ), much of which has been recommended to Congress for designation as wilderness.
left to right : Utility Uniform, Blue Dress Uniform, Service वर्दी, and संध्या पोशाक uniforms
The वर्दी of the United राज्य Marine Corps serve to distinguish Marines from members of other सेवाएं.
Among current uniforms in the United States Armed शक्तियां, the Marines ' uniforms have महरूम in service the longest.
The Marine पोशाक Blue uniform has, with few परिवर्तन, महरूम worn in essentially इसके current form since the 19th सदी.
उत्तर American टेलीफोन क्षेत्रफल codes 419 and 567 serve the northwest quadrant of the u.S. राज्य of ओहियो.
The largest city served by these area कोड is Toledo ( and इसके suburbs of Holland, Maumee, northwood, Oregon, Ottawa पहाड़ियाँ, Perrysburg, rossford, Sylvania, swanton, Waterville, and Whitehouse ).
Other शहरों परोसा by these area कोड include एडीए, Ashland, Bellevue, Bluffton, बोलिंग Green, Bryan, Bucyrus, celina, क्लाइड, Crestline, defiance, Delphos, एडिसन, Erastus, Findlay, Fostoria, Fremont, Galion, Kenton, लीमा, मैन्सफील्ड, Mount Gilead, Napoleon, Norwalk, Oak Harbor, Port क्लिंटन, Sandusky, Shelby, St. Marys, tiffin, अपर sandusky, Van wert, Wapakoneta, Wauseon, willard.
Other क्षेत्रों served include the Lake Erie Islands उत्तर of Port Clinton और west of Sandusky.
The main क्षेत्रफल code, 419, was निर्मित as one of the original area codes in अक्तूबर 1947 ; the overlay area code 567 was created on जनवरी 1, 2002.
Despite the presence of Toledo, the राज्य 's fourth-largest city, 419 थी the पिछला of ओहियो 's असली चार क्षेत्रफल codes to have महरूम विभाजित or overlaid.
Mickey Leroy gilley ( born March 9, 1936 ) is an American country म्यूज़िक singer and musician.
हालांकि he started आउट गायन straight-up देश and western material in the 1970s, he moved towards a more पॉप -friendly sound in the 1980s, bringing him further success on नहीं just the country charts, but the pop चार्ट as well.
Among उसके biggest hits are `` रूम पूरा of Roses, '' `` Do n't the लड़कियों All मिलेंगी prettier at Closing समय, '' and the remake of the Soul hit `` Stand by Me ``.
He is भी the cousin of जेरी Lee Lewis, Carl mcvoy, Jim gilley और Jimmy swaggart.
According to the Federal Aviation Administration, Gilley is a licensed pilot, who holds an instrument दरजा with commercial pilot privileges for multi-engine airplanes, as well as private pilot privileges for सिंगल engine वायुयान.
The सितंबर 11 attacks ( also referred to as सितंबर 11, सितंबर 11th, or 9/11 ) were a series of four coordinated आतंकवादी हमले शुभारम्भ by the Islamic terrorist समूह al-Qaeda upon the United राज्य in New York City and the Washington, D.C. area on September 11, 2001.
चार यात्री airliners were hijacked by 19 al-Qaeda आतंकवादी so they could be flown into इमारतें in suicide हमले.
दो of those planes, American Airlines Flight 11 और संयुक्त Airlines उड़ान 175, were क्रैश into the उत्तर और South towers, क्रमशः, of the World Trade बीच जटिल in New York City.
Within two घंटों, दोनो मीनारें collapsed with debris and the resulting फ़ायर causing partial or complete collapse of all other buildings in the WTC complex, as well as major damage to टेन other large surrounding structures.
A तीसरा plane, American Airlines Flight 77, was क्रैश into the Pentagon ( the headquarters of the United States Department of Defense ), अग्रणी to a आंशिक collapse in its पश्चिमी पक्ष.
The चौथी plane, United एयरलाइंस Flight 93, was targeted at the संयुक्त राज्य Capitol in Washington, D.C., लकिन crashed into a field निकट Shanksville, पेन्सिलवेनिया, बाद its यात्री आजमाया to overcome the hijackers.
In कुल, almost 3,000 people died in the attacks, including the 227 civilians and 19 hijackers सवार the चार planes.
Suspicion quickly गिरी on al-qaeda.
Although the समूह 's leader, ओसामा bin Laden, initially denied कोई भागीदारी, in 2004 he claimed responsibility for the attacks.
Al-Qaeda और बिन Laden cited U.S. support of Israel, the उपस्थिति of U.S. troops in Saudi Arabia, and sanctions against Iraq as motives for the हमले.
the United States responded to the attacks by launching the युद्ध on Terror and invading Afghanistan to depose the Taliban, which had harbored al-Qaeda.
Many countries strengthened their anti-terrorism legislation and विस्तारित law enforcement powers.
Having evaded capture for years, बिन Laden was located and killed by U.S. शक्तियां in May 2011.
The destruction of the Twin Towers and other properties caused गंभीर क्षति to the अर्थव्यवस्था of Lower मैनहटन और had a significant effect on global बाज़ार.
Cleanup of the World व्यापार बीच साईट was समाप्त in May 2002, और the Pentagon was repaired within a year.
numerous memorials have been constructed, including the National September 11 मेमोरियल & Museum in New यॉर्क, the Pentagon मेमोरियल, और the Flight 93 National Memorial in Pennsylvania.
After a lengthy विलंब, the एक World Trade Center is expected to be completed at Ground शून्य in New यॉर्क City in 2013.
Finding Nemo is a 2003 अमरीकी computer-animated comedy-drama adventure film written और directed by Andrew Stanton, released by वॉल्ट डिज़्नी Pictures, and the पांचवां film produced by Pixar Animation studios.
It tells the story of the over-protective clownfish named Marlin ( Albert ब्रूक्स ) who, along साथ a regal tang named Dory ( एलेन degeneres ), searches लिये his abducted son nemo ( Alexander Gould ) सब the रास्ता to सिडनी harbour.
साथ the way, Marlin learns to take risks and let Nemo take care of himself.
It is Pixar 's पहला फिल्मी to be released in cinemas in the northern गोलार्ध summer.
The फिल्मी थी re-released for the first time in 3D on सितंबर 14, 2012, and it was released on Blu-ray on December 4, 2012.
A sequel, ढूंढना Dory, is currently in development, नियत to be released on November 25, 2015.
The film received सार्वभौमिक critical acclaim and won the Academy पुरस्कार for Best Animated Feature, और was nominated in तीन more categories including Best असली Screenplay.
It was the दूसरी highest-grossing फिल्मी of 2003, कमाई a कुल of $ 921 लाख worldwide.
Finding Nemo is also the best-selling dvd of all time, with over 40 लाख नक़ल बेची as of 2006, और was the highest-grossing G-rated film of all time before Pixar 's अपना Toy स्टोरी 3 overtook it.
it is also the 23rd highest-grossing film of सब time, as well as the 3rd highest-grossing animated फिल्मी.
In 2008, the अमरीकी Film Institute नामित it the tenth महानतम एनिमेटेड film ever बना during their शीर्ष 10.
the sixth ऋतु of अमेरिका 's Best नृत्य Crew, also ज्ञात as America 's Best नृत्य Crew : Season of the सुपरस्टार, premiered on April 7, 2011 और concluded on June 5, 2011.
Auditions यहूद held in four शहरों from January 21 through February 5 : शिकागो, Houston, New यॉर्क, and लॉस Angeles.
This season takes a different रूट from पास्ट seasons.
The crews must perform to the music of one specific artist प्रत्येक week, including Rihanna, Lil वेन, and अन्य popular stars.
इस season भी features special guest appearances by various music celebrities सहित Justin Bieber, the Black Eyed Peas, Katy Perry, Kesha, Nicki minaj, and Kanye West.
Dominic `` D-Trix '' Sandoval, a पूर्व member of क्वेस्ट क्रू, the विजेता of the third ऋतु of America 's बेहतरीन नृत्य Crew, joins returning न्यायाधीशों Lil मामा और JC Chasez as the newest judge.
In the ऋतु finale, I aM mE was declared the विजेता of Season 6 and received the $ 100,000 ( USD ) prize.
In the United States, Social सुरक्षा refers to the Old-Age, survivors, और Disability Insurance ( OASDI ) संघीय program.
the original सोशल Security Act ( 1935 ) और the current version of the अधिनियम, as amended, encompass अनेक social welfare and social insurance कार्यक्रम.
Social Security is primarily funded through समर्पित payroll कर called Federal Insurance Contributions अधिनियम कर ( fica ).
कर deposits हैं formally entrusted to the Federal old-age और Survivors Insurance Trust निधि, the Federal Disability बीमे विश्वास निधि, the Federal Hospital बीमे Trust निधि, or the संघीय अनुपूरक Medical Insurance विश्वास Fund which comprise the Social Security विश्वास Fund.
upward redistribution of income is responsible लिये परिचय 43 % of the projected Social Security shortfall over the next 75 सालो.
according to economist Martin Feldstein, the combined spending for all social insurance programs in 2003 constituted 37 % of सरकारी expenditure and 7 % of the सकल घरेलू product.
Social सुरक्षा is फिलहाल estimated to keep roughly 40 percent of all Americans age 65 or older आउट of poverty.
the Social सुरक्षा Administration is headquartered in woodlawn, Maryland, just वेस्ट of Baltimore.
The alcohol by volume दिखाया on a bottle of absinthe.
Alcohol by आवाज़ ( abbreviated as ABV, abv, or alc/vol ) is a मानक measure of कैसा much दारू ( ethanol ) is contained in an alcoholic beverage ( expressed as a percentage of total volume ).
the ABV standard is used worldwide.
In कुछ countries, alcohol by volume is referred to as degrees Gay-Lussac ( after the French chemist Joseph Louis gay-lussac ).
Laurel खोखला is a village in the कस्बा of Oyster खाड़ी in Nassau County, New York in the संयुक्त राज्य.
The population थी 1,952 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी.
चार्ल्स John Huffam Dickens ( ; 7 February 1812 – 9 June 1870 ) was an English लेखक और social आलोचक.
He created some of the world 's most यादगार fictional characters and is generally regarded as the महानतम उपन्यासकार of the Victorian period.
During उसके life, his works enjoyed unprecedented fame, और by the twentieth सदी उसके literary genius was broadly acknowledged by critics and scholars.
His novels और छोटी stories continue to be widely popular.
Born in Portsmouth, England, Dickens left स्कूल to work in a factory after उसके पिता was thrown into debtors ' prison.
Although he had little formal education, his जल्दी impoverishment drove him to सफल.
Over his career he edited a weekly journal लिये 20 सालो, लिखा 15 novels, 5 novellas and सैंकड़ों of short stories and non-fiction articles, lectured और performed extensively, was an indefatigable letter writer, और campaigned vigorously for children 's अधिकारों, education, and other social reforms.
Dickens sprang to fame with the 1836 serial publication of The Pickwick papers.
Within a few years he had become an international literary celebrity, famous for his ह्यूमर, satire, and keen observation of character and समाज.
His novels, most published in monthly or weekly किश्तों, pioneered the serial प्रकाशन of कथा fiction, which became the प्रबल Victorian mode for novel publication.
The instalment स्वरूप allowed Dickens to evaluate his audience 's reaction, और he प्रायः modified his plot and character विकास based on such प्रतिक्रिया.
For example, जब his wife 's chiropodist expressed distress at the way Miss Mowcher in David Copperfield seemed to reflect her disabilities, डिकेंस went on to improve the character with धनात्मक lineaments.
Fagin in Oliver Twist apparently mirrors the famous fence Ikey Solomon ; उसके कैरीकेचर of Leigh Hunt in the figure of Mr skimpole in Bleak House was likewise toned down on advice इससे some of his friends, as they read episodes.
In the same novel, both Lawrence Boythorne और मूनी the beadle are drawn from real जीवन – Boythorne from वाल्टर जंगली landor and मूनी from 'Looney ', a beadle at salisbury वर्गाकार.
His भूखंड were carefully constructed, और Dickens often wove in elements from topical events into his कहानियां.
Masses of the illiterate poor chipped in ha'pennies to have each नई मासिक episode पढ़ा to them, opening up and प्रेरणादायी a नई class of readers.
डिकेंस थी regarded as the literary colossus of उसके age.
उसके 1843 novella, a Christmas Carol, is one of the most influential works कभी लिखा, और it remains popular and continues to inspire adaptations in प्रत्येक artistic genre.
उसके रचनात्मक genius has महरूम praised by fellow writers—from leo Tolstoy to G. K. Chesterton और George Orwell —for its यथार्थवाद, comedy, गद्य style, unique characterisations, और social criticism.
on the अन्य hand ऑस्कर Wilde, Henry James and Virginia Woolf complained of a कमी of psychological गहराई, loose writing, और a vein of saccharine sentimentalism.
Martin लूथर King और other सिविल अधिकारों leaders in सामने of the statue of Abraham lincoln, अगस्त 28, 1963
The civil अधिकारों movement was a series of worldwide राजनैतिक movements for equality पहले the law that peaked in the 1960s.
in अनेक situations it took the form of campaigns of civil resistance aimed at achieving change by nonviolent forms of resistance.
In some situations it थी accompanied, or followed, by civil unrest and armed rebellion.
The process was long और tenuous in many countries, और many of these movements did नहीं fully achieve उनके goals although, the प्रयत्न of ये movements did lead to सुधार in the विधिक rights of previously oppressed groups of लोगों.
the प्रमुख उद्देश्य of the civil rights गति शामिल, and शामिल, ensuring that the rights of all people are बराबर protected by the law, including the अधिकारों of minorities.
सिविल rights movements ranging from the वैश्विक LGBT अधिकारों movement to the वैश्विक Women 's rights गति to various racial minority rights आंदोलनों around the world continue.
the 2010 फीफा World कप was the 19th FIFA संसार कप, the संसार championship for men 's नेशनल संघ फ़ुटबॉल टीमों.
It took place in South अफ़्रीकी इससे 11 जून to 11 July 2010.
the bidding process for होस्टिंग the tournament finals थी खोलें only to African nations ; in 2004, the अंतरराष्ट्रीय football federation, FIFA, selected South Africa over Egypt और Morocco to become the first African स्वदेश to host the finals.
The मिलान यहूद निभाई in ten स्टेडियम in nine host cities around the country, with the final played at the Soccer City stadium in दक्षिण Africa 's largest city, Johannesburg.
thirty-two teams were selected for participation via a worldwide योग्यता tournament that began in अगस्त 2007.
In the first round of the tournament finals, the teams competed in round-robin groups of चार teams for points, with the top दो टीमों in each group proceeding.
ये sixteen teams उन्नत to the knockout stage, where three rounds of play decided which teams होता participate in the final.
In the फाइनल, Spain, the European champions, पराजित third-time finalists the नीदरलैंड्स 1–0 बाद extra time, with Andrés iniesta 's goal in the 116th minute giving Spain their first world title, becoming the eighth स्वदेश to win the tournament, and the पहला European nation to win the टूर्नामेंट बाहर इसके home महाद्वीप.
Host nation South Africa, 2006 world champions Italy और 2006 runners-up France were all eliminated in the first round of the tournament.
It थी the पहला time that the hosts were eliminated in the पहला round.
New Zealand साथ their तीन draws were the only undefeated team in the tournament, but यहूद also eliminated in the first गोलाकार.
the McMuffin is a परिवार of breakfast sandwiches in various sizes and configurations, sold by the fast-food restaurant कड़ी McDonald 's.
The Egg McMuffin is the signature नाश्ता sandwich ; it थी invented by the लेट McDonald 's franchisee Herb Peterson in the लेट 1960s and was introduced nationwide in 1972.
John Lennon was an English musician who gained विश्वव्यापी fame as एक of the founders of The Beatles, लिये his subsequent solo career, and लिये उसके political activism और शांतिवाद.
He थी shot by Mark David Chapman at the प्रवेश of the building जहाँ he lived, The Dakota, in New York City on 8 दिसम्बर 1980.
Lennon had just returned इससे Record Plant Studio साथ his बीवी, Yoko Ono.
Lennon was pronounced dead on arrival at St. luke's-roosevelt Hospital Center, where it थी stated that nobody could have जिया लिये more than a few minutes after sustaining ऐसे injuries.
shortly after लोकल news स्टेशन reported Lennon 's death, crowds gathered at Roosevelt हॉस्पिटल और in front of the Dakota.
Lennon was cremated on 10 December 1980 at the Ferncliff कब्रिस्तान in Hartsdale, New यॉर्क ; the ashes यहूद दिए to Ono, who chose not to hold a funeral for him.
The first रपट of लेनन 's death to a U.S. national दर्शक थी announced by हावर्ड cosell, on ABC 's सोमवार Night फ़ुटबॉल.
नई Orleans ( or, locally or ; ) is a major संयुक्त States बंदरगाहों and the largest city and metropolitan area in the राज्य of Louisiana.
The population of the city was 343,829 as of the 2010 U.S. Census.
The New Orleans metropolitan area ( New Orleans–Metairie–Kenner Metropolitan Statistical क्षेत्रफल ) had a population of 1,167,764 in 2010 and थी the 46th largest in the United States.
The नई orleans–metairie–bogalusa Combined Statistical क्षेत्रफल, a larger trading क्षेत्रफल, had a 2010 population of 1,214,932.
The city is नामित after orléans, a नगर located on the Loire River in केन्द्र, फ़्रांस, and is well ज्ञात for its distinct French Creole वास्तुकला, as खूब as its cross-cultural और multilingual विरासत.
New Orleans is also प्रसिद्ध for its cuisine, म्यूज़िक ( विशेषकर as the birthplace of jazz ), and इसके annual celebrations और festivals, most notably Mardi Gras.
The city is प्रायः referred to as the `` most unique '' in अमेरिका.
New Orleans is स्तिथ in southeastern louisiana, straddling the Mississippi नदी.
The city और Orleans Parish ( ) are.
The city and मोहल्ला are bounded by the parishes of St. Tammany to the north, st. Bernard to the east, plaquemines to the south and Jefferson to the दक्षिण and west.
Lake Pontchartrain, part of जिससे is included in the city limits, lies to the north और Lake Borgne झूठ to the east.
The United States presidential चुनाव of 1968 was the 46th quadrennial presidential election, held on मंगलवार, November 5, 1968.
The Republican nominee, former vice-president रिचर्ड Nixon, won the चुनाव over the Democratic nominee, लाज़िम vice-president Hubert humphrey.
Nixon भागा on a campaign कि promised to restore विधि और order to the nation 's cities, फटा by दंगे and अपराधों.
विश्लेषकों have argued the election of 1968 is a realigning चुनाव as it permanently disrupted the New सौदे गठबन्धन कि had dominated presidential politics लिये 36 years.
coming four years after Democrat Lyndon B. जॉनसन won in a historic landslide, the चुनाव saw the incumbent president मजबूर out of the रेस और a Republican elected for the first time in twelve years.
it was a wrenching national अनुभव, conducted दौरान a year of violence that included the assassination of सिविल rights leader Martin Luther King, Jr., and subsequent race riots across the nation, the assasination of लोकतांत्रिक presidential प्रत्याशी Robert F. Kennedy, widespread विपक्ष to the Vietnam War across विश्वविद्यालयों campuses, and violent confrontations between पुलिस and anti-war प्रदर्शनकारियों at the 1968 Democratic National Convention as the लोकतांत्रिक party split again and again.
the चुनाव प्रदर्शित the strongest third पार्टी effort since 1912 by पूर्व अलबामा Governor George Wallace, a Democrat.
Because Wallace 's campaign opposed federal intervention in the South to end स्कूल segregation, he carried the Deep दक्षिण and ran खूब in जातीय औद्योगिक districts in the उत्तर.
This was the last election in जिससे New यॉर्क had the most votes in the चुनावी college ( 43 मत ).
After the 1970 census, California gained the most electoral votes और रै remained the सबसे populous राज्य चूंकि तब.
This is the latest election जहाँ a अध्यक्षीय ticket won without carrying the वाइस अध्यक्षीय candidate 's home state.
Karak ( ; also known as Garak, Garrak, और Gorg ) is a village in Gamasiyab ग्रामीण District, in the Central District of nahavand County, Hamadan Province, Iran.
At the 2006 census, its population was 294, in 65 families.
Kurt 's signature
Kurt डोनाल्ड Cobain ( February 20, 1967 – अप्रैल 5, 1994 ) was an अमरीकी musician and कलाकार, best ज्ञात as the सीसे singer, guitarist and primary songwriter of the grunge band निर्वाण.
कोबेन formed निर्वाण with Krist Novoselic in Aberdeen, वॉशिंगटन in 1985 and स्थापित it as भाग of the Seattle music scene, having its debut album Bleach released on the स्वतंत्र record लेबल Sub Pop in 1989.
After signing with major label dgc Records, the बैंड found भेदन success with `` खुश्बू जैसे Teen Spirit `` from इसके second album Nevermind ( 1991 ).
following the success of Nevermind, Nirvana थी labeled `` the flagship band '' of Generation x, और Cobain hailed as `` the spokesman of a generation ''.
Cobain, however, was often uncomfortable and frustrated, believing his message और artistic दृष्टि to have महरूम misinterpreted by the public, with उसके personal issues often विषय to मीडिया ध्यान.
he challenged निर्वाण 's दर्शक with its फाइनल studio एल्बम In Utero ( 1993 ).
During the last years of उसके life, Cobain struggled with heroin व्यसन, illness और अवसाद.
He also had difficulty coping साथ his fame और पब्लिक image, and the professional and lifelong personal pressures surrounding himself and his बीवी, musician कोर्टनी Love.
on April 8, 1994, Cobain was found dead at his home in Seattle, the victim of कया थी officially शासित a suicide by a self-inflicted shotgun wound to the सिर.
The हालातों of his मौत at age 27 have become a topic of public fascination और बहस.
Since their debut, Nirvana, with कोबेन as a songwriter, has बेची over 25 million albums in the U.S., and over 50 लाख worldwide.
a millwright is a craftsman or tradesman engaged with the construction and maintenance of machinery.
More generally in the अंग्रेज़ी speaking world, early millwrights were specialist बढ़ई who erected मशीने used in कृषि, food processing and प्रसंस्करण lumber and paper.
In the जल्दी part of the औद्योगिक Revolution, उनके skills were pressed into service भवन the earliest संचालित textile mills.
Modern millwrights work with steel and अन्य materials in addition to लकडी और must प्रायः combine the skills of several skilled ट्रेड in order to successfully fabricate औद्योगिक machinery or to assemble machines from pre-fabricated parts.
the modern millwright must also be समर्थ to read blueprints और other schematics to aid उसे in the निर्माण of complex systems.
Millwrights are frequently unionized, साथ around 45 % unionized in the US, हालांकि अनुभवी millwrights often set themselves up as independent ठेकेदारों.
The Adjustment Bureau is a 2011 American रोमांटिक कार्रवाई thriller film loosely based on the Philip K. लंड short story, `` समायोजन Team ``.
The फिल्मी was लिखा और निर्देशित by George Nolfi and stars मैट Damon और एमिली Blunt.
the cast भी includes एंथोनी Mackie, John slattery, Michael केली, और Terence स्टैम्प.
The स्कोर थी composed by Thomas Newman, with दो songs by Richard Ashcroft ( `` Future 's Bright '' for the opening sequence ; `` हैं You Ready ? '' लिये the closing credits ).
Sodium azide is the inorganic compound with the formula nan3.
This colorless salt is the gas-forming component in many car airbag systems.
It is प्रयुक्त for the तैयारी of other azide compounds.
It is an ionic पदार्थ, is highly soluble in water, and is very acutely विषाक्त.
दोगुना rainbow and supernumerary rainbows on the inside of the primary चाप.
The shadow of the photographer 's head on the bottom marks the centre of the rainbow circle ( antisolar point ).
A रेनबो is an optical and meteorological घटना that is caused by reflection of लाइट in जल droplets in the Earth 's atmosphere, resulting in a spectrum of light appearing in the आसमान.
It takes the form of a multicoloured arc.
Rainbows caused by sunlight always appear in the section of आसमान directly विपरीत the sun.
In a `` primary rainbow '', the arc shows रेड on the outer part and बैंगनी on the inner side.
This rainbow is caused by light होने refracted जबकि प्रवेश a droplet of water, then reflected inside on the वापस of the droplet और refracted again जब leaving it.
In a double rainbow, a दूसरी arc is देखी outside the प्राथमिक चाप, and रै the order of इसके colours reversed, रेड facing toward the अन्य एक, in both rainbows.
इस दूसरी रेनबो is caused by light reflecting twice अंदर water droplets.
the Conservative Party, officially the Conservative और Unionist Party और colloquially referred to as the Tory पार्टी or the Tories, is a centre-right political party in the United Kingdom that espouses the philosophies of कोसा and अंग्रेजों unionism.
it is the largest राजनैतिक party in the संयुक्त Kingdom, होने the largest सिंगल party in the House of कॉमन्स with 303 MPs, the largest party in local सरकारी साथ 9,391 पार्षदों, and the largest British party in the European Parliament with 25 meps.
It governs in coalition with the Liberal Democrats, with पार्टी leader David Cameron as Prime Minister.
The Conservative Party was founded in 1834, and was one of two प्रबल parties in the 19th सदी, along with the Liberal पार्टी.
It बदला its name to the Conservative और Unionist Party in 1912 बाद merging with the Liberal यूनियनिस्ट Party, although that नाम is rarely प्रयुक्त और it is generally referred to as simply the Conservative Party.
In the 1920s, the उदार vote greatly diminished and the Labour Party became the conservatives ' main rivals.
Conservative Prime Ministers led सरकारें for 57 सालो of the 20th सदी, including Winston Churchill ( 1940–45, 1951–55 ) and Margaret Thatcher ( 1979–90 ).
Thatcher 's tenure led to wide-ranging economic उदारीकरण और saw the Conservatives become the most eurosceptic of the three major parties.
The party was लौटे to government in coalition, having failed to win a majority, in 2010 under the more `` liberal '' leadership of दाउद cameron.
In the European Parliament, the Conservatives हैं the largest British party साथ 25 MEPs, who बैठना with the soft eurosceptic European conservatives and Reformists ( ecr ) parliamentary group, while the पार्टी itself is a member of the Alliance of European Conservatives and Reformists ( AECR ) Europarty.
वे are the third-largest party in the स्कॉटिश पार्लियामेंट और second-largest in the वेल्श Assembly.
वे were formally अलाइड to the Ulster Unionist Party ( uup ) as part of the Ulster Conservatives and unionists व्यवस्था, with the UUP currently participating in the five-party Northern Ireland Executive.
नियति 's Child थी an American R & b girl समूह whose final, and शायद most recognizable, line-up comprised बेयोंस Knowles, Kelly Rowland and Michelle विलियम्स.
Formed in 1990 in Houston, Texas, नियति 's चाइल्ड members began उनके musical endeavors as Girl 's Tyme comprising, among others, Knowles, Rowland, latavia Roberson and LeToya Luckett.
After सालो of limited success, they were signed to Columbia रिकॉर्ड as Destiny 's Child.
Destiny 's Child was launched into mainstream recognition following the release of उनके best-selling second album, The Writing 's on the Wall, जिससे contained the number-one singles `` Bills, Bills, Bills `` and `` Say My Name ``.
Despite critical and वाणिज्यिक कामयाबी, the group was plagued by internal conflict and विधिक turmoil, as Roberson और Luckett attempted to विभाजित इससे the group 's manager mathew Knowles, citing favoritism of Knowles and Rowland, his बेटी and niece, respectively.
Both Roberson and Luckett were soon replaced with विलियम्स and Farrah Franklin ; however, in 2000, Franklin was dismissed, leaving them as a trio.
Their third एल्बम, उत्तरजीवी, which contains विषयवस्तु the public interpreted as a channel to the समूह 's experience, contains the worldwide hits `` Independent Women ``, `` Survivor `` और `` Bootylicious ``.
in 2002, they announced a hiatus and re-united two years later for the release of उनके चौथी स्टुडियो album, Destiny Fulfilled ( 2004 ).
नियति 's चाइल्ड रै sold अधिक than 50 million records worldwide to date.
बिलबोर्ड पत्रिका ranks the समूह as एक of the महानतम musical trios of all समय, the ninth most successful artist/band of the 2000s, और लगाई the group 68th in its all-time hot 100 Artists list in 2008.
the Centers लिये बीमारी Control and Prevention ( CDC ) is a United राज्य federal agency under the Department of Health and Human Services headquartered in Druid Hills, unincorporated DeKalb काउंटी, Georgia, in Greater अटलांटा.
It works to protect public health and safety by providing information to बढ़ाएँ health decisions, and it promotes स्वास्थ्य through partnerships with state health departments and other organizations.
the सीडीसी फ़ोकस national attention on विकासशील and applying disease prevention and control ( especially संक्रामक रोगों and foodborne pathogens and अन्य सूक्ष्मजैविक infections ), पर्यावरणीय health, occupational सुरक्षा and health, health promotion, injury prevention and शिक्षा activities designed to improve the स्वास्थ्य of the people of the संयुक्त राज्य.
The CDC is the United राज्य ' national पब्लिक स्वास्थ्य institute and is a founding member of the अंतरराष्ट्रीय संघ of National पब्लिक Health Institutes.
Earthquake prediction `` is usually defined as the specification of the time, location, और परिमाण of a future earthquake within stated limits '', और विशेषकर of `` the next strong भूकंप to occur in a region. ''
This can be distinguished from earthquake forecasting, which is the probabilistic मूल्यांकन of general earthquake hazard, including the frequency and परिमाण of damaging earthquakes, in a given क्षेत्रफल over अवधि of years or decades.
This can be further विशिष्ट from real-time earthquake चेतावनी प्रणालियों, which, upon detection of a कठोर भूकंप, can provide neighboring regions a few seconds warning of potentially significant shaking.
To be उपयोगी, an earthquake prediction जरूर be precise enough to वारंट the लागत of increased precautions, सहित disruption of ordinary क्रियाएँ और commerce, और timely enough कि preparation can be बना.
पूर्वानुमान जरूर also be reliable, as false सचेतक and रद्द alarms हैं नहीं तभी economically costly, लकिन seriously undermine confidence in, and thereby the प्रभावकारिता of, any kind of चेतावनी.
With over 7,000 भूकंप around the world each year साथ a परिमाण of 4.0 or greater, trivial success in भूकंप prediction is easily obtained using fear broad पैरामीटर्स of time, location, or magnitude.
However, such trivial `` successful predictions '' are नहीं उपयोगी.
Major earthquakes हैं often followed by reports कि वे were predicted, or at least anticipated, but no claim of a कामयाब prediction of a major भूकंप has बच बंद inquiry.
In the 1970s वहीँ was तीव्र optimism amongst वैज्ञानिकों that some method of predicting earthquakes might be found, but by the 1990s continuing failure led many वैज्ञानिकों to question whether it was even possible.
While many वैज्ञानिकों still hold that, given enough resources, भविष्यवाणी might be संभावित, many others maintain that earthquake prediction is inherently नामुमकिन.
Deborah Ann `` Debby '' Ryan ( born may 13, 1993 ) is an American अभिनेत्री, singer, musician, songwriter and रिकार्ड producer.
रयान is best ज्ञात for starring as बेली Pickett in the Disney चैनल Original Series The Suite Life on Deck.
In 2008, the Suite Life on Deck ranked as TV 's top series among बच्चे 6-11 and the No. 2 scripted series among tweens 9-14.
Ryan started एक्टिंग in professional theatres at the आयु of seven ; in 2007 वो appeared in the Barney & Friends straight-to-DVD film Barney : Let 's Go to the फायरहाउस और तब थी खोजा in a देशभर search by Disney.
She is also known for appearing in the 2008 feature film The longshots as Edith.
In 2009, she guest starred in an episode of Wizards of Waverly प्लेस in Wizards on Deck साथ हन्ना Montana as Bailey Pickett along साथ her other डाल mates from The Suite Life on Deck.
तब, in 2010, she starred in the film 16 बधाइयां, which थी the most देखी cable program on the दिन of इसके premiere on the Disney चैनल.
16 Wishes introduced रयान to new ऑडियंस ; the movie received high viewership in the adults demographic ( 18-34 ).
जल्द after that, रयान starred in the independent नाट्य film, कया if..., जिससे premiered on August 20, 2010.
Ryan also starred in the new Disney Channel असली movie, Radio Rebel, where वो portrays the role of Tara Adams, a शर्मीले 17-year-old लड़की जो adopts the radio personality, Radio Rebel.
Released February 17, 2012.
Ryan stars in the titular role in the Disney चैनल Original Series, Jessie.
Stührling Tourbillon गति ( ).
in horology, a tourbillon ( ; `` whirlwind '' ) is an addition to the mechanics of a देखें escapement.
Developed around 1795 by the French-Swiss watchmaker Abraham-Louis breguet इससे an पहले idea by the English chronometer maker John अर्नाल्ड, a tourbillon aims to counter the effects of gravity by mounting the escapement and balance wheel in a घूर्णन cage, to negate the प्रभाव of गम्भीरता when the timepiece ( thus the escapement ) is stuck in a certain स्थिति.
Originally an attempt to improve accuracy, tourbillons हैं still included in some expensive modern watches as a novelty और demonstration of watchmaking virtuosity.
The mechanism is प्रायः exposed on the watch 's face to show it off.
the खिड़कियाँ Installer ( previously known as Microsoft installer ) is a software component used for the installation, मेंटेनेंस, and removal of तन्त्र on modern Microsoft खिड़कियाँ systems.
the installation information, और often the files themselves, are packaged in installation packages, loosely relational databases structured as com Structured Storages and commonly known as `` MSI फाइलें '', from their default संचिका extension.
खिड़कियाँ Installer contains significant परिवर्तन इससे its पूर्ववर्ती, Setup API.
New features include a GUI फ्रेमवर्क and automatic generation of the uninstallation sequence.
Windows Installer is positioned as an वैकल्पिक to stand-alone executable installer frameworks such as older संस्करण of installshield and NSIS.
microsoft encourages third parties to use Windows installer as the आधार for installation frameworks, so that they synchronize correctly with other installers and रखना the internal database of installed products consistent.
Important features such as rollback और versioning निर्भर on a consistent आतंरिक database लिये विश्वसनीय operation.
furthermore, Windows Installer facilitates the principle of least privilege by performing software संस्थापना by proxy for unprivileged users.
Four लोको is a line of alcoholic पेय, originally marketed as energy drinks, बेची by Phusion प्रोजेक्ट of Chicago, इलिनोइस.
Phusion operates as Drink चार Brewing Company.
Four Loko, the company 's most popular पेय, debuted in the United States मार्केट in 2005.
It is now sold in 48 states, and in कनाडा, The Bahamas, Bolivia, Honduras, and Europe.
The नाम `` Four '' is निकला from the original उर्जा पेय 's चार main ingredients : alcohol, कैफीन, taurine, और guarana.
Four branded products have महरूम the ऑब्जेक्ट of विधिक, नैतिक, and health concerns related to the company allegedly marketing them to the underaged and the purported danger of combining alcohol and caffeine.
बाद the पेय was banned in several states, a product reintroduction in दिसम्बर 2010 removed caffeine, taurine, और guarana as ingredients, और the malt पेय is no longer marketed as an energy पेय.
The neck of a guitar प्रर्दशित the नट ( in the background, coloured white ) और first चार मेटल frets.
A fret is a उठाया element on the neck of a stringed instrument.
Frets प्रायः extend across the पूरा width of the गर्दन.
on most आधुनिक western fretted instruments, frets are metal strips inserted into the fingerboard.
On कुछ historical यंत्र and non-European यंत्र, frets are made of pieces of string tied around the neck.
Frets divide the गर्दन into fixed segments at intervals related to a musical framework.
On instruments ऐसे as guitars, each fret represents one semitone in the standard western system where one अष्टक is divided into twelve semitones.
Fret is often प्रयुक्त as a verb, meaning simply `` to दबायें down the string behind a fret. ''
Fretting often refers to the frets and/or their प्रणाली of placement.
वहीँ was consumption of alcohol both during and after prohibition.
the 18th Amendment निषिद्ध the production, distribution and sale of alcoholic पेय in the United राज्य और was widely समर्थित by the American public when it went into effect in 1920.
The temperance गति had popularized the विश्वास that दारू was the major cause of सबसे personal और social problems and निषेध was seen as the समाधान to the nation 's गरीबी, अपराधों, violence, and other ills.
Upon ratification of the amendment, the famous evangelist Billy संडे said that `` the slums will जल्द be only a memory.
We will turn our जेलों into कारखानों और our jails into storehouses and corncribs. ''
( Compare Christianity and alcohol. )
Since alcohol was to be बैन and since it थी seen as the cause of सबसे, if not all, अपराधों, some समुदायों बेची उनके jails.
The nation was highly optimistic and the leading prohibitionist in the United States Congress confidently asserted that `` There is as much chance of repealing the eighteenth Amendment as there is for a hummingbird to fly to the planet Mars with the Washington Monument tied to its tail.”
the metre ( meter in अमरीकी English ), ( SI unit symbol : m ; si आयाम प्रतीक : l ), is the fundamental ईकाई of लंबाई in the International System of इकाई ( SI ).
Originally intended to be one ten-millionth of the distance from the Earth 's equator to the North Pole ( at समुद्र level ), its परिभाषा has been periodically परिष्कृत to reflect growing knowledge of metrology.
Since 1983, it has been defined as `` the length of the path travelled by लाइट in vacuum during a समय interval of 1/299,792,458 of a second. ''
Geologists exploring Jurassic sedimentary rocks in Makhtesh Gadol, Negev Desert, Israel
geologists explaining the importance of volcanic राख layers to students on फ़ील्ड in आइसलैंड
A geologist is a scientist who studies the solid and liquid matter that constitutes the Earth as खूब as the processes and history that has तराशा it.
geologists प्रायः engage in studying geology.
geologists, अध्ययन more of an applied science than a theoretical one, must दृष्टिकोण Geology using भौतिकी, chemistry और जीवविज्ञान as well as other sciences.
Geologists, compared to scientists engaged in other fields, हैं generally अधिक exposed to the outdoors than staying in laboratories ; हालांकि कुछ geologists prefer to perform सबसे of उनके studies in the lab.
geologists are सगाई in exploration for खनन companies in search of धातुओं, oils, and other Earth संसाधन.
They are भी in the forefront of प्राकृतिक hazards और disasters warning and शमन, studying earthquakes, volcanic activity, tsunamis, weather storms, और the like ; their studies are प्रयुक्त to warn the general public of the occurrence of these events.
Currently, geologists are also engaged in the चर्चा of climate change, as they study the इतिहास और evidence for this Earth process.
Below is a व्यापक drill and tap आकार chart लिये सब drills, imperial और metric, और taps up to 36.5 mm.
आधुनिक vacuum tubes, mostly miniature स्टाइल
in इलेक्ट्रॉनिक्स, a vacuum ट्यूब, इलेक्ट्रॉन ट्यूब ( in North America ), thermionic valve, tube, or valve is a यंत्र controlling electric current through a vacuum in a sealed container.
The container is often पतला पारदर्शी कांच in a roughly cylindrical shape.
The simplest वैक्यूम tube, the diode, is essentially an incandescent light bulb with an added electrode अंदर.
When the bulb 's filament is heated white-hot, electrons are `` boiled '' off its surface और into the vacuum inside the bulb.
If the एलेक्ट्रोड -- called a `` थाली '' or `` anode '' -- is बना अधिक positive than the hot filament, a सीधा current flows through the vacuum to the electrode ( a demonstration of the Edison प्रभाव ).
As the current only flows in one direction, it makes it possible to convert an alternating वर्तमान applied to the फिलामेंट to सीधा current.
the introduction of a third electrode, a ग्रिड between the filament और the plate, yields another function.
a voltage applied to the grid controls the वर्तमान flowing from the filament to the plate.
Thus, it allows the यंत्र to be प्रयुक्त as an इलेक्ट्रॉनिक प्रवर्धक.
Vacuum tubes are thus प्रयुक्त for rectification, प्रवर्धन, switching, or similar processing or creation of electrical signals.
The विशाल majority of modern दिन tubes consist of a sealed container with a vacuum inside, and essentially rely on thermionic emission of electrons from a hot filament or a cathode heated by the filament.
Some exceptions to this हैं dealt with in the section about gas-filled tubes below.
वैक्यूम tubes यहूद critical to the विकास of electronic technology, जिससे drove the विस्तार and commercialization of radio broadcasting, television, radar, ध्वनि reinforcement, sound recording and reproduction, large टेलीफोन संजाल, analog and digital computers, और industrial प्रक्रम कंट्रोल.
Although कुछ applications had counterparts using earlier technologies such as the spark gap ट्रांसमीटर or mechanical कंप्यूटर, it थी the invention of the vacuum ट्यूब साथ three electrodes ( called a triode ) और its काबिलियत of electronic amplification that made ये technologies फैली and practical.
in most अनुप्रयोग, solid-state devices ऐसे as transistors and other semiconductor डिवाइस have replaced tubes.
Solid-state devices last longer and are छोटी, more efficient, more reliable, और cheaper than tubes.
Tubes can be fragile, sometimes generate significant unwanted heat, और can लो many seconds—many minutes in नाजुक applications—after powering on to warm to a temperature where they perform within operational tolerance.
however, tubes still find uses where solid-state डिवाइस have नहीं been विकसित, are impractical, or जहाँ a tube has superior performance, as with some डिवाइस in professional ऑडियो and high-power radio transmitters.
Tubes हैं still produced for ऐसे applications.
Tubes are less likely than semiconductor devices to be destroyed by the इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक pulse produced by नाभिकीय explosions and geomagnetic storms उत्पादित by giant solar flares.
Skittles is a brand of fruit-flavoured sweets, currently produced and marketed by the Wm. Wrigley Jr. Company, a प्रभाग of Mars, inc.
They have hard sugar shells which carry the letter s.
The inside is mainly शुगर, corn syrup, और hydrogenated ताड़ कर्नेल आयल along with fruit juice, citric एसिड, and प्राकृतिक and artificial flavours.
the confectionery रै been sold in a variety of फ्लेवर संग्रहण, such as Tropical और Wild Berry.
सर विंस्टन Leonard Spencer-Churchill, ( 30 November 1874 – 24 January 1965 ) थी a अंग्रेजों राजनेता जो थी the Prime Minister of the United किंगडम इससे 1940 to 1945 और again from 1951 to 1955.
widely regarded as one of the greatest wartime नेताओ of the 20th century, Churchill was भी an अधिकारी in the अंग्रेजों Army, a इतिहासकार, a writer, and an artist.
He is the only British Prime Minister in इतिहास to have प्राप्त the Nobel Prize in साहित्य, और was भी the first person to be made an Honorary Citizen of the संयुक्त States.
चर्चिल was born into an वैभवशाली family as the grandson of the 7th ड्यूक of marlborough.
His पिता, Lord Randolph Churchill, थी a charismatic राजनेता who served as Chancellor of the Exchequer ; his माँ, Jennie Jerome, थी an अमरीकी socialite.
As a young फौज officer, he saw action in अंग्रेजों इण्डिया, The Sudan, and the Second Boer War.
he gained fame as a युद्ध correspondent and wrote books परिचय his campaigns.
At the forefront of politics for fifty years, he held many राजनैतिक and कैबिनेट positions.
Before the पहला World युद्ध, he served as अध्यक्ष of the Board of व्यापार, Home Secretary, and पहला Lord of the Admiralty as भाग of the Asquith Liberal government.
दौरान the war, he continued as पहला रब of the admiralty जबतक the disastrous Gallipoli अभियान caused his departure from government.
He then briefly resumed active army service on the Western Front as commander of the 6th Battalion of the Royal Scots Fusiliers.
he returned to government as Minister of Munitions, Secretary of State लिये War, और Secretary of State for Air.
बाद the War, Churchill served as Chancellor of the exchequer in the रूढ़िवादी ( Baldwin ) government of 1924–29, controversially returning the pound sterling in 1925 to the gold मानक at its pre-war पैरिटी, a move widely देखी as creating deflationary pressure on the UK economy.
Also controversial was उसके विपक्ष to increased home rule for इण्डिया और उसके resistance to the 1936 abdication of एडवर्ड VIII.
आउट of दफ्तर and politically `` in the wilderness '' during the 1930s, चर्चिल took the lead in चेतावनी about नाजी जर्मनी and in campaigning for rearmament.
On the outbreak of the Second World युद्ध, he थी again appointed First Lord of the admiralty.
following the resignation of नेविली चेम्बरलेन on 10 may 1940, Churchill became प्रधान Minister.
His वफ़ादार refusal to consider defeat, आत्मसमर्पण, or a सुलह सलाम helped inspire British resistance, especially during the difficult जल्दी days of the War जब ब्रिटेन stood alone among European countries in its active विपक्ष to एडोल्फ Hitler.
Churchill was particularly noted for his speeches and रेडियो broadcasts, which helped inspire the British people.
He led Britain as प्रधान मंत्री until विजय over Nazi Germany had been secured.
After the Conservative Party lost the 1945 चुनाव, he became Leader of the Opposition to the श्रमिक ( attlee ) government.
After जीतना the 1951 election, he again became Prime Minister, before retiring in 1955.
upon उसके मौत, एलिज़ाबेथ II granted him the honour of a state अंत्येष्टि, which saw one of the largest assemblies of world कूटनीतिज्ञों in इतिहास.
Named the Greatest Briton of all time in a 2002 poll, Churchill is widely regarded as being among the most influential people in अंग्रेजों history.
Ruby gloom is an animated television दिखाएँ based on an वस्त्र franchise.
The show is उत्पादित by Nelvana and began airing on October 13, 2006 in कनाडा on the network YTV.
It stars the आवाज़ें of Sarah Gadon, एमिली Hampshire, and पीटर Keleghan.
The Ford Focus is a compact car ( C-segment in Europe ) manufactured by the Ford Motor Company चूंकि 1998.
घाट began sales of the Focus to Europe in July 1998 and in North अमेरिका during 1999 for the 2000 model साल.
In Europe, South America, उत्तर America and South Africa, the फ़ोकस replaced the विभिन्न versions of the Ford Escort sold in those markets.
In Asia और Australasia, it replaced the Ford लेज़र.
As of the पहला half of 2012, the फ़ोकस surpassed the टोयोटा Corolla to become the world 's best selling ऑटोमोबाइल nameplate.
the फ़ोकस रै been considered one of the 50 greatest गाड़ियाँ of the पास्ट fifty years by British magazine car.
An agar थाली -- an example of a bacterial growth medium.
Specifically, it is a streak plate ; the orange lines and dots are formed by bacterial colonies.
a growth medium or culture मीडियम is a द्रव or gel designed to support the growth of microorganisms or कोशिकाएं, or small plants like the moss Physcomitrella patens.
There are different types of media लिये growing अलग प्रकार of cells.
There हैं two major types of विकास media : those प्रयुक्त लिये cell संस्कृति, which उपयोग विशिष्ट cell types derived इससे plants or animals, and microbiological culture, जिससे हैं प्रयुक्त for growing microorganisms, such as जीवाणु or खमीर.
The most आम विकास media लिये microorganisms हैं nutrient broths and आगर plates ; specialized media are sometimes required लिये microorganism और कोशिका culture growth.
Some organisms, termed fastidious organisms, आवश्यकता specialized environments due to complex nutritional requirements.
Viruses, लिये उदाहरण, हैं obligate intracellular परजीवी और require a growth मीडियम containing जीना cells.
A talent एजेंट, or बुकिंग agent, is a person who पाता कार्य लिये अभिनेताओं, authors, film directors, musicians, models, producers, पेशेवर athletes, writers and other people in विभिन्न entertainment व्यवसायों.
An agent also defends, supports and promotes the interest of his/her clients.
Agents can not उपज उनके अपना shows due to विरोध of ब्याज.
a talent agent must be familiar with their clients.
An agent has to know कया kind of work the client can और can not do in अनुक्रम to मैच them with various jobs.
having an एजेंट is नहीं required, लकिन does help the artist in getting jobs.
In many मामले casting directors, or other businesses, go to talent agencies to find artists they are looking लिये.
The एजेंट is सशुल्क a percentage of the star 's आय ( typically 10 % ).
Agents sometimes होगा be referred to as `` 10 percenters. ''
There are different regulations that govern different types of एजेंटों that are established by artist 's संघ and the legal jurisdiction in which the agent operates.
There are भी professional organizations that license हुनर एजेंसियों.
Since the decline in viewership in theaters, from the 1950s to 1960s, this caused a स्मारकीय शिफ़्ट in how studios would produce films and thus reducing the cost of विशेष and महंगी actors.
Actors और actresses यहूद working लिये the studios लकिन were नहीं स्वामित्व by एक प्रमुख studio entity and so were able to work on within their time and with other studios.
Because of इस, agents were अभी देखी as a necessity instead of an option.
Agents अभी became third parties that negotiated between studios and clients, इस making उनके services imperative between each पार्टी.
चूंकि talent agencies are working with lucrative contracts, सब talent agencies must be licensed under special sections of the California Labor Code, which calls an agent a `` person or corporation who engages in the occupation of procuring, offering, promising, or attempting to procure employment for कलाकार or artists. ''
मंगल has two known moons, Phobos और Deimos, which are thought to be captured क्षुद्रग्रह.
Both satellites were खोजा in 1877 by Asaph Hall और हैं named after the वर्ण phobos ( panic/fear ) और Deimos ( terror/dread ) जो, in Greek mythology, accompanied उनके father Ares, god of युद्ध, into battle.
एरीस was ज्ञात as Mars to the Romans.
It is possible कि Mars may have moons smaller than 50 - 100 meters and a dust ring between Phobos and Deimos may be present लकिन none have महरूम discovered.
In law enforcement parlance, the term murder book refers to the मामला संचिका of a murder investigation.
typically, murder किताबे शामिल crime scene photographs और sketches, autopsy और forensic reports, transcripts of investigators ' notes और witness interviews.
The murder किताब encapsulates the complete paper trail of a murder investigation, from the time the murder is first reported through the arrest of a suspect.
Law enforcement agencies typically गार्ड हत्या किताबे carefully, and it is असामान्य for नागरिकों to be दिए unfettered अभिगम to these kinds of रिकॉर्ड, especially लिये unsolved cases.
a melon baller
Melon balls हैं balls of melon बना using a melon baller that varies from around 1 centimeter to 3 centimeters ( about 3/8 inch to 1 inch ).
They हैं generally used in fruit salad.
A KSA, or ज्ञान, कौशल, and Abilities, is a series of narrative कथन that हैं required when applying to United राज्य संघीय सरकारी जॉब उद्घाटन.
KSAs are प्रयुक्त to determine, along साथ resumes, जो the best आवेदकों are जब several candidates qualify for a job.
The ज्ञान, skills and abilities ( ksas ) जरुरी लिये the कामयाब प्रदर्शन of a position हैं contained on each job vacancy announcement.
In 2009 the Office of Personal प्रबन्धन पूछा संघीय एजेंसियों to stop requiring job applicants to fill out the questionnaires, to be phased out within a साल.
KSAs are brief and केन्द्रित essays परिचय एक 's करियर and educational background that presumably qualify one to perform the duties of the position being applied for.
a ज्ञान, skills, and abilities ( KSA ) is a concise essay परिचय one 's talent और विशेषज्ञता और related अनुभवों ( work, education, volunteer ) and accomplishments.
A श्रेणी of ksa statements are प्रायः required when applying for most संघीय government and कुछ state and नगर सरकारी कार्य.
KSAs are used as a yardstick to assess the capabilities of a prospective applicant in शर्तें of संभावित ability to perform the duties of the जॉब.
सबसे सरकारी भर्ती officials look लिये a छोटी, crisp और साफ ksa that emphasizes results or accomplishments प्राप्त in पिछला work.
ksa statements are भी known as मूल्यांकन Factors.
अन्य एजेंसियों sometimes call them `` दरजा Factors '', `` Quality Ranking Factors '', `` ज्ञान, abilities, skills and Other Characteristics '', or `` Job Elements ''.
The name can be बस a नाम but often it influences content and लंबाई of the निबन्ध.
Every एजेंसी रै its own regulations but most of the time the each KSA फ़ैक्टर should be 1/2 to 11⁄2 पृष्ठों long.
The नीचे definitions are defined by the U.S. Office of Personnel प्रबन्धन :
ज्ञान, कौशल, and Abilities ( KSAs ) - The attributes जरूरी to perform a जॉब and हैं generally demonstrated through qualifying service, education, or training.
Knowledge - is a देह of information लागू directly to the प्रदर्शन of a function.
Skill - Is an observable competence to perform a learned psychomotor act.
Ability - Is competence to perform an observable behavior or a बर्ताव that परिणाम in an observable उत्पाद.
The scoring of KSA essays is based on a scale of from one to 100.
Job आवेदकों must score above 70 to be considered for the position.
ऊँची scores are derived through answering the KSA question as specifically as possible, providing examples इससे previous employment or training that clearly demonstrate you मिलें the qualifications.
When applying to federal government स्थितियाँ, a Federal Resume is प्रायः जरूरी in addition to KSA statements.
right
पूरे grains are खाद्यान्न grains that contain cereal रोगाणु, endosperm, and चोकर, in contrast to परिष्कृत grains, which retain only the endosperm.
Common whole grains include:
गेहूं
Oat
Barley - Hulled और Dehulled ( नहीं पर्ल )
Maize
भूरा rice
farro
Spelt
Emmer
Einkorn
Kamut
Rye
Millet
Quinoa
Amaranth
Triticale
Teff
Sprouted Grains
Buckwheat
आम whole grain उत्पाद include:
Whole गेहूं आटा
Whole wheat ब्रैड
Whole wheat पास्ता
Rolled oats or oat groats
Triticale आटा
Popcorn
Teff आटा
Common refined non-whole अनाज उत्पाद include:
प्रेम Always is the debut album of American r & B duo K-Ci & JoJo, released on June 17, 1997, by MCA Records.
It was recorded at various studios in New York and the Los Angeles area in 1996 and 1997.
it was produced by JoJo and several अन्य, including devante झूले, James Mtume, और Jeff Redd.
The duo were originally a part of Jodeci पहले this album.
the album peaked at छठे on the US बिलबोर्ड 200 and also appeared on international charts.
the single `` All My Life `` charted number one in multiple countries, और सब four of the album 's singles peaked above the top 25 in the us hot r & B/Hip-Hop Songs और the New Zealand शीर्ष 40 Singles.
Love Always थी प्राप्त favorably by critics, who praised the brothers ' singing ability and the production.
the एल्बम has महरूम certified तीन times platinum by the Recording Industry संघ of अमेरिका ( RIAA ) and gold by म्यूज़िक Canada और IFPI Sweden.
As of जून 1999 it had बेची 2.9 लाख copies in the United States.
A variable-rate mortgage, adjustable-rate mortgage ( ARM ), or ट्रैकर mortgage is a बंधक ऋण with the interest रेट on the note periodically adjusted based on an index which reflects the लागत to the lender of borrowing on the credit markets.
The loan may be offered at the lender 's standard variable rate/ आधार रेट.
वहीँ may be a direct and legally-defined link to the underlying index, but जहाँ the lender offers no specific link to the underlying market or अनुक्रमणिका the rate can be changed at the lender 's discretion.
The term `` variable-rate mortgage '' is most common outside the United States, whilst in the संयुक्त States, `` adjustable-rate mortgage '' is सबसे common, और implies a mortgage regulated by the संघीय government, with caps on charges.
in many देशों, adjustable rate mortgages are the norm, and in such places, may बस be referred to as mortgages.
Among the most common indices are the rates on 1-year constant-maturity राजकोष ( CMT ) securities, the Cost of निधि Index ( cofi ), और the London interbank Offered Rate ( LIBOR ).
A few lenders use their own cost of निधि as an अनुक्रमणिका, rather than using other indices.
This is done to ensure a steady हाशिया लिये the lender, whose own cost of funding होगा usually be related to the अनुक्रमणिका.
Consequently, payments बना by the borrower may change over समय साथ the बदलना ब्याज रेट ( alternatively, the पद of the ऋण may change ).
This is पृथक from the ग्रैजुएट payment mortgage, which offers changing payment amounts but a फिक्स्ड interest rate.
Other forms of mortgage loan include the interest only mortgage, the फिक्स्ड rate बंधक, the negative amortization mortgage, and the balloon payment mortgage.
Adjustable दरों transfer part of the interest rate risk इससे the lender to the borrower.
They can be used जहाँ मनमौजी ब्याज rates मेक फिक्स्ड रेट loans difficult to obtain.
the borrower benefits if the interest rate falls but loses if the interest रेट increases.
the borrower benefits इससे reduced margins to the underlying लागत of borrowing compared to फिक्स्ड or capped rate mortgages.
the assassination of Robert Francis `` Bobby '' Kennedy, a United States Senator और brother of assassinated President जॉन Fitzgerald `` जोकर '' Kennedy, took place shortly after midnight on जून 5, 1968, in लॉस Angeles, कैलिफ़ोर्निया, दौरान the campaign season लिये the United States Presidential election, 1968.
After winning the California and दक्षिण डकोटा primary elections for the Democratic नामांकन for President of the United States, Kennedy थी shot as he walked through the kitchen of the Ambassador होटल and died in the Good सामरी Hospital twenty-six hours later.
Sirhan sirhan, a 24-year-old Palestinian / जार्डन अप्रवासी, थी convicted of कैनेडी 's हत्या और is serving a life sentence for the अपराधों.
Sirhan 's lawyers have released statements claiming evidence that he was framed.
The शूटिंग was अंकित on audio tape by a freelance newspaper reporter, and the aftermath थी captured on film.
Kennedy 's body lay in repose at St. Patrick 's गिरजाघर in New यॉर्क for two days before a funeral द्रव्यमान was आयोजित on June 8.
His देह थी interred निकट his bhai John at Arlington National Cemetery.
His death prompted the protection of अध्यक्षीय candidates by the United States Secret Service.
ह्यूबर्ट Humphrey went on to win the Democratic नामांकन लिये the प्रेसिडेंसी, लकिन ultimately narrowly lost the election to Richard निक्सन.
As साथ उसके brother Jack 's मौत, bobby 's हत्या and the circumstances surrounding it have spawned a variety of conspiracy theories.
as of 2013 Kennedy remains one of तभी दो बैठे United राज्य Senators to be assassinated ( the अन्य being Huey Long ).
the Modern Age of कॉमिक Books is an informal नाम for the काल in the history of mainstream American comic किताबे generally माना to last from the mid-1980s जबतक present day.
in this period, कॉमिक किताब characters generally became गहरा and अधिक psychologically complex, creators became better-known और active in changing the उद्योग, स्वतंत्र comics flourished, and larger publishing घरों became अधिक commercialized.
An वैकल्पिक name for this period is the Dark आयु of कॉमिक Books, due to the popularity and artistic influence of grim titles, ऐसे as and Watchmen.
When Harry मिले Sally... is a 1989 अमरीकी रोमांटिक comedy film written by Nora Ephron और directed by Rob Reiner.
It stars Billy Crystal as हैरी and Meg Ryan as सैली.
the स्टोरी फ़ॉलो the title characters from the time they मिलें just before sharing a cross-country ड्राइव, through twelve years or so of chance मुठभेड़ों in New York City.
The film raises the question `` Can men and women कभी just be friends ? '' और अग्रिम many विचार परिचय relationships that became household अवधारणाओं, such as those of the `` '' गर्लफ्रेंड and the `` transitional person ''.
the origins of the film came इससे Reiner 's वापसी to single life after a तलाक.
An interview Ephron conducted साथ Reiner provided the आधार for हैरी.
सैली थी based on Ephron and some of her मित्रों.
क्रिस्टल came on board and made his own contributions to the पटकथा, making Harry funnier.
Ephron supplied the structure of the film with much of the dialogue based on the real-life friendship between reiner और Crystal.
The soundtrack consists of standards performed by Harry connick, Jr., with a big बैंड and ऑर्केस्ट्रा arranged by Marc shaiman.
Connick जीती his first Grammy Award लिये Best Jazz पुरूष Vocal Performance.
Columbia तस्वीरें released the film using the `` मंच '' तकनीक, जिससे शामिल opening it in a few select शहरों, letting positive word of mouth generate interest, and तब gradually expanding distribution over subsequent सप्ताह.
जब हैरी Met Sally... grossed a total of US $ 92.8 लाख in North America.
ephron received a British Academy Film पुरस्कार, an Oscar nomination, और a Writers Guild of अमेरिका Award nomination लिये her screenplay.
The film is क्रमित 23rd on AFI 's 100 Years... 100 Laughs list of the top कॉमेडी films in American cinema and number 60 on Bravo 's `` 100 Funniest Movies ''.
In early 2004, the फिल्मी थी adapted for the stage in a production starring ल्यूक Perry और Alyson Hannigan.
200px
Hamburger Helper is a line of packaged खाना products primarily consisting of boxed pasta bundled साथ a packet or packets of powdered sauce or seasonings.
The contents of प्रत्येक box are combined with browned मैदान beef, water and milk to create a complete डिश.
The उत्पाद line also features products with other starches such as rice or potatoes instead of pasta.
It is made by General मिलों.
हालांकि the क्लासिक boxed Hamburger Helper products only supply the starch item and the sauce पैकेट्स, some varieties of the उत्पाद include ground beef.
These include a frozen food line, which features some of the brand 's क्लासिक varieties in a complete meal kit रूप, with frozen ground beef और frozen sauce packaged separately from the noodles in the same bag.
There is also an `` instant '' संस्करण of Hamburger हेल्पर containing निर्जलित meat, noodles and seasonings in a छोटी pouch, requiring only water to be added.
The Hamburger हेल्पर mascot is the `` helping हाथ '', an anthropomorphic animated, चार fingered left-hand glove, which appears in the product 's टेलीविज़न commercials और on the packages.
Ceres as seen with the हबल Space Telescope.
It is the only dwarf planet in the asteroid belt.
Pluto in approximate true रंग आधारित on हबल Space Telescope albedo data
Haumea with its moons, hiʻiaka and Namaka ( artist 's conception )
माकेमाके ( artist 's conception )
Eris और its moon Dysnomia as seen with the Hubble Space Telescope
A बौना planet is a planetary-mass ऑब्जेक्ट that is neither a planet nor a उपग्रह.
More explicitly, the International Astronomical Union ( iau ) defines a बौना planet as a celestial body in direct orbit of the सूर्य that is विशाल enough for its shape to be नियंत्रित by gravitation, but that नापसंद a ग्रह has not cleared इसके orbital region of अन्य वस्तुएँ.
the term बौना planet was adopted in 2006 as part of a three-way categorization of लाशें orbiting the सूर्य, brought परिचय by an increase in discoveries of trans-Neptunian objects that rivaled Pluto in size, and finally precipitated by the डिस्कवरी of an even more massive object, Eris.
This वर्गीकरण states that bodies विशाल पर्याप्त to have cleared the neighbourhood of उनके कक्षा are पारिभाषित as ग्रह, जबकि those कि are not massive पर्याप्त to be rounded by their अपना gravity हैं पारिभाषित as small Solar System लाशें.
Dwarf planets come in between.
The exclusion of बौना ग्रह from the roster of planets by the IAU has been both praised और criticized ; it was said to be the `` सही निर्णय '' by Mike Brown, जो खोजा and other new dwarf planets, but has महरूम rejected by Alan stern, जो had coined the term dwarf planet in 1990.
The iau currently recognizes five बौना planets in the Solar System :, प्लूटो,,, and.
However, तभी दो of these लाशें, Ceres और प्लूटो, have been observed in enough विवरण to demonstrate that they fit the definition.
Eris has महरूम accepted as a dwarf planet क्युकी it is more विशाल than Pluto.
The IAU subsequently decided that unnamed trans-neptunian objects with an absolute परिमाण brighter than +1 ( and hence a व्यास of ≥838 km assuming a ज्यामितीय albedo of ≤1 ) are to be named under the assumption that they हैं dwarf ग्रह.
The तभी two such objects known at the समय, Makemake and हउमेया, गई through this naming procedure and यहूद declared to be dwarf planets.
It is suspected कि another hundred or so known objects in the Solar System हैं बौना planets.
Estimates हैं कि up to 200 बौना planets may be found जब the entire प्रदेश known as the Kuiper belt is explored, and कि the क्रमांक may exceed 10,000 when वस्तुएँ scattered outside the kuiper belt are considered.
व्यक्तिगत astronomers recognize several of these, and in August 2011 Mike Brown published a list of 390 प्रत्याशी objects, ranging from `` nearly certain '' to `` possible '' dwarf ग्रह. '
भूरा identifies nine known वस्तुएँ – the five accepted by the IAU plus,,, and – as `` virtually certain '', with another two dozen highly संभावित, and there are probably a hundred or so such objects in total.
The classification of bodies in अन्य planetary systems with the characteristics of dwarf ग्रह has नहीं been addressed.
A debit card ( भी known as a bank card or check card ) is a plastic भुगतान card that provides the cardholder electronic access to his or her बैंको account ( s ) at a financial संस्था.
कुछ cards have a stored मान with which a payment is made, while सबसे relay a message to the cardholder 's bank to withdraw funds from a payee 's designated bank account.
The कार्ड, जहाँ accepted, can be प्रयुक्त instead of cash when बनाना purchases.
In some cases, the प्राथमिक खाता क्रमांक is assigned exclusively for उपयोग on the Internet और there is no physical card.
In अनेक countries, the use of debit cards has become so फैली that their volume रै overtaken or entirely replaced cheques and, in some instances, cash transactions.
The development of डेबिट cards, unlike credit cards और charge cards, रै generally been country विशिष्ट resulting in a number of different systems around the world, which यहूद often असंगत.
चूंकि the mid-2000s, a number of initiatives have allowed debit cards issued in one country to be प्रयुक्त in other countries and अनुमत their use for internet and phone purchases.
नापसंद credit और चार्ज ताश, payments using a debit card are immediately transferred from the cardholder 's designated bank account, instead of उन्हें paying the money back at a later date.
Debit ताश usually also allow for instant वापसी of cash, एक्टिंग as the एटीएम कार्ड लिये withdrawing नकदी.
Merchants may also offer cashback सुविधाएं to ग्राहक, where a customer can withdraw cash along with their खरीदें.
Francois Henri `` जोकर '' LaLanne ( September 26, 1914 - January 23, 2011 ) was an American फ़िटनेस, कसरत, और nutritional विशेषज्ञ और प्रेरक स्पीकर who is sometimes पुकारा `` the गॉडफादर of fitness '' और the `` first fitness सुपरहीरो. ''
he वर्णित himself as being a `` sugarholic '' and a `` जंक food junkie '' until he was 15.
He also था behavioral problems, but `` turned his life around '' after listening to a public लेक्चर by पॉल Bragg, a well-known nutrition speaker.
दौरान उसके करियर, he came to believe that the country 's overall health depended on the health of its जनसांख्यिकी, writing कि `` physical culture and nutrition — is the salvation of America. ''
Decades before health and fitness began होने promoted by celebrities जैसे Jane Fonda और Richard Simmons, LaLanne थी already widely recognized for publicly उपदेश the health benefits of regular exercise और a शुभ diet.
he published numerous किताबे on फ़िटनेस और hosted a fitness television show between 1953 और 1985.
As जल्दी as 1936, at age 21, he opened one of the nation 's पहला फ़िटनेस gyms in Oakland, California, जिससे became a prototype for dozens of similar gyms using his name.
One of his 1950s टेलीविज़न exercise programs was aimed toward women, whom he भी encouraged to join उसके स्वास्थ्य clubs.
He invented a number of exercise मशीने, including leg-extension और pulley डिवाइस.
besides producing उसके अपना श्रेणी of videos, he coached the बुजुर्ग और disabled नहीं to forgo कसरत, believing it would enable उन्हें to बढ़ाएँ उनके strength.
LaLanne भी gained recognition for his success as a bodybuilder, as खूब as for his prodigious feats of strength.
अर्नाल्ड Schwarzenegger once stated, `` That Jack lalanne 's an animal !, '' after lalanne, at 54, beat a 21-year-old श्वार्ज़नेगर `` badly '' in an informal contest.
On the अवसर of lalanne 's death, Schwarzenegger credited lalanne for होने `` an apostle लिये fitness '' by inspiring `` billions all over the संसार to live healthier lives, '' और, as governor of California, था earlier placed him on his राज्यपाल 's Council on शारीरिक Fitness.
Steve Reeves credited LaLanne as his inspiration to build उसके muscular physique जबकि keeping a slim waist.
He was inducted to the कैलिफ़ोर्निया हॉल of कीर्ति and रै a star on the हॉलीवुड Walk of कीर्ति.
Air forces of most of the countries use system similar to Armies.
However, the RAF and the air forces of अनेक Commonwealth देशों, or those formerly under a British influence, उपयोग a different नियत of ranks loosely आधारित on naval equivalents ; Lieutenant, Commander, कप्तान और Commodore are prefixed for air force use with Flight, Wing, Group and एयर, क्रमशः ( the first three होने the units कि they used to कमांड ).
Penélope Cruz sánchez ( ; born April 28, 1974 ) is a Spanish actress.
Signed by an agent at age 15, she बना her एक्टिंग डेब्यू at 16 on television and उसके विशेषता film डेब्यू the following year in Jamón, jamón ( 1992 ), to critical acclaim.
उसके subsequent roles in the 1990s and 2000s included खोलें अपना Eyes ( 1997 ), the hi-lo Country ( 1999 ), the Girl of अपना Dreams ( 2000 ) and Woman on Top ( 2000 ).
Cruz achieved recognition for her lead भूमिकाएँ in the 2001 films Vanilla Sky and Blow.
वो has since built a successful career, appearing in films from a wide दायरा of genres, including the comedy Waking up in Reno ( 2002 ), the थ्रिलर Gothika ( 2003 ), the क्रिसमस movie Noel ( 2004 ), and the action adventure सहारा ( 2005 ).
वो has प्राप्त critical acclaim लिये उसके roles in volver ( 2006 ) and नौ ( 2009 ) receiving Golden Globe and Academy पुरस्कार nominations लिये प्रत्येक.
वो जीती the Academy Award for Best Supporting अभिनेत्री in 2008 for Vicky Cristina बार्सिलोना.
She was the first Spanish अभिनेत्री in history to प्राप्त an अकादमी Award and the first स्पेनी अभिनेत्री to receive a star at the Hollywood Walk of Fame.
Cruz has modeled for कंपनियाँ ऐसे as Mango, Ralph लॉरेन and L'Oréal.
Penélope और her younger सिस्टर Mónica क्रूज़ have designed वस्तुएं for Mango.
वो has donated both उसके समय और धन to charities.
Cruz has volunteered in Uganda and इण्डिया, where she spent one week working for माँ Teresa ; she donated her सैलरी इससे ' to help fund the लेट nun 's mission.
A मोम sculpture of क्रूज़ will be लगाई in a premier spot in the Grevin मोम Museum in Paris.
File Explorer, previously known as Windows Explorer, is a संचिका manager अनुप्रयोग and भी a navigation औजार कि is included with releases of the Microsoft Windows operating system from Windows 95 onwards.
It provides a graphical user इंटरफ़ेस for accessing the संचिका systems.
It is also the component of the operating system that presents अनेक user interface items on the मॉनिटर ऐसे as the taskbar और desktop.
Controlling the computer is possible बगैर खिड़कियाँ Explorer running ( for example, the File | चलाएं command in Task मैनेजर on nt-derived versions of Windows होगा फलन बगैर it, as will commands typed in a command prompt window ).
Located in the C : \Windows directory, it is sometimes referred to as the खिड़कियाँ shell, explorer.exe, or बस “Explorer”.
The Care bears हैं characters निर्मित by American बधाई in 1981 लिये use on greeting ताश.
The original कलाकृति for the cards थी painted by कलाकार Elena kucharik.
In 1983, Kenner turned the Care Bears into plush teddy bears.
The Care Bears appeared in उनके own TV specials पुकारा The Care Bears in the Land बगैर Feelings ( 1983 ) और The Care Bears Battle the Freeze यंत्र ( 1984 ).
वे also had उनके own television श्रेणी from 1985 to 1988, in addition to three विशेषता films : The Care Bears फिल्म ( 1985 ), परवाह Bears Movie II : A New पीढी ( 1986 ), and The परवाह bears एडवेंचर in वंडरलैंड ( 1987 ).
Each Care Bear comes in a different color and रै a specialized insignia on its belly that represents its duty and personality.
This insignia was ज्ञात as their `` tummy symbol. ''
However, the फिल्म Care Bears : Oopsy करता it ! renamed उन्हें `` पेट badges ''.
Adding to the Care Bear family हैं the `` परवाह Bear cousins '', which feature a lion, खरगोश, पेंगुइन, raccoon, and other ऐसे पशु निर्मित in the वही style as the teddy bears.
In 2002, the bears were reintroduced with new खिलौने.
Made by Play-Along खिलौने, the नई खिलौने offered features such as illuminated bellies upon touch, एरोबिक bears, and glow-in-the-dark bears.
as भाग of this comeback, the bears have appeared in two computer-animated movies : परवाह Bears : Journey to joke-a-lot ( 2004 ) and The Care bears ' बिग Wish Movie ( 2005 ).
In 2007, the franchise celebrated its 25th anniversary ; another relaunch took प्लेस, as well as the release of परवाह Bears : oopsy Does It !.
in mid-2011, AG announced a revival TV एनिमेटेड श्रेणी titled `` परवाह Bears : Welcome to Care-a-Lot ``.
The premiere of the series utilizes `` 30 years of देखभाल ''.
It premiered on The Hub on जून 2, 2012.
As of 2013, Care Bears merchandise is still होने marketed.
दौरान 2008 and 2009, Canada 's कुकी Jar Group and France 's MoonScoop Group attempted to acquire the franchise from AGC, साथ no apparent कामयाबी.
Interstate 70 ( i-70 ) is an Interstate राजमार्ग in the संयुक्त राज्य कि runs from अंतरराज्यीय 15 near कोव Fort, यूटा, to a पार्क and Ride निकट Baltimore, मेरीलैंड.
It was the पहला Interstate राजमार्ग प्रोजेक्ट in the United राज्य.
i-70 approximately traces the path of U.S. Route 40 ( और भी the old National Road ) east of the Rocky Mountains.
West of the Rockies, the route of I-70 was derived इससे अनेक स्त्रोत.
I-70 is the पांचवां longest अंतरराज्यीय Highway, after i-90, I-80, I-40, and i-10.
the construction of I-70 in Colorado and Utah is considered an engineering marvel as the route passes through the Eisenhower Tunnel, Glenwood canyon, and the San Rafael swell.
The Eisenhower Tunnel is the उच्चतम point along the अंतरराज्यीय Highway system with an elevation of.
The भाग of the अंतरराज्यीय in Missouri and Kansas have laid अर्जी to be the पहला interstate in the संयुक्त राज्य.
Though disputed, the Federal Highway Administration रै claimed the section of I-70 through Glenwood canyon, completed in 1992, was the पिछला piece of the अंतरराज्यीय Highway system, as originally नियोजित, to खोलें to ट्रैफ़िक.
Photo of 1999 total ग्रहण
As देखी from the धरती, a सौर eclipse occurs जब the Moon गुजरता between the Sun and धरती, और the चंद्रमा fully or partially blocks ( `` occults `` ) the सूर्य.
This can happen only at new moon, when the Sun और the चंद्रमा are in संयोजन as seen from Earth in an alignment referred to as syzygy.
in a total ग्रहण, the disk of the सूर्य is fully obscured by the Moon.
In partial और annular eclipses तभी भाग of the सूर्य is obscured.
if the Moon were in a perfectly circular orbit, a छोटी करीब to the Earth, and in the वही कक्षीय प्लेन, there would be total solar eclipses every single month.
however, the Moon 's orbit is inclined ( tilted ) at more than 5 डिग्री to धरती 's orbit around the सूर्य ( see ecliptic ) so its shadow at new moon usually misses धरती.
Earth 's orbit is पुकारा the ecliptic प्लेन as the Moon 's कक्षा must cross this plane in order लिये an eclipse ( both solar as well as lunar ) to occur.
In जोड, the Moon 's वास्तविक कक्षा is elliptical, प्रायः लेने it far enough दूर इससे Earth that its apparent आकार is not large enough to block the Sun totally.
The orbital planes cross each year at a line of नोड resulting in at least two, and up to five, सौर eclipses occurring each साल ; no अधिक than two of which can be कुल eclipses.
However, total solar eclipses are rare at कोई particular location क्युकी totality exists only along a narrow पाथ on Earth 's surface traced by the चंद्रमा 's shadow or umbra.
An eclipse is a प्राकृतिक घटना.
Nevertheless, in some ancient and modern संस्कृतियों, solar eclipses have been attributed to supernatural causes or regarded as ख़राब omens.
A total solar eclipse can be frightening to people who are unaware of its astronomical स्पष्टीकरण, as the सूर्य seems to disappear during the दिन and the आसमान darkens in a पदार्थ of minutes.
क्युकी it is dangerous to look directly at the Sun, observers should use special eye protection or अप्रत्यक्ष देखने तकनीकों जब देखने a partial eclipse, or the partial phases of a total ग्रहण.
It is safe to दृश्य the कुल phase of a total solar ग्रहण with the unaided eye और without protection, however.
People referred to as eclipse chasers or umbraphiles will सफर to remote locations to observe or witness predicted सेंट्रल solar eclipses.
A political party ( from, Genitive partis, `` part '', `` portion '' ) is a राजनैतिक संगठन कि typically seeks to influence, or entirely control, सरकारी policy, प्रायः by nominating candidates with aligned राजनैतिक views and trying to सीट them in political office.
Parties participate in electoral campaigns और educational outreach or protest क्रियाएँ.
Parties प्रायः espouse an विचारधारा or vision, expressed in a party कार्यक्रम, bolstered by a written platform साथ specific goals, forming a coalition among disparate interests.
The mango is a मांसल stone fruit belonging to the genus Mangifera, consisting of numerous तीव्र fruiting trees in the flowering plant परिवार Anacardiaceae.
The mango is देशी to South Asia, from जहाँ it has been distributed विश्वव्यापी to become one of the सबसे cultivated fruits in the tropics.
जबकि other Mangifera species ( e.g. घोड़ा आम, M. foetida ) हैं भी grown on a अधिक localized आधार, mangifera indica – the 'common mango ' or 'इण्डियाn mango ' – is the only mango tree commonly cultivated in अनेक तीव्र and subtropical regions.
it is the national फल of इण्डिया, Pakistan और Philippines.
In several cultures, its फल and leaves are ritually used as floral decorations at weddings, पब्लिक जश्न and धार्मिक ceremonies.
गिल arnette Byrd, < ref name > http : //www.pro-football-reference.com/players/B/ByrdGi00.htm ( born February 20, 1961 in San फ्रांसिस्को, California ) is a former professional American football player.
He was a two time Pro कटोरी cornerback in 1991 and 1992 for the San Diego Chargers after graduating from सैन जोस State विश्वविद्यालयों.
Byrd was inducted into the Chargers Hall of Fame in 1998.
He was an All-City कार्यशील back और रक्षात्मक back at लोवेल High School ( San Francisco ), helping to lead the Cardinals to the city championship in his senior season of 1978.
World map showing the tropic of Cancer
The tropic of Cancer, also referred to as the Northern tropic, is the circle of अक्षांश on the Earth that marks the सबसे northerly position at जिससे the सूर्य may appear directly overhead at इसके zenith.
This event occurs once प्रति साल, at the time of the June solstice, when the Northern Hemisphere is tilted toward the Sun to its maximum extent.
It फिलहाल ( Year 2013 ) झूठ at 23° 26′ 15.143′′ उत्तर of the equator.
Its Southern Hemisphere बंटवारा, marking the most southerly position at जिससे the सूर्य may appear directly overhead, is the Tropic of Capricorn.
These tropics are two of the पाँच प्रमुख degree measures or major circles of latitude that mark मानचित्र of the Earth, besides the आर्कटिक और Antarctic Circles and the Equator.
The स्थितियाँ of these circles of latitude ( other than the Equator ) हैं dictated by the tilt of the Earth 's axis of rotation relative to the plane of its orbit.
dvd-video is a consumer video format used to स्टोर digital video on dvd discs, और is currently the dominant consumer video format in Asia, उत्तर America, Europe, and Australia.
Discs using the DVD-Video specification require a DVD drive और an h.262/mpeg-2 Part 2 decoder ( e.g., a DVD player, or a computer DVD ड्राइव with a software DVD player ).
Commercial DVD movies are encoded using a संयोजन of H.262/MPEG-2 Part 2 compressed video और ऑडियो of varying formats ( often multi-channel formats as described below ).
typically, the data रेट लिये DVD movies सीमाएँ from 3 mbit/s to 9.5 Mbit/s, and the bit रेट is usually adaptive.
it was पहला उपलब्धियाँ लिये retail around 1997.
the DVD-Video specification was निर्मित by DVD Forum and can be प्राप्त from DVD Format/Logo लाइसेंसिंग निगम for a fee of $ 5,000.
the specification is not सरेआम available, because प्रत्येक subscriber must sign a non-disclosure agreement.
निश्चित information in the dvd Book is proprietary and confidential.
in computing and specifically Internet, a leech is एक जो लाभ, usually deliberately, from others ' information or प्रयत्न but does not offer anything in return, or makes only token offerings in an attempt to avoid being पुकारा a leech.
in economics, this type of behavior is पुकारा `` free riding '' and is associated with the free rider problem.
Depending on context, leeching does not necessarily refer to illegal use of कंप्यूटर resources, but often बजाय to greedy use according to etiquette : to wit, using too much of कया is freely दिए without contributing a reasonable राशि back to the जातियाँ that provides it.
the नाम derives इससे the जोंक, an animal that झंझट रक्त and then tries to leave unnoticed.
Other शर्तें are used, ऐसे as `` freeloader '', लकिन leech is the most आम.
the full eagle लोगो, used in विभिन्न versions इससे 1970 to 1993.
The संयुक्त राज्य डाक Service ( usps ), also known as the पोस्ट Office and u.S. Mail, is an independent agency of the United States संघीय government responsible लिये providing postal service in the United States.
It is one of the few government एजेंसियों explicitly authorized by the United States Constitution.
The usps traces its roots to 1775 during the Second Continental कॉंग्रेस, जहाँ बेंजामिन फ्रैंकलिन was appointed the first postmaster general.
The cabinet-level पोस्ट Office Department was निर्मित in 1792 from Franklin 's operation and transformed into इसके current form in 1971 अंतर्गत the Postal reorganization Act.
The usps employs over 574,000 मजदूर and operates over 260,000 vehicles.
The usps is the operator of the largest vehicle बेड़े in the संसार.
The USPS is legally obligated to serve all अमेरिकी, regardless of geography, at वर्दी दाम and विशेषता.
the USPS has विशेष access to letter बाक्स marked `` u.S. मेल '' and personal letterboxes in the United States, but still competes विरूद्ध private package delivery services, ऐसे as UPS और FedEx.
The USPS has नहीं सीधे received taxpayer-dollars since the early 1980s with the नाबालिग एक्सेप्शन of subsidies for costs associated with the disabled and विदेशी voters.
Since the 2006 all-time peak मेल volume, बाद जिससे Congress passed the Postal Accountability and enhancement Act ``, ( जिससे mandated $ 5.5 billion per year to be paid into an account to pre-fund retiree health-care, 75 years into the future, a requirement unique among organizations and व्यवसायों in the U.S. ), revenue dropped sharply due to recession-influenced declining mail volume, prompting the डाक सेवा to look to अन्य sources of revenue जबकि cutting costs to reduce its बजट deficit.
वॉशिंगटन, D.C. रै महरूम the पूंजी of the United States since 1800.
Eight अन्य cities have served as the meeting प्लेस लिये Congress और are therefore considered to have एकबार महरूम the पूंजी of the United States.
In addition, प्रत्येक of the 50 u.S. states और the five principal territories of the संयुक्त राज्य maintains its own capital.
राजकुमारी काटें diamond नियत in a रिंग
The Princess cut is the second सबसे popular cut आकार for diamonds, next to a गोलाकार शानदार.
The face-up shape of the राजकुमारी काटें is square or rectangular and the profile or side-on shape is समान to that of an inverted पिरामिड साथ four beveled पहलू.
The princess cut is a relatively नई diamond cut, having महरूम created in the 1960s.
It has gained in लोकप्रियता in हाल years as a more distinctive alternative to the more लोकप्रिय round brilliant cut, in जिससे the top of डायमंड, called the क्राउन, is cut with a round face-up shape and the bottom, पुकारा the pavilion, is तराशा समान to a cone.
a राजकुमारी cut with the वही width as the diameter of a गोलाकार brilliant होगा weigh अधिक as it रै four corners which would otherwise have been cut बंद and rounded to रूप a round brilliant.
The princess काटें is sometimes referred to as a square modified शानदार.
However, while displaying the same high degree of brilliance, its faceting स्टाइल is unique and completely different from that of a round brilliant.
The राजकुमारी cut had its origins in the early `` फ्रेंच '' काटें, having a step-modified `` Double-French '' or `` क्रॉस '' cut क्राउन and a श्रेणी of अद्वितीय, chevron-shaped facets in the मण्डप जिससे combine to give a distinct cross-shaped reflection when the स्टोन is viewed directly through the table.
Effectively, the Princess cut combines the ऊँची उपाधि of light return of a round brilliant cut with a distinctive square or आयताकार shape.
The square राजकुमारी काटें diamond is प्रायः थोड़ा cheaper than round brilliant cut diamonds of the वही कैरेट weight because it retains about 80 % of the rough डायमंड, as opposed to the round brilliant which retains only परिचय 50 % of the rough.
The ability to retain more crystal weight makes इस shape popular amongst diamond cutters.
Accredited gem appraisers ( AGA ) and American gem Society Laboratory ( AGSL ) and European Gem Laboratories-USA ( egl-usa ) हैं currently the only labs that grade the Princess cut लिये काटें.
वहीँ is no सार्वभौमिक definition of what माप make an आदर्श princess cut diamond and many diamond manufacturers market ideal ईंट with differing facet patterns और angles as `` आदर्श cut ''.
In कंट्रास्ट to the AGSL, AGA, और egl-usa the Gemological Institute of America ( GIA ) रै stated that there is not पर्याप्त industry consensus or empirical आंकड़ा to specify काटें grading मानकों for Princess cut diamonds and to do so is at the risk of consumers जो may be deceived by ईंट accompanied by unqualified Ideal or Excellent काटें grades.
the name `` राजकुमारी Cut '' थी originally used in कनेक्शन with another diamond cut, otherwise known as the `` Profile '' काटें, designed by Arpad Nagy, a London cutter, in 1961.
The वही name थी later used and made लोकप्रिय by ygal Perlman, Betzalel Ambar, और Israel Itzkowitz in Israel in 1979.
A समान काटें साथ only 49 facets, as opposed to the असली 58 facets of the princess काटें, थी later branded the `` quadrillion '' and initially वितरित by Ambar Diamonds in Los Angeles.
Three years of optical शोध yielded a square stone साथ faceting similar to that of a round brilliant cut diamond.
A तुलना
The number of chevrons can affect the overall outlook of a princess काटें डायमंड.
This can usually be determined by the तार diagram that is plotted in diamond grading reports.
By adding अधिक chevrons on the pavilion side of the diamond, the व्यक्तिगत facets of the diamond होगा now be broken down into smaller facets.
as a परिणाम, it can give a princess cut diamond a `` crushed ice '' look.
वाइस versa, when a princess cut diamond has lesser chevrons, it tends to give the diamond a chunky आउटलुक due to broader facets.
the domestic dog ( Canis lupus familiaris ) is a subspecies of the धूसर wolf ( canis lupus ), a member of the कैनिडाए family of the mammalian अनुक्रम Carnivora.
The term `` domestic श्वान '' is generally used लिये दोनो domesticated and feral varieties.
The dog रै been the first animal to be domesticated and has महरूम the most widely रखा working, hunting, and पालतु animal in human history.
the word `` श्वान '' may also mean the male of a canine species, as opposed to the word `` कुतिया '' for the मादा of the species.
MtDNA प्रमाण shows an evolutionary विभाजित between the modern श्वान 's lineage and the modern wolf 's lineage around 100,000 years पहले लकिन,, the oldest fossil specimens genetically linked to the modern dog 's lineage date to लगभग 33,000-36,000 years ago.
Dogs ' value to जल्दी इंसान hunter-gatherers led to them quickly becoming सर्वव्यापी across world संस्कृतियों.
Dogs perform many roles for people, such as शिकार, herding, pulling loads, protection, assisting police and सैन्य, companionship, and, अधिक recently, aiding handicapped individuals.
इस प्रभाव on human समाज has given them the nickname `` man 's बेहतरीन Friend '' in the पश्चिमी संसार.
In some cultures, dogs हैं भी a source of meat.
in 2001, वहीँ यहूद अनुमानित to be 400 million कुत्तो in the संसार.
Most breeds of dogs हैं at सबसे a few सौ सालो old, having been artificially चयनित लिये particular morphologies and behaviors by लोगों for specific functional roles.
Through इस चयनात्मक breeding, the dog रै विकसित into hundreds of varied breeds, and shows more behavioral and morphological विभिन्नता than any other land स्तनधारी.
For example, ऊँचाई measured to the withers ranges from in the Chihuahua to परिचय in the Irish wolfhound ; color varies from श्वेत through grays ( usually पुकारा `` blue '' ) to black, and browns from light ( tan ) to अंधेरा ( `` red '' or `` चॉकलेट '' ) in a चौड़ी variation of patterns ; coats can be छोटी or long, coarse-haired to wool-like, straight, घुंघराले, or चिकना.
It is आम for सबसे breeds to shed this coat.
Diagram of a हस्तांतरण electron microscope
A 1973 siemens electron microscope, Musée des Arts et métiers, Paris
An electron microscope ( EM ) is a प्रकार of सूक्ष्मदर्शी that उपयोग an electron बीम to illuminate a specimen and उपज a magnified image.
an EM has greater resolving शक्ति than a लाइट microscope और can reveal the ढांचा of smaller वस्तुएँ because electrons have wavelengths about 100,000 times shorter than visible light photons.
They can achieve better than 50 pm resolution and magnifications of up to about 10,000,000x whereas ordinary, non-confocal light microscopes are limited by diffraction to परिचय 200 nm resolution and useful magnifications below 2000x.
The electron microscope उपयोग electrostatic and इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक lenses to control the इलेक्ट्रॉन beam and focus it to रूप an image.
These electron optical lenses are analogous to the glass lenses of a light optical microscope.
इलेक्ट्रॉन microscopes are used to investigate the ultrastructure of a wide दायरा of biological and inorganic specimens सहित microorganisms, cells, large molecules, biopsy samples, metals, and crystals.
industrially, the electron microscope is often used लिये quality control and विफलता analysis.
Modern इलेक्ट्रॉन microscopes उपज electron micrographs, using specialized डिजिटल कैमरे or फ़्रेम grabbers to capture the image.
Popeyes Louisiana Kitchen is a chain of fried chicken तेज़ खाना restaurants founded in 1972 in New Orleans, Louisiana.
Often referred to as Popeyes और sometimes as popeyes मुर्गा & बिस्कुट or Popeyes मुर्गा & Seafood, It was acquired by Sandy Springs, Georgia -आधारd AFC Enterprises, originally America 's पसंदीदा Chicken Company, in 1993.
According to a कम्पनी press release dated जून 29, 2007, Popeyes is the second-largest `` quick-service मुर्गा रेस्तरां group, measured by number of units '', साथ अधिक than 1,800 restaurants in more than 40 राज्य and the ज़िला of कोलंबिया, और over 22 countries worldwide including Turkey, उत्तरी Cyprus, Bahrain, China, Hong Kong, इराकी, इंडोनेशिया, जॉर्डन, Kuwait, संयुक्त Arab अमीरात, जापानी, Malaysia, Saudi Arabia, South Korea, Singapore, कनाडा, जमैका, Guyana, Suriname, Mexico, त्रिनिदाद, Puerto Rico, होंडुरास, Vietnam, Panama, पेरू, and Costa Rica.
About तीस locations are company-owned, the rest franchised.
The leg press is a वज़न training कसरत in जिससे the व्यक्तिगत pushes a weight or resistance away from them using their टाँगे.
the term leg press भी refers to the apparatus प्रयुक्त to perform this exercise.
the लेग press can be used to evaluate an खिलाड़ी 's overall lower देह शक्ति ( इससे knee joint to हिप ).
Using the diagonal sled-type लेग press machine.
वहीँ हैं two प्रमुख types of leg press:
the तिर्यक or vertical 'sled ' प्रकार leg press.
वज़न disks ( plates ) are attached directly to the sled, जिससे is mounted on rails.
the उपयोक्ता sits नीचे the sled and pushes it upward with their feet.
These machines normally include adjustable safety brackets कि prevent the user from होने trapped under the weight.
The 'cable ' type leg press, or 'seated leg दबायें ', commonly मिला on multigyms.
The user sits कतरा और pushes forward with their फीट onto a plate कि is attached to the weight stack by means of a long steel केबल.
Wendy Williams Hunter ( born Wendy Joan विलियम्स ; जुलाई 18, 1964 ) is an American media personality, अभिनेत्री and author.
She hosts a syndicated टेलीविज़न talk दिखाएँ, The Wendy Williams Show.
prior to television, Williams was a `` shock jockette `` on अनेक radio shows.
Williams has gained सुर्खी for her on-air spats with celebrities.
She was the subject of the 2006 vh1 reality TV series called the Wendy Williams अनुभव which broadcast events surrounding her radio show.
वो has written an आत्मकथा and several other books, and रै निर्मित a उत्पाद लकीर called Adorn by Wendy Williams.
पैट्रिक Henry `` Treason '' speech before the House of Burgesses in an 1851 पेंटिंग by Peter F. Rothermel
`` Give me liberty, or दे me death ! '' is a quotation attributed to पैट्रिक Henry from a speech he made to the वर्जिनिया Convention.
On कि day, at St. John 's Church in Richmond, Virginia, and is credited साथ having swung the संतुलन in convincing the Virginia हाउस of burgesses to pass a resolution delivering the वर्जिनिया troops to the क्रांतिकारी War.
Among the delegates to the convention were future US Presidents थामस Jefferson and George Washington.
Newfoundland and Labrador (, locally ) is the easternmost province of Canada.
Situated in the country 's Atlantic region, it incorporates the island of Newfoundland and mainland Labrador to the northwest, साथ a संयुक्त area of.
In 2011, the प्रांत 's population was 514,536.
Approximately 92 प्रतिशत of the province 's population जीवनदान on the Island of न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड ( including its associated smaller islands ), of which more than half live on the Avalon Peninsula.
The प्रांत is Canada 's most linguistically homogenous, with 97.6 % of residents रिपोर्टिंग अंग्रेज़ी ( Newfoundland अंग्रेज़ी ) as their माँ tongue in the 2006 census ;.
Historically, Newfoundland थी also home to unique varieties of French, और आयरिश, as well as the now-extinct Beothuk language.
In labrador, लोकल dialects of Innu-aimun and Inuktitut हैं also बोला.
Newfoundland and Labrador 's capital and largest नगर, St. John 's, is कनाडा 's 20th-largest जनसांख्यिकी Metropolitan Area, और is home to almost 40 percent of the प्रांत 's जनसांख्यिकी.
st. John 's is the seat of government, home to the हाउस of Assembly of Newfoundland और labrador and the highest court in the क्षेत्राधिकार, the Newfoundland and Labrador अदालत of Appeal.
A former colony and dominion of the संयुक्त Kingdom, न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड and Labrador became the tenth province to enter the Canadian Confederation on March 31, 1949, as Newfoundland.
on December 6, 2001, an amendment थी बना to the संविधान of कनाडा to बदलें the province 's आधिकारिक name to Newfoundland and Labrador.
in day-to-day वार्तालाप, however, Canadians generally स्टिल refer to the प्रांत itself as Newfoundland and to the region on the कनाडाई mainland as Labrador.
Theodore `` t.r. ''
Roosevelt, Jr. ( ; October 27, 1858—january 6, 1919 ) was the 26th President of the United States ( 1901–1909 ).
He is विख्यात for his समृद्ध personality, range of interests और achievements, और his नेतृत्व of the Progressive गति, as खूब as उसके `` काउंटी `` persona and robust masculinity.
he was a leader of the Republican Party और founder of the first incarnation of the short-lived Progressive ( `` सांड Moose '' ) Party of 1912.
Before becoming President, he held offices at the city, state, and federal levels.
Roosevelt 's achievements as a naturalist, explorer, शिकारी, author, and soldier are as much a भाग of his fame as कोई दफ्तर he held as a politician.
Roosevelt was 42 years old जब sworn in as President of the United States in 1901, making him the youngest president ever ; he ताल out the youngest elected president, John F. Kennedy, by only एक year.
Roosevelt was also the पहला of only तीन sitting presidents to have जीती the Nobel Peace Prize.
The Teddy भालू is नामित after him, despite उसके contempt लिये होने called `` Teddy ''.
Born into a wealthy परिवार in नई York City, Roosevelt थी a sickly child who suffered इससे दमा and stayed at घर studying natural इतिहास.
to overcome उसके physical weakness, he embraced a strenuous life.
Home-schooled, he became an eager student of nature.
He attended Harvard University, where he studied biology, boxed and developed an interest in naval affairs.
In 1881, one साल out of हार्वर्ड, he थी निर्वाचित to the New York State Assembly, where he became a नेता of the सुधार faction of his Republican Party ( the `` gop '' ).
His The नवल युद्ध of 1812 ( 1882 ) established उसके professional reputation as a serious historian ; he wrote numerous किताबे on hunting, the outdoors, and current political मुद्दे, as well as frontier history.
in 1884, his first बीवी and his mother died on the same दिन.
he temporarily left politics and went to the frontier, becoming a rancher in the `` Badlands '' in the Dakotas.
Returning to नई York City, he भागा for महापौर in 1886, finishing तीसरा with 60,000 मत.
He later gained fame by taking vigorous charge of the city police.
at the national level, he was a leader in सिविल service सुधार.
The spanish–american युद्ध broke आउट in 1898 while रूज़वेल्ट थी, effectively, running the Department of the नेवी.
He promptly resigned and formed the Rough Riders – a स्वयंसेवी cavalry रेजीमेंट that fought in Cuba.
The war hero was elected governor in 1898 and in 1900 was मनोनीत लिये vice अध्यक्ष.
He successfully सक्रिय the gop base as a अत्यधिक visible campaigner to reelect President विलियम McKinley on a platform of high tariffs, the gold standard, साम्राज्यवाद, समृद्धि at home और victory abroad.
In 1901, President विलियम mckinley was assassinated and Roosevelt became President.
he attempted to move the Republican पार्टी ( GOP ) toward Progressivism, सहित trust busting और increased regulation of businesses.
Roosevelt became the first person elected to a पद in his own सही in 1904 after having ascended to the Presidency ( from the Vice-Presidency ) upon the death of his पूर्ववर्ती, winning the largest percentage of the popular vote since the uncontested election of 1820.
रूज़वेल्ट coined the phrase `` Square Deal `` to describe his घरेलू agenda, emphasizing कि the average citizen would मिलेंगी a fair share under उसके policies.
As an outdoorsman और naturalist, he promoted the संरक्षण गति.
On the world stage, रूज़वेल्ट 's नीतियों were characterized by उसके slogan, `` Speak softly and carry a big स्टिक ``.
A cousin is a relative with whom a person shares एक or अधिक common ancestor ( s ) ( other than a parent, child/descendant, sibling, child/descendant of a सहोदर, or sibling of a parent/ancestor ).
however in आम parlance, `` cousin '' normally specifically means `` first cousin ''.
Systems of `` degrees '' और `` removals '' are प्रयुक्त in the english-speaking world to describe the exact relationship between two cousins ( in the broad sense ) and the ancestor they have in common.
विभिन्न governmental entities have स्थापित प्रणालियों लिये legal उपयोग that can more precisely specify kinships with आम ancestors मौजूदा any number of generations in the past, though common उपयोग प्रायः eliminates the degrees और removals और refers to लोगों with आम ancestry as बस `` दूर cousins '' or `` रिश्तेदारों ''.
वेबस्टर is an अमरीकी situation comedy that aired on ABC from September 16, 1983 until May 8, 1987, and in first-run अनुप्रयोग from September 21, 1987 until March 10, 1989.
The series was created by stu Silver.
The show stars emmanuel लुईस in the title role as a यंग boy who, बाद losing his parents, is adopted by his NFL -pro godfather, portrayed by Alex karras, और his नई socialite बीवी, played by सुसान Clark.
The focus was largely on how this impulsively married couple had to adjust to their new lives and sudden parenthood, but it was the अनुकूल Webster खुद who drove much of the प्लाट.
The series थी produced by Georgian खाड़ी Ltd., Emmanuel Lewis entertainment Enterprises, Inc. ( 1986-1989 ) and सर्वोपरि Television.
Like NBC 's earlier hit Diff'rent Strokes, Webster प्रदर्शित a young african-american boy adopted by a white family.
Three types of cell प्रभाग
Cell division is the process by which a जनक cell divides into दो or more daughter कोशिकाएं.
कोशिका division usually occurs as part of a larger कोशिका cycle.
In eukaryotes, वहीँ are two distinct प्रकार of cell division : a vegetative division, whereby each daughter cell is genetically identical to the जनक cell ( mitosis ), and a reductive cell division, whereby the number of chromosomes in the daughter cells is घटाया by half, to produce haploid gametes ( meiosis ).
Both of these कोशिका division cycles are जरूरी in sexually reproducing जीवों at some point in उनके life साईकिल, and both are believed to be present in the last eukaryotic common ancestor Prokaryotes also undergo a vegetative cell division known as शब्दकोष परिवर्द्धन, where their जेनेटिक सामग्री is segregated बराबर into two daughter cells.
All cell divisions, regardless of organism, are preceded by a single round of DNA replication.
For सरल एककोशिकीय organisms such as the amoeba, एक cell division is equivalent to reproduction – an संपूर्ण नई सजीव is created.
On a larger scale, mitotic cell division can create progeny इससे multicellular organisms, such as plants कि grow from cuttings.
Cell प्रभाग also enables sexually reproducing organisms to develop from the one-celled zygote, which itself was produced by cell division इससे गैमीट.
और after growth, कोशिका division allows for continual निर्माण and मरम्मत of the organism.
a human being 's देह अनुभवों about 10,000 trillion cell divisions in a lifetime.
Cell division has been modeled by finite subdivision नियम.
the प्राथमिक concern of कोशिका division is the मेंटेनेंस of the original cell 's genome.
पहले division can occur, the genomic information that is stored in chromosomes जरूर be replicated, और the duplicated genome must be अलग cleanly between कोशिकाएं.
a great deal of cellular infrastructure is involved in keeping genomic information सतत between `` generations ''.
Mountain सीमाएँ of Massachusetts, संयुक्त States.
Howard Jones ( born John Howard जोन्स, 23 February 1955, Southampton, हैम्पशायर, England ) is a British musician, सिंगर and songwriter.
According to the Guinness Book of अंग्रेजों hit singles & Albums, `` Jones is an accomplished singer-songwriter who was a regular chart visitor in the mid-1980s with उसके brand of synthpop.
जोन्स, who was equally popular in the U.S., appeared at Live सहायता ``.
Allmusic journalist, Stephen Thomas Erlewine adds, `` Jones was one of the defining आंकड़े of mid-1980s synthpop.
His म्यूज़िक merged the प्रौद्योगिकी intensive sound of New वेव साथ the cheery optimism of hippies and late 1960s pop.
Jones racked up a स्ट्रिंग of hits in the mid और late 1980s, before he retreated into being a cult figure in the 1990s ''.
The International Isle of man TT ( Tourist ट्रॉफी ) Race is a motorcycle रेसिंग इवेंट held on the Isle of man and was for many सालो the सबसे prestigious मोटरसाइकिल रेस in the world.
The event थी part of the FIM मोटरसाइकिल Grand Prix World Championship during the period 1949–1976 before being transferred to the United किंगडम after safety concerns and run by the fim as the British Grand Prix for the 1977 season.
The आइल of man tt Races became भाग of the TT Formula 1 Championship इससे 1977 to 1990 to बचाना the इवेंट 's racing औकात.
इससे 1989 the रेसिंग has महरूम developed by the Isle of man Department of Tourism as the आइल of Man TT Festival.
The रेस is चलाएं in a time-trial format on public roads बंद for racing by the प्रावधानों of an Act of Tynwald ( the पार्लियामेंट of the Isle of Man ).
the first race थी held on मंगलवार 28 May 1907 और was called the अंतरराष्ट्रीय Auto-Cycle पर्यटक Trophy.
The event थी organised by the Auto-Cycle क्लबों over 10 गोद of the St जॉन 's Short Course of 15 मील 1,470 yards for road-legal touring मोटरसाइकिल साथ exhaust silencers, saddles, pedals and mud-guards.
The winner of the single-cylinder class, और overall winner of the first event in 1907, थी Charlie Collier riding a matchless motorcycle in a time of 4 घंटों, 8 minutes and 8 सेकेंड at an average race speed of 38.21 mph.
The विजेता of the twin-cylinder क्लास थी Rem Fowler riding a Peugeot engined Norton in a समय of 4 hours 21 मिनट्स और 52 सेकेंड at an average race speed of 36.21 किमी.
The trophy presented to Charlie Collier as the विजेता of the 1907 Isle of Man TT Race, was donated by the बिल्ले de Mouzilly St. Mars.
It प्रदर्शित a stylised संस्करण of ओलम्पिक परमेश्वर Hermes by Giovanni da बोलोग्ना as a चांदी figurine astride a winged wheel.
the ट्रॉफी was समान in design to the 18 carat gold Montague Trophy प्रस्तुत to John Napier ( arrol-johnston ) as the inaugural winner of the आइल of Man पर्यटक Trophy car रेस in 1905 now known as the rac Tourist Trophy.
The Marquis de Mouzilly St. Mars ट्रॉफी is अभी presented annually to the winner of the Isle of Man Senior TT Motor-Cycle Race.
The 2007 Isle of Man tt was the Centenary event which भागा between 26 may और 8 June 2007 and प्रदर्शित a special Re-enactment of the 1907 Isle of Man TT रेस held on the गाँव ग्रीन next to tynwald Hill in St John 's on Monday 28 May 2007.
The vintage parade of 100 क्लासिक motorcycles लिये the centenary Re-enactment on the original St जॉन 's छोटी Course was flagged away by former संसार Motor-Cycle चैंपियन ज्यॉफ Duke.
The पहला of the participants to be flagged दूर was the recently restored twin-cylinder Peugeot-Norton ridden by Rem Fowler during the first Isle of man TT Race in 1907.
भी participating in the 2007 Re-enactment थी TT race competitor guy मार्टिन सवारी a 1938 Triumph बाघ 100 500 cc and other पूर्व TT प्रतिस्पर्धी including Alan Cathcart, सैमी मिलर, Nick jefferies and मिक ग्रान्ट भी completed the Re-enactment गोद.
upright=1.15
Unemployment ( or joblessness ) occurs when लोगों are without work और actively seeking कार्य.
The unemployment rate is a measure of the व्यापकता of unemployment and it is calculated as a percentage by dividing the number of unemployed individuals by all individuals currently in the labor force.
During अवधि of recession, an economy usually अनुभवों a अपेक्षाकृत high बेरोजगारी रेट.
According to International Labour Organization report, more than 197 million people globally are out of work or 6 % of the world 's workforce were without a job in 2012.
वहीँ remains considerable theoretical debate regarding the कल्याणकारी, consequences and समाधान लिये unemployment.
Classical अर्थशास्त्र, New शास्त्रीय economics, and the Austrian स्कूल of economics argue कि market mechanisms हैं reliable अर्थात् of resolving unemployment.
These theories argue against interventions imposed on the मजदूर मार्केट इससे the outside, ऐसे as unionization, minimum wage laws, taxes, and other regulations that they claim discourage the hiring of workers.
Keynesian economics emphasizes the cyclical nature of unemployment और recommends सरकारी interventions in the economy that it दावा होगा reduce unemployment during recessions.
This theory focuses on recurrent shocks कि suddenly reduce कुल demand for goods and services and thus reduce demand for workers.
keynesian models सुझाएँ government interventions designed to बढ़ाएँ माँग for workers ; these can include वित्तीय stimuli, सरेआम वित्तपोषित job सृष्टि, and expansionist मौद्रिक policies.
In addition to these comprehensive theories of बेरोजगारी, वहीँ are a few categorizations of unemployment that हैं used to more precisely मॉडल the effects of unemployment within the economic प्रणाली.
The प्रमुख types of बेरोजगारी include structural बेरोजगारी which focuses on structural problems in the अर्थव्यवस्था और inefficiencies inherent in श्रमिक बाज़ार, including a mismatch between the supply और demand of laborers with जरुरी skill sets.
Structural arguments emphasize causes and solutions सम्बन्धित to disruptive technologies and वैश्वीकरण.
Discussions of frictional unemployment focus on voluntary decisions to work based on each individuals ' valuation of उनके own work and कैसा that compares to current wage rates plus the time and प्रयत्न required to find a job.
कल्याणकारी and समाधान for frictional unemployment प्रायः address job entry दहलीज and wage दरों.
behavioral अर्थशास्त्रियों हाइलाइट individual biases in निर्णय बनाना, and often involve problems and समाधान concerning sticky wages and दक्षता wages.
collectivism is any philosophic, political, धार्मिक, economic, or social outlook that emphasizes the interdependence of every human being in a society or civilization.
Collectivism is a basic cultural तत्व कि exists as the reverse of व्यक्तिगत in human प्रकृति ( in the same रास्ता high कॉन्टेक्स्ट culture exists as the reverse of कम कॉन्टेक्स्ट culture ).
Collectivist orientations तनाव the महत्व of cohesion within social groups ( ऐसे as an `` in-group '', in कया विशिष्ट context it is defined ) and in some मामले, the प्रधानता of group goals over individual goals.
collectivists प्रायः फ़ोकस on जातियाँ, society, nation or country.
It रै been प्रयुक्त as an तत्व in many अलग and diverse types of government and राजनैतिक, आर्थिक and शैक्षणिक तत्त्वज्ञान throughout इतिहास and most human समाजों in अभ्यास contain elements of both individualism and collectivism.
कुछ उदाहरण of collectivist cultures include India and Japan.
collectivism can be divided into horizontal collectivism और vertical collectivism.
Horizontal collectivism stresses collective decision-making among equal individuals, and is यूँ usually आधारित on decentralization and egalitarianism.
लंबवत collectivism is based on hierarchical structures of power और on moral and cultural conformity, और is therefore based on centralization and hierarchy.
a सहकारी एंटरप्राइज़ होता be an example of horizontal collectivism, whereas a military hierarchy would be an example of vertical collectivism.
अधि disseminated encephalomyelitis ( adem ) is an immune mediated disease of the दिमाग.
it प्रायः occurs following a viral संक्रमण but may appear following टीकाकरण, bacterial or parasitic infection, or even appear spontaneously.
As it involves असंक्राम्य demyelination, it is similar to अनेक sclerosis, and is considered part of the Multiple sclerosis borderline रोगों.
The incidence rate is about 8 per 1,000,000 लोगों per year.
Although it occurs in all आयु, सबसे reported cases are in children and adolescents, with the average आयु around 5 to 8 years बूढ़ा.
The mortality रेट may be as high as 5 %, full recovery is seen in 50 to 75 % of cases, जबकि up to 70 to 90 % recover साथ some minor residual disability.
The average time to recover is one to six महीने.
ADEM produces multiple inflammatory lesions in the brain and spinal cord, particularly in the white matter.
Usually these are found in the subcortical and central white पदार्थ and cortical gray-white जंक्शन of दोनो cerebral hemispheres, cerebellum, brainstem, और spinal cord, लकिन periventricular white matter and gray matter of the cortex, thalami and basal ganglia may also be शामिल.
जब the रोगी suffers more than एक demyelinating episode, it is called तूल disseminated encephalomyelitis or multiphasic disseminated encephalomyelitis ( mdem ).
The पेट is a muscular, hollow, dilated part of the digestion system which functions as an महत्वपूर्ण अंग of the digestive tract in some animals, including vertebrates, echinoderms, कीट ( mid-gut ), and molluscs.
It is involved in the second phase of digestion, following mastication ( चबाने ).
The stomach is located between the esophagus और the small intestine.
It secretes protein-digesting enzymes पुकारा protease और दमदार acids to सहायता in खाना digestion, ( sent to it via esophageal peristalsis ) through चिकना muscular contortions ( called segmentation ) before sending partially digested food ( chyme ) to the small intestines.
the word stomach is derived इससे the Latin stomachus which is derived from the Greek word stomachos ( στόμαχος ), ultimately इससे stoma ( ), `` mouth ''.
The words gastro- and gastric ( meaning related to the stomach ) are both निकला from the यूनानी शब्द gaster ( ).
1940 Pontiac Special Series 25 Woodie
A woodie is a car देह स्टाइल, विशेषकर a स्टेशन wagon, where the rear bodywork is constructed of wood फ्रेमवर्क with infill panels of लकडी or painted मेटल.
बाद the निधन of actual wood निर्माण, manufacturers used simulated woodgrain चादर vinyl—sometimes augmented साथ three-dimensional, simulated framework—to recall wood construction.
In 2008, wood construction was evoked abstractly on the Ford Flex साथ a series of side और पश्च आड़ा grooves.
A pearl is a hard object produced within the soft tissue ( specifically the mantle ) of a living shelled mollusc.
Just like the shell of a clam, a pearl is बना up of calcium carbonate in minute crystalline form, which has been deposited in केंद्रिय layers.
the ideal pearl is perfectly round and smooth, but अनेक other shapes of pearls ( baroque pearls ) occur.
the finest विशेषता natural मोती have been highly valued as रत्नों और objects of सौंदर्य लिये अनेक centuries, and because of this, the word पर्ल has become a रूपक लिये something very rare, ठीक, admirable, and मूल्यवान.
The most valuable pearls occur spontaneously in the wild, but they are extremely rare.
These जंगली pearls हैं referred to as natural pearls.
Cultured or farmed मोती इससे पर्ल oysters and freshwater mussels मेक up the majority of those that हैं currently sold.
Imitation pearls are also widely बेची in inexpensive jewelry, लकिन the quality of their iridescence is usually बहुत poor, and often, artificial pearls are easily विशिष्ट from genuine मोती.
मोती have महरूम harvested and cultivated primarily for use in jewelry, लकिन in the पास्ट they were also stitched onto lavish clothing.
मोती have also महरूम crushed and प्रयुक्त in cosmetics, दवाइयाँ, and in paint formulations.
Whether wild or cultured, gem quality मोती are almost सदा nacreous and, as is the interior of the shell that produces them.
However, लगभग सब प्रजाति of shelled molluscs are capable of producing pearls ( formally referred to as `` calcareous concretions '' by कुछ sources ) of lesser चमक or less spherical shape.
Although these may भी be legitimately referred to as `` मोती '' by gemological labs and भी अंतर्गत u.S. संघीय Trade Commission नियम, and are formed in the same रास्ता, most of them have no value, except as curiosities.
Bing ( ज्ञात previously as सजीव ढूंढें, Windows Live Search, और एमएसएन Search ) is a web ढूंढें engine ( advertised as a `` decision engine `` ) इससे Microsoft.
Bing was unveiled by Microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer on May 28, 2009 at the All बाते Digital सम्मेलन in San Diego for release on जून 1.
notable changes शामिल the listing of search सुझाव जबकि queries are entered and a list of related searches ( पुकारा `` Explore pane '' ) based on semantic technology इससे Powerset which Microsoft purchased in 2008.
on July 29, 2009, Microsoft and Yahoo ! announced a deal in जिससे bing would power Yahoo ! Search.
All Yahoo ! ढूंढें global customers और साझेदार are expected to have made the transition by जल्दी 2012.
In October 2011, bing announced it was working on new back-end search infrastructure, with the goal of delivering faster और थोड़ा more relevant search results for users.
Known as `` बाघ '', the new index-serving technology has महरूम incorporated into bing globally, since August 2011.
In May 2012, Bing घोषित another redesign of its ढूंढें engine that includes `` साइडबार '', a social विशेषता कि खोज उपयोक्ता ' social संजाल लिये information relevant to the search query.
A आरेख showing an I गठन on offense and a 4-3 गठन on defense
in अमरीकी football, each team has ग्यारह players on the field at one time.
The specific role that a player takes on the field is called उनके स्थिति.
अंतर्गत the आधुनिक rules of अमरीकी football, टीमों are allowed असीमित subsititutions, कि is teams may बदलें any क्रमांक of खिलाड़ी after any play.
This has resulted in the development of three `` platoons '' of players, the offense ( the team with the बॉल, who is trying to स्कोर ), the रक्षा ( the team trying to prevent the other team from scoring, and to take the ball from them ), and the special teams ( who play in kicking परिस्थितियों ).
Within those platoons, विभिन्न विशिष्ट positions exist depending on what the player 's main job is.
The Irish people ( or na héireannaigh ; Ulster-Scots : airish fowk ) हैं an ethnic group जो originate in आयरलैंड, an island in northwestern यूरोपीय.
Ireland has been populated for around 9,000 years ( according to पुरातत्व studies, see Prehistoric Ireland ).
the Irish people 's earliest ancestors are अंकित in legends – वे are claimed to be descended from groups ऐसे as the nemedians, Fomorians, Fir bolg, Tuatha dé Danann and the milesians.
Lebor Gabála Érenn, a book of Irish mythology tells that Milesians were स्काइथियन descendants.
the main groups that interacted with the आयरिश in the Middle आयु include the Picts, Scots, और the Vikings.
Due to this contact, icelanders हैं noted लिये having कुछ Irish descent.
The Anglo-Norman invasion of the ऊँची Middle Ages, the English plantations and the subsequent English rule of the country introduced the Normans और Flemish into Ireland.
Welsh, Picts, Bretons, and छोटी पार्टियों of Gauls and even Anglo-Saxons are known in Ireland from much earlier टाइम्स.
There have been many notable Irish people throughout history.
the 6th century Irish monk and missionary Columbanus is regarded as एक of the `` fathers of यूरोपीय '', followed by Kilian of Würzburg और Vergilius of Salzburg.
The scientist रॉबर्ट बॉयल is माना the `` father of रसायन ``.
Famous Irish explorers include Brendan the Navigator, Robert McClure, Ernest Shackleton and Tom Crean.
By कुछ खाते, the पहला यूरोपीय child born in North America had Irish descent on both sides ; और an Irishman was the first European to set पैर on अमरीकी soil in Columbus ' expedition of 1492.
There हैं वंशजों of Irish लोगों जीना in अनेक पश्चिमी countries, particularly in English-speaking countries.
Historically, करणों रै been caused by politics, अकाल and आर्थिक issues.
An estimated 50 to 80 million लोगों are descendants of Irish people, primarily in the United Kingdom, the United States, ऑस्ट्रेलिया, Canada and Iceland ; there are also smaller numbers in अर्जेंटीना, Chile, Mexico, जमैका, Barbados, South Africa, New Zealand, France, Germany and Brazil.
The largest क्रमांक of descendants of Irish people live in the United States.
The क्रमांक of people living in Australia who are of Irish descent is higher, as a percentage of total population, than that of any अन्य country.
Approximately forty percent of the settlement population of Iceland came from आयरलैंड or स्कॉटलैंड.
The very first inhabitants of Iceland यहूद Irish.
the हबल Space Telescope ( HST ) is a space दूरदर्शी कि थी carried into orbit by a Space Shuttle in 1990 and remains in आपरेशन.
A एपर्चर telescope in low Earth orbit, हबल 's four main instruments observe in the निकट ultraviolet, visible, and near infrared.
The दूरदर्शी is named after the astronomer Edwin Hubble.
Hubble 's orbit बाहर the distortion of धरती 's माहौल allows it to take अत्यधिक sharp images with almost no background लाइट.
Hubble 's Deep Field have been कुछ of the most detailed visible-light images ever, allowing a गहन दृश्य into स्पेस and time.
अनेक हबल observations have led to breakthroughs in astrophysics, ऐसे as accurately determining the रेट of expansion of the universe.
हालांकि not the first space telescope, Hubble is one of the largest और most versatile, और is well known as both a vital research tool और a public relations बून लिये astronomy.
The HST थी निर्मित by the United States space agency NASA, with contributions from the European Space Agency, and is operated by the Space Telescope Science Institute.
The hst is one of NASA 's Great Observatories, along with the Compton गामा रे Observatory, the चन्द्रा x-ray Observatory, and the Spitzer Space Telescope.
Space telescopes were proposed as early as 1923.
Hubble was funded in the 1970s, with a proposed launch in 1983, but the प्रोजेक्ट थी घिरा by technical delays, budget problems, and the Challenger disaster.
When finally launched in 1990, scientists मिला that the main mirror had been ground incorrectly, compromising the telescope 's capabilities.
The दूरदर्शी was restored to इसके intended quality by a सर्विसिंग मिशन in 1993.
Hubble is the only telescope designed to be serviced in स्पेस by astronauts.
Between 1993 and 2002, चार मिशन repaired, upgraded, and replaced systems on the telescope ; a fifth mission was रद्द on safety grounds following the Columbia विपत्ति.
However, after spirited पब्लिक discussion, NASA व्यवस्थापक माइक Griffin approved one final सर्विसिंग mission, completed in 2009 by स्पेस Shuttle Atlantis.
The telescope is अभी expected to फलन until at least 2013.
Its scientific successor, the जेम्स Webb Space Telescope ( jwst ), is to be launched in 2018 or possibly बाद.
Anti-inflammatory refers to the प्रॉपर्टी of a substance or treatment कि reduces inflammation.
anti-inflammatory दवाएँ make up परिचय हाफ of analgesics, remedying पीड़ा by reducing सूजन as opposed to opioids, which affect the central बेचैन system.
the tonight Show is a us late-night talk show that has aired on एनबीसी since 1954.
it is the longest currently running regularly अनुसूचित entertainment program in the US and the तीसरा longest-running दिखाएँ on एनबीसी बाद Meet the दबायें and आज.
the tonight Show was hosted by Steve Allen ( 1954–1957 ), Jack Paar ( 1957–1962 ), Johnny कार्सन ( 1962–1992 ), Jay लीनो ( 1992–2009, 2010–present ), and कोनन O'Brien ( 2009–2010 ).
Several guest hosts also appeared, विशेषकर during the Paar and Carson eras.
the longest-serving host to तिथि थी Johnny कार्सन, who hosted The tonight Show Starring Johnny कार्सन for 30 seasons from the fall of 1962 through the spring of 1992.
The current मेजबान of the show is Jay Leno, जो had previously hosted the show from 1992 to 2009 और began his second tenure on कूच 1, 2010.
On अप्रैल 3, 2013, NBC announced jimmy fallon होता become the new host of The tonight Show.
The Tonight दिखाएँ with jimmy Fallon will premiere February 24, 2014, the day after the closing ceremonies of the 2014 Winter Olympics.
ss एंड्रिया Doria.
सुनाया was an ocean लाइनर for the Italian Line ( Società di navigazione Italia ) home ported in Genoa, इटली, most प्रसिद्ध for its डूब in 1956, when 52 लोगों died ( 51 from तात्कालिक impact ).
Named बाद the 16th-century genoese admiral Andrea Doria, the ship had a gross पंजीकरण tonnage of 29,100 and a capacity of about 1,200 यात्री and 500 क्रू.
For a country attempting to rebuild its अर्थव्यवस्था और प्रतिष्ठा बाद World War II, Andrea डोरिया was an icon of Italian नेशनल pride.
Of सब Italy 's जहाजों at the time, एंड्रिया डोरिया was the largest, fastest and माना safest.
Launched on 16 जून 1951, the ship undertook its maiden voyage on 14 जनवरी 1953.
On 25 July 1956, जबकि the Andrea Doria थी approaching the coast of nantucket, Massachusetts, bound लिये New York City, the eastbound of the Swedish American Line collided साथ it in कया became one of इतिहास 's most infamous maritime disasters.
Struck in the side, the top-heavy एंड्रिया डोरिया immediately प्रारंभ to list severely to starboard, which left half of its lifeboats unusable.
The consequent shortage of lifeboats might have resulted in significant घाटा of जीवन, but the दक्षता of the ship 's technical design अनुमत it to stay afloat for over 11 hours after the ramming.
the good behavior of the crew, improvements in communications and the रैपिड response of अन्य ships averted a विपत्ति समान in scale to that of the in 1912.
1,660 passengers and crew were rescued और survived, while 46 लोगों died as a consequence of the collision.
the evacuated लक्ज़री लाइनर capsized और sank the following morning.
This accident remains the worst maritime disaster to occur in United राज्य waters since the डूब of the in 1915.
The incident and its aftermath were heavily covered by the news मीडिया.
जबकि the rescue efforts were both successful and commendable, the cause of the टक्कर with the Stockholm and the loss of Andrea डोरिया generated much interest in the media और many lawsuits.
largely because of an out-of-court settlement agreement between the two shipping कंपनियाँ during hearings immediately after the disaster, no determination of the cause ( s ) was ever formally published.
Although greater blame appeared initially to fall on the इतालवी liner, more recent discoveries have indicated that a misreading of radar on the Swedish ship may have initiated the टक्कर कोर्स, leading to errors on both ships.
Andrea डोरिया was the पिछला प्रमुख transatlantic यात्री vessel to डूबना before aircraft became the preferred method of travel.
Dialysis tubing
Dialysis tubing is a type of semi- or partially permeable झिल्ली tubing made इससे regenerated cellulose or cellophane.
It can be used लिये diffusion with solutes or osmosis if प्रयुक्त with water only.
Osmosis is when water passes through a semi-permeable परत to पहुँचें equilibrium.
Diffusion, on the अन्य hand, allows the movement of molecules from ऊँची concentration to low विशेषज्ञता.
it will only allow molecules to pass through a semi-permeable membrane or layer if the अणु is small enough to fit through the membrane or a membrane 's pore.
This usually परिणाम with the effects of diffusion through a membrane only वाकई affects small अणुओं, और almost never larger molecules.
डायलिसिस tubing is used in clinical हालातों to ensure a filtered प्रवाह of molecules, preventing the flow of larger solute molecules.
Small molecules can be `` washed '' आउट of a solution which is उत्तेजित through the tubing into a solvent, usually water, which surrounds it और in which वे can be flushed away.
In demonstrations of semi-permeable membranes, a solution containing अनेक types of molecules, usually ग्लूकोज and starch, is placed into a semi-permeable डायलिसिस bag, such as a cellulose membrane with pores, and the bag is sealed with a गांठ or elastic band.
The sealed डायलिसिस bag is लगाई in a संग्राहक of a अलग solution, or water.
Molecules छोटी enough to pass through the tubing ( water, salts, monosaccharides, and other small अणुओं ) tend to move into or out of the dialysis bag in the direction of decreasing concentration, therefore displaying diffusion.
larger molecules ( ऐसे as प्रोटीन, or polysaccharides ) that have dimensions significantly greater than the pore diameter हैं retained inside the डायलिसिस bag.
The water और smaller solutes in a hypotonic solution ( a समाधान that has a lesser solute concentration than the समाधान it is referenced to ) will क्रॉस a semi-permeable झिल्ली, जैसे डायलिसिस tubing, into a hypertonic solution ( a solution that रै a higher solute विशेषज्ञता than the समाधान it is referenced to ) in an attempt to पहुँचें संतुलन, जहाँ the solute विशेषज्ञता of each समाधान is in संतुलन.
Mercury प्रयोगशाला thermometer
A thermometer ( इससे the Greek, thermos, meaning `` hot '' and μἐτρον, metron, `` माप '' ) is a device that measures temperature or temperature gradient using a variety of different सिद्धान्त.
A थर्मामीटर has two महत्वपूर्ण elements : the temperature sensor ( e.g. the bulb on a mercury-in-glass थर्मामीटर ) in जिससे some शारीरिक change occurs with temperature, plus some अर्थात् of converting इस शारीरिक change into a numerical मान ( e.g. the visible scale that is marked on a mercury-in-glass thermometer ).
There are many types and अनेक uses for thermometers, as detailed below in sections of this article.
हिम श्वेत और the Seven dwarfs is a 1937 American एनिमेटेड musical fantasy film उत्पादित by वॉल्ट Disney and released by RKO Radio Pictures.
आधारित on the German fairy टेल by the भाइयो Grimm, it is the first full-length cel animated feature film और the earliest in the वॉल्ट Disney Animated Classics series.
The story was adapted by storyboard कलाकारों Dorothy ऐन Blank, रिचर्ड Creedon, Merrill De Maris, ओटो englander, Earl Hurd, Dick rickard, Ted सियर्स और webb स्मिथ.
दाउद हाथ was the supervising निदेशक, while William Cottrell, विल्फ्रेड Jackson, Larry Morey, Perce Pearce, and Ben sharpsteen निर्देशित the film 's individual sequences.
हिम White premiered at the carthay Circle Theatre on December 21, 1937, followed by a nationwide release on फ़रवरी 4, 1938, और with international earnings of $ 8 लाख during its initial release briefly assumed the रिकार्ड of highest grossing sound film at the time.
The popularity of the फिल्मी has led to it being re-released theatrically many times, until its home video रिलीज in the 1990s.
Adjusted for inflation, it is एक of the top ten performers at the North American बक्सा दफ्तर.
At the 11th Academy पुरस्कार, Walt डिज़्नी was awarded an मानद Oscar, और the फिल्मी was मनोनीत for बेहतरीन Musical Score.
It was added to the United राज्य National Film रजिस्ट्री in 1989 and is क्रमित in the American फिल्मी Institute 's सूची of the 100 महानतम American films, who भी नामित the फिल्मी as the greatest American animated film of all time in 2008.
डिज़्नी 's take on the fairy tale has had a बिग cultural impact, resulting in a popular theme park attraction, a video game, and a Broadway musical.
प्रसव, labour, डिलीवरी, birth, partus, or parturition is the culmination of a pregnancy period with the expulsion of one or अधिक newborn infants इससे a woman 's uterus.
The process of normal childbirth is categorized in three stages of labour : the shortening and dilation of the cervix, descent and birth of the शिशु, और birth of the placenta.
In many cases and with increasing frequency, childbirth is achieved through induction of labor or caesarean section, which is the removal of the neonate through a surgical incision in the उदर, बल्कि than through vaginal birth.
Childbirth by C-Sections increased 50 % in the U.S. इससे 1996 to 2006, and comprise nearly 32 % of births in the U.S. and Canada.
साथ आदर to induced labor, more than 22 % of women undergo induction of labour in the संयुक्त राज्य.
Medical professional नीति makers find that induced births and elective cesarean can be नुकसानदेह to the fetus and neonate as well as harmful or बगैर benefit to the mother, and have established strict guidelines for non-medically indicated induced births and elective cesarean पहले 39 सप्ताह.
Viva la bam was an MTV & चिरायु show which followed bam Margera and his क्रू as वे undertook challenges, performed स्टंट and traveled the संसार.
The show ran for 5 सीज़न between 2003 and 2005.
flushed Away is a 2006 british/american कंप्यूटर animated action / adventure comedy film directed by David bowers और Sam गिरी.
It थी बना in the partnership between Aardman Animations and DreamWorks Animation, and is Aardman 's पहला completely computer-animated विशेषता as opposed to the usual stop-motion.
The फिल्मी सितारों the voice talents of Hugh Jackman, Kate विंसलेट, एंडी Serkis, Bill nighy, Ian McKellen, Shane Richie और जां रेनो.
The story was by Sam Fell, Peter रब, Dick Clement, and इयान La Frenais, and the screenplay थी written by लंड Clement, Ian la frenais, क्रिस्टोफर लॉयड, Joe Keenan, and William davies.
The film was released in US on 3 November 2006, and in uk on December 1 2006, and was distributed by Paramount Pictures, मगर for Switzerland, स्पेन, and the नीदरलैंड्स, which यहूद handled by Universal Pictures.
the Atlanta Braves are a professional baseball team based in Atlanta.
the Braves are a member of the पूर्वी Division of Major League बेसबॉल 's National League.
The Braves have played in टर्नर फ़ील्ड since 1997.
the `` Braves '' name, which was first used in 1912, originates इससे a पद for a देशी अमरीकी warrior.
They are nicknamed `` the bravos '', and often referred to as `` अमेरिका 's Team `` in सन्दर्भ to the team 's खेल being ब्रॉडकास्ट on the nationally उपलब्धियाँ TBS from the 1970s until 2007, gaining a wide fanbase.
इससे 1991 to 2005 the braves यहूद one of the most कामयाब franchises in baseball, winning division शीर्षक an unprecedented 14 consecutive times in that काल ( omitting the strike-shortened 1994 ऋतु in which there यहूद no official division champions ).
The braves जीती the NL वेस्ट 1991–93 and the NL ईस्ट 1995–2005, और returned to the playoffs as the National League Wild कार्ड in 2010.
the Braves advanced to the संसार श्रेणी पाँच times in the 1990s, जीतना the शीर्षक in 1995.
चूंकि उनके debut in the National League in 1876, the franchise रै won 16 divisional शीर्षक, 17 National लीग pennants, as well as three World श्रेणी championships—in 1914 as the बोस्टन braves, in 1957 as the Milwaukee Braves, and in 1995 in अटलांटा.
The braves are the only MLB मताधिकार to have won the World श्रेणी in three अलग home cities.
The क्लबों is one of the National लीग 's दो remaining चार्टर franchises ( the other being the Chicago Cubs ) and थी founded in बोस्टन, Massachusetts, in 1871 as the Boston Red Stockings ( नहीं to be उलझन with the अमरीकी League 's Boston Red sox ).
They are माना `` the oldest continuously playing team in प्रमुख उत्तर American sports. ''
There is an argument as to जो is दरअसल older because although the शावक are a पूरा season `` पुरानी '' ( formed as the शिकागो White Stockings in 1870 ) शिकागो lost two seasons to the Great शिकागो आग, thus the Braves have played अधिक consecutive seasons.
After विभिन्न name changes ( such as the Boston Beaneaters ), the team संचालित as the Boston Braves for most of the first half of the 20th century.
in 1953, the टोली moved to मिल्वौकी, Wisconsin and became the Milwaukee braves, followed by the move to Atlanta in 1966.
The team 's कार्यकाल in अटलांटा is famous for Hank Aaron breaking Babe Ruth 's career घर चलाएं record in 1974, though the बहुमत of Aaron 's home रनों were hit जबकि the team was in Milwaukee.
His रिकार्ड stood until 2007, जब San Francisco left क्षेत्ररक्षक Barry Bonds broke the रिकार्ड.
The पत्ते of a Beech tree
3D रेंडरिंग of a μCT स्कैन of a leaf piece, resolution circa 40 μm/ voxel.
A पत्ता is an अंग of a vascular संयंत्र, as defined in botanical terms, and in particular in plant morphology.
Foliage is a mass संज्ञा that refers to leaves as a feature of पौधे.
typically a leaf is a पतला, flattened अंग borne above मैदान और specialized for photosynthesis, but अनेक types of पत्ते are adapted in ways almost unrecognisable in those terms : कुछ are not flat ( लिये example अनेक succulent पत्ते and conifers ), some are not above ground ( ऐसे as bulb scales ), और कुछ are without major photosynthetic function ( consider for उदाहरण cataphylls, spines, and cotyledons ).
conversely, many structures of non-vascular plants, or even of some lichens, जिससे are नहीं plants at all ( in the sense of होने members of the kingdom Plantae ), do look and function much जैसे leaves.
furthermore, several structures found in vascular plants look like पत्ते but are not actually पत्ते ; वे differ इससे पत्ते in their structures और origins.
उदाहरण शामिल phyllodes, cladodes, and phylloclades.
Title कार्ड for the 1937 हमारी गिरोह comedy Rushin ' बैले.
Our Gang ( also known as The Little Rascals or एचएएल रोच 's दुष्टों ) are a series of American comedy short films about a group of ग़रीब पड़ोस children और उनके adventures.
Created by comedy निर्माता एचएएल Roach, the series is विख्यात for showing children behaving in a relatively natural रास्ता, as रोच and original director Robert F. mcgowan worked to film the unaffected, कच्चा nuances apparent in regular children rather than have उन्हें imitate वयस्क एक्टिंग styles.
In जोड, Our Gang notably put boys, girls, whites and अश्वेतों साथ in a group as बराबरी, something that `` broke नई ground, '' according to फिल्मी historian Leonard Maltin.
Such a thing had never महरूम done पहले in सिनेमा लकिन has since been repeated after the success of Our गिरोह.
The first production at the Roach studio in 1922 was a श्रेणी of silent short subjects.
When Roach changed distributors from pathé to Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer ( MGM ) in 1927, and converted the series to sound in 1929, the series took बंद भी further.
उत्पादन continued at the रोच स्टुडियो जबतक 1938, when the श्रेणी was sold to mgm, who then continued producing the comedies until 1944.
The हमारी Gang series शामिल a total of 220 shorts and one feature फिल्मी, General Spanky, featuring over forty-one child actors.
As MGM retained the rights to the Our गिरोह ट्रेडमार्क following their खरीदें of the production rights, the 80 Roach-produced `` टॉकीज़ '' यहूद syndicated for television under the title The छोटी Rascals शुरूआत in 1955.
दोनो Roach 's The Little Rascals package ( now स्वामित्व by CBS Television Distribution ) and MGM 's हमारी गिरोह package ( now owned by Warner Bros. Entertainment ) have चूंकि remained in syndication, with आवधिक new प्रोडक्शन्स आधारित on the shorts surfacing over the years, including a 1994 छोटी दुष्टों feature फिल्मी released by सार्वभौमिक तस्वीरें.
Zacharias Janssen ( also Zacharias Jansen or Sacharias Jansen ) ( b.1580-88, d.pre-1632 to 1638 ) was a Dutch spectacle-maker from middelburg associated with the आविष्कार of the first optical दूरदर्शी.
Janssen is sometimes also credited लिये inventing the पहला truly compound microscope.
However, the origin of the microscope, just like the origin of the दूरदर्शी, is a matter of बहस.
Lake tahoe ( ; Washo : dáʔaw ) is a large freshwater झील in the Sierra Nevada of the United राज्य.
At a surface उन्नयन of, it is located साथ the border between California और Nevada, west of Carson नगर.
झील Tahoe is the largest अल्पाइन झील in उत्तर America.
Its depth is, बनाना it the United State 's second-deepest ( the deepest is Crater Lake in ऑरेगॉन, होने deeper, at ).
Additionally, Lake Tahoe is listed as the 26th largest lake by आवाज़ in the संसार at.
the lake was formed about 2 million years ago and is a भाग of the झील tahoe जलाशय with the modern lake being तराशा during the ice ages.
it is known लिये the स्पष्टता of इसके water और the परिदृश्य of surrounding mountains on all पहलू.
The area surrounding the झील is भी referred to as झील tahoe, or बस Tahoe.
झील Tahoe is a major tourist attraction in दोनो Nevada and California.
It is घर to a क्रमांक of स्की resorts, गर्मियाँ outdoor मनोरंजन, और tourist attractions.
Snow और skiing are a significant part of the area 's economy and reputation.
Mountain and lake scenery हैं attractions throughout the साल.
The नेवाडा पक्ष also includes विशाल कसीनो.
राजमार्गों provide year-round access from Reno, Carson City, and Sacramento.
Page 1 of the Twenty-seventh Amendment 's certification in the National Archives
Page 2 of the amendment 's certification
Page 3 of the amendment 's certification
The Twenty-seventh amendment ( Amendment xxvii ) prohibits any law कि increases or decreases the सैलरी of सदस्यों of the कॉंग्रेस from taking effect until the प्रारंभ of the next set of शर्तें of दफ्तर for Representatives.
It is the सबसे recent amendment to the United राज्य संविधान.
It was submitted to the states लिये अनुसमर्थन in 1789 और थी adopted in 1992.
“First they came... ” is a famous statement and provocative poem attributed to pastor Martin Niemöller ( 1892–1984 ) परिचय the sloth of German intellectuals following the Nazis ' rise to power and the subsequent purging of their chosen targets, group after group.
वहीँ is कुछ असहमति over the exact wording of the quotation और when it थी created ; the content of the quotation may have been presented differently by Niemöller on different अवसरों.
इस सूची of islands by area includes all islands in the world greater than 2,500 km2 ( ) और अनेक other आइलैंड्स over 500 km2 ( ), sorted in descending अनुक्रम by क्षेत्रफल.
लिये comparison, महाद्वीपों are also shown.
Four Thirds लोगो
The चार तिहाई system is a standard created by ओलम्पस and Kodak for digital single-lens reflex camera ( DSLR ) design और development. < संदर्भ name='DPReview.com 2001-02-13 ' >
the प्रणाली provides a standard that, with digital cameras and lenses available इससे multiple manufacturers, allows for the इंटरचेंज of lenses और लाशें from अलग manufacturers.
seems to cover the standard.
Proponents describe it as an open standard, but कंपनियाँ may only use it under a non-disclosure अनुबंध.
नापसंद older SLR systems, Four तिहाई रै been designed from the ground up to be entirely digital.
Many lenses are extensively computerized, to the point कि Olympus offers firmware अद्यतन लिये many of उन्हें.
लेंस design has been tailored to the requirements of डिजिटल sensors, most notably through telecentric designs.
the आकार of the सेंसर is significantly छोटी than for most DSLRs और this implies that lenses, विशेषकर telephoto lenses, can be smaller.
For उदाहरण, a Four Thirds lens साथ a 300 mm focal लंबाई होता कवर परिचय the same कोण of view as a 600 mm फोकल length lens for the 35 mm film standard, and is correspondingly अधिक compact.
यूँ, the Four तिहाई प्रणाली रै crop factor ( फोकल लंबाई multiplier ) of about 2, and while this enables longer focal length लिये greater magnification, it does n't aid the manufacture of wide angle lenses.
The चित्र sensor format, generally इंटरमीडिएट between those of larger slrs and छोटी compact कैमरे, generally देता स्तर of cost, performance and convenience intermediate between those two classes.
hvac systems use ventilation air ducts installed throughout a building to supply conditioned air to a room through outlet vents, called diffusers ; and ducts to remove एयर through return-air grilles.
HVAC ( heating, ventilation, and air कंडीशनिंग ) is the technology of अंदर और ऑटोमोटिव environmental comfort.
hvac प्रणाली डिज़ाइन is a subdiscipline of mechanical engineering, based on the सिद्धान्त of thermodynamics, द्रव mechanics, and heat transfer.
Refrigeration is sometimes added to the field 's abbreviation as HVAC & r or hvacr, or ventilating is dropped as in HACR ( such as the नामांकन of hacr-rated सर्किट ब्रेकर्स ).
HVAC is important in the design of medium to large industrial and दफ्तर buildings such as skyscrapers and in समुद्री environments ऐसे as aquariums, where सुरक्षित और healthy building शर्तें are regulated with respect to temperature and आर्द्रता, using fresh air from outdoors.
Ventilation on the downdraught प्रणाली, by impulsion, or the 'plenum ' principle, applied to schoolrooms ( 1899 )
Heating, ventilating, और air conditioning is based on inventions और discoveries made by निकोलय Lvov, Michael Faraday, Willis Carrier, Reuben Trane, James Joule, William rankine, Sadi Carnot, and अनेक अन्य.
the आविष्कार of the components of hvac systems गई hand-in-hand with the औद्योगिक revolution, and new methods of modernization, higher दक्षता, और प्रणाली कंट्रोल are constantly introduced by कंपनियाँ और आविष्कारक worldwide.
The तीन central कृत्यों of हीटिंग, ventilating, and air-conditioning are interrelated, especially with the need to provide thermal सुकून and acceptable indoor air quality within reasonable installation, आपरेशन, and मेंटेनेंस costs.
HVAC systems can provide ventilation, reduce एयर घुसपैठ, और maintain pressure relationships between spaces.
The means of air delivery और removal from स्पेसेस is known as रूम air वितरण.
The starting point in carrying out an estimate both लिये cooling और heating depends on the exterior जलवायु और interior specified conditions.
However पहले लेने up the heat load calculation, it is जरुरी to find fresh एयर requirements for each क्षेत्रफल in detail, as pressurization is an महत्वपूर्ण consideration.
In आधुनिक buildings the design, installation, और कंट्रोल प्रणालियों of these functions are एकीकृत into one or more hvac systems.
लिये very small buildings, contractors normally क्षमता engineer and select HVAC systems और उपकरण.
For larger buildings, building सेवाएं designers और engineers, such as mechanical, architectural, or building सेवाएं engineers analyze, डिज़ाइन, और specify the hvac systems, and specialty mechanical contractors fabricate and commission them.
Building permits और code-compliance inspections of the installations are सामान्यतः required for all sizes of buildings.
The hvac industry is a worldwide enterprise, साथ भूमिकाएँ सहित आपरेशन और maintenance, system डिज़ाइन and निर्माण, equipment manufacturing और sales, और in education और शोध.
The HVAC industry थी historically regulated by the manufacturers of HVAC equipment, but regulating and मानकों organizations such as HARDI, ASHRAE, SMACNA, ACCA, वर्दी mechanical Code, International mechanical Code, and AMCA have been स्थापित to support the industry और encourage ऊँची मानकों and उपलब्धि.
Royal नेवी कमांडर James Bond, CMG, RNVR, is a fictional character निर्मित by अंग्रेजों journalist and novelist Ian Fleming in 1953.
He is the protagonist of the जेम्स Bond श्रेणी of novels, films, कॉमिक्स and video खेल.
Fleming लिखा बारह Bond novels और two छोटी story collections before his death, although the last दो books— The Man with the Golden Gun और octopussy और The Living Daylights —were published posthumously.
The बंध character is a रहस्य सेवा agent, code number 007, residing in London but क्रियाशील internationally.
Bond थी a कम्पोजिट अक्षर who was based on a number of commandos whom Fleming knew during उसके service in the Naval Intelligence Division during संसार War ii, to whom Fleming added his अपना style और a क्रमांक of his own tastes ; Bond 's नाम was appropriated इससे American ornithologist James Bond.
Bond has a number of character traits which चलाएं throughout the किताबे, including an enjoyment of cars, a love of food and पेय, और an average intake of sixty custom-made cigarettes a दिन.
चूंकि Fleming 's death in 1964, there have been अन्य authorised writers of बंध material, including John Gardner, जो लिखा fourteen novels and two novelizations और Raymond बेंसन, who wrote six novels, three novelizations and तीन छोटी stories.
वहीँ have भी महरूम three authors who wrote one किताब प्रत्येक, किंग्सले एमिस ( writing as रॉबर्ट markham ), Sebastian Faulks and Jeffery Deaver.
additionally a series of novels based on बंध 's youth— Young बंध —was written by Charlie Higson.
as spin-offs from the साहित्यिक works, there was a television अनुकूलन of the पहला novel, Casino Royale, in which बंध was played as an American agent.
A कॉमिक strip series also ran in the Daily Express समाचारपत्र.
वहीँ have also been twenty-five Bond films ; seven अभिनेताओं have निभाई बंध in ये films.
`` Nature Boy '' is a song by Eden Ahbez, published in 1947.
The song tells a fantasy of a `` अजीब enchanted boy... who wandered very far '' only to learn कि `` the greatest thing... was बस to प्रेम and be loved in return ''.
Nat किंग कोल 's 1948 recording of the song थी a प्रमुख hit और `` Nature लड़के '' रै since become a pop and jazz मानक, with dozens of प्रमुख artists interpreting the song.
louisiana ( or ;, ; Louisiana Creole : Léta de la Lwizyàn ) is a state located in the southern region of the United States of America.
Louisiana is the 31st most extensive and the 25th most populous of the 50 United राज्य.
इसके पूंजी is baton रूज and largest city is New ऑरलियन्स.
Louisiana is the तभी state in the U.S. साथ राजनैतिक subdivisions termed parishes, जिससे are लोकल government 's समतुल्य to काउंटी.
The largest parish by population is East Baton रूज Parish, and the largest by land area is Cameron Parish.
Much of the state 's lands यहूद formed इससे sediment washed down the Mississippi River, leaving enormous deltas and विशाल areas of coastal दलदल और swamp.
These contain a rich southern biota ; typical examples शामिल पक्षियों such as ibis and egrets.
वहीँ are भी many species of पेड़ frogs, and मछली such as sturgeon and paddlefish.
In more elevated areas, आग is a natural process in the landscape, और has उत्पादित extensive क्षेत्रों of longleaf पाइन वन and गीला savannas.
ये support an exceptionally विशाल number of संयंत्र species, including many species of orchids and carnivorous plants.
Some Louisiana शहरी environments have a multicultural, multilingual विरासत, being so strongly बहकावे by an जिसमें of 18th-century French, Spanish, Native American ( Indian ) and African संस्कृतियों that they are माना to be somewhat exceptional in the U.S.
पहले the अमरीकी purchase of the territory, the वर्तमान Louisiana राज्य had been दोनो a Spanish and French colony.
In जोड, the pattern of development included importing numerous African slaves in the 18th century, साथ many इससे the वही region of West अफ़्रीकी, thus concentrating their culture.
in the post-Civil युद्ध environment, Anglo-Americans increased the pressure for Anglicization, और in 1915, अंग्रेज़ी was made the only official language of the state.
महिलाओं 's rights are the rights and entitlements claimed for women and girls of many societies worldwide.
in some places these rights are institutionalized or supported by विधि, लोकल custom, and behaviour, whereas in अन्य they may be ignored or suppressed.
They differ from broader notions of human rights through दावा of an inherent historical और traditional bias विरूद्ध the exercise of rights by women और girls in पक्ष of men and boys.
Issues commonly संबद्ध with धारणाएं of women 's rights include, though are not limited to, the right : to bodily अखंडता and autonomy ; to vote ( suffrage ) ; to hold पब्लिक office ; to work ; to मेला मजदूरी or बराबर pay ; to own property ; to education ; to serve in the military or be conscripted ; to enter into विधिक contracts ; and to have marital, parental and धार्मिक rights.
The laws of science or scientific laws are statements that describe, predict, और perhaps explain क्यों, a दायरा of phenomena behave as they appear to in nature.
the term `` law '' has विविध usage in many cases : approximate, accurate, broad or सीमित theories, in all natural scientific disciplines ( physics, chemistry, जीवविज्ञान, geology, astronomy etc. ).
an analogous term लिये a scientific law is a principle.
वैज्ञानिक विधिs:
summarize a विशाल collection of facts determined by प्रयोग into a single statement,
can प्रायः be formulated mathematically as one or several कथन or equation, or at least stated in a single sentence, so that it can be प्रयुक्त to predict the निष्कर्ष of an experiment, given the initial, boundary, and अन्य physical conditions of the processes which take place,
are strongly supported by empirical प्रमाण - वे are scientific ज्ञान कि प्रयोग have repeatedly सत्यापित ( and never falsified ).
Their सटीकता does not बदलें when नई theories are worked out, but rather the पैमाना of अनुप्रयोग, since the equation ( if कोई ) representing the law does not change.
As with other scientific knowledge, वे do नहीं have absolute certainty like mathematical theorems or identities, and it is सदा possible for a विधि to be overturned by भविष्य observations.
are प्रायः quoted as a आधारभूत controlling influence rather than a वर्णन of observed facts.
I.e. `` the laws of motion require कि ''
Laws differ from hypotheses and postulates, which are proposed during the scientific process पहले and during validation by experiment and observation.
These are not कानून चूंकि they have नहीं been verified to the same degree and may not be fear general, although वे may lead to the formulation of कानून.
a law is a more solidified and औपचारिक बयान, distilled from repeated experiment.
हालांकि the concepts of a law or principle in प्रकृति is borderline to philosophy, और presents the depth to which mathematics can describe प्रकृति, scientific laws are माना इससे a scientific perspective and follow the वैज्ञानिक विधि ; वे `` serve their purpose '' बल्कि than `` questioning reality '' ( philosophical ) or `` statements of लॉजिकल absolution '' ( गणितीय ).
For example, whether a law `` refers to वास्तविकता '' is a philosophical issue, rather than scientific.
fundamentally, all वैज्ञानिक laws follow from physics, laws जिससे occur in other sciences ultimately follow इससे physical laws.
Often, from mathematically fundamental viewpoints, सार्वभौमिक constants emerge from scientific laws.
The लॉन्च of the प्लेस्टेशन 3 into the Japanese मार्केट on 10 November 2006 marked the दूसरी major seventh generation entertainment प्रणाली to be released.
the system was released seven days बाद on 17 November in the संयुक्त States.
परिचय into अन्य world बाज़ार थी delayed by a shortage of diodes लिये use in the Blu-ray disc player ; the device was launched in European और other world markets in the first half of 2007.
Lauren Fenmore baldwin ( formerly विलियम्स और Grainger ) is a fictional character इससे the CBS soap operas the Young and the Restless and The Bold and the Beautiful, portrayed by ट्रेसी E. Bregman.
She made उसके debut during the episode airing on January 21, 1983.
In 1992, bregman began making sporadic दिखावे on the Bold and the Beautiful, बाद resulting in the character migrating वहीँ fully in 1995.
Following a guest appearance in 2000, Bregman returned to The यंग and the बेचैन on अगस्त 24, 2001, बाकी on पुनरावर्ती status.
In 2013, it was announced that bregman था been लगाई on contract.
Much of Lauren 's इतिहास has revolved around उसके romances with Paul Williams, स्कॉट Grainger, Sr., और Michael Baldwin among many others causing a fierce फंसने साथ Traci Abbott connolly.
लॉरेन is भी famous for उसके long, हिंसक rivalry साथ Sheila Carter.
The 2010 NBA Finals was the National बास्केट संघ ( NBA ) championship श्रेणी लिये the 2009–10 season.
The best-of-seven playoff was contested between the लॉस Angeles लेकर्स, champions of the पश्चिमी Conference और defending NBA champions, और the Boston सेल्टिक्स, champions of the Eastern Conference.
The Lakers defeated the Celtics, चार games to three, to win the franchise 's 16th NBA चैंपियनशिप.
The 64th edition of the championship series was played between जून 3 और जून 17, थी broadcast on ABC, and was watched by an average of 18.1 million people.
The Celtics earned उनके berth into the playoffs by winning the Atlantic Division.
The Lakers won the Pacific Division to earn their berth.
The Celtics reached the NBA Finals by defeating the Miami Heat in the best-of-seven पूर्वी Conference पहला Round, the क्लीवलैंड cavaliers in the best-of-seven Eastern Conference semifinals, and defending Eastern conference champion ऑरलैंडो जादू in the best-of-seven Eastern Conference फाइनल.
the लेकर्स reached the NBA फाइनल by defeating the Oklahoma नगर थंडर in the best-of-seven पश्चिमी सम्मेलन First Round, the Utah Jazz in the best-of-seven पश्चिमी Conference semifinals, and the Phoenix सन्स in the best-of-seven Western सम्मेलन Finals.
the NBA फाइनल were scheduled in the Major लीग Baseball संसार Series 2–3–2 सात खेल format, with the लेकर्स possessing home-court लाभ as a बदला for finishing with बेहतर नियमित season record than the Celtics.
Repeated baskets from starters कोबे Bryant, Pau Gasol, and रॉन artest brought the Lakers close to victory in Game 1.
a record तोड़कर performance from Ray Allen 's eight three-point baskets ensured the सेल्टिक्स a खेल 2 triumph.
Derek Fisher ’s 11 अंक in the fourth quarter helped the Lakers win Game 3.
The Celtics जीती Game 4 ; it किया n't hurt कि they netted an excellent performance in baskets by the team’s reserves, while Paul पियर्स led the टोली to a Game 5 win with 27 points on 57 % shooting from the floor.
The Lakers avoided विलोपन by winning a decisive खेल 6 with 24 points contributed by their bench.
Although they trailed the Celtics by 13 points जल्दी in the third quarter, the Lakers rallied और won their second consecutive चैंपियनशिप by लेने over an exciting Game 7 aided by late contributions on offense by Pau Gasol and artest and rebounding.
Bryant was named Most Valuable Player of the फाइनल लिये उसके second लगातार trophy.
This was the first NBA Finals to go the full सात खेल since and तभी the चौथी since the NBA Finals लौटे to a 2–3–2 format in.
The laker franchise रै 16 एनबीए Championships ( पाँच in Minneapolis, 11 in Los Angeles ) trailing the Celtics ' seventeen championships.
The NBA फाइनल प्रयुक्त the `` World श्रेणी '' Format in 1949 Minneapolis Lakers defeated the Washington capitols 4 games to 2 ; in 1953 Minneapolis defeated the New York Knicks 4 games to 1 ; in 1954 Minneapolis defeated the Syracuse Nationals 4 games to 3 ; और in 1955 Syracuse Nationals पराजित the Fort वेन Pistons 4 खेल to 3.
The एनबीए होता वापसी to the 2–2–1–1–1 National Hockey लीग seven खेल श्रेणी format until 1985.
Black pepper ( पाइपर nigrum ) is a flowering vine in the family Piperaceae, cultivated लिये its fruit, जिससे is usually dried and प्रयुक्त as a मसाला and seasoning.
the फल, known as a peppercorn when dried, is लगभग in diameter, dark red when fully वयस्क, and, जैसे all drupes, contains a सिंगल seed.
Peppercorns, और the मैदान pepper derived इससे them, may be described simply as pepper, or more precisely as black pepper ( cooked and dried unripe फल ), green pepper ( dried unripe फल ) और white pepper ( dried ripe बीज ).
Black pepper is native to south India, and is extensively cultivated there and elsewhere in तीव्र regions.
फिलहाल वियतनाम is the world 's largest producer and exporter of pepper, producing 34 % of the world 's Piper nigrum crop as of 2008.
Dried ground pepper has been used चूंकि antiquity for दोनो its flavour and as a आयुर्विज्ञान.
Black pepper is the संसार 's most traded spice.
It is one of the सबसे आम spices added to यूरोपीय cuisine and its descendants.
The spiciness of black pepper is due to the chemical piperine, not to be उलझन with the capsaicin that देता fleshy peppers theirs.
It is in the आधुनिक world, often paired with salt.
In cardiovascular physiology, ejection भिन्न ( ef ) represents the volumetric भिन्न of blood उत्तेजित out of the ventricle ( heart ) with each दिल beat or cardiac cycle.
It can be applied to either the right ventricle which ejects via the pulmonary valve into the pulmonary परिसंचरण or the left ventricle which ejects via the aortic valve into the systemic circulation.
Imaging of the physiology of the mammalian heart is the art that allows meaningful गणितीय अभिव्यक्ति defining EF.
noninvasive cardiac imaging has become a worldwide यूटिलिटी enabling study of हृदय performance reproducibly और inexpensively.
Simplified, Ejection fraction is a गणितीय उत्पाद allowed by cardiac इमेजिंग.
as a गणितीय term, ejection Fraction is an extension of the work of Adolph Fick in cardiac आउटपुट.
Dedicated प्रौद्योगिकी ऐसे as Echocardiography, Computed Tomography, Magnetic अनुनाद इमेजिंग और MUGA scanning have definitively अनुमत clinically relevant गणित regarding ischemia, Congenital दिल बीमारी and Heart Failure.
the अभियोजक is the chief legal representative of the prosecution in countries with either the common law adversarial system, or the civil law inquisitorial प्रणाली.
The prosecution is the विधिक party जिम्मेदार for presenting the case in a criminal विचारण against an individual अभियुक्त of breaking the law.
स्ट्रॉबेरी shortcake most commonly means a dessert in the shortcake family of cakes.
Strawberry shortcake may भी refer to:
Strawberry shortcake, a character और मताधिकार created by American Greetings
the shortened title of स्ट्रॉबेरी on the Shortcake, a Japanese romance फिल्म.
abū al-Qāsim Muḥammad ibn ʿabd Allāh ibn ʿabd al-Muṭṭalib इब्न Hāshim ( ) ( circa| 570 – circa| 8 June 632 ), also transliterated as Muhammad ( ), थी a religious, political, and military leader from Mecca who एकीकृत Arabia into a single religious polity under Islam.
He is believed by मुसलमान और Bahá'ís to be a मेसेंजर और नबी of परमेश्वर.
Muhammad is लगभग universally considered by मुसलमान as the पिछला prophet sent by God लिये mankind.
Non-Muslims लिहाज़ मुहम्मद as the founder of Islam.
Muslims consider उसे to be the restorer of an unaltered original monotheistic आस्था of Adam, Noah, अब्राहम, Moses, यीशु, and other prophets.
born in परिचय 570 CE in the arabian city of Mecca, he थी orphaned at an early age and brought up अंतर्गत the परवाह of his uncle abu Talib.
he बाद worked mostly as a व्यापारी, as खूब as a गड़रिये, और was पहला शादीशुदा by आयु 25.
Being in the habit of periodically retreating to a cave in the surrounding mountains for several नाइट्स of seclusion और prayer, he later reported that it थी वहीँ, at age 40, that he प्राप्त his first revelation from परमेश्वर.
Three years after this इवेंट Muhammad started preaching these revelations publicly, proclaiming that `` God is One ``, कि complete `` surrender '' to उसे ( lit.
islām ) is the तभी way ( dīn ) acceptable to God, and कि he himself was a prophet and messenger of God, in the same रग as other इस्लामी नबियों.
मुहम्मद gained few अनुसरणकर्ता जल्दी on, and was met साथ hostility इससे some Meccan tribes ; he and his followers यहूद treated harshly.
to escape persecution, Muhammad sent some of उसके अनुसरणकर्ता to अबीसीनिया before he and his अनुसरणकर्ता in Mecca migrated to मदीना ( तब ज्ञात as Yathrib ) in the year 622.
This event, the हिज्र, marks the beginning of the इस्लामी calendar, which is भी ज्ञात as the Hijri Calendar.
In Medina, Muhammad united the tribes under the Constitution of Medina.
After eight years of लड़ साथ the meccan tribes, his followers, जो by तब had grown to 10,000, took control of मक्का in the largely peaceful Conquest of Mecca.
He नष्ट the pagan idols in the नगर and then sent his अनुसरणकर्ता out to नष्ट all of the remaining pagan temples in Eastern अरब.
In 632, a few months after returning to Medina इससे the Farewell Pilgrimage, Muhammad fell बीमार and died.
By the समय of उसके death, सबसे of the arabian प्रायद्वीप था converted to Islam, और he था संयुक्त अरब into a single Muslim religious polity.
The revelations ( or Ayah, lit.
`` Signs [ of God ] '' ) — which Muhammad reported receiving until उसके मौत – form the verses of the कुरान, regarded by Muslims as the `` Word of God '' and around which the religion is based.
besides the Quran, Muhammad 's life ( सिरा ) and traditions ( sunnah ) हैं also upheld by Muslims as the sources of sharia law.
They discuss मुहम्मद and other नबियों of Islam with reverence, adding the phrase peace be upon him whenever उनके names are mentioned.
While conceptions of Muhammad in medieval christendom and premodern times यहूद largely negative, appraisals in आधुनिक history have been दूर less so.
The Great Books ( दूसरी edition )
Great Books of the Western World is a series of books originally प्रकाशित in the United राज्य in 1952 by Encyclopædia Britannica inc. to present the Great Books in a single पैकेज of 54 volumes.
the श्रेणी is now in its second edition and contains 60 आयतन.
The असली editors of the series chose three criteria for inclusion : a किताब must be relevant to समकालीन issues, and not only महत्वपूर्ण in इसके historical context ; it must reward rereading ; and it जरूर be a part of `` the great conversation about the ग्रेट ideas, '' प्रासंगिक to at least 25 of the 102 ग्रेट ideas पहचाना by the सम्पादक.
किताबे यहूद not chosen on the basis of जातीय or cultural inclusiveness, historical influence, or the editors ' agreement with the views expressed.
`` Cocaine '' is a song लिखा and recorded by JJ Cale in 1976, but also known as a cover संस्करण recorded by Eric Clapton.
Allmusic calls the latter `` among [ Clapton 's ] most enduringly लोकप्रिय hits '' and notes that `` भी लिये an artist like Clapton साथ a huge body of high-quality work, 'Cocaine ' बाँधने among his बेहतरीन. ''
Glyn Johns, जो था previously worked साथ The Who, Led Zeppelin and the रोलिंग Stones, produced the Clapton recording, which was released on Clapton 's 1977 एल्बम Slowhand and as a single in 1980.
The live version of `` कोका '', from the Just एक Night album recorded in टोकियो, charted on the बिलबोर्ड Hot 100 as the B-side of `` Tulsa Time ``, which was a No. 30 hit in 1980. ``
Cocaine '' was one of several of cale 's songs recorded by क्लैप्टन, including `` After Midnight `` and `` travelin ' लाइट ''.
The attack on Pearl Harbor ( called हवाई आपरेशन or Operation AI by the Japanese Imperial General Headquarters ( आपरेशन z in planning ) and the Battle of पर्ल हार्बर ) was a surprise सैन्य strike conducted by the Imperial Japanese Navy against the संयुक्त States नवल आधार at Pearl Harbor, Hawaii, on the morning of दिसम्बर 7, 1941 ( दिसम्बर 8 in जापानी ).
From the standpoint of the defenders, the attack commenced at 7:48 a.m. Hawaiian Time.
The attack was intended as a preventive कार्रवाई in order to रखना the U.S. Pacific बेड़े इससे interfering with military क्रियाएँ the Empire of Japan was planning in Southeast Asia against overseas territories of the संयुक्त Kingdom, the Netherlands, and the United States.
The आधार was attacked by 353 Japanese सेनानी, बमवर्षक और torpedo planes in two waves, launched from six aircraft carriers.
All आठ U.S. नेवी battleships यहूद क्षतिग्रस्त, with चार होने sunk.
Two of ये were later उठाया, and with the remaining four repaired, six battleships returned to service later in the युद्ध.
The Japanese also sank or क्षतिग्रस्त three cruisers, three destroyers, an anti-aircraft training ship, and one minelayer.
188 U.S. aircraft were नष्ट ; 2,402 Americans यहूद killed और 1,282 wounded.
Important base installations such as the power station, डॉकयार्ड, maintenance, and ईंधन and torpedo storage facilities, as well as the submarine piers and headquarters भवन ( भी home of the intelligence section ) यहूद not attacked.
Japanese losses were light : 29 aircraft and five midget submarines खोया, and 65 servicemen killed or wounded.
One जापानी नाविक was captured.
the आक्रमण आए as a profound shock to the American people and led सीधे to the American प्रविष्टि into World युद्ध ii in both the Pacific और European theaters.
The following दिन ( December 8 ), the United States घोषित युद्ध on Japan.
घरेलू support लिये non-interventionism, जिससे had been strong, disappeared.
Clandestine support of ब्रिटेन ( for example the neutrality Patrol ) was replaced by क्रियाशील alliance.
Subsequent operations by the U.S. prompted Germany and Italy to घोषित युद्ध on the U.S. on December 11, which was reciprocated by the U.S. the same day.
वहीँ were numerous historical precedents लिये unannounced सैन्य action by Japan.
However, the कमी of any औपचारिक warning, विशेषकर while negotiations यहूद स्टिल apparently ongoing, led अध्यक्ष Franklin D. Roosevelt to proclaim December 7, 1941, `` a date which होगा सजीव in infamy ``.
प्रोजेक्ट Runway Season 2 was the second ऋतु of ब्रावो 's कामयाब Project Runway, a reality प्रतियोगिता लिये fashion designers.
ऋतु 2 began airing on December 7, 2005.
Following a nationwide search पहले in the year, sixteen designers were चुनी as semi-finalists and brought to New York नगर in जून, 2005.
After the first चुनौती, called `` सड़क To The Runway '', fourteen went on to compete as finalists.
The winning designer, Chloe dao, received $ 100,000 in बीज money to help launch her अपना line, a 2007 Saturn Sky roadster, a स्प्रेड in ELLE magazine, and a mentorship with the Banana गणतंत्र डिज़ाइन Team.
Winning alongside Dao was her model, अनुग्रह Kelsey, who received the ELLE Magazine spread.
Michael Kors and नीना गार्सिया returned as judges for the second season.
the fourth judging seat rotated प्रत्येक week, based on the challenge.
Tim Gunn, फ़ैशन chair at Parsons the नई स्कूल for डिज़ाइन, returned as a mentor for the designers.
Kara janx later appeared in Project रनवे : All Stars in 2012, where she समाप्त 7th out of 13.
Andrae Gonzalo, in the same साल, competed in the second season of the सब Stars edition रखकर 10th out of 13.
an example of a Heraclius mule
in numismatics, a खच्चर is a सिक्का or medal minted with obverse and reverse डिजाइन not सामान्यतः देखी on the same piece.
ये can be जानबूझकर or produced by error.
इस type of error is highly sought after, और examples can fetch steep कीमतें इससे collectors.
The earliest mules हैं found among ancient यूनानी and Roman coins.
Opinion is विभाजित between those जो सोचो that they हैं accidental, the परिणाम of an incorrect combination of a new die साथ one कि था officially महरूम withdrawn इससे उपयोग, or the work of coiners working साथ dies stolen from an official mint, perhaps at a समय when one of them should have been destroyed.
The name derives from the खच्चर, the संकर offspring of a घोड़ा and a donkey, due to such a coin having two sides intended लिये different coins, much as a mule has parents of दो different species.
This पेज documents the tornadoes और tornado outbreaks of 2010.
the majority of tornadoes form in the U.S., but they can occur almost anywhere अंतर्गत the सही conditions.
A lesser क्रमांक occur outside the U.S., सबसे notably in parts of neighboring southern कनाडा during the उत्तरी गोलार्ध 's summer season, but are also known in South अमेरिका, यूरोपीय, Asia, and Australia.
There were 1,531 tornadoes reported in the United राज्य in 2010 ( of which at least 1,266 were confirmed ), with 45 पुष्टि fatalities.
Elsewhere in the संसार, 11 people were killed in tornadoes, six in अर्जेंटीना, three in the बहामा, एक in Bangladesh, और one in Germany.
The year थी near average for tornadoes despite an अत्यधिक quiet early वसन्त period, however ऐसे changed after a huge upswing starting in लेट अप्रैल and a व्यस्त late वसन्त और गर्मियाँ period.
The पतझड़ months were थोड़ा above average.
a lymphocyte is a type of white blood cell in the vertebrate प्रतिरक्षा system.
अंतर्गत the microscope, lymphocytes can be divided into large lymphocytes और छोटी lymphocytes.
Large granular lymphocytes include natural killer कोशिकाएं ( NK कोशिकाएं ).
Small lymphocytes consist of t cells और B cells.
Windows PowerShell is Microsoft 's task स्वचालन framework, consisting of a command-line शेल and संबद्ध एनक्रिप्शन भाषा built on.NET फ्रेमवर्क.
PowerShell provides full access to com और wmi, enabling administrators to perform administrative tasks on दोनो लोकल and remote Windows systems.
in PowerShell, प्रशासनिक tasks हैं generally performed by cmdlets ( pronounced command-lets ), which हैं specialized.NET classes implementing a particular operation.
Sets of cmdlets may be संयुक्त together in scripts, executables ( which are standalone applications ), or by instantiating नियमित.NET वर्ग ( or wmi/com Objects ).
ये कार्य by accessing आंकड़ा in different data stores, like the filesystem or registry, which are made available to the PowerShell runtime via Windows powershell providers.
Windows PowerShell also provides a hosting api with which the Windows powershell runtime can be embedded अंदर other applications.
These applications can तब उपयोग Windows powershell functionality to implement certain operations, including those exposed via the graphical interface.
इस capability रै महरूम used by Microsoft Exchange Server 2007 to expose its management functionality as PowerShell cmdlets and प्रदाताओं and implement the आलेखीय management tools as PowerShell hosts जिससे invoke the necessary cmdlets.
Other microsoft applications including microsoft SQL सर्वर 2008 also expose उनके management इंटरफ़ेस via powershell cmdlets.
With PowerShell, आलेखीय interface-based प्रबन्धन applications on खिड़कियाँ हैं layered on top of Windows PowerShell.
A powershell एनक्रिप्शन interface लिये Windows products is mandated by the आम Engineering Criteria.
Windows powershell शामिल its own extensive, console-based help, similar to man pages in Unix shells, via the Get-Help cmdlet.
Mary Poppins is a 1964 musical फिल्मी starring Julie Andrews, Dick Van Dyke, David Tomlinson, and glynis Johns, produced by Walt डिज़्नी, and आधारित on the मरियम poppins books series by P. L. Travers.
The फिल्मी थी directed by रॉबर्ट Stevenson और written by Bill वाल्श and Don DaGradi, with songs by the Sherman Brothers.
It थी shot at वॉल्ट Disney studios in Burbank, California.
जूली Andrews won the अकादमी Award लिये Best Actress for her प्रदर्शन as मरियम Poppins and the film also won Oscars for Best Film Editing, Original म्यूज़िक Score, Best Song for `` chim Chim Cher-ee '' and Best विज़ुअल Effects, and received a total of 13 nominations.
a story arc is an extended or continuing कथानक in episodic storytelling media ऐसे as television, कॉमिक books, comic strips, boardgames, video खेल, और in some मामले, films.
On a television program, for example, the story होता unfold over अनेक episodes.
In टेलीविज़न, the use of the story arc is much more common in dramas than in comedies, विशेषकर in साबुन operas.
Webcomics हैं more संभावित to use story arcs than समाचारपत्र comics, as सबसे वेब कॉमिक्स have पठनीय archives online that a newcomer to the strip can read in order to understand what is going on.
Although स्टोरी arcs have existed for decades, the पद `` story arc '' was coined in 1988 in संबंध to the television श्रेणी Wiseguy, and थी quickly adapted for other uses.
Many अमरीकी comic book series हैं now लिखा in four or six-issue arcs, within a continuing series.
छोटी स्टोरी arcs are easier to package as व्यापार paperbacks for resale, and more accessible to the casual reader than the never-ending continuity कि एकबार characterised comics.
ब्लैक Friday is the day following Thanksgiving Day in the United States, often regarded as the beginning of the क्रिसमस shopping season.
In recent years, most major रिटेलर have opened अत्यधिक early and offered promotional बिक्री to kick off the holiday shopping ऋतु, similar to Boxing Day बिक्री in many राष्ट्रमंडल Nations.
Black शुक्रवार is not an official public अवकाश as such, लकिन many non-retail कर्मचारी और schools have both Thanksgiving and the day after off, followed by a weekend, thereby increasing the number of potential shoppers.
It रै routinely been the व्यस्ततम खरीदारी day of the साल चूंकि 2005, although news रिपोर्ट्स, which at that time were inaccurate, have वर्णित it as the व्यस्ततम shopping day of the year लिये a much longer period of time.
The day 's नाम originated in Philadelphia, where it originally was used to describe the heavy and disruptive pedestrian और vehicle ट्रैफ़िक which would occur on the दिन after Thanksgiving.
Use of the पद started before 1961 and began to देखिए broader use outside Philadelphia around 1975.
Later an alternative स्पष्टीकरण began to be offered : that `` ब्लैक Friday '' indicates the पाइंट at जिससे retailers begin to turn a profit, or हैं `` ''.
लिये many years, it थी common for retailers to open at 6:00 a.m., लकिन in the लेट 2000s अनेक had crept to 5:00 or भी 4:00.
इस was taken to a new extreme in 2011, जब अनेक retailers ( including Target, Kohl 's, Macy 's, Best ख़रीदे, और Bealls ) खोली at midnight for the first time.
In 2012, walmart and अनेक other retailers घोषित that वे would open most of their स्टोर्स at 8:00 p.m. on Thanksgiving Day ( मगर in राज्य where खोलने on Thanksgiving is prohibited due to ब्लू कानून, such as Massachusetts where वे still खोली around midnight ), prompting काल्स लिये a walkout among some workers.
Black Friday खरीदारी is known for attracting आक्रामक crowds, with annual reports of assaults, shootings, and throngs of people trampling on other shoppers in an attempt to get the best deal on a product before supplies run आउट.
the Family That preys is a 2008 American movie drama written, उत्पादित, and directed by Tyler Perry.
The पटकथा focuses on two families, one wealthy और the अन्य working class, whose lives are intertwined in both प्रेम and कारोबार.
The movie is the second of four in जिससे Perry 's हस्ताक्षर अक्षर, Madea, does not make an appearance.
It is also the second Perry-directed film ( alongside Daddy 's छोटी Girls ) that is नहीं आधारित on any of the filmmaker 's stage plays.
Net 10, जाल 15, जाल 30 and जाल 60 ( भी Net 10 दिनों, et al ) हैं forms of trade क्रेडिट जिससे बताएँ कि the net amount ( the total बकाया on the invoice ) is अपेक्षित to be paid in full and received by the seller भीतर 10, 15, 30 or 60 दिनों after the goods are dispatched or service is completed.
Net 30 or Net 60 शर्तें are प्रायः coupled साथ a credit for early payment.
The word net in this भाव अर्थात् `` total after all discounts. ''
it originally derives from the लैटिन nitere ( to shine ) और nitidus ( सुरुचिपूर्ण, trim ), और more recently from the फ्रेंच net ( sharp, neat, साफ ).
Roadtown, Tortola
the British West इंडीज were the islands in और around the Caribbean कि यहूद part of the British Empire.
In 1912, the British वेस्ट Indies were divided into eight colonies : The Bahamas, Barbados, British Guiana, British Honduras, Jamaica ( साथ its dependencies the Turks and Caicos Islands और the केमन Islands ), Trinidad और टोबैगो, the Windward Islands और the Leeward Islands.
between 1958 and 1962, all of the island territories except the British Virgin आइलैंड्स, the बहामा, अंग्रेजों Honduras and British Guiana were organised into the West इंडीज Federation.
it was hoped that the संघ would become independent as a सिंगल nation, but it था limited powers, अनेक practical problems, and a lack of popular support.
Consequently, the West इंडीज Federation थी dissolved.
सबसे of the territories, सहित all the larger ones, हैं अभी स्वतंत्र as separate देशों, with membership to many international forums ऐसे as the Organization of American States, the संघ of Caribbean States, the संसार Trade संगठन, the United Nations, the Caribbean Community, the Commonwealth of राष्ट्र और the Caribbean Development Bank among अन्य.
the शेष are अंग्रेजों overseas territories.
सब the former राष्ट्र of the British West Indies, except the Commonwealth of डोमिनिकन, Guyana और त्रिनिदाद और टोबैगो, हैं Commonwealth realms.
The term is still प्रयुक्त for British विदेशी Territories in the Caribbean, such as the Cayman Islands.
The remaining अंग्रेजों West Indies
`` What a Wonderful World '' is a song written by bob Thiele ( as `` George Douglas '' ) and George David Weiss.
It was first recorded by Louis आर्मस्ट्रांग and released as a single in 1967.
Thiele and Weiss were both prominent in the music world ( Thiele as a producer और वेइस as a composer/performer ).
Armstrong 's recording was inducted in the Grammy Hall of कीर्ति in 1999.
The publishing लिये this song is controlled by मेमोरी Lane Music Group, Carlin Music Corp., and Bug Music, Inc.
Inauguration Day 2009 on the west steps of the u.S. Capitol.
President George W. Bush and First Lady लौरा Bush lead the inaugural parade bas Pennsylvania Avenue to the White House, 2005
the inauguration of the president of the United States is a ceremonial इवेंट अंकन the शुरुआत of a नई four-year term of a president of the संयुक्त राज्य.
The day a presidential inauguration occurs is known as `` उद्घाटन Day '' and occurs on जनवरी 20 ( or 21st if the 20th is a Sunday ).
( Prior to the बीसवीं Amendment, the तिथि was March 4, the दिन of the साल on जिससे the Constitution of the संयुक्त States first took प्रभाव in 1789 ; the last उद्घाटन to take place on the पुरानी date थी Franklin D. Roosevelt 's first one on कूच 4, 1933. )
The सबसे recent public presidential inauguration ceremony, the swearing in of President बराक ओबामा to begin उसके दूसरी four-year term in office, took place on सोमवार, जनवरी 21, 2013.
The only inauguration element mandated by the United States Constitution is कि the अध्यक्ष मेक an oath or affirmation before that person can `` enter on the निष्पादन '' of the office of the presidency.
however, over the years, विभिन्न traditions have arisen that have expanded the inauguration from a सरल oath-taking रस्म to a day-long event, including parades, भाषणों, and balls.
From the presidency of एंड्रयू Jackson through that of jimmy Carter, the primary Inauguration Day ceremony took प्लेस on the Capitol 's East Portico.
Since the 1981 inauguration of Ronald Reagan, the ceremony has been held at the Capitol 's West Front.
The inaugurations of William Howard taft in 1909 और reagan in 1985 यहूद स्थानांतरित indoors at the कैपिटल due to ठंडा weather.
the War of 1812 and संसार युद्ध II caused दो inaugurations to be आयोजित at other locations in वॉशिंगटन, D.C.
When जार्ज Washington was inaugurated, the oath was administered by Robert Livingston, Chancellor of New York State, in 1789, और by विलियम Cushing, Associate इंसाफ of the Supreme Court, in 1793.
Since Chief Justice Oliver एल्सवर्थ swore in President जॉन Adams, no chief justice has छूटी an उद्घाटन Day.
जब उद्घाटन Day has fallen on a Sunday, the chief justice has administered the शपथ to the president on the Sunday privately and then again the next day publicly.
जब a new president takes over mid-term due to the मौत or resignation of a अध्यक्ष, the oath of office is administered but औपचारिक, public उद्घाटन events have not महरूम आयोजित.
stefani Joanne Angelina Germanotta ( ; born March 28, 1986 ), known by her stage name Lady Gaga, is an American singer, songwriter, record producer, dancer, activist, businesswoman, fashion designer, actress and philanthropist.
born और raised in New York City, वो primarily studied at the Convent of the पवित्र दिल and briefly attended New York विश्वविद्यालयों 's Tisch School of the Arts पहले withdrawing to focus on उसके musical career.
She जल्द began performing in the rock music scene of मैनहटन 's निम्नतर ईस्ट पक्ष.
By the end of 2007, रिकार्ड executive और producer Vincent हर्बर्ट signed her to his label streamline Records, an imprint of Interscope Records.
initially working as a songwriter at Interscope Records, उसके vocal abilities captured the attention of recording artist एकॉन, who also signed her to Kon सजीव Distribution, his own लेबल under Interscope.
महिला गागा came to prominence as a recording artist following the release of उसके debut album, the Fame ( 2008 ), which was a critical and commercial success that अव्वल charts around the world और included the international number-one singles `` बस Dance `` and `` Poker फेस ``.
After embarking on the The कीर्ति Ball Tour, she followed the एल्बम साथ The Fame Monster ( 2009 ), which spawned the विश्वव्यापी hit singles `` Bad रोमांस ``, `` टेलीफोन ``, and `` Alejandro ``.
the Fame Monsters कामयाबी अनुमत उसके to embark on the eighteen-month long दानव Ball दौरे, जिससे बाद became one of the highest-grossing कॉन्सर्ट tours of all time.
उसके most हाल album, Born This रास्ता ( 2011 ), अव्वल the charts of most major markets and generated more अंतरराष्ट्रीय chart-topping singles, including `` born This Way ``, `` Judas ``, and `` The Edge of Glory ``.
Influenced by Britney Spears, David Bowie, Michael Jackson, मैडोना, and Queen, Lady Gaga is recognized for her flamboyant, diverse and outré contributions to the music industry through her fashion, performances and music videos.
as of October 2011, वो has sold an अनुमानित 23 लाख albums and 64 million singles विश्वव्यापी and उसके singles are कुछ of the best-selling worldwide.
Her उपलब्धियाँ include five ग्रैमी Awards and 13 MTV Video Music Awards.
Lady Gaga has consecutively appeared on Billboard magazine 's Artists of the साल ( स्कोरिंग the definitive title in 2010 ), ranked fourth in VH1 's list of 100 Greatest महिलाओं in Music, is the छठे best selling digital singles artist in us according to RIAA, is regularly placed on सूचियाँ रचित by Forbes magazine and was नामित one of the most influential people in the संसार by Time magazine.
Besides उसके musical career, वो involves herself साथ humanitarian कल्याणकारी and LGBT activism.
McKethan Stadium home of Gator baseball
A picture of the 1924 Baseball टोली
the फ्लोरिडा gators baseball team represents the University of फ्लोरिडा in the खेल of baseball.
The Florida Gators compete in Division i of the National Collegiate Athletics संघ ( NCAA ), and the Eastern Division of the southeastern सम्मेलन ( SEC ).
वे play उनके home games in अल्फ्रेड A. mckethan Stadium on the university 's Gainesville, Florida campus, and हैं फिलहाल led by head कोच Kevin o'sullivan.
In the ninety-eight season history of the Gators baseball कार्यक्रम, the team has जीती twelve SEC championships and has appeared in eight College World Series tournaments.
`` electioneering '' redirects here.
For the radiohead song, see ok कंप्यूटर.
Presidential campaign बटन for Abraham Lincoln, 1860.
The रिवर्स side of the button shows a portrait of his running mate Hannibal hamlin.
A political campaign is an organized effort which seeks to influence the decision बनाना process भीतर a specific group.
In democracies, political campaigns often refer to electoral campaigns, wherein representatives are chosen or referendums are decided.
In modern politics, the most high profile political campaigns are केन्द्रित on उम्मीदवार लिये head of राज्य or सिर of सरकारी, प्रायः a President or Prime मंत्री.
Elizabeth Cady stanton और her बेटी, harriot
Elizabeth cady Stanton ( नवम्बर 12, 1815 – अक्तूबर 26, 1902 ) थी an American social activist, abolitionist, and अग्रणी figure of the early women 's rights movement.
उसके Declaration of sentiments, प्रस्तुत at the पहला women 's rights convention held in 1848 in seneca Falls, New यॉर्क, is often credited with initiating the first organized women 's rights and women 's suffrage movements in the संयुक्त States.
Before stanton narrowed उसके political focus almost exclusively to women 's rights, she was an active abolitionist together with her husband, Henry Brewster Stanton and cousin, Gerrit स्मिथ.
Unlike many of those involved in the women 's rights गति, Stanton addressed various issues pertaining to women परे voting rights.
Her चिंताएं included women 's parental and कस्टडी अधिकारों, property अधिकारों, नियुक्ति and income rights, divorce, the economic health of the परिवार, and birth control.
वो was also an outspoken supporter of the 19th-century temperance movement.
बाद the American Civil War, Stanton 's प्रतिबद्धता to female suffrage caused a schism in the महिलाओं 's अधिकारों गति जब वो, together साथ सुसान B. Anthony, अस्वीकृत to support ड्योढ़ी of the Fourteenth और Fifteenth Amendments to the United राज्य संविधान.
वो opposed giving added legal protection and voting rights to अफ़्रीकी American मेन while women, black and श्वेत, were अस्वीकृत those same rights.
Her स्थिति on this issue, together with her thoughts on organized Christianity and women 's issues beyond मतदान rights, led to the formation of two पृथक women 's rights संगठन कि were finally rejoined, with Stanton as president of the joint organization, approximately बीस years after her break from the original महिलाओं 's suffrage गति.
Stanton died in 1902 having authored both the Woman 's बाइबल and her आत्मकथा, along साथ many आलेख and pamphlets concerning female suffrage और women 's rights.
my Fair Lady is a musical based upon George बर्नार्ड Shaw 's Pygmalion and साथ book और गीत by एलन Jay lerner and music by Frederick Loewe.
the स्टोरी concerns Eliza Doolittle, a Cockney flower girl who takes speech lessons इससे professor Henry हिगिंस, a phoneticist, so that she may pass as a well-born lady.
the musical 's 1956 ब्रॉडवे उत्पादन थी a hit, setting what was then the record लिये the longest run of कोई major musical theatre उत्पादन in history.
It थी followed by a hit लंदन production, a popular film version, and numerous revivals.
It has महरूम called `` the perfect musical ''.
deregulation is the act or प्रक्रम of निकालना or reducing state regulations.
it is therefore विपरीत of regulation, which refers to the प्रक्रम of the सरकारी regulating certain activities.
the Boston Bruins Radio Network is a 25-station ( 17 A.M., 8 F.M. plus 2 F.M. translators ) CBS रेडियो network which carries live game broadcasts of the Boston Bruins.
The संजाल 's flagship स्टेशन is WBZ-FM /98.5- बोस्टन, Massachusetts.
Dave Goucher announces play-by-play.
Bob Beers provides रंग commentary.
This article is about the छोटी story.
For the कविता by Sara Teasdale, देखिए There Will Come Soft Rains.
`` वहीँ Will आइये नरम Rains '' is a short स्टोरी by science fiction author Ray bradbury जिससे थी first published in the May 6, 1950 समस्या of collier 's.
बाद that वही year the story was included in bradbury 's The Martian Chronicles ( 1950 ).
With over 1.2 अरब people, हान चाइनीज is the largest ethnic group in the world.
Pashtun people of the Pashtunistan प्रदेश, which sits in an area between south of the हिन्दू Kush in Afghanistan and the सिंधु River in Pakistan.
वे क्रमांक around 50 million.
The Korowai people of Papua गिने just around 3,000 people, and were uncontacted until the 1970s.
Ethnicity or जातीय समूह is a socially पारिभाषित category आधारित on common culture or nationality.
Ethnicity can, but does not have to, शामिल common ancestry, appearance, cuisine, dressing style, heritage, history, भाषा or dialect, religion, प्रतीकों, traditions, or अन्य cultural फ़ैक्टर.
Ethnic identity is constantly reinforced through आम विशेषताएँ which नियत the समूह apart इससे other groups.
The 19.9 mw Gemasolar solar संयंत्र in Spain सुविधाएँ 15 घंटों of भंडार and can सप्लाई शक्ति 24 hours a day.
Solar energy, radiant light and heat from the sun, has महरूम harnessed by humans since ancient times using a range of ever-evolving technologies.
सौर energy technologies include solar हीटिंग, solar photovoltaics, सौर thermal electricity, solar वास्तुकला and artificial photosynthesis, जिससे can make considerable contributions to solving कुछ of the सबसे urgent उर्जा problems the world now faces.
सौर technologies हैं broadly characterized as either passive solar or active solar depending on the way they capture, बदलें और distribute solar energy.
Active सौर तकनीकों शामिल the use of photovoltaic panels और सौर थर्मल collectors to harness the energy.
passive solar techniques include orienting a building to the Sun, selecting materials with favorable thermal mass or light dispersing properties, and designing spaces that naturally circulate air.
In 2011, the International Energy एजेंसी said that `` the विकास of affordable, inexhaustible and clean solar उर्जा technologies होगा have huge longer-term लाभ.
It will बढ़ाएँ countries’ energy security through reliance on an indigenous, inexhaustible and ज़्यादातर import-independent resource, बढ़ाएँ स्थिरता, reduce pollution, lower the costs of mitigating जलवायु बदलें, and रखना fossil fuel कीमतें lower than otherwise.
These लाभ are global.
hence the additional costs of the प्रोत्साहन for early deployment should be considered learning investments ; they जरूर be wisely spent and need to be widely साझा ''.
the classical Latin alphabet or Roman alphabet evolved from a western variety of the यूनानी alphabet called the cumaean alphabet, जिससे was adopted and परिवर्धित by the etruscans who ruled early Rome.
The Etruscan alphabet was in turn adopted and further modified by the ancient Romans to लिखें the Latin भाषा.
During the Middle Ages, the लैटिन alphabet was adapted to रोमांस languages, सीधा वंशजों of लैटिन, as well as to Celtic, germanic, बाल्टिक, and कुछ Slavic languages.
With the age of colonialism and ईसाई evangelism, the Latin स्क्रिप्ट थी spread overseas, और लागू to indigenous अमरीकी, ऑस्ट्रेलियाई, Austronesian, austroasiatic, and अफ़्रीकी languages.
अधिक recently, linguists have also tended to prefer the लैटिन script or the International ध्वन्यात्मक वर्णमाला ( itself largely based on Latin script ) when transcribing or creating written मानकों for non-European भाषाएं, such as the अफ़्रीकी reference वर्णमाला.
The पद Latin alphabet may refer to either the alphabet प्रयुक्त to लिखें लैटिन ( as वर्णित in this आलेख ), or other alphabets based on the Latin script, जिससे is the basic set of अक्षर आम to the various alphabets descended इससे the classical लैटिन एक, such as the English alphabet.
These Latin-derived alphabets may discard letters, जैसे the rotokas alphabet, or add नई letters, जैसे the Danish and Norwegian वर्णमाला.
Letter आकार have changed over the centuries, including the creation for Medieval Latin of lower मामला forms जिससे किया not exist in the शास्त्रीय period.
The हत्या of United States अध्यक्ष Abraham Lincoln took place on Good Friday, April 14, 1865, as the American Civil War was drawing to a close.
The assassination occurred पाँच days बाद the कमांडर of the confederate Army of Northern Virginia, General Robert E. Lee, surrendered to Lieutenant General ulysses S. Grant and the Union Army of the Potomac.
Lincoln was the first अमरीकी president to be assassinated, हालांकि an unsuccessful attempt था महरूम made on Andrew Jackson 30 years before in 1835.
the हत्या was planned and carried आउट by the well-known stage actor John Wilkes Booth, as भाग of a larger षड्यंत्र in a bid to revive the Confederate cause.
बूथ 's co-conspirators were Lewis Powell and दाउद Herold, who were assigned to kill Secretary of State William H. Seward, and George Atzerodt जो थी to kill Vice President एंड्रयू Johnson.
By simultaneously eliminating the top three लोगों in the administration, बूथ and his co-conspirators hoped to sever the continuity of the United राज्य government.
Lincoln was shot जबकि watching the play Our American cousin with his wife Mary टॉड Lincoln at घाट 's थिएटर in Washington, D.C. on the night of April 14, 1865.
he died early the next morning.
the बाकी of the षड्यंत्रकारियों ' plot विफल ; Powell only managed to wound Seward, while Atzerodt, जॉनसन 's would-be assassin, खोया his nerve and fled Washington.
add-on might mean:
plug-in ( कम्प्यूटिंग ), a piece of software which enhances another software application and usually can not be run independently
ब्राउजर एक्सटेंशन, जिससे modifies the interface and/or behavior of web browsers
Add-on ( मोज़िला ), a piece of तन्त्र कि enhances और customizes mozilla-based applications
Add-ons for फायरफॉक्स ( addons.mozilla.org ), the official Mozilla Foundation web site जिससे serves as a repository of add-ons लिये mozilla-based अनुप्रयोग
परिधीय, an optional कंप्यूटर hardware component कि significantly supplements or enhances the कार्यक्षमता of the original ईकाई
Video game accessory, a piece of hardware प्रयुक्त in संयोजन with a video game console लिये playing video games
Club स्तर seating is a special section of seating in आधुनिक sports stadiums.
The Club Level is usually स्तिथ towards the middle of the स्टेज of seating sections, above the lower deck but below the upper deck.
They हैं usually सही next to the लक्ज़री Boxes, either right above, सही below, or sandwiched between two स्तर of Luxury बाक्स.
Club स्तर seating is considered as higher क्लास than sitting anywhere else in the arena, लकिन lower क्लास compared to the Luxury Boxes.
Unlike the लक्ज़री Boxes, सबसे क्लबों levels do not रैप entirely around the arena.
Some club levels stop at a certain पाइंट, giving way to an विस्तार of the मेज़ानाइन, while others give way to lower class Luxury Boxes ( such as `` Party suites '' ).
A notable exception to इस is अमीरात स्टेडियम in London, which has a complete tier of club seating.
क्लबों Levels allow fans multiple levels of entertainment.
Club Level seating is open to the तत्व, as opposed to the entirely enclosed luxury boxes, जिससे gives more of an outdoors impression at roofless and open-roof stadiums and arenas.
क्लबों स्तर seating is normally bought on a contract आधार to allow for maximum profit on the part of the stadium.
the Club Level provides fans साथ special access to an indoor part of the एरिना exclusive to fans with special tickets.
These areas are air conditioned and allow access to खास restaurants, merchandise stands, और lounge areas of the stadium that हैं नहीं वरना available.
Concession stands and vendors on the क्लबों Level also often offer different मेनू than in other stands to give more of a खास feel to the Club.
ये क्षेत्रों हैं closed off to the rest of the stadium, and वे usually can तभी be पहुँचा through the exclusive, private क्लबों entrances.
Sophia लोरेन ( ; born सोफिया villani scicolone ; 20 September 1934 ) is an Italian actress.
Loren is widely पहचाना as Italy 's most प्रसिद्ध and सम्मानित actress.
She थी the पहला actress of the talkie era to win an Academy Award for a non-English-speaking प्रदर्शन, for her portrayal of Cesira in Vittorio De Sica 's Two Women.
Her other awards शामिल a ग्रैमी पुरस्कार, five special Golden Globes, a BAFTA Award and a लॉरेल Award.
in 1995 she received the सेसिल B. demille Award for lifetime उपलब्धियाँ, एक of many such awards.
Her films शामिल : houseboat ( 1958 ), El Cid ( 1961 ), कल, Today and Tomorrow ( 1963 ), विवाह Italian-Style ( 1964 ), and A खास Day ( 1977 ).
In later years वो has appeared in American blockbusters ऐसे as Grumpier बूढ़ा Men ( 1995 ), and Nine ( 2009 ).
In 1994 she स्ट्रक्चर in Robert Altman 's prêt-à-porter, जिससे अर्जित her a सुनहरी Globe nomination the same साल.
वो has also हासिल critical and commercial success in TV movies such as Courage ( 1986 ).
मौतों लिये self-inflicted injuries per 100,000 inhabitants in 2004.
Incidence of आत्महत्या is underreported due to both religious and social pressures, and संभवतः completely unreported in some areas.
Nevertheless, from reported मामले, certain रुझान are apparent.
Since the data is skewed, comparing suicide rates between राष्ट्र is statistically unsound.
The trends themselves are not the cause, but may be indicative of a root cause.
The Oprah विनफ्रे नेतृत्व Academy for लड़कियों - South Africa is a मादा boarding स्कूल founded in जनवरी 2007 and located in Henley on Klip निकट Meyerton, दक्षिण of Johannesburg, South Africa.
The academy was founded by Oprah Winfrey साथ the goal of providing educational और leadership अवसर for academically gifted लड़कियों इससे impoverished पृष्ठभूमि.
Oprah Winfrey Leadership Academy for Girls
Digicel is a मोबाईल phone संजाल provider operating in 31 markets आरपार the caribbean, Central America, and Oceania regions.
the company is स्वामित्व by irishman Denis o'brien, is incorporated in Bermuda, and based in Jamaica.
it रै परिचय 13 million wireless users.
As of 2012, Digicel 's markets comprise : Anguilla, Antigua and बारबूडा, Aruba, बारबाडोस, Bermuda, Bonaire, the British Virgin आइलैंड्स, the केमन Islands, Curacao, Dominica, El साल्वाडोर, Fiji, French Guiana, Grenada, guadeloupe, Guyana, हैती, Jamaica, Martinique, Nauru, Panama, Papua New गिनी, Samoa, संत Kitts and नेविस, Saint लूसिया, संत Vincent and the grenadines, Suriname, Tonga, Trinidad & Tobago, Turks और Caicos, and vanuatu.
इस is a list of records of the FIFA संसार Cup and its qualification मिलान.
हॉस्पिटल Emergency Codes are प्रयुक्त in hospitals विश्वव्यापी to alert staff to विभिन्न emergencies.
the use of codes is intended to convey essential information quickly and with minimal misunderstanding to स्टाफ, while preventing stress और panic among visitors to the hospital.
ये codes may be posted on placards throughout the hospital, or printed on employee identification badges for तैयार reference.
Back of a hospital ID badge showing disaster कोड.
Hospital आपात कोड may denote अलग events at different hospitals, सहित nearby ones.
Because many physicians work at अधिक than एक facility, this may lead to भ्रम in emergencies, so uniform systems have महरूम प्रस्तावित.
The रूट of the Eifel aqueduct, with its औसत slope.
The Eifel Aqueduct was one of the longest aqueducts of the रोमन साम्राज्य.
the जलसेतु, constructed in AD 80, carried water some इससे the hilly eifel region of what is now Germany to the प्राचीन नगर of Colonia claudia आरा Agrippinensium ( present-day Cologne ).
If the auxiliary spurs to additional springs are included, the length was.
the निर्माण थी almost entirely below ground, और the प्रवाह of the जल was उत्पादित entirely by गम्भीरता.
A few पुलों, सहित one up to in length, were needed to pass over valleys.
Unlike कुछ of the other प्रसिद्ध रोमन aqueducts, the eifel aqueduct थी specifically designed to minimize the above-ground portion to protect it इससे damage and जमने.
In रसायन, a disulfide bond ( Br.E. disulphide bond ) is a covalent bond, usually derived by the coupling of two thiol groups.
The linkage is also पुकारा an SS-bond or disulfide सेतु.
The overall connectivity is therefore R-S-S-R.
The terminology is widely used in biochemistry.
In formal terms, the connection is a persulfide, in analogy to इसके congener, peroxide ( r-o-o-r ), but this शब्दावली is obscure and is no longer used ( मगर in reference to R-S-S-H or h-s-s-h compounds ).
Formal चित्रण of disulfide बंध formation as an oxidation.
Westminster Abbey is प्रयुक्त for the coronation of अंग्रेजों monarchs
धर्म in the United Kingdom and in the देशों that preceded it, has been dominated, for over 1,400 years, by various forms of Christianity.
According to some सर्वेक्षण, a majority of citizens still पहचानो साथ Christianity, although regular church attendance रै गिरे dramatically चूंकि the middle of the 20th century, and immigration और demographic change have contributed to the growth of other faiths.
Religious affiliations of UK नागरिकों are recorded by नियमित surveys, the four प्रमुख ones being the UK Census, the Labour Force Survey, the British सोशल Attitudes सर्वेक्षण और the European Social Survey.
According to the 2001 uk जनसांख्यिकी, christianity is the major religion, followed by islam, Hinduism, Sikhism, Judaism and Buddhism in terms of क्रमांक of adherents.
This, and the अपेक्षाकृत large क्रमांक of individuals साथ नाममात्र or no धार्मिक संबद्धों has led commentators to variously describe the United किंगडम as a multi-faith, secularised, or post-christian society.
the United Kingdom was formed by the संघ of previously independent countries इससे 1707, and नतीजतन सबसे of the largest धार्मिक groups do नहीं have UK-wide organisational structures.
While some groups have separate structures for the व्यक्तिगत countries of the United Kingdom, others may have a सिंगल structure covering इंग्लैण्ड and Wales or Great Britain.
Similarly, due to the relatively recent सृष्टि of उत्तरी आयरलैंड in 1921, most major religious groups in Northern Ireland हैं organised on an all-Ireland basis.
The 1967 न्यूर्क riots यहूद a प्रमुख civil disturbance कि occurred in the city of Newark, नई जर्सी between July 12 and July 17, 1967.
The six days of rioting, looting, और destruction बाएँ 26 dead and hundreds घायल.
In संयुक्त राज्य college athletics, redshirt is a delay or suspension of an खिलाड़ी 's भागीदारी in अनुक्रम to lengthen his or उसके period of पात्रता.
Typically, a student 's एथलेटिक eligibility in a दिए sport is four seasons, a क्रमांक निकला from the four years of academic classes that are सामान्यतः required to obtain a bachelor 's उपाधि at an American college or विश्वविद्यालयों.
However, a student खिलाड़ी may be offered the अवसर to redshirt लिये up to two सालो, which allows the athlete to spread those four सालो of eligibility over five, or sometimes six years.
In a redshirt year, a student athlete may attend classes at the कॉलेज or university, practice साथ an athletic team, and dress लिये खेल लकिन he or वो may not compete during the game.
Using this mechanism, a student athlete रै up to five academic years to use the four years of पात्रता, thus becoming a fifth-year senior.
The term is used as a verb, noun, and क्रियाशील.
लिये उदाहरण, a coach may choose to redshirt a player who is then referred to as a redshirt freshman or बस a redshirt.
the opposite of this is a `` true freshman. ''
संसार युद्ध I ( WWI ) was a global war केंद्रित in Europe that began on 28 July 1914 and lasted जबतक 11 November 1918.
It was predominantly called the World युद्ध or the Great War इससे its occurrence until the start of World युद्ध II in 1939, and the पहला संसार युद्ध or संसार युद्ध i thereafter.
it involved all the world 's ग्रेट powers, जिससे were assembled in two opposing alliances : the allies ( based on the Triple entente of the United किंगडम, France and Russia ) and the Central Powers ( originally the ट्रिपल Alliance of Germany, Austria-Hungary और Italy ; but, as Austria–Hungary had लिया the अप्रिय विरूद्ध the agreement, Italy किया not enter into the war ).
These alliances were दोनो reorganised और expanded as अधिक nations entered the युद्ध : Italy, Japan and the United राज्य joined the Allies, और the Ottoman Empire और बुल्गारिया the Central Powers.
Ultimately, more than 70 million सैन्य कर्मियों, including 60 लाख Europeans, यहूद mobilised in one of the largest wars in इतिहास.
More than 9 million combatants were मारे, largely because of technological advancements कि led to enormous increases in the lethality of हथियार बगैर सम्बन्धित improvements in protection or mobility.
It थी the fifth- deadliest विरोध in संसार history, subsequently paving the way for various political परिवर्तन, such as revolutions in अनेक of the nations involved.
One of the long-term causes of the युद्ध was the पुनरुत्थान of imperialism in the विदेशी policies of the ग्रेट powers of Europe.
More immediately, the assassination of archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria, the heir to the throne of Austria-Hungary, on 28 June 1914 by Yugoslav nationalist Gavrilo Princip in Sarajevo triggered a diplomatic crisis when Austria-Hungary subsequently delivered an ultimatum to the Kingdom of Serbia.
अनेक alliances formed over the previous decades were invoked.
भीतर weeks, the प्रमुख powers यहूद at युद्ध and, via उनके colonies, the conflict soon स्प्रेड around the संसार.
On 28 July, the Austro-Hungarians fired the पहला गोलियाँ of the war as तैयारी for the आक्रमण of Serbia.
While the Russians mobilised, the Germans invaded neutral Belgium and Luxembourg on the way to France, providing a casus belli लिये ब्रिटेन 's declaration of war against Germany.
After the German कूच on पेरिस was brought to a halt—the so-called Miracle of the marne —the Western Front settled into a स्थिर battle of attrition with a trench line that बदला छोटी until 1917.
On the Eastern सामने, the Russian फौज थी कामयाब against the Austro-Hungarians, लकिन was रोका in इसके आक्रमण of East Prussia by the Germans.
in November the Ottoman Empire joined the war, खोलने up fronts in the काकेशस, Mesopotamia और the Sinai.
Italy and Bulgaria went to war in 1915 और रोमानिया in 1916.
in रूस, the tsar 's government collapsed in March 1917 and a subsequent revolution in November brought the russians to terms साथ the Central Powers.
बाद a 1918 जर्मनी offensive along the पश्चिमी सामने, the allies drove back the Germans in a series of successful offensives and American forces began entering the trenches.
जर्मनी, which था its अपना trouble साथ क्रांतिकारियों, सहमत to an armistice on 11 November 1918.
The war ended in विजय लिये the Allies.
Events on the घर fronts were as tumultuous as on the battle fronts, as the participants tried to mobilize their manpower and economic resources to लड़ो a कुल war.
by the end of the war, four major imperial powers—the German, Russian, Austro-Hungarian and Ottoman empires—ceased to exist.
The successor राज्य of the former two lost a ग्रेट amount of territory, while the latter two यहूद dismantled entirely.
The map of central Europe was redrawn into several smaller states.
The लीग of राष्ट्र थी formed in the hope of preventing another such विरोध.
the European nationalism शाखित by the war and the breakup of empires, the परखना of Germany 's defeat and problems साथ the सन्धि of Versailles are agreed to be factors contributing to संसार War II.
मैप of countries that घोषित themselves to be socialist राज्य under the Marxist–Leninist or Maoist definition - that is to कह, `` Communist states '' - between 1979 and 1983.
This period चिह्नित the greatest territorial extent of Communist states.
A कम्युनिस्ट state is a state where the अर्थात् of उत्पादन are collectively owned by the society.
it रै a form of सरकारी characterized by single-party नियम or dominant-party rule of a communist party ( referred as तानाशाही of the Proletariat by its proponents ) and a professed allegiance to a Leninist or Marxist–Leninist ideology as the guiding principle of the state.
technically, `` कम्युनिस्ट state '' is a contradictio in terminis as a communist समाज as पारिभाषित by both Marxists and anarcho-communists is in principle stateless.
From this perspective, the पद Marxist-Leninist state is more appropriate.
Historically, a `` communist राज्य '' referred to a प्रणाली where public ownership of all or most अर्थात् of production by the Communist party -run state is deemed necessary to further the interests of the working class ; today, a communist राज्य can also, for instance, refer to समकालीन चीन and Vietnam, where a Communist Party-run राज्य exists alongside a mixed economy.
According to marxist–leninists, the state is a tool in the hands of the ruling class, which in a socialist society is the working क्लास, so a समाजवादी state is, according to leninists, a राज्य of the working class.
In अभ्यास, communist राज्य do not actually refer to themselves as such.
They do this not to disguise the fact कि the सत्ताधारी party is communist, लकिन बल्कि क्युकी they do नहीं consider themselves to be a communist society at present.
Instead, they constitutionally पहचानो themselves as समाजवादी राज्य or workers ' राज्य.
The प्राथमिक goal of these states, which also explains उनके आधिकारिक name, is to guide उनके संबंधित countries in the प्रक्रम of भवन socialism, ultimately leading to साम्यवादी.
Communist states may have अनेक विधिक political पार्टियों, but the कम्युनिस्ट party is usually granted a special or प्रबल role in सरकारी, प्रायः by statute or under the constitution.
Consequently, the institutions of the state and of the communist party become intimately entwined, such as in the development of parallel institutions.
In the 20th century, सबसे communist राज्य adopted नियोजित economies.
However, there were exceptions : the सोवियत Union during the 1920s and late 1980s and Yugoslavia after World युद्ध ii allowed limited बाज़ार and a degree of worker self-management, while China, Vietnam और Laos introduced far-reaching market reforms after the 1980s.
in the 21st century, China and Vietnam have allowed a mixed अर्थव्यवस्था to develop.
the आधारभूत अवधारणाओं of communist states often diverge from the original socio-economic ideologies इससे which वे develop.
As a result, many adherents of ये ideologies often oppose the political systems commonly associated साथ these states.
For उदाहरण, dissenting साम्यवादियों ऐसे as Trotskyists were often opposed to the कम्युनिस्ट states of the 20th century, claiming either कि वे had nothing to do साथ `` real '' साम्यवादी or कि the ideology of such states had reached a point of अटल भ्रष्टाचार.
Michael फ्रेड Phelps ii ( born June 30, 1985 ) is a retired American swimmer और the most सजा ओलंपियन of all time, साथ a total of 22 medals.
Phelps also holds the all-time records लिये Olympic gold medals ( 18, double the दूसरी highest record holders ), Olympic gold medals in individual कार्यक्रम ( 11 ), और ओलम्पिक medals in व्यक्तिगत events for a male ( 13 ).
In winning eight सुनहरा medals at the 2008 बीजिंग Games, Phelps took the record for the most first-place finishes at कोई single ओलम्पिक Games.
Five of those victories were in व्यक्तिगत events, tying the single Games record.
In the 2012 गर्मियाँ ओलंपिक in London, फेल्प्स won four golds and two silver medals, making उसे the most successful athlete of the खेल for the third ओलंपिक in a row.
Phelps is the long course संसार recordholder in the 100-meter butterfly, 200-meter butterfly and 400-meter individual medley as well as the पूर्व long कोर्स world recordholder in the 200-meter freestyle और 200-meter व्यक्तिगत medley.
He has जीती a total of 71 medals in प्रमुख international long-course competition, 57 gold, 11 silver, और तीन bronze spanning the Olympics, the World, और the पण Pacific Championships.
फेल्प्स 's international titles and record-breaking performances have earned him the World तैराक of the Year Award seven times and अमरीकी Swimmer of the Year Award nine times as well as the FINA Swimmer of the Year Award in 2012.
उसके unprecedented Olympic success in 2008 earned Phelps Sports Illustrated पत्रिका 's sportsman of the Year award.
बाद the 2008 गर्मियाँ ओलंपिक, फेल्प्स started the Michael Phelps Foundation, which focuses on growing the sport of तैराकी and promoting healthier lifestyles.
He expects to do further कार्य with his foundation बाद the 2012 Olympics, which he has said will be his last.
लेनोवो Group Limited ( ) is a चाइनीज बहुराष्ट्रीय computer हार्डवेयर and electronics company with इसके headquarters in Beijing, China and morrisville, North कैरोलिना and its पंजीकृत office in हांग काँग, China.
Its products include personal computers, टैब्लेट computers, मोबाईल फोन, workstations, सर्वर, electronic storage devices, IT management software and smart televisions.
Lenovo is the world 's second-largest PC विक्रेता by 2012 unit sales.
It markets the ThinkPad line of कोपी कंप्यूटर and the thinkcentre line of desktops.
Lenovo रै operations in more than 60 countries and sells इसके products in around 160 countries.
Lenovo was founded in Beijing in 1984 और incorporated in Hong Kong in 1988 under its previous name, लेजेंड.
लेनोवो is listed on the Hong काँग Stock एक्सचेंज and is a constituent of the Hang Seng China-Affiliated Corporations अनुक्रमणिका.
Slug is a common name for an apparently shell-less terrestrial gastropod mollusk.
The word `` slug '' is भी often प्रयुक्त as part of the common name of any gastropod mollusc that has no shell, has a बहुत reduced shell, or has तभी a small internal shell.
( इस is in contrast to the common name `` घोंघा ``, which is applied to gastropods कि have a coiled shell कि is विशाल पर्याप्त that the नरम भाग of the एनिमल can retract fully into it. )
Slugs मौजूद on land and in the sea, और वहीँ is भी एक genus of freshwater slugs, Acochlidium.
The unadorned word `` slug '' is however applied primarily to land slugs, whereas slugs इससे the समुद्र or इससे freshwater हैं usually referred to as `` समुद्र slugs `` और `` freshwater slugs ''.
जमीन gastropods with a shell कि is नहीं quite vestigial, but is too small to retract into ( जैसे many in the family urocyclidae ), हैं known as semislugs.
The विभिन्न taxonomic families of slugs form भाग of several quite different विकासवादी lineages which भी include snails.
Thus, for example, the various families of land slugs are not बहुत closely related to one another, despite a superficial similarity in the overall body form.
the shell-less condition has arisen many times independently during the evolutionary past, and यूँ the category `` slug '' is emphatically a polyphyletic one.
Slugs, like सब other gastropods, undergo torsion ( a 180° twisting of the internal अंगों ) दौरान development.
internally, slug anatomy clearly shows the प्रभाव of इस rotation, but externally the bodies of जमीन slugs appear to be more or less सममित, except for the positioning of the pneumostome, which is on one side of the animal, normally the सही hand side.
The soft, slimy लाशें of slugs हैं prone to desiccation, so land-living slugs are confined to moist environments and जरूर retreat to नम hiding स्थान जब the weather is dry.
The subsequent information in this article applies to land slugs.
is a Latin word that अर्थात् `` thus '' or, in writing, `` it was यूँ in the source material ''.
sic may भी refer to:
Sic, Cluj, a commune in रोमानिया
SIC, the regional कोड लिये Sicily
Sic ( रव कलाकार ), styled as [ sic ], stage name of जेनिफर Morris, a Canadian noise artist
Sic ( band ) is a आधुनिक Hardcore/Thrash metal band from Torshavn, the capital of the Faroe Islands
`` ( sic ) '', a सोंग by अमरीकी बैंड Slipknot on the album Slipknot
sic, the initial of Marco Simoncelli.
sic as an एक्रोनिम may stand for:
sic, Silicon carbide, a semiconducting material, also used to make metalworking टूल्स
SIC ( cyclecar ) ( società Italiana cyclecars )
Standard Industrial Classification, a 20th-century U.S. प्रणाली for classifying उद्योग
International Standard Industrial Classification a UN system for economic क्रियाएँ
Shetland आइलैंड्स परिषद
the Swiss Interbank clearing प्रणाली
San Isidro Club, an Argentine rugby union club
Standing निर्वचन कमेटी, a committee समर्पित to the निर्वचन of international accounting मानकों IFRS
Schwarz information criterion in the field of statistics
Second-in-command in the field of aviation
Sistema interconectado Central power grid in Chile
Sociedade Independente de Comunicação ( sic ), a टेलीविज़न channel in पुर्तगाल
Sea आइल City, New Jersey, a coastal town in the United राज्य
Segmented Integer Counter mode, a mode of operation in cryptography
Sepang International Circuit, a high-end racetrack that hosts the Malaysian round of Formula 1
शंघाई International सर्किट, a motor racing स्थान in शंघाई, चीन
Simplified निर्देशात्मक computer, a काल्पनिक कंप्यूटर प्रयुक्त in प्रणालियों programming
SIC ( Sons Idées Couleurs ), an जल्दी twentieth-century art magazine produced by फ्रेंच author पियरे Albert-Birot
Southeastern Illinois College, a दो year Junior College in Harrisburg, इलिनोइस, United States
विशिष्ट inductive क्षमता, abbreviated to sic, which is more commonly known as the सापेक्ष विद्युतशीलता or the dielectric निरंतर
St Ignatius ' College, Riverview, a Jesuit स्कूल in Sydney, Australia
Imperial Standard of नेपोलियन i
Napoleon Bonaparte (, ; 15 अगस्त 1769 – 5 May 1821 ) was a फ्रेंच सैन्य and political leader जो rose to prominence during the latter stages of the French क्रान्ति and इसके associated wars in Europe.
As Napoleon I, he थी Emperor of the French इससे 1804 to 1815.
His विधिक सुधार, the Napoleonic कोड, रै been a major influence on many civil विधि jurisdictions worldwide, but he is best remembered for his भूमिका in the युद्धों led विरूद्ध France by a श्रेणी of coalitions, the so-called Napoleonic युद्धों.
He established hegemony over सबसे of continental Europe and sought to spread the ideals of the French Revolution, while consolidating an इम्पीरियल monarchy जिससे लौटी aspects of the deposed Ancien Régime.
due to his success in these युद्धों, often against numerically superior enemies, he is generally regarded as one of the महानतम military commanders of all time, and his campaigns हैं पढ़ाई at military academies विश्वव्यापी.
Napoleon was born at Ajaccio in Corsica in a family of noble Italian ancestry जिससे था settled Corsica in the 16th century.
He trained as an artillery officer in मेनलैंड फ़्रांस.
he रोज़ to prominence अंतर्गत the French First Republic and led successful campaigns विरूद्ध the पहला और Second Coalitions arrayed विरूद्ध France.
he led a कामयाब आक्रमण of the Italian प्रायद्वीप.
in 1799, he मंचन a तख्तापलट d'état and installed खुद as पहला Consul ; five years later the French Senate proclaimed him emperor, following a plebiscite in his favour.
In the पहला decade of the 19th सदी, the French साम्राज्य अंतर्गत नेपोलियन सगाई in a series of conflicts—the Napoleonic Wars —that involved every प्रमुख European power.
बाद a streak of victories, France secured a dominant स्थिति in continental Europe, and Napoleon maintained the French sphere of influence through the formation of extensive alliances and the appointment of friends और परिवार members to rule other European countries as French क्लाएंट states.
The Peninsular War and 1812 फ्रेंच आक्रमण of Russia चिह्नित turning points in नेपोलियन 's fortunes.
His ग्रांडे Armée was badly damaged in the campaign and never fully बरामद.
In 1813, the Sixth Coalition defeated his forces at Leipzig ; the following year the Coalition invaded फ़्रांस, forced नेपोलियन to abdicate और exiled उसे to the island of Elba.
Less than a year बाद, he escaped Elba और returned to power, but was defeated at the Battle of Waterloo in June 1815.
नेपोलियन spent the पिछला six years of उसके life in कारावास by the British on the island of संत Helena.
An autopsy concluded he died of पेट cancer, but there रै been कुछ debate about the कारण of उसके मौत, as कुछ scholars have speculated that he was a शिकार of arsenic विषाक्तता.
This is a chronological listing of the United States Senators from Pennsylvania.
United States Senators are popularly elected, for a six-year term, beginning January 3.
चुनावों are held the पहला Tuesday बाद नवम्बर 1.
पहले 1914, they were chosen by the Pennsylvania General Assembly, and before 1935, their शर्तें began March 4.
The South अफ़्रीकी national rugby union team ( known as the springboks ) represents South Africa in rugby union.
They compete in the सालाना Rugby Championship, along with southern-hemisphere counterparts Argentina, Australia and नई जीलैंड.
They have won इस championship on three अवसरों in sixteen years.
वे are currently ranked second in the world by the International Rugby Board, और were named 2008 संसार टोली of the Year at the Laureus World Sports पुरस्कार.
हालांकि South अफ़्रीकी was instrumental in the सृष्टि of the Rugby World कप competition, the Springboks did not compete in the पहला दो संसार Cups in 1987 and 1991 because of anti-apartheid sporting boycotts of South अफ़्रीकी.
the team made its World Cup डेब्यू in 1995, जब the newly democratic South Africa hosted the टूर्नामेंट.
The springboks तब defeated the All Blacks 15–12 in the फाइनल, जिससे is now remembered as one of the महानतम moments in दक्षिण Africa 's sporting history, और a watershed पल in the post-apartheid nation-building process.
South अफ़्रीकी regained their title as champions 12 years later, when वे defeated इंग्लैण्ड 15–6 in the 2007 final.
As a result of the 2007 संसार Cup tournament the Springboks were promoted to पहला place in the आईआरबी World Rankings, a स्थिति they held until July the following year when नई Zealand regained the top स्पॉट.
The Springboks खेल in green और gold jerseys, and their emblems हैं the Springbok and the Protea.
the पक्ष has been playing international रग्बी since 1891, when a British Isles side toured the स्वदेश, playing दक्षिण Africa in their first परीक्षण on 30 July.
South अफ़्रीकी was coached by Jake White, who led the Boks to the 2007 World कप title, announcing his resignation effectively from the end of 2007.
उसके replacement 's ( Peter de Villiers ) अनुबंध expired in 2011, following a 11–9 शिकस्त to Australia in the रग्बी World कप quarter-final, जो तब stated he would not be signing a नई deal.
The पिछला captain was John Smit, जो before he रिटायर्ड in 2011 निभाई hooker लिये most of his career, हालांकि he रै also महरूम a prop, mainly in 2008 and 2009.
Due to smit being अनुपलब्ध for the November 2010 परीक्षण बाद सर्जरी, lock Victor Matfield took Smit 's प्लेस as captain लिये that tour.
the वर्तमान कप्तान is जां de Villiers.
The बैटल of gettysburg (, with an ध्वनि ), थी fought July 1–3, 1863, in and around the town of gettysburg, Pennsylvania.
it was the battle with the largest number of हताहत in the अमरीकी सिविल युद्ध and is often described as the war 's turning point.
Union maj. Gen. जार्ज Gordon meade 's फौज of the Potomac पराजित attacks by Confederate Gen. Robert E. Lee 's Army of उत्तरी वर्जिनिया, समाप्ति ली 's invasion of the North.
बाद उसके success at Chancellorsville in Virginia in May 1863, Lee led उसके army through the Shenandoah Valley to begin his दूसरी आक्रमण of the North—the Gettysburg Campaign.
With his फौज in high spirits, Lee intended to shift the focus of the summer campaign from war-ravaged northern Virginia and hoped to influence Northern politicians to give up उनके prosecution of the war by penetrating as दूर as harrisburg, Pennsylvania, or even Philadelphia.
prodded by President Abraham Lincoln, Maj. Gen. Joseph Hooker moved his army in pursuit, but थी सुकून बस three दिनों before the battle और replaced by Meade.
Elements of the दो armies initially collided at gettysburg on जुलाई 1, 1863, as Lee तत्काल concentrated his forces there, his objective being to engage the Union army और destroy it.
Low ridges to the northwest of town were defended initially by a Union प्यादे division under ब्रिगेडियर. gen. जॉन Buford, और soon reinforced साथ two corps of Union infantry.
however, two large Confederate corps assaulted them from the northwest and north, collapsing the hastily विकसित संघ lines, sending the defenders retreating through the गलियों of कस्बा to the पहाड़ियाँ बस to the दक्षिण.
On the दूसरी दिन of battle, most of both armies था assembled.
The संघ line was laid आउट in a रक्षात्मक formation resembling a fishhook.
In the late afternoon of July 2, Lee launched a heavy उत्पीड़न on the संघ left flank, and fierce fighting raged at Little Round Top, the wheatfield, शैतान 's Den, and the आड़ू Orchard.
On the Union right, demonstrations escalated into full-scale assaults on Culp 's हिल and Cemetery हिल.
All आरपार the रणभूमि, despite significant losses, the Union defenders held उनके lines.
On the तीसरा day of battle, July 3, fighting resumed on culp 's Hill, and cavalry battles raged to the east and south, लकिन the प्रमुख event was a dramatic infantry assault by 12,500 Confederates against the बीच of the Union line on कब्रिस्तान Ridge, known as Pickett 's Charge.
The charge थी repulsed by Union rifle और तोपखाने fire, at ग्रेट losses to the Confederate army.
Lee led his army on a torturous retreat back to Virginia.
between 46,000 and 51,000 सैनिको from both armies were हताहत in the three-day बैटल.
That November, President lincoln used the dedication ceremony for the Gettysburg National Cemetery to सम्मान the गिरे संघ soldiers and redefine the purpose of the युद्ध in his ऐतिहासिक gettysburg Address.
An academic discipline, or field of study, is a शाखा of knowledge that is taught and researched at the college or university स्तर.
Disciplines are defined ( in भाग ), and recognized by the अकादमिक जर्नल्स in जिससे शोध is published, और the सीखे societies and अकादमिक विभाग or faculties to which उनके practitioners belong.
However, there exists no formal criteria लिये जब educational programs और scholarly journals form an academic discipline.
a huge अंतर exists between, on the one hand, well established disciplines that exist in almost all universities सब over the संसार, have a long इतिहास, and have a खूब स्थापित set of जर्नल्स and conferences, और, on the अन्य hand, suggestions लिये new fields समर्थित only by few universities और publications.
Fields of study प्रायः have several sub-disciplines or branches, and the distinguishing lines between ये हैं often both मनमानी and अस्पष्ट.
PHP is a server-side scripting language designed for web development लकिन also used as a general-purpose programming language.
PHP is now installed on more than 244 million websites और 2.1 million web servers.
Originally created by Rasmus Lerdorf in 1995, the reference implementation of पीएचपी is now produced by The पीएचपी Group.
While PHP originally stood for Personal घर Page, it now stands for PHP : Hypertext Preprocessor, a recursive acronym.
PHP code is interpreted by a वेब server with a पीएचपी processor module which generates the resulting web page : PHP कमांड can be embedded directly into an एचटीएमएल source document rather than calling an external file to process data.
It has also evolved to include a command-line interface काबिलियत and can be used in स्टैंडअलोन आलेखीय applications.
PHP is फ़्री software released under the PHP License, जिससे is असंगत साथ the ग्नू General पब्लिक License ( GPL ) due to प्रतिबंध on the usage of the term PHP.
PHP can be तैनात on most वेब servers और also as a standalone shell on लगभग every operating system और platform, free of चार्ज.
जॉन fitzgerald `` Jack '' Kennedy ( May 29, 1917 – November 22, 1963 ), प्रायः referred to by his आद्याक्षर JFK, was the 35th President of the United राज्य, सेवारत from 1961 जबतक his death in 1963.
After military सेवा as commander of the Motor Torpedo Boats PT-109 and PT-59 दौरान संसार युद्ध ii in the दक्षिण Pacific, Kennedy represented Massachusetts ' 11th congressional district in the U.S. हाउस of प्रतिनिधि from 1947 to 1953 as a Democrat.
Thereafter, he served in the u.S. Senate from 1953 until 1960.
Kennedy defeated Vice President and Republican candidate Richard Nixon in the 1960 U.S. अध्यक्षीय चुनाव.
At 43 years of age, he is the youngest to have been elected to the office, the second-youngest अध्यक्ष ( बाद थियोडोर Roosevelt ), और the first person born in the 20th century to serve as अध्यक्ष.
A कैथोलिक, Kennedy is the only non- प्रोटोस्टेंट president, and is the तभी president to have जीती a पुलित्जर पुरस्कार.
Events during his presidency शामिल the Bay of Pigs Invasion, the Cuban मिसाइल संकट, the building of the Berlin Wall, the Space रेस, the African-American Civil अधिकारों गति, and early stages of the Vietnam युद्ध.
Therein, कैनेडी increased the number of military advisers, special operation forces, and helicopters in an प्रयत्न to curb the spread of communism in South ईस्ट एशिया.
The Kennedy administration adopted the नीति of the Strategic Hamlet कार्यक्रम which थी implemented by the South Vietnamese government.
It शामिल निश्चित मजबूर relocation, village internment, और पृथक्करण of rural दक्षिण Vietnamese from the उत्तरी and दक्षिणी communist insurgents.
कैनेडी was assassinated on नवम्बर 22, 1963 in Dallas, Texas.
Lee Harvey Oswald was charged with the crime, but he थी शॉट and killed by जोकर Ruby two दिनों बाद, पहले a विचारण could take place.
The एफबीआई और the Warren Commission officially concluded that Oswald was the लोन assassin.
However, the संयुक्त राज्य हाउस चुनें कमेटी on assassinations ( HSCA ) concluded that those investigations were flawed and that Kennedy was probably assassinated as the result of a conspiracy.
however, ABC News in their investigation, The Kennedy Assassination : Beyond Conspiracy, confirmed the findings of the वारेन Commission ; having concluded Oswald acted alone.
Kennedy 's controversial Department of Defense tfx fighter bomber program led to a congressional investigation कि lasted from 1963 to 1970.
Since the 1960s information concerning Kennedy 's private life रै आइये to light.
Details of Kennedy 's health problems in which he struggled have become better known, especially since the 1990s.
हालांकि initially kept रहस्य from the सामान्य public, reports of Kennedy 's philandering have garnered much press.
Kennedy बाँधने अत्यधिक in पब्लिक राय दरजा of U.S. presidents.
`` Stand by Me '' is a song originally performed by Ben E. King and written by King, जेरी Leiber, and माइक Stoller, inspired by the spiritual `` रब Stand by Me, '' plus two lines rooted in Psalms 46:2–3.
There have महरूम over 400 recorded versions of the सोंग.
a political cartoon from an 1894 पक पत्रिका by illustrator s.d. ehrhart, shows a farm woman labeled `` Democratic पार्टी '' sheltering इससे a tornado of political बदलें.
A रूपक is a figure of वाक कि describes a subject by asserting that it is, on some point of comparison, the वही as another otherwise unrelated object.
Metaphor is a प्रकार of analogy and is closely related to other rhetorical figures of speech that achieve उनके प्रभाव via association, तुलना or resemblance including allegory, hyperbole, and simile.
in simpler terms, a रूपक compares दो वस्तुएँ or things without using the words `` like '' or `` as ''.
One of the most prominent examples of a रूपक in अंग्रेज़ी literature is the सब the world 's a स्टेज monologue इससे As You Like It :
All the world 's a stage,
And all the men and women merely players ;
वे have their exits और their entrances ; — William Shakespeare, As तुम जैसे It, 2/7
This quote is a रूपक because the संसार is not literally a stage.
By figuratively asserting that the world is a stage, Shakespeare uses the points of comparison between the world और a स्टेज to convey an understanding about the mechanics of the संसार and the lives of the people within it.
Mount Fuji, from the Thirty-six Views of Mount फुजी, color woodcut by katsushika Hokusai
Rembrandt वैन Rijn, Self-portrait, etching, c.1630
Francisco गोया, There is No One To Help उन्हें, Disasters of War श्रेणी, aquatint c.1810
फेलिक्स Vallotton, la raison probante ( the Cogent Reason ), woodcut इससे the series Intimités, 1898
Printmaking is the process of making artworks by मुद्रण, सामान्यतः on पेपर.
Printmaking normally कवर only the process of बनाना prints with an तत्व of originality, बल्कि than just being a फ़ोटोग्राफ़िक reproduction of a painting.
Except in the case of monotyping, the process is सक्षम of producing multiples of the वही टुकड़ा, which is called a print.
प्रत्येक print produced is not माना a `` नक़ल '' but बल्कि is considered an `` असली ''.
This is because typically प्रत्येक print varies to an extent due to परिवर्तनीय intrinsic to the printmaking process, और also because the imagery of a print is typically नहीं बस a जनन of another work लकिन बल्कि is often a unique image designed from the start to be expressed in a particular printmaking तकनीक.
A छपाई may be ज्ञात as an impression.
Printmaking ( other than monotyping ) is not चुनी only for इसके क्षमता to उपज multiple impressions, but बल्कि for the unique qualities that each of the printmaking प्रक्रियाओं lends itself to.
Prints हैं created by transferring ink इससे a matrix or through a prepared screen to a चादर of paper or other material.
आम types of matrices include : metal plates, usually तांबे or जस्ता, or polymer plates for नक्काशी or etching ; stone, एल्यूमिनियम, or पॉलिमर for lithography ; blocks of wood for woodcuts and wood engravings ; and linoleum for linocuts.
Screens made of रेशा or synthetic fabrics हैं used for the screenprinting process.
Other प्रकार of matrix substrates and related processes are discussed below.
Multiple impressions printed from the same matrix form an संस्करण.
Since the लेट 19th सदी, artists have generally signed individual impressions from an edition and often क्रमांक the impressions to form a limited edition.
Prints may also be printed in किताब form, such as illustrated किताबे or artist 's किताबे.
Il Divo is an English multinational operatic pop गायन समूह created by म्यूज़िक manager, executive, and reality TV star Simon Cowell.
Formed in the संयुक्त Kingdom, वे हैं भी हस्ताक्षरित to Cowell 's record label, Syco Music.
Il Divo is a समूह of four male singers : French pop singer सेबेस्तियन izambard, Spanish baritone Carlos Marín, अमरीकी tenor David Miller, and Swiss tenor उर्स Bühler.
To date, they have sold more than 26 million albums worldwide.
Su-15, एक of the principal सोवियत एयर Defence interceptors in the 1970s and 1980s
An interceptor aircraft ( or बस interceptor ) is a type of सेनानी वायुयान designed specifically to prevent missions of enemy aircraft, particularly बमवर्षक and reconnaissance वायुयान, और नष्ट them, relying usually on ग्रेट speed और powerful armament.
Being used since the पहला संसार युद्ध, after the late 1960s, interceptors became कम important due to shifting from बमवर्षक to intercontinental ballistic missiles ( ICBMs ) लिये nuclear warfare.
A Vietnamese American ( ) is an American of Vietnamese descent.
वे मेक up about half of all विदेशी वियतनामी ( Người Việt Hải Ngoại ) और are the fourth-largest एशियाई American group.
द्रव्यमान Vietnamese immigration to the United States started after 1975, after the end of the Vietnam युद्ध.
Early immigrants यहूद refugee boat people fleeing persecution or poverty.
Forced to भागो from उनके homeland and often thrust into poor urban neighborhoods, these newcomers have nevertheless प्रबंधित to स्थापित दमदार समुदायों in a short amount of time.
अधिक than sixty प्रतिशत of वियतनामी Americans reside in the states of कैलिफ़ोर्निया, Texas, Washington, फ्लोरिडा, और Virginia.
सामने page of the u.S. Armed Forces newspaper, Stars और धारियाँ, 2 May 1945
Adolf Hitler committed आत्महत्या by gunshot on 30 April 1945 in his führerbunker in बर्लिन.
His wife Eva ( née braun ) वचनबद्ध आत्महत्या with उसे by ingesting cyanide.
कि afternoon, in accordance with Hitler 's prior instructions, their remains were carried up the stairs through the bunker 's emergency exit, doused in petrol and नियत alight in the Reich Chancellery garden outside the bunker.
the सोवियत अभिलेख record that उनके जले remains were recovered and interred in successive locations until 1970 when they were again exhumed, cremated and the ashes बिखरे.
Accounts differ as to the cause of death ; one that he died by poison only और another कि he died by a self-inflicted gunshot, while biting bas on a cyanide capsule.
Contemporary historians have rejected ये accounts as होने either Soviet propaganda or an attempted compromise in order to reconcile the different conclusions.
One eye-witness recorded that the देह showed signs of having महरूम शॉट through the mouth, but इस has महरूम सिद्ध असंभावित.
वहीँ is भी विवाद regarding the authenticity of skull और जबड़ों fragments जिससे were recovered.
In 2009, DNA tests were performed on a skull सोवियत officials था long believed to be हिटलर 's.
the tests revealed that the कपाल थी actually कि of a woman less than 40 years old.
Location of Missouri
the alcohol laws of Missouri हैं among the least प्रतिबंधक और सबसे lax and permissive in the United States.
मिसौरी is known throughout the Midwest लिये its largely laissez-faire approach to alcohol विनियमन, in sharp कंट्रास्ट to the very सख्त दारू laws of कुछ of its neighbors, like Kansas and Oklahoma.
Necrotizing fasciitis ( or ) or NF, commonly known as flesh-eating disease or flesh-eating bacteria syndrome, is a विरल infection of the deeper layers of skin और subcutaneous ऊतकों, easily spreading across the fascial प्लेन भीतर the subcutaneous tissue.
necrotizing fasciitis is quickly progressing, having वृहद risk of developing in the immunocompromised due to conditions like diabetes, cancer, etc.
It is a severe disease of sudden onset and is usually treated immediately with high doses of intravenous एंटीबायोटिक.
Type I describes a polymicrobial infection, whereas Type II describes a monomicrobial infection.
अनेक प्रकार of जीवाणु can cause necrotizing fasciitis ( e.g., Group A streptococcus ( Streptococcus pyogenes ), Staphylococcus aureus, Clostridium perfringens, Bacteroides fragilis, Aeromonas hydrophila ).
ऐसे infections are more संभावित to occur in people साथ compromised immune systems.
Historically, Group A streptococcus made up most मामले of Type ii infections.
However, since as जल्दी as 2001, another serious रूप of monomicrobial necrotizing fasciitis रै been observed साथ increasing आवृत्ति, caused by methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus ( MRSA ).
Some published मामला reports have implied a possible कड़ी between use of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs और nf, though the प्रमाण of the link थी said to be कमजोर because of a small number of case patients और it was unclear whether the drugs बस masked the symptoms of a secondary संक्रमण or were a cause प्रति se.
World War ii ( WWII or WW2 ), also known as the Second World युद्ध, थी a global युद्ध that lasted from 1939 to 1945.
it involved the vast majority of the world 's nations —including all of the great powers —eventually forming two opposing सैन्य alliances : the allies and the Axis.
It was the most widespread war in history, with more than 100 लाख people सेवारत in military units from over 30 अलग countries.
In a state of `` total war ``, the प्रमुख भागीदार placed their संपूर्ण economic, औद्योगिक, and वैज्ञानिक capabilities at the सेवा of the युद्ध effort, erasing the distinction between civilian और military resources.
Marked by द्रव्यमान deaths of civilians, including the Holocaust और the only use of nuclear हथियार in warfare, it resulted in 50 million to over 75 million fatalities.
These deaths make संसार War II by दूर the deadliest विरोध in human इतिहास.
the Empire of जापानी aimed to dominate East Asia and थी already at युद्ध साथ the Republic of China in 1937, but the world war is generally कहा to have begun on 1 September 1939 with the आक्रमण of Poland by Germany and subsequent declarations of युद्ध on जर्मनी by France and Britain.
From लेट 1939 to जल्दी 1941, in a series of campaigns और treaties, Germany formed the अक्ष गठबंधन with इटली, conquering or subduing much of महाद्वीपीय Europe.
following the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact, Germany and the Soviet Union partitioned और annexed territories between themselves of their यूरोपीय neighbours, including Poland.
The United Kingdom and the अन्य members of the British Commonwealth यहूद the only major Allied शक्तियां continuing the fight against the अक्ष, साथ battles लेने प्लेस in North Africa as खूब as the long-running Battle of the Atlantic.
in June 1941, the यूरोपीय Axis launched an आक्रमण of the सोवियत Union, giving a start to the largest land theatre of युद्ध in इतिहास, जिससे tied down the major part of the अक्ष ' सैन्य forces लिये the rest of the war.
in December 1941, Japan joined the Axis, attacked the संयुक्त राज्य and European territories in the Pacific समंदर, and जल्दी conquered much of the पश्चिमी प्रशांत.
The Axis advance was stopped in 1942, बाद Japan lost a श्रेणी of नवल battles and European Axis troops were defeated in North अफ़्रीकी and, decisively, at Stalingrad.
In 1943, with a श्रेणी of German defeats in Eastern Europe, the Allied आक्रमण of इटली, and American victories in the प्रशांत, the Axis lost the initiative and undertook strategic retreat on all fronts.
in 1944, the पश्चिमी Allies invaded France, while the सोवियत संघ regained all of its territorial losses and invaded Germany and its allies.
दौरान 1944 and 1945 the United राज्य पराजित the Japanese नेवी and captured key Western Pacific islands.
The युद्ध in Europe ended with the capture of Berlin by Soviet and पॉलिश troops और the subsequent German unconditional आत्मसमर्पण on 8 May 1945.
Following the Potsdam घोषणा by the Allies on 26 July 1945, the United राज्य dropped atomic bombs on the Japanese शहरों of Hiroshima on 6 August, और Nagasaki on 9 August.
With an invasion of the Japanese archipelago imminent, and the Soviet Union having घोषित war on जापानी by आक्रमणकारी मंचूरिया, जापानी surrendered on 15 August 1945, ending the war in Asia और cementing the total विजय of the Allies over the Axis.
World War II altered the political alignment और social structure of the world.
The United राष्ट्र ( UN ) was established to foster international cooperation और prevent future conflicts.
The ग्रेट शक्तियां that यहूद the victors of the war—the United States, the Soviet Union, China, the संयुक्त किंगडम, and France—became the स्थाई सदस्यों of the United Nations सुरक्षा परिषद.
the Soviet Union and the संयुक्त राज्य emerged as rival superpowers, setting the stage लिये the Cold War, which lasted लिये the next 46 years.
meanwhile, the influence of European ग्रेट powers प्रारंभ to decline, जबकि the decolonisation of Asia and अफ़्रीकी began.
Most countries whose industries था महरूम क्षतिग्रस्त स्थानांतरित towards आर्थिक रिकवरी.
राजनैतिक integration, especially in Europe, emerged as an effort to stabilise postwar relations and fight more effectively in the Cold युद्ध.
A limited liability company ( llc ) is a लचीली form of एंटरप्राइज़ that blends elements of साझेदारी and corporate structures.
नोट than an llc is not a corporation, और कॉलिंग an LLC a corporation is technically incorrect.
an llc is a legal रूप of company that provides limited liability to its owners in the विशाल बहुमत of United States jurisdictions.
LLCs do नहीं need to be व्यवस्थित for profit.
Five K-Cups
The inside of a प्रयुक्त K-Cup, साथ the शीर्ष foil and the प्रयुक्त coffee grounds removed.
इस shows the filter अंदर the K-Cup.
K-Cup portion packs हैं used साथ Keurig or other single cup brewing प्रणालियों to काढ़ा a कप of coffee, tea, or hot chocolate.
प्रत्येक K-Cup is a plastic container with a coffee फिल्टर inside.
मैदान coffee beans हैं packed in the k-cup और sealed air-tight with a संयोजन plastic and foil ढक्कन.
जब the K-Cup is placed in a Keurig brewer, the brewer punctures the foil lid and the bottom of the K-Cup and शक्तियां hot water under दबाव through the K-Cup and into a mug.
keurig licenses इसके K-Cup प्रौद्योगिकी to coffee roasters and चाय makers such as Green Mountain Coffee Roasters, Diedrich/ Gloria Jeans, Timothy 's संसार Coffee, Van houtte, हिरण Coffee, Celestial Seasonings, Bigelow Tea Company, twinings, Tully 's, कॉफी People and Newman 's Own.
Keurig 's patents on the असली K-Cup design समाप्त in September 2012.
keurig holds at least one अतिरिक्त, still-active US patent and another पेटेंट application, detailing सुधार कि have subsequently been incorporated in their K-Cup design.
Electa Pocket Chronograph ( ca. 1890s ) manufactured by the gallet देखें Company in La chaux-de-fonds, स्विट्ज़रलैंड.
Gallet MultiChron Astronomic ( ca. 1959 ) —complex mechanical chronograph with 12 hour recoding capabilities, स्वचालित दिन, date, month, और moon phase display
a आधुनिक seiko quartz wristwatch using the chronograph फलन ( movement 7T92 ).
Citizen Atessa eco-drive atv53-3023 analog-digital chronograph with 4 area रेडियो Controlled रिसेप्शन ( North America, Europe, China, Japan ).
A chronograph is a specific type of देखें that is used as a stopwatch संयुक्त with a display देखें.
A basic chronograph has an independent स्वीप दूसरी hand ; it can be started, रोका, और लौटे to zero by successive pressure on the stem.
Louis moinet invented the chronograph in 1816
Conventional पीसीआई ( PCI is an initialism formed from Peripheral Component Interconnect, part of the PCI लोकल Bus मानक और often shortened to just PCI ) is a local computer बस for attaching हार्डवेयर devices in a computer.
the PCI bus supports the functions found on a processor बस, लकिन in a standardized format that is independent of any particular प्रोसेसर.
Devices connected to the bus appear to the प्रोसेसर to be connected directly to the processor bus, और हैं assigned addresses in the processor 's पता space.
Attached devices can take either the form of an एकीकृत circuit fitted onto the motherboard itself, पुकारा a planar device in the PCI specification, or an expansion कार्ड that fits into a slot.
The PCI Local Bus was first implemented in ibm PC compatibles, where it displaced the combination of ISA plus one vesa Local बस as the बस configuration.
It has subsequently been adopted for other computer types.
पीसीआई और PCI-X are होने replaced by पीसीआई Express, लकिन, most motherboards are still बना with one or more पीसीआई स्लॉट, which हैं sufficient for many uses.
The PCI specification covers the शारीरिक size of the bus ( including the size and spacing of the circuit board किनारे विद्युत contacts ), electrical characteristics, bus समय, and protocols.
The specification can be purchased from the PCI Special ब्याज Group ( PCI-SIG ).
Typical PCI cards used in PCs include : संजाल ताश, sound cards, modems, अतिरिक्त ports such as usb or serial, tv ट्यूनर cards और disk controllers.
PCI वीडियो cards replaced ISA and vesa ताश, until growing बैंडविड्थ requirements outgrew the capabilities of पीसीआई ; the preferred interface for video cards became AGP, and then PCI Express.
PCI video cards remain available for use with old PCs without AGP or पीसीआई Express slots.
Many devices previously provided on पीसीआई expansion cards are now commonly integrated onto motherboards or available in universal serial बस और PCI एक्स्प्रेस versions.
Michael Whitaker Smith ( born October 7, 1957 ) is an American contemporary ईसाई संगीतकार, who has charted primarily in the contemporary Christian and occasionally in the मुख्यधारा charts.
His biggest success in मुख्यधारा music was in 1991 when `` प्लेस in this World '' hit no. 6 on the Billboard Hot 100.
Smith is a three-time Grammy Award winner, and has अर्जित 40 dove पुरस्कार.
Over the course of his career, he sold अधिक than 13 million albums और recorded 29 No. 1 Hit songs, चौदह gold albums, and पाँच platinum albums.
Smith is an American म्यूज़िक Award recipient ; he was also named one of People पत्रिका 's `` सबसे Beautiful People ''.
an अमरीकी poster from the World War II -era that was used to inform लोगों about what वे should do if वे suspect sabotage.
Sabotage is a deliberate action aimed at weakening another entity through subversion, obstruction, disruption, or विनाश.
in a workplace सेटिंग, sabotage is the conscious वापसी of दक्षता generally directed at causing कुछ बदलें in workplace conditions.
One जो engages in तोड़फोड़ is a saboteur.
As a नियम, saboteurs try to conceal their identities because of the consequences of their actions.
For उदाहरण, whereas an environmental pressure group might be प्रसन्न to be identified साथ an act of sabotage, it would not want the individual identities of the perpetrators known.
पैट्रिक हेनरी College ( phc ) is a private, independent college with an Evangelical Christian आधार that focuses on teaching शास्त्रीय उदार arts and सरकारी, located in Purcellville, Virginia, United States.
पैट्रिक Henry is known for इसके रूढ़िवादी evangelical ईसाई फ़ोकस.
as of अप्रैल 17, 2007, the college was accredited by the Transnational संघ of Christian Colleges और Schools, a national faith-related accrediting organization पहचाना by the Department of शिक्षा and the परिषद for उच्चतर Education प्रत्यायन.
The school थी founded with the help of the Home School Legal Defense संघ, and now serves as the headquarters for the organization, with which it is still closely connected.
the history of टेलीविज़न comprises the work of numerous engineers और inventors in several countries over अनेक decades.
the earliest प्रस्ताव was in 1908, in a paper by a. A. Campbell-Swinton and postulated the उपयोग of कैथोड rays.
The first व्यावहारिक demonstrations of television, however, were developed using electromechanical विधि to स्कैन, transmit, and reproduce an image.
As electronic कैमरा and प्रदर्शक tubes were perfected, electromechanical television दिया way to all-electronic प्रणालियों in nearly all अनुप्रयोग.
L'Idéal cinéma - ज़ाक tati at Aniche opened November 23rd 1905 ; the oldest still-active movie theater in the world
A cinema in Australia
A ठेठ multiplex ( एएमसी Promenade 16 in Woodland Hills, Los Angeles, U.S. )
A movie theater ( also called a cinema, movie house, फिल्मी house, film थिएटर or picture हाउस ) is a venue, प्रायः a building, लिये viewing films.
Most but नहीं all फिल्म theaters हैं commercial परिचालन केटरिंग to the general public, who attend by purchasing a ticket.
The movie is projected with a movie projector onto a large projection screen at the front of the auditorium.
Most movie थिएटर are now equipped for digital cinema projection, निकालना the need to create and transport a physical फिल्मी print.
Southern California Norton Owner 's Club on California State Route 41, near Creston.
A motorcycle club is a समूह of individuals जिनकी प्राथमिक ब्याज and activities involve motorcycles.
Lyme disease, Lyme borreliosis is an infectious disease caused by at least three प्रजाति of bacteria belonging to the genus Borrelia.
borrelia burgdorferi sensu stricto is the main कारण of lyme बीमारी in उत्तर अमेरिका, whereas Borrelia afzelii and Borrelia garinii कारण most European मामले.
The disease is नामित after the कस्बों of Lyme और Old Lyme, Connecticut, USA, where a number of cases were identified in 1975.
Although Allen Steere realized कि Lyme disease was a tick-borne disease in 1978, the cause of the बीमारी remained a mystery until 1981, जब B. burgdorferi was identified by Willy burgdorfer.
Lyme disease is the most common tick-borne बीमारी in the Northern Hemisphere.
Borrelia is transmitted to humans by the bite of infected ticks belonging to a few species of the genus Ixodes ( `` hard ticks '' ).
Early लक्षण may include fever, headache, fatigue, अवसाद, और a characteristic circular skin rash पुकारा erythema migrans ( EM ).
Left अनुपचारित, बाद symptoms may involve the joints, दिल, and central बेचैन system.
In most cases, the संक्रमण and its symptoms are eliminated by antibiotics, especially if the बीमारी is treated जल्दी.
Delayed or inadequate treatment can lead to more serious symptoms, which can be disabling and मुश्किल to treat.
penises of minke whales on display at the Icelandic Phallological Museum
Penis ( बहुवचन penises or penes ) is a general पद for the organs with which male और उभयलिंगी animals introduce sperm into receptive females during copulation.
Such organs occur in many animals, both vertebrate and invertebrate, but males do not bear a penis in every animal species, and in those species in जिससे the male does bear a so-called penis, the penes in the various प्रजाति are not necessarily homologous.
For example, the penis of a mammal is at most analogous to the penis of a male insect or barnacle.
the term शिश्न applies to many reproductive intromittent organs, but not to all ; लिये उदाहरण the intromittent organ of सबसे cephalopoda is the hectocotylus, a specialised arm, और male spiders use their pedipalps.
in most species of animals in which there is an organ that might reasonably be described as a penis, it has no प्रमुख फलन अन्य than intromission, or at least conveying the sperm to the female, लकिन in the placental mammals the शिश्न bears the distal भाग of the urethra, which discharges both मूत्र दौरान urination और semen दौरान copulation as the अवसर requires.
Artists और repertoire ( a & R ) is the division of a record label or म्यूज़िक publishing company that is responsible for हुनर scouting and overseeing the कलाकारी development of recording artists and/or songwriters.
It भी acts as a liaison between कलाकारों and the record लेबल or प्रकाशन company ; every activity involving कलाकारों to the point of एल्बम रिलीज is generally माना under the purview of, and responsibility of, a & R.
A furlong is a measure of distance in imperial units and U.S. customary units equal to one-eighth of a mile, equivalent to 220 yards, 660 feet, 40 rods, or 10 chains.
The सटीक value of the furlong varies थोड़ा among English-speaking देशों.
Five furlongs are approximately 1 kilometre ( 1.0058 km is a closer approximation ).
Since the असली definition of the metre थी one-quarter of one ten-millionth of the circumference of the Earth ( along the great circle coincident with the मध्याह्न of longitude passing through पेरिस ), the circumference of the Earth is about 40,000 km or about 200,000 furlongs.
CR2032 लिथियम button कोशिका battery
Lithium 9 volt, AA, & AAA आकार
लिथियम batteries हैं disposable ( प्राथमिक ) batteries that have lithium metal or lithium यौगिकों as an anode.
They stand अलावा from other बैटरी in उनके ऊँची charge घनत्व ( long life ) and high लागत प्रति ईकाई.
depending on the design and chemical compounds प्रयुक्त, lithium cells can produce voltages from 1.5 v ( comparable to a zinc–carbon or alkaline बैटरी ) to about 3.7 V. लिथियम batteries are widely used in उत्पाद ऐसे as portable consumer इलेक्ट्रॉनिक devices.
Raymond `` Ray '' Charles Jack LaMontagne ( ; born जून 18, 1973 ) is an American singer-songwriter.
LaMontagne has released four studio albums, Trouble, Till the Sun turns Black, Gossip in the Grain and परमेश्वर Willin ' & the Creek do n't Rise.
He थी born in नई हैम्पशायर and was inspired to create music after hearing an album by स्टीफन Stills.
Critics have compared LaMontagne 's music to that of the बैंड, वैन Morrison, Nick Drake, और टिम buckley.
he lives in मैसाचुसेट्स साथ उसके wife और दो children.
When the हवा Blows is a novel by जेम्स Patterson.
It is the precursor to the झील हाउस and inspired the Maximum Ride series.
The novel is currently set to be adapted into a movie.
The Pittsburgh Steelers were founded in 1933.
Over the कोर्स of the team 's इतिहास, the team has had several logos while wearing वस्तुतः the same uniforms over the years, with subtle changes made to give the uniforms an updated look.
The team colors, uniforms, and logo are प्रायः ranked as being among the best in the NFL.
Facebook on the Ad-tech 2010
Facebook is an online social networking service, whose name stems from the colloquial name for the book given to students at the start of the academic साल by कुछ university administrations in the United States to सहायता students get to know each अन्य.
It was संस्थापित in February 2004 by Mark Zuckerberg with उसके college roommates and fellow Harvard University students एडुआर्डो saverin, एंड्रयू McCollum, Dustin Moskovitz and क्रिस ह्यूजेस.
The website 's membership was initially limited by the founders to Harvard students, but was expanded to अन्य colleges in the Boston क्षेत्रफल, the आइवी League, and स्टैनफोर्ड विश्वविद्यालयों.
it gradually added support for विद्यार्थी at various other universities before खोलने to ऊँची school students, and आखिरकार to anyone aged 13 and over.
फेसबुक now allows any users who declare themselves to be at least 13 years old to become registered users of the site.
उपयोक्ता जरूर register before using the site, बाद जिससे they may बनाएँ a personal profile, add other users as friends, और exchange संदेश, सहित automatic notifications when they update their प्रोफ़ाइल.
Additionally, users may join common-interest user समूह, organized by workplace, school or college, or other characteristics, and categorize उनके मित्रों into सूचियाँ ऐसे as `` लोगों इससे Work '' or `` बंद Friends ''.
As of September 2012, फेसबुक रै over one billion active users.
According to a May 2011 उपभोक्ता रिपोर्ट्स survey, there are 7.5 million children under 13 with खाते and 5 लाख under 10, violating the site 's शर्तें of service.
In may 2005, Accel partners invested $ 12.7 million in Facebook, and Jim Breyer added $ 1 लाख of उसके own money to the pot.
A January 2009 Compete.com study ranked Facebook as the most used social networking सेवा by विश्वव्यापी मासिक क्रियाशील users.
Entertainment साप्ताहिक शामिल the site on its end-of-the-decade `` best-of '' सूची, saying, `` How on earth किया we stalk our exes, याद our co-workers ' जन्मदिन, bug our friends, and play a rousing game of Scrabulous पहले फेसबुक ? ''
आलोचकों, such as फेसबुक Detox, राज्य that Facebook has turned into a national obsession in the United States, resulting in vast amounts of time lost and प्रोत्साहित आत्ममोह.
Quantcast estimates Facebook has 138.9 million monthly unique u.S. विज़िटर in May 2011.
according to Social Media आज, in अप्रैल 2010 an estimated 41.6 % ( 129.5 million ) of the u.S. population had a Facebook account.
nevertheless, Facebook 's मार्केट विकास started to stall in some regions, साथ the site losing 7 million क्रियाशील उपयोक्ता in the United States and Canada in may 2011.
Facebook eventually filed for an initial public offering on February 1, 2012, और was headquartered in मेनलो Park, कैलिफ़ोर्निया.
Facebook Inc. began selling stock to the public and trading on the नैस्डैक on May 18, 2012.
Erwin Johannes Eugen ख़बरों ( 15 November 1891 – 14 अक्तूबर 1944 ), popularly ज्ञात as The मरुस्थल Fox ( Wüstenfuchs, ), थी a जर्मनी Field Marshal of संसार युद्ध ii.
He earned the respect of both उसके own troops and the दुश्मनों he लड़ा.
Rommel was a अत्यधिक decorated officer in World War I और was awarded the Pour le Mérite लिये his exploits on the इतालवी front.
In World War II, he further distinguished खुद as the commander of the 7th Panzer Division during the 1940 आक्रमण of France.
His नेतृत्व of German and Italian forces in the उत्तर African campaign स्थापित him as one of the most समर्थ कमांडरों of the युद्ध, और अर्जित उसे the appellation of the मरुस्थल Fox.
He is regarded as one of the सबसे skilled commanders of desert warfare in the विरोध.
He later commanded the जर्मनी forces opposing the Allied cross-channel invasion in normandy.
His assignments never took him to the Eastern सामने.
Rommel is regarded as having been a humane और professional officer.
His Afrika कोर्प्स was never accused of war crimes, and सैनिको captured दौरान his Africa campaign were reported to have been treated humanely.
आदेश to मार यहूदी soldiers, नागरिकों और captured कमांडो were ignored.
Late in the war, Rommel was linked to the षड्यंत्र to assassinate Adolf Hitler.
चूंकि ख़बरों was a national hero, Hitler desired to eliminate him quietly.
He मजबूर Rommel to commit suicide with a cyanide pill, in return for assurances that Rommel 's family would not be persecuted following उसके death.
Stained glass representation of the Holy Spirit as a dove, c. 1660.
the सात gifts of the पावन Spirit is an enumeration of seven आध्यात्मिक gifts originating with patristic authors, later elaborated by five intellectual virtues and four other groups of ethical विशेषताएँ.
They are : अक्ल, understanding, wonder और डरते ( fear of the Lord ), counsel, knowledge, fortitude, and piety ( reverence ).
the धरती Day Flag, the latest proposal of जॉन McConnell for a flag of धरती Day
Earth दिन is an annual event, celebrated on April 22, on which कार्यक्रम हैं held worldwide to demonstrate support for environmental protection.
It was first मनाये in 1970, and is अभी coordinated globally by the Earth Day Network, और celebrated in more than 192 countries each year.
in 1969 at a UNESCO Conference in सैन Francisco, the तिथि proposed थी March 21, 1970, the first day of spring in the northern hemisphere.
This day of nature 's equipoise was later sanctioned in a Proclamation हस्ताक्षरित by सचिव General U Thant at the United राष्ट्र.
a month बाद a separate Earth Day was संस्थापित by United States Senator gaylord नेल्सन as an पर्यावरणीय teach-in first held on April 22, 1970.
Nelson was later awarded the Presidential पदक of स्वतंत्रता Award in मान्यता of his work.
While this April 22 Earth Day थी focused on the United States, an organization launched by Denis हेज़, who थी the असली national coordinator in 1970, took it अंतरराष्ट्रीय in 1990 और organized events in 141 nations.
Numerous समुदायों celebrate Earth सप्ताह, an entire week of activities केन्द्रित on environmental issues.
Iodine is a रासायनिक तत्व साथ symbol I and atomic number 53.
The name is इससे Greek ioeidēs, meaning violet or purple, due to the रंग of elemental आयोडीन वाष्प.
आयोडीन and its यौगिकों are primarily used in nutrition, and industrially in the production of acetic acid and निश्चित polymers.
Iodine 's relatively high atomic क्रमांक, low toxicity, and ease of attachment to organic compounds have बना it a part of many X-ray कंट्रास्ट materials in modern medicine.
Iodine रै तभी एक stable समस्थानिक.
a क्रमांक of iodine radioisotopes are also प्रयुक्त in medical applications.
Iodine is found on धरती मुख्यतः as the highly water-soluble iodide आयन, I−, जिससे concentrates it in oceans and brine तालों.
Like the other हैलोजन्स, free आयोडीन occurs मुख्यतः as a diatomic molecule I2, and then only momentarily after being oxidized from आयोडाइड by an oxidant like free oxygen.
In the universe and on Earth, आयोडीन 's high परमाणु क्रमांक makes it a relatively विरल element.
However, its उपस्थिति in ocean जल रै given it a role in जीवविज्ञान.
it is the heaviest अनिवार्य element utilized widely by जीवन in biological कृत्यों ( तभी tungsten, employed in enzymes by a few species of bacteria, is heavier ).
Iodine 's rarity in अनेक soils, due to initial low abundance as a crust-element, and also leaching of soluble iodide by rainwater, has led to अनेक deficiency problems in land पशु और अंतर्देशीय human populations.
आयोडीन deficiency affects परिचय दो अरब लोगों और is the अग्रणी preventable कारण of intellectual disabilities.
Iodine is जरूरी by higher पशु, which use it to synthesize thyroid हार्मोन, which contain the element.
Because of this function, radioisotopes of आयोडीन are concentrated in the thyroid gland along with nonradioactive iodine.
if inhaled, the radioisotope iodine-131, which has a high fission उत्पाद उपज, concentrates in the thyroid, but is easily remedied साथ potassium iodide treatment.
lobbying ( also lobby ) is the act of attempting to influence निर्णय बना by officials in the government, most प्रायः विधायक or सदस्यों of regulatory agencies.
Lobbying is done by अनेक different प्रकार of लोगों and organized समूह, सहित individuals in the निजी sector, corporations, fellow legislators or government officials, or वकालत groups ( interest groups ).
lobbyists may be among a विधायक 's constituencies, meaning a voter or bloc of मतदाता within उसके or her चुनावी district, or not ; they may engage in lobbying as a कारोबार, or not.
Professional lobbyists हैं लोगों whose business is trying to influence विधान on behalf of a group or individual who hires them.
Individuals और nonprofit संगठन can also lobby as an act of स्वयंसेवा or as a small part of their सामान्य job ( for उदाहरण, a CEO meeting with a representative about a प्रोजेक्ट important to his/her company, or an activist meeting with his/her legislator in an unpaid capacity ).
Governments प्रायः define and regulate organized group lobbying that has become influential.
The ethics and morality of lobbying are.
Lobbying is often spoken of with contempt, जब the implication is that लोगों with अत्यधिक socioeconomic power are corrupting the विधि ( टेढ़ी it away from निष्पक्षता ) in order to serve their own conflict of ब्याज.
But another side of lobbying is making sure कि others ' interests are duly defended against अन्य ' corruption, or भी simply बनाना sure that minority interests are fairly defended against mere tyranny of the majority.
लिये उदाहरण, a medical association, or a trade association of health insurance companies, may lobby a legislature in order to counteract the influence of tobacco companies, in which case the lobbying would be viewed by सबसे people as justified ( विधिवत defending विरूद्ध others ' corruption ).
The difficulty in drawing उद्देश्य लाइनों between जिससे lobbyists are `` good lobbyists '' और which ones are `` bad ones '' is compounded by the cleverness with which lobbyists or their क्लाइंट can argue कि उनके own lobbying is of the `` good '' kind.
At heart, the प्रयत्न to influence legislation is a power struggle.
As in other फ़ॉर्म of power संघर्ष, ऐसे as war or law enforcement, motives range इससे to self-defense to fighting for justice, and the dividing line between predation and justice is subject to rationalization.
Sunshine of your love गिटार रिफ
Cream यहूद a 1960s अंग्रेजों चट्टान supergroup consisting of bassist/vocalist जोकर ब्रूस, guitarist/vocalist Eric Clapton, and वादक Ginger बेकर.
उनके sound थी characterised by a hybrid of blues चट्टान, hard चट्टान और साइकेडेलिक rock, combining the psychedelia-themed lyrics, Eric Clapton 's blues guitar playing और vocals, जोकर Bruce 's आवाज़ and prominent bass playing and Ginger Baker 's jazz -influenced drumming.
the group 's third एल्बम, पहियों of Fire, थी the world 's first platinum-selling दोगुना album.
Cream are widely regarded as being the world 's पहला successful supergroup.
In their career, they sold over 15 million एल्बम worldwide.
Cream 's music शामिल songs आधारित on traditional blues such as `` क्रॉसरोड्स `` और `` spoonful ``, and modern blues such as `` Born Under a Bad Sign ``, as खूब as more eccentric songs ऐसे as `` Strange Brew ``, `` Tales of Brave Ulysses `` and `` टॉड ``.
Cream 's biggest हिट्स यहूद `` I Feel Free `` ( UK, क्रमांक 11 ), `` सनशाइन of Your Love `` ( US, number 5 ), `` श्वेत Room `` ( US, number 6 ), `` Crossroads '' ( us, number 28 ), and `` Badge `` ( UK, number 18 ).
मलाई बना a significant impact on the popular म्यूज़िक of the time, और, साथ साथ Jimi हेंड्रिक्स, and टेरी कठ of Chicago, popularised the उपयोग of the wah-wah pedal.
They provided a heavy yet technically proficient musical theme that foreshadowed और influenced the emergence of अंग्रेजों bands ऐसे as The Jeff Beck Group in the late 1960s.
The band 's live performances बहकावे progressive rock acts such as Rush.
मलाई यहूद inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 1993.
वे were included in दोनो Rolling Stone और VH1 's सूचियाँ of the `` 100 Greatest Artists of All Time ''.
They were also ranked number 16 on vh1 's `` 100 महानतम कलाकारों of Hard Rock ''.
Hairspray is a 1988 कॉमेडी film लिखा और directed by John waters, and अभिनीत ricki Lake, Sonny बोनो, Debbie हैरी, Michael St. Gerard, Shawn थॉम्पसन, Colleen Fitzpatrick, जेरी Stiller, and in उसके last फिल्मी role, दैवी.
Hairspray was a नाटकीय departure इससे Waters ' पहले works, साथ a much broader intended audience.
in fact, Hairsprays pg is the mildest rating a Waters film has received ; most of his previous films were rated X by the MPAA.
नियत in 1962 Baltimore, Maryland, the फिल्मी घूमती around self-proclaimed `` pleasantly plump '' किशोरावस्था Tracy Turnblad as वो pursues stardom as a dancer on a local TV दिखाएँ and rallies against racial पृथक्करण.
Hairspray was तभी a मॉडरेट success upon इसके initial theatrical रिलीज, earning a modest gross of $ 8 लाख.
However, it managed to attract a larger audience on home video in the early 1990s and became a cult classic.
Most critics praised the film, हालांकि some यहूद displeased with the overall campiness.
in 2002, the film was adapted into a Broadway musical of the same name, which जीती आठ Tony पुरस्कार, including बेहतरीन musical in 2003.
A second film version of Hairspray, an अनुकूलन of the स्टेज musical, थी भी released by New Line सिनेमा in 2007, which included many changes of scripted items from the original.
The film भी ranks # 444 on साम्राज्य magazine 's 2008 list of the 500 greatest फिल्मों of all time.
A ईसाई denomination is an identifiable religious देह under a common name, structure, and doctrine भीतर christianity.
कुछ समूह included do not consider themselves a denomination ( e.g., the Catholic गिरिजाघर considers itself the one सच्चा church and the Apostolic See, and as pre-denominational ).
Some groups viewed by non-adherents as denominational actively resist being called a denomination और do not have any formal denominational structure, प्राधिकार, or record-keeping beyond the local congregation ; several groups within Restoration Movement fall into this श्रेणी.
Some groups हैं large ( e.g. Catholics, Lutherans, Anglicans or Baptists ), while others are just a few छोटी churches, and in सबसे cases the relative आकार is नहीं evident in this list.
आधुनिक movements ऐसे as Fundamentalist christianity, pietism, Evangelicalism, Pentecostalism और the Holiness गति sometimes cross denominational लाइनों, or in some cases create new denominations out of two or more continuing groups, ( as is the case for अनेक United और uniting चर्च, for example ).
Such subtleties and complexities are not clearly depicted here.
प्रमुख divisions within Christianity.
Note : This is not a पूरा list, but aims to provide a comprehensible overview of the diversity among denominations of christianity.
as there हैं reported to be लगभग 41,000 ईसाई denominations, many of which can नहीं be verified to be significant, तभी those denominations साथ Wikipedia articles होगा be सूचीबद्ध in अनुक्रम to ensure that सब entries on इस list हैं notable and verifiable.
Between denominations, theologians, and comparative religionists there are considerable disagreements परिचय जिससे groups can be properly पुकारा Christian, disagreements arising primarily इससे doctrinal मतभेद between groups.
लिये the purpose of simplicity, this list is intended to प्रतिबिंबित the self-understanding of each denomination.
स्पष्टीकरण of different opinions concerning their status as Christian denominations can be found at their संबंधित articles.
There is no आधिकारिक recognition in most भाग of the world for religious bodies, and there is no official clearinghouse which could determine the status or respectability of religious bodies.
प्रायः there is considerable disagreement between various चर्च about whether other churches should be labeled with pejorative terms such as `` cult '', or about whether इस or that group enjoys some माप of respectability.
Such considerations प्रायः vary इससे place to place, जहाँ one धार्मिक group may आनंद majority status in one प्रदेश, लकिन be widely regarded as a `` dangerous cult '' in another part of the world.
समावेश on this सूची करता not indicate कोई judgment about the size, importance, or character of a group or its members.
1804 map of `` Louisiana ``, edged on the west by the Rocky kyu.
The louisiana Purchase ( `` बिक्री of Louisiana '' ) was the acquisition by the संयुक्त States of America in 1803 of of France 's अर्जी to the territory of Louisiana.
The U.S. paid 50 million francs ( $ 11,250,000 ) प्लस रद्दीकरण of debts worth 18 लाख francs ( $ 3,750,000 ), for a total sum of 15 million dollars ( less than 3 सेंट प्रति एकड़ ) for the louisiana territory ( $ लाख in dollars, less than 42 cents per एकड़ ).
the louisiana territory encompassed all or part of 15 present u.S. states and two कनाडाई provinces.
The land खरीदा contained सब of present-day Arkansas, Missouri, आयोवा, Oklahoma, Kansas, and Nebraska ; parts of Minnesota that यहूद वेस्ट of the Mississippi River ; most of North डकोटा ; सबसे of South डकोटा ; northeastern New Mexico ; northern Texas ; the portions of Montana, व्योमिंग, and Colorado ईस्ट of the Continental Divide ; Louisiana west of the Mississippi नदी, including the नगर of New Orleans ; और small portions of land कि would eventually become भाग of the Canadian provinces of Alberta और Saskatchewan.
फ़्रांस controlled this विशाल area from 1699 until 1762, the year it gave the territory to इसके ally Spain.
अंतर्गत Napoleon Bonaparte, France took back the territory in 1800 in the hope of building an साम्राज्य in North अमेरिका.
a slave revolt in हैती and an impending युद्ध with Britain, however, led France to लापरवाही these plans and sell the entire territory to the United States, जो had originally intended only to तलाश the purchase of New Orleans and its adjacent lands.
The purchase of the territory of Louisiana took place during the प्रेसिडेंसी of थामस जेफरसन.
At the समय, the purchase faced घरेलू opposition because it थी thought to be unconstitutional.
Although he agreed that the U.S. Constitution did not contain प्रावधानों for acquiring territory, Jefferson decided to go ahead with the purchase anyway in order to हटाएँ फ़्रांस 's presence in the region and to protect both u.S. trade access to the port of नई Orleans and फ़्री ड्योढ़ी on the Mississippi River.
Ceremony at Place d'armes, नई Orleans marking transfer of Louisiana to the United States, 10 कूच 1804, as depicted by Thure de Thulstrup.
`` Cool Jerk '' is a popular song written by Donald Storball and originally performed by the capitols.
released in 1966, it reached No. 2 on the अमरीकी R & b chart और No. 7 on the pop chart.
The बैकिंग track लिये this song was actually अंकित ( secretly ) by the motown हाउस band The दुर्गंध भाइयो.
Per one of the दुर्गंध Brothers, the सोंग थी originally to be called `` pimp Jerk. ''
This was लिया इससे watching neighborhood pimps, जो होता dance in the clubs, लकिन were too `` cool '' to do the झटका like regular folks.
Their version थी subsequently नामित `` the Pimp Jerk. ''
the निर्माता थी afraid that a सोंग साथ the word pimp in the title would be बैन or नहीं प्राप्त much positive attention, और था the शीर्षक बदला to इसके current form.
the Go-Go 's, Todd rundgren, Big Trouble, Human Sexual Response, The la De Da 's, The Creation, और the Coasters have covered the song.
Todd Rundgren किया उसके version in an विषम time signature ( 7/4 ), giving an obviously jerky महसूस to the सोंग.
The Go-Go 's covered the song लिये उनके 1982 एल्बम Vacation and later re-recorded it for their 1990 album महानतम.
In the विशेषता फिल्मी घर अलोन 2 : खोया in New York, Uncle Frank ( gerry Bamman ) गाती `` Cool Jerk '' in the बरसात.
a संस्करण of the song with different lyrics ( `` do the Cool चाबुक '' ) is used in कूल Whip commercials.
A recording of `` Cool Jerk '' by Ricardo Ray is featured in the feature film Donnie Brasco ( 1997 ).
the सोंग features in the film Standing in the Shadows of Motown, performed by the Funk Brothers with lead vocals by Bootsy Collins.
the song is सुना briefly in the एनिमेटेड feature, Madagascar 3 : Europe 's Most चाही.
Despite इस reason, it is listed in कुछ विसंगतियाँ of the film 's soundtrack.
a league is a unit of length ( or, rarely, क्षेत्रफल ).
It was long common in Europe and Latin America, but it is no longer an official ईकाई in कोई nation.
The league originally referred to the distance a person could walk in an hour.
चूंकि the मध्य Ages, many मान have been निर्दिष्ट in several countries.
in the context of nautical distances, the 3 मील ( 4.8 km ) distance corresponds to how far an observer of average ऊँचाई ( 5'9 '' or 1.78 m ) can देखिए जब खड़ा at समुद्र स्तर.
Thus, a ship traveling एक `` league '' रै पहुँचे what थी previously the farthest दृश्य अलहदा on the क्षितिज.
The lack of a ऐतिहासिक and वैश्विक standard लिये the exact measure of a `` league '' can be accounted for by the variable उन्नयन of the observer ( i.e., sightings from a ship 's deck vs. masthead ).
The Irish state came into being in 1922 as the Irish Free State, a डोमिनियन of the British Commonwealth, having seceded इससे the संयुक्त किंगडम under the Anglo-Irish Treaty.
It comprises 26 of Ireland 's 32 counties.
Since 1949 it रै existed as the Republic of Ireland.
From इसके foundation, the Irish Free State थी embroiled in a civil युद्ध between राष्ट्रवादियों supporting the Treaty and प्रतिद्वंद्वियों who supported a republic.
The pro-Treaty side, organised as Cumann na nGaedheal emerged victorious from the conflict and won subsequent elections.
They formed the government of the state until 1932, when they peacefully handed over power to the anti-Treaty गुट in Fianna fáil, जो पराजित them in an चुनाव.
The Irish state, despite its violent beginnings, has remained a liberal democracy throughout इसके अस्तित्व.
a new संविधान in 1937 removed many of the links साथ Britain established under the Treaty and Ireland 's neutrality in the दूसरी World युद्ध demonstrated its independence in foreign नीति matters from ब्रिटेन.
In 1948 Ireland formally बाएँ the British Commonwealth and adopted the शीर्षक of `` Republic ''.
In the आर्थिक गोला, the Irish state has था a mixed performance.
On स्वतंत्रता, it was one of the wealthier countries in Europe प्रति सिर of population.
However it भी inherited from अंग्रेजों नियम the समस्याएं of बेरोजगारी, emigration, uneven भौगोलिक development and lack of a देशी औद्योगिक आधार.
लिये much of इसके history, the state struggled to rectify ये problems.
particular peaks of emigration यहूद अंकित during the late 1930s, 1950s और 1980s, when the Irish अर्थव्यवस्था recorded छोटी विकास.
In the 1930s, Fianna Fáil governments attempted to create Irish domestic उद्योग using subsidies and protective tarifs.
In the late 1950s, these नीतियों were dropped in पक्ष of free trade with चयनित देशों and encouraging of foreign निवेश with low taxes.
This थी expanded when Ireland डाला the European Economic Community in 1972.
in the 1990s और 2000s, आयरलैंड experienced an आर्थिक boom ज्ञात as the Celtic Tiger, in which the देश 's जीडीपी surpassed many of इसके यूरोपीय पड़ोसी.
आव्रजन भी surpassed emigration, bringing the state 's population up to over 4 लाख.
However, चूंकि 2008, Ireland रै experienced a severe crisis in the banking sector and with sovereign debt.
The resultant आर्थिक slump has deepened the प्रभाव of the संसार recession on आयरलैंड.
इससे 1937 to 1998, the Irish constitution included a claim on उत्तरी आयरलैंड as a part of the national territory.
however, the राज्य also opposed and used इसके security forces विरूद्ध those armed groups - principally the Provisional Irish Republican Army, who tried to एकजुट Ireland by force.
This occurred in the 1950s, throughout the 1970s and 1980s और has continued on a reduced scale.
Irish governments meanwhile tried to broker an agreement to the विरोध ज्ञात as The Troubles within Northern Ireland from 1968 to the late 1990s.
the British government officially recognised the right of the Irish government to be a party to the Northern negotiations in the Anglo-Irish अनुबंध of 1985.
In 1998, as भाग of the Good Friday अनुबंध, the Irish constitution was altered by referendum to हटाएँ the territorial claim to उत्तरी Ireland और instead extend the right of Irish citizenship to all the लोगों of the द्वीप should they काश to have it.
जॉन क्विंसी एडम्स ( जुलाई 11, 1767february 23, 1848 ) was the sixth President of the संयुक्त States ( 1825–1829 ).
He served as अमरीकी diplomat, Senator, and Congressional प्रतिनिधि.
He थी a member of the Federalist, Democratic-Republican, National Republican, और later Anti-Masonic and Whig parties.
Adams थी the बेटे of former President John Adams और Abigail एडम्स.
As a राजनयिक, Adams निभाई an important role in negotiating many international treaties, most notably the Treaty of Ghent, जिससे ended the War of 1812.
As Secretary of राज्य, he negotiated साथ the संयुक्त Kingdom over America 's northern border with कनाडा, negotiated साथ Spain the annexation of Florida, and authored the मुनरो doctrine.
Historians agree he थी one of the greatest diplomats and secretaries of state in American history.
As president, he sought to modernize the American अर्थव्यवस्था and promoted शिक्षा.
Adams enacted a part of his agenda and सशुल्क off much of the नेशनल debt.
He was stymied by a Congress controlled by his enemies, and उसके lack of patronage networks helped politicians eager to undercut him.
He lost his 1828 bid लिये re-election to Andrew Jackson.
In doing so, he became the first अध्यक्ष चूंकि उसके father to serve a single term.
Adams is best known as a diplomat who तराशा अमेरिका 's foreign policy in line with his ardently राष्ट्रवादी commitment to America 's republican values.
अधिक recently Howe ( 2007 ) portrayed एडम्स as the exemplar and moral leader in an era of modernization.
During Adams ' आजीवन, technological innovations and new अर्थात् of communication spread messages of religious पुनरुद्धार, social reform, and party politics.
Goods, money, और लोगों traveled more rapidly and efficiently than कभी before.
Adams थी निर्वाचित a u.S. प्रतिनिधि from Massachusetts after leaving office, सेवारत for the last 17 सालो of his life with far greater acclamation than he had हासिल as अध्यक्ष.
he is, so far, the तभी अध्यक्ष later elected to the United States House of Representatives ( though John टायलर was निर्वाचित to the House of Representatives of the Confederate States just before his death in 1862 ).
Animated by his growing revulsion विरूद्ध गुलामी, एडम्स became a leading opponent of the Slave Power.
he predicted कि if a civil युद्ध were to break out, the president could abolish slavery by using his war powers.
एडम्स भी predicted the Union 's विच्छेद over the slavery issue, but said that if the South became independent वहीँ होता be a श्रेणी of bloody slave revolts.
Windows Internet Explorer 9 ( ie9 ) is a version of the Internet Explorer web ब्राउजर इससे Microsoft.
It was released to the पब्लिक on March 14, 2011.
Microsoft has released Internet एक्सप्लोरर 9 as a प्रमुख out-of-band संस्करण कि is नहीं tied to the release schedule of any particular version of Windows, unlike पिछला versions.
it is the first version चूंकि Internet एक्सप्लोरर 2 to not be bundled with a Windows operating system, although कुछ OEMs have installed it साथ Windows 7 on उनके pcs, as well as new खिड़कियाँ 7 laptops.
the system आवश्यकताएँ लिये Internet Explorer 9 are Windows 7, Windows Server 2008 R2, Windows Vista सेवा पैक 2 or Windows Server 2008 SP2 साथ the Platform अद्यतन.
Windows XP और earlier are not supported.
Internet Explorer 9 is the last version of अंतरजाल एक्सप्लोरर to be supported on Windows विस्टा.
Both IA-32 और x64 builds are available.
अंतरजाल Explorer 9 supports several सीएसएस 3 properties, embedded आईसीसी v2 or v4 color प्रोफ़ाइल support via Windows Color System, और has improved JavaScript performance.
It is the last of the five प्रमुख web browsers to implement support for Scalable Vector Graphics ( SVG ).
It also सुविधाएँ hardware-accelerated graphics rendering using Direct2D, hardware-accelerated text rendering using DirectWrite, hardware-accelerated video rendering using मीडिया न्यास, imaging support provided by खिड़कियाँ Imaging Component, and high fidelity printing powered by the XML पेपर specification ( XPS ) print pipeline.
Internet एक्सप्लोरर 9 also supports the HTML5 वीडियो and audio tags and the वेब Open Font स्वरूप.
Alka-Seltzer is an effervescent antacid और pain reliever पहला marketed by the Dr. Miles Medicine Company.
It was developed by Maurice Treener, सिर chemist at Miles, in elkhart, Indiana.
Alka-Seltzer is marketed लिये relief of नाबालिग aches, pains, inflammation, ज्वर, headache, heartburn, खट्टा पेट, अपच, and hangovers, जबकि neutralizing excess stomach एसिड.
It was शुभारम्भ in 1931.
A spin-off of Alka-Seltzer बना to relieve जुकाम and flu, Alka-Seltzer Plus, was later introduced.
A short-lived antacid non-aspirin रूपांतर, Alka-Mints, was introduced in 1994 और discontinued in 1997.
Alka-Seltzer is currently स्वामित्व by Bayer schering फार्मा ag, Germany.
The नाम `` Alka-Seltzer '' रै been extended to incorporate an संपूर्ण line of medications बेची over the counter and taken by अर्थात् of rapidly dissolving tablets कि form a carbonated समाधान in जल.
Cherry Alka Seltzer Plus टैब्लेट dissolving in water
Image प्रर्दशित the six most common speleothems with लेबल्स.
Enlarge to view लेबल्स.
A stalactite (, ; from the Greek stalasso, ( σταλάσσω ), `` to drip '', and meaning `` that which drips '' ) is a type of speleothem ( secondary mineral ) कि hangs from the ceiling of चूना caves.
It is a type of dripstone.
The corresponding formation on the floor of the गुफा is ज्ञात as a stalagmite.
Degree abbreviations हैं used as an वैकल्पिक way to specify an academic degree instead of spelling आउट the शीर्षक in पूरा, such as in reference books जैसे Who 's Who and on business cards.
Many डिग्री have अधिक than one abbreviation.
In the UK, it is नहीं generally the कस्टम to punctuate abbreviations for डिग्री with full stops ( e.g. `` बीएससी '' बल्कि than `` B.Sc. ``.
रेस is a classification system used to categorize इंसानो into विशाल और पृथक populations or groups by anatomical, सांस्कृतिक, ethnic, जेनेटिक, भौगोलिक, historical, linguistic, religious, or social affiliation.
First प्रयुक्त to denote नेशनल संबद्धों, the term began to be प्रयुक्त to relate to physical traits in the 17th सदी.
in the early 20th century the term was often प्रयुक्त, in a taxonomic sense, to denote genetically differentiated human populations defined by phenotype.
जबकि biologists sometimes use the concept of race to मेक distinctions among fuzzy sets of traits, others in the वैज्ञानिक community suggest that the विचार of race often is used in a naive or simplistic रास्ता, i.e. that among इंसानो, race has no taxonomic significance : all जीना humans belong to the वही species, Homo sapiens and subspecies, Homo sapiens sapiens.
Social conceptions और groupings of दौड़ vary over समय, involving लोक taxonomies
that define of individuals based on आभास traits.
वैज्ञानिकों consider biological essentialism obsolete, और generally discourage जातिगत explanations लिये collective differentiation in दोनो physical and behavioral traits.
Since the second half of the 20th century the associations of race with the विचारधाराओं and theories that grew out of the work of 19th-century विज्ञानियों और physiologists रै led to the उपयोग of the word रेस itself becoming problematic.
हालांकि still used in general contexts, it is अभी often replaced by अन्य words which are less अस्पष्ट और emotionally चार्ज, ऐसे as populations, लोगों ( s ), ethnic समूह or communities depending on context.
Lucy Stone ( August 13, 1818 – अक्तूबर 19, 1893 ) थी a prominent अमरीकी abolitionist and suffragist, और a गायन advocate and organizer promoting अधिकारों for women.
In 1847, Stone became the first woman from मैसाचुसेट्स to earn a कॉलेज degree.
She spoke out for महिलाओं 's अधिकारों and against slavery at a समय when women were discouraged and prevented from पब्लिक speaking.
Stone was the पहला अंकित American स्त्री to retain उसके own last name after विवाह.
Stone 's organizational activities लिये the cause of महिलाओं 's rights yielded ठोस gains in the difficult political environment of the 19th सदी.
स्टोन helped initiate the first National महिलाओं 's Rights Convention and वो supported और sustained it annually along with a क्रमांक of other local, state और regional activist conventions.
स्टोन spoke in front of a number of legislative लाशें to प्रचार laws giving अधिक rights to women.
She assisted in establishing the Woman 's National वफ़ादार लीग to सहायता pass the Thirteenth Amendment and thereby abolish slavery, after which वो helped रूप the largest group of like-minded women 's rights reformers, the politically मॉडरेट American Woman Suffrage Association, which worked for decades at the state स्तर in favor of women 's सही to vote.
स्टोन लिखा extensively about a wide दायरा of women 's rights, publishing and distributing speeches by herself and others, and convention proceedings.
in the long-running and influential स्त्री 's Journal, a साप्ताहिक periodical that she established और promoted, स्टोन aired both her own और differing दृश्य परिचय women 's rights.
पुकारा `` the orator '' and `` the morning star of the स्त्री 's अधिकारों movement '', Stone delivered a speech which sparked सुसान B. Anthony to take up the cause of महिलाओं 's suffrage.
एलिज़ाबेथ Cady stanton लिखा that `` Lucy Stone was the first व्यक्ति by whom the दिल of the American public was deeply stirred on the woman सवाल. ''
Together, Anthony, stanton, और Stone have महरूम called the 19th century `` triumvirate `` of women 's suffrage and feminism.
in finance, a bond is an यंत्र of indebtedness of the बंध issuer to the धारकों.
it is a कर्ज़ security, under which the जारीकर्ता owes the holders a debt और, depending on the terms of the bond, is obliged to अदा them interest ( the coupon ) or to repay the principal at a later date, termed the maturity.
Interest is usually payable at fixed intervals ( semiannual, सालाना, sometimes monthly ).
Very often the बंध is परक्राम्य, i.e. the स्वामित्व of the instrument can be transferred in the secondary market.
Thus a bond is a form of ऋण or IOU : the holder of the बंध is the lender ( creditor ), the issuer of the bond is the borrower ( debtor ), और the coupon is the interest.
Bonds provide the borrower with external funds to finance long-term निवेश, or, in the case of government bonds, to वित्त current expenditure.
Certificates of जमा ( CDs ) or short पद commercial पेपर are considered to be money market instruments and नहीं bonds : the main difference is in the length of the पद of the instrument.
bonds और stocks are both securities, but the प्रमुख अंतर between the two is कि ( पूंजी ) stockholders have an equity stake in the कम्पनी ( i.e. they हैं owners ), whereas bondholders have a creditor stake in the company ( i.e. they are lenders ).
Another difference is that bonds usually have a पारिभाषित पद, or maturity, after जिससे the bond is redeemed, whereas stocks may be outstanding indefinitely.
an एक्सेप्शन is an irredeemable bond, such as consols, which is a perpetuity, i.e. a bond साथ no maturity.
A स्केल मॉडल of the Tower of London.
This model can be found inside the tower.
स्केल मॉडल of water powered turbine
L to R with 12 inch ruler at bottom : 1:64 matchbox Chevrolet tahoe, 1:43 Ford f-100, 1:25 Revell Monogram 1999 घाट mustang कोबरा, 1:18 Bburago 1987 फेरारी f40
Model जहाजों and castle
A स्केल model is a शारीरिक model, a representation or नक़ल of an ऑब्जेक्ट that is larger or smaller than the वास्तविक size of the object, जिससे seeks to maintain the relative proportions ( the स्केल factor ) of the physical size of the असली object.
Very often the scale मॉडल is प्रयुक्त as a मार्गदर्शिका to making the ऑब्जेक्ट in full आकार.
स्केल models are built or collected लिये many reasons.
The Zune hd थी a पोर्टेबल media खिलाड़ी in the Zune उत्पाद family released on सितंबर 15, 2009 by microsoft.
It was a direct competitor with the ठहराना ipod and iPhone series of मोबाईल devices.
It was initially released in 16 और 32 GB capacities.
A 64 GB version was released on अप्रैल 9, 2010.
It utilized a टचस्क्रीन इंटरफ़ेस लिये नेविगेशन और शामिल Wi-Fi for synchronization, access to the Zune Marketplace और वेब browsing.
the Zune HD utilized the nvidia Tegra apx 2600 chip, allowing it to play 720p video through the optional HDMI Zune डॉक on a high-definition television.
Otherwise, content would be scaled bas to 480x272 पिक्सेल on the player 's oled टचस्क्रीन.
बूढ़ा sparky, the electric chair used at गाओ गाओ prison
निष्पादन by electrocution, प्रायः performed using an electric chair, is an निष्पादन विधि originating in the United राज्य in which the condemned person is strapped to a विशेषकर निर्मित wooden कुर्सी and electrocuted through electrodes placed on the body.
This निष्पादन method was created by employees of Thomas Edison दौरान the War of currents, and रै been used तभी in the United States and, for a काल of several दशकों, in the फिलीपीन ( its first उपयोग वहीँ in 1924 under American occupation, पिछला in 1976 ).
Historically, once the condemned person was attached to the chair, various cycles ( differing in voltage and अवधि ) of alternating current would be passed through the individual 's body, in order to cause fatal क्षति to the internal organs ( including the दिमाग ).
The पहला jolt of electric current थी designed to cause तात्कालिक unconsciousness और दिमाग मौत ; the दूसरी one थी designed to cause fatal damage to the vital अंगों.
Death was frequently caused by electrical overstimulation of the heart.
Although in the संयुक्त States the electric chair has become a symbol of the death penalty, its use is in decline due to the वृद्धि of lethal इंजेक्शन, जिससे is widely believed to be a अधिक humane विधि of execution.
Although some राज्य still maintain electrocution as a method of निष्पादन, आज it is तभी maintained as a secondary विधि that may be चुनी over lethal इंजेक्शन at the request of the prisoner.
As of 2010, electrocution is an optional form of execution in Alabama, Florida, South कैरोलिना and वर्जिनिया.
They allow the prisoner to चुनें lethal injection as an alternative विधि.
In the राज्य of Kentucky and Tennessee, the इलेक्ट्रिक कुर्सी has महरूम retired except लिये those whose capital crimes were committed prior to legislated dates in 1998 ( Kentucky : March 31, 1998 ; Tennessee : December 31, 1998 ) और who chose electrocution.
In both states, inmates जो do नहीं choose electrocution or inmates जो वचनबद्ध their crimes after the designated date are killed by lethal इंजेक्शन.
The electric कुर्सी is an alternate form of execution approved for potential उपयोग in Arkansas and Oklahoma if अन्य फ़ॉर्म of execution हैं found unconstitutional in the state at the time of execution.
it is the sole method of execution in Vermont, where treason is the only capital अपराधों.
On February 8, 2008, the Nebraska परम् अदालत determined that execution by electric chair थी a `` बेदर्द and असामान्य punishment '' under the राज्य 's constitution.
This brought executions of this प्रकार to an end in Nebraska, the तभी remaining state to retain electrocution as इसके sole method of execution for murder.
the Maryland हाउस of Delegates is the lower हाउस of the सामान्य Assembly, the राज्य विधानमंडल of the अमरीकी State of Maryland, और is रचित of 141 Delegates elected from 47 जिले.
The हाउस of Delegates Chamber is स्तिथ in the मेरीलैंड State House ( state capitol ) on राज्य वृत्त in Annapolis, जिससे is the state पूंजी.
the State House also houses the Maryland State Senate Chamber and the offices of the Governor and लेफ्टिनेंट Governor of the राज्य of Maryland.
Each Delegate has offices in Annapolis, in the आसपास कैस्पर R. Taylor, jr. House Office Building.
The Liberation of Paris ( also ज्ञात as the Battle लिये Paris ) took place during World युद्ध ii from 19 अगस्त 1944 until the surrender of the occupying German गैरीसन on 25 August.
The Liberation of Paris प्रारंभ with an uprising by the French Resistance विरूद्ध the जर्मनी garrison.
On 24 August, the French Forces of the आंतरिक ( Forces françaises de l'intérieur, FFI ) प्राप्त सुदृढीकरण from the Free French Army of Liberation और from the U.S. Third Army अंतर्गत सामान्य Patton.
the capital प्रदेश of France had been governed by Nazi Germany since the हस्ताक्षर of the Second Compiègne Armistice in जून 1940, जब the German Army occupied northern और westernmost फ़्रांस, and when the कठपुतली शासन of Vichy France was established in the town of Vichy in central France.
इस बैटल marked the liberation of Paris and the exile of the Vichy government to sigmaringen in Germany.
however, वहीँ was still much heavy fighting to be किया before France was liberated, including the campaign in southern France during August-September ( in provence and extending into the southwestern region of the Vosges Mountains ), साथ the German-held seaports of western फ़्रांस ( such as at brest and Dunkirk ), in Alsace and Lorraine in eastern France, and in northeastern France, such as साथ the Rhine and Moder Rivers.
the German Army and SS लड़ा doggedly in ये areas for the शेष of 1944 and into 1945.
`` Feelin ' Alright ? '' also known as `` Feeling Alright '' is a song written by Dave Mason of the English चट्टान बैंड Traffic इससे their eponymous 1968 एल्बम, Traffic.
The सोंग थी भी a hit single लिये several performers : जो cocker ( 1969, # 69, recharted in 1972, US # 33 ), Mongo Santamaría ( 1969, # 95 ) और Grand Funk Railroad ( 1971, us # 54 ).
it रै also been recorded by Three Dog Night ( 1969 ), The 5th आयाम ( 1970 ), लू Rawls, Freddie King, पॉल Weller, Lulu, Chairmen of the फलक ( 1970 ), विरल Earth, The Electric Concept ऑर्केस्ट्रा, Mother 's Finest ( 1973 ), The ओहियो खिलाड़ी ( 1971 ), डायना Ross with the Jackson 5 ( 1971 ), Maceo पार्कर, Gladys Knight & the Pips, Widespread दहशत and the Black Crowes.
A Steel ढोल version by Trinidad Oil Company was reissued on the dancefloor jazz compilation ब्लू Juice 2.
It was also featured in the 2000 film Duets, sung by Huey Lewis.
दोनो the original and the जो Cocker cover यहूद प्रदर्शित in the movie उड़ान, starring Denzel Washington.
Devon werkheiser ( born March 8,1991 ) is an American actor, आवाज़ actor, singer, songwriter और musician, best known लिये his अभिनीत role as Ned bigby on the Nickelodeon sitcom Ned 's declassified School Survival Guide और लिये his role in the 2007 TV Movie shredderman नियम, as the lead character Nolan byrd.
Werkheiser also played Peter Parkes in the fourth and final season of the ABC परिवार show Greek.
नमूना view of an electronic health record आधारित on images
Sample दृश्य of an electronic health record
An electronic health record ( EHR ) is an evolving concept defined as a systematic collection of electronic health information about individual मरीजों or populations.
It is a record in digital format that is theoretically सक्षम of being shared आरपार different health care settings.
In some मामले this sharing can occur by way of network-connected enterprise-wide information systems and other information networks or exchanges.
EHRs may include a range of data, including जनसांख्यिकी, medical history, medication and allergies, immunization औकात, laboratory test results, radiology images, vital लक्षण, निजी stats like age और वज़न, और billing information.
ऋण origination is the process by which a borrower applies for a new ऋण, और a lender processes that application.
Origination generally includes all the steps from taking a loan application up to disbursal of funds ( or घटती the अनुप्रयोग ).
Loan servicing कवर everything after disbursing the funds until the loan is fully paid बंद.
Loan origination is a specialized version of new account opening लिये वित्तीय services संगठन.
Certain लोगों and संगठन specialize in loan origination.
Mortgage brokers and other बंधक originator companies serve as a prominent example.
There are अनेक अलग प्रकार of loans.
For अधिक information on ऋण प्रकार, see the loan and उपभोक्ता lending articles.
कदम involved in originating a loan vary by loan type, विभिन्न kinds of loan रिस्क, नियामक, lender policy, और अन्य कारकों.
Top बाएँ : the टेनेसी घाटी Authority, भाग of the नई सौदे, being signed into law in 1933.
Top सही : Franklin delano रूज़वेल्ट, जो was responsible for initiatives and programs collectively ज्ञात as the New Deal.
Bottom : A public भित्ति from एक of the artists employed by the नई सौदे.
The नई Deal थी a series of economic programs enacted in the United States between 1933 and 1936.
They involved अध्यक्षीय executive orders or laws passed by Congress दौरान the first पद of President Franklin D. Roosevelt.
The programs were in response to the Great Depression, and focused on what historians call the `` 3 Rs '' : राहत, Recovery, and Reform.
That is Relief for the unemployed और poor ; Recovery of the economy to सामान्य स्तर ; and Reform of the financial system to prevent a repeat depression.
The New Deal produced a राजनैतिक realignment, बनाना the Democratic Party the majority ( as well as the party that held the श्वेत House for seven out of नौ Presidential terms from 1933 to 1969 ), साथ इसके base in उदार विचार, the white दक्षिण, traditional Democrats, big city मशीने, and the newly empowered labor संघ and ethnic minorities.
The Republicans were split, with conservatives opposing the entire New Deal as an enemy of business and growth, and liberals accepting कुछ of it और promising to make it more efficient.
The realignment crystallized into the नई Deal Coalition कि वर्चस्व सबसे presidential elections into the 1960s, जबकि the opposition Conservative Coalition largely नियंत्रित Congress from 1937 to 1963.
By 1936 the पद `` liberal '' typically was प्रयुक्त for supporters of the New सौदे, और `` रूढ़िवादी `` लिये its opponents.
इससे 1934 to 1938, Roosevelt थी assisted in his endeavours by a “pro-spender” majority in कॉंग्रेस ( drawn इससे two-party, competitive, non-machine, प्रगतिशील, and बाएँ party districts ).
As noted by Alexander हिक्स, “Roosevelt, backed by rare, non-Southern Democrat majorities — 270 non-southern डेमोक्रेट representatives and 71 non-Southern Democrat सीनेटरों — spelled Second New सौदे reform.”
Many historians distinguish between a `` First New Deal '' ( 1933–34 ) and a `` Second New Deal '' ( 1935–38 ), with the second one more liberal और more विवादास्पद.
The `` First नई Deal '' ( 1933–34 ) dealt with विविध groups, from बैंकिंग and railroads to industry and खेती, all of which demanded help for economic अस्तित्व.
The Federal आपात Relief प्रशासन, for उदाहरण, provided $ 500 million for relief operations by states और cities, while the short-lived CWA ( Civil Works Administration ) gave localities money to operate make-work projects in 1933-34.
the `` Second New सौदे `` in 1935–38 शामिल the Wagner Act to promote labor संघ, the works प्रगति Administration ( WPA ) relief program ( which made the संघीय government by far the largest single नियोक्ता in the nation ), the Social Security अधिनियम, और new programs to सहायता किरायेदार किसानो and migrant मजदूर.
The फाइनल major वस्तुएं of New Deal विधान were the सृष्टि of the संयुक्त राज्य आवास Authority और फार्म Security प्रशासन, दोनो in 1937, और the मेला मजदूर मानकों Act of 1938, which set maximum hours and minimum wages लिये most श्रेणी of workers.
The economic downturn of 1937–38, and the bitter split between the AFL and CIO labor unions led to major Republican gains in कॉंग्रेस in 1938.
Conservative Republicans and Democrats in Congress joined in the informal रूढ़िवादी Coalition.
By 1942–43 they shut bas relief programs ऐसे as the WPA and CCC और blocked प्रमुख liberal proposals.
रूज़वेल्ट himself turned his ध्यान to the युद्ध effort, and जीती reelection in 1940 and 1944.
the Supreme Court declared the National रिकवरी Administration ( nra ) and the पहला संस्करण of the Agricultural Adjustment Act ( aaa ) unconstitutional, however the AAA was rewritten and then upheld.
As the first Republican president elected after fdr, ड्वाइट D. Eisenhower ( 1953–61 ) left the New Deal largely intact, even expanding it in कुछ areas.
In the 1960s, Lyndon B. Johnson 's Great Society प्रयुक्त the New Deal as inspiration लिये a dramatic विस्तार of liberal programs, जिससे Republican Richard M. Nixon generally retained.
बाद 1974, however, the call लिये deregulation of the economy gained bipartisan support.
the New Deal regulation of banking ( glass–steagall Act ) थी suspended in the 1990s.
Many नई सौदे कार्यक्रम remain active, with कुछ still operating under the original names, including the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ( FDIC ), the संघीय Crop बीमे Corporation ( FCIC ), the Federal Housing Administration ( FHA ), and the टेनेसी Valley प्राधिकार ( TVA ).
The largest programs still in existence आज are the Social Security System and the प्रतिभूति and Exchange Commission ( सेक ).
A woman ( ), pl : women ( ) is a female इंसान.
the term woman is प्रायः reserved लिये an adult, with the term लड़की होने the usual term for a female चाइल्ड or adolescent.
However, the term woman is also sometimes used to identify a मादा human, regardless of age, as in phrases such as `` Women 's rights ``.
Women are typically सक्षम of giving birth, though पुरानी women जो have gone through रजोनिवृत्ति और some intersex women can not.
`` i Do n't Want to Miss a Thing '' is a song performed by अमरीकी चट्टान band Aerosmith for the 1998 film armageddon.
Written by Diane Warren, the song debuted at number one on the Billboard Hot 100 ( the first # 1 लिये the बैंड after 28 years together ).
The song stayed at क्रमांक one लिये four सप्ताह from September 5 to सितंबर 26, 1998.
The song भी stayed at number 1 for several weeks in several other countries.
In the UK, the song peaked at क्रमांक चार, बनने Aerosmith 's highest charting song in the uk, where it was the 17th best-selling single of 1998, and has sold over a लाख copies.
Although नहीं used by the majority of the world 's countries, daylight छायांकन time is common in the Western world.
daylight saving time ( DST ) —also summer समय in अंग्रेजों अंग्रेज़ी — is the practice of advancing घड़ियाँ दौरान the lighter months so that evenings have more daylight और mornings have कम.
typically clocks are adjusted आगे one hour near the start of वसन्त and हैं adjusted backward in autumn.
the modern विचार of daylight saving was first proposed in 1895 by जार्ज Vernon Hudson and it was पहला implemented दौरान the पहला World युद्ध.
अनेक countries have used it at various टाइम्स since then.
Much of the United States used DST in the 1950s and 1960s, and dst उपयोग expanded following the 1970s energy crisis और has been widely प्रयुक्त in North America and Europe चूंकि then.
the practice रै been both praised और criticized.
Adding daylight to evenings benefits retailing, sports, और other activities that exploit sunlight after working hours, but can cause समस्याएं for संध्या entertainment और other occupations tied to the sun.
हालांकि an जल्दी goal of DST थी to reduce evening usage of incandescent lighting ( formerly a primary use of electricity ), modern heating और कूलिंग उपयोग patterns differ greatly, और research परिचय how dst currently affects energy use is सीमित or contradictory.
DST clock shifts उपस्थित other चुनौतियां.
They complicate timekeeping, and can disrupt meetings, travel, बिलिंग, record keeping, medical devices, heavy equipment, and नींद patterns.
Software can often adjust computer clocks automatically, लकिन this can be limited and error-prone, particularly जब DST dates are changed.
Floorplan of the château de montargis
Montargis is a कम्यून in the Loiret विभाग in north-central France on the loing river.
The town is located about south of पेरिस और east of Orléans in the Gâtinais.
montargis is the दूसरी largest नगर in the Loiret, after Orléans.
it is near a large forest, and contains लाइट उद्योग and farming, including saffron.
Due to its numerous canals and bridges, Montargis sometimes bills itself as the `` Venice of the Gâtinais. ''
Though quite modern, it retains a मध्यकालीन charm in इसके downtown area.
In computer storage, a लॉजिकल ईकाई number, or LUN, is a क्रमांक used to पहचानो a logical unit, which is a यंत्र addressed by the SCSI प्रोटोकॉल or प्रोटोकॉल which encapsulate SCSI, such as Fibre चैनल or iSCSI.
A LUN may be प्रयुक्त with any device जिससे supports read/write operations, such as a tape drive, but is most प्रायः used to refer to a logical डिस्क as created on a SAN.
Though not technically correct, the term `` LUN '' is often also used to refer to the logical disk itself.
The Gospel according to चिह्नित (,, to euangelion kata Markon ), commonly shortened to the Gospel of Mark or simply चिह्नित, is the second किताब of the New Testament.
This canonical खाता of the जीवन of यीशु of नासरत is one of the three synoptic gospels.
It was thought to be an epitome, which खाते for its place as the second gospel in the Bible.
However, most contemporary scholars now regard it as the earliest of the canonical gospels ( c 70 ).
That Mark थी used as a सोर्स for the अन्य synoptic gospels Gospel of Matthew and Gospel of ल्यूक is widely held by many, हालांकि नहीं all, New Testament विद्वानों.
the Gospel of चिह्नित narrates the मंत्रालय of Jesus इससे his baptism by जॉन the Baptist to his मौत और resurrection.
It focuses particularly on the last week of उसके life ( अध्याय 11–16 ) in Jerusalem.
Its swift narrative portrays Jesus as a heroic man of action, an exorcist, healer और miracle worker.
An important theme of Mark is the Messianic रहस्य.
Jesus silences the demoniacs he heals, tries unsuccessfully to रखना his मुक्तिदाता identity secret, and conceals his message साथ parables.
Meanwhile, the शिष्यों fail to understand दोनो the implication of the miracles of Jesus और the meaning of the things he predicts परिचय उसके गिरफ़्तार, death and क़यामत.
Most scholars believe कि the असली टेक्स्ट of the gospel ends at Mark 16:8 with the discovery of Jesus ' empty tomb और कि the following account of his resurrection appearances is a later addition.
According to परंपरा and some early गिरिजाघर writers, the author is चिह्नित the Evangelist, the companion of the apostle Peter.
The gospel, however, appears to rely on अनेक underlying स्त्रोत, varying in रूप and in धर्मशास्त्र, जिससे tells against the tradition कि the gospel थी आधारित on Peter 's preaching.
the टेक्स्ट is a compilation which may include eye-witness खाते as खूब as ज्ञात apostolic preachings, और pre-existing लिखा records that do नहीं exist आज लकिन can be confirmed from 2nd-century टीकाकारों.
Some of the कहानियां in the gospel may have been transmitted orally before होने written down.
Various elements within the gospel सुझाएँ that the author लिखा in सीरियाई or फिलिस्तीन लिये a non-Jewish ईसाई जातियाँ.
the रब of the Rings is an epic high काल्पनिक अनोखा written by English philologist और University of Oxford professor J. R. R. Tolkien.
the story began as a sequel to tolkien 's 1937 children 's काल्पनिक अनोखा The Hobbit, but eventually विकसित into a much larger work.
it थी written in stages between 1937 और 1949, much of it during World युद्ध II.
It is the दूसरी best-selling novel ever written, with over 150 लाख copies बेची.
The शीर्षक of the novel refers to the स्टोरी 's main antagonist, the Dark Lord Sauron, जो had in an पहले age created the One Ring to नियम the other Rings of शक्ति as the परम weapon in his campaign to conquer and नियम all of Middle-earth.
From quiet beginnings in the Shire, a Hobbit जमीन not unlike the English countryside, the story ranges आरपार north-west Middle-earth, following the course of the War of the Ring through the आँखें of its characters, notably the hobbits frodo Baggins, Samwise `` Sam '' Gamgee, Meriadoc `` मैरी '' Brandybuck and peregrin `` Pippin '' Took, लकिन also the hobbits ' chief allies and travelling companions : aragorn, a इंसान Ranger ; Boromir, a man from gondor ; Gimli, a Dwarf योद्धा ; Legolas, an elven prince ; और Gandalf, a जादूगर.
The work थी initially intended by tolkien to be one आवाज़ of a two-volume नियत, साथ the other being The Silmarillion, but this idea was dismissed by his publisher.
it was decided लिये economic कारण to प्रकाशित the Lord of the Rings as तीन आयतन over the course of a year from 29 July 1954 to 20 अक्तूबर 1955, thus creating the अभी familiar रब of the बजती trilogy.
the three volumes यहूद हकदार The फेलोशिप of the रिंग, The Two Towers, और The Return of the King.
Structurally, the novel is विभाजित internally into six किताबे, two per आवाज़, साथ several appendices of background material included at the end of the third volume.
The Lord of the Rings रै since been reprinted numerous टाइम्स and translated into अनेक भाषाएं.
tolkien 's work has been the subject of extensive analysis of इसके themes and origins.
हालांकि a प्रमुख work in itself, the स्टोरी was only the पिछला गति of a larger epic Tolkien had worked on चूंकि 1917, in a process he described as mythopoeia.
Influences on this earlier work, and on the story of the Lord of the Rings, include philology, mythology, religion और the author 's distaste for the effects of industrialization, as well as earlier काल्पनिक works and tolkien 's अनुभवों in World युद्ध i.
The Lord of the बजती in इसके turn is माना to have had a ग्रेट effect on modern fantasy ; the प्रभाव of Tolkien 's works is such कि the use of the शब्द `` Tolkienian '' और `` Tolkienesque '' have been recorded in the ऑक्सफोर्ड English शब्दकोष.
The enduring popularity of the रब of the Rings has led to numerous references in popular संस्कृति, the founding of many societies by fans of Tolkien 's works, and the publication of many books परिचय tolkien and उसके works.
The रब of the बजती has inspired, and continues to inspire, कलाकृति, music, films और टेलीविज़न, video games, और subsequent साहित्य.
Award-winning adaptations of The Lord of the Rings have been made लिये radio, theatre, और film.
The following is an episode list लिये the Nickelodeon sitcom ड्रेक & Josh.
The series debuted on January 11, 2004.
A TV film Merry Christmas, ड्रेक & Josh थी made अलावा from the नियमित series on December 5, 2008.
There are a कुल of 60 episodes were produced spanning four seasons.
ड्रेक Bell, Josh पेक, और मिरांडा cosgrove were the only अभिनेताओं to appear in सब 60 एपीसोड.
the San Francisco 49ers conduct training शिविर at the team 's headquarters और practice facility in Santa क्लारा, कैलिफ़ोर्निया in अगस्त 2010.
The offense is wearing red jerseys with the exception of क्वार्टरबैक Alex स्मिथ, who is in a black जर्सी ; the रक्षा in white.
In the National फ़ुटबॉल League, training camp refers to the समय before the season commences.
दौरान इस time, teams होगा sometimes congregate at an outside location, प्रायः a university, to conduct प्रशिक्षण शिविर for at least the पहला few weeks.
इस is similar to baseball 's वसन्त प्रशिक्षण.
प्रशिक्षण शिविर is used in अनेक different ways.
New players and कोच उपयोग it to acclimate themselves to new teammates और systems.
For younger players, it serves as a period of evaluation ; for veterans, it is time to गोलाकार वापस into form.
Training camp is विभाजित into several different components.
the first is scrimmages.
These are pseudo-games where teams run nearly पूरा games ' worth of plays.
Sometimes, दो practice sessions हैं held on the वही दिन.
इस concept is referred to as two-a-days.
Other parts of प्रशिक्षण camp include drills, meetings साथ coaches and other players at one 's position, weight प्रशिक्षण, and pre-season games.
the latter half of training camp leads सीधे into the exhibition season.
साथ NFL training camps starting in late-july, the biggest concern has been dehydration.
In 2001, Minnesota वाइकिंग्स player Korey Stringer died of a medical condition based इससे dehydration and heatstroke.
the death of Stringer prompted the NFL to बदलें their training नीतियों.
At each practice, every टोली must have the टोली डॉक्टर और trainers on the field ; additionally, an ambulance must be present दौरान practices.
With एनएफएल प्रशिक्षण शिविरों शुरूआत in late जुलाई, severe weather can affect अभ्यास और प्रदर्शनी games.
In 2002, a Cleveland Browns exhibition game ended due to lightning निकट Cleveland भूरा Stadium, और severe तूफ़ान have been known to disrupt प्रशिक्षण camps.
Fans हैं often able to visit their favorite team 's प्रशिक्षण camp to कैच an जल्दी look at the players ; admission to practices is प्रायः free or substantially less expensive than a खेल टिकट, making training camp यात्राएँ a popular option for fans who can not attend अनेक खेल due to वित्तीय or अन्य reasons.
NFL teams often sell souvenirs and concessions at शिविर sites along with offering activities and कार्यक्रम to make training शिविर a more fan-friendly experience.
In computing, a file system ( or filesystem ) is a type of data store which can be used to स्टोर, retrieve and update a नियत of files.
The पद could refer to the abstract data structures used to define फाइलें, or to the actual तन्त्र or firmware components कि implement the abstract ideas.
Some file systems are used on local आंकड़ा storage डिवाइस ; others provide file अभिगम via a संजाल protocol ( e.g. NFS, SMB, or 9P clients ).
Some संचिका systems हैं `` virtual '', in कि the `` files '' supplied are computed on request ( e.g. procfs ) or are merely a mapping into a different file system used as a backing store.
the संचिका system manages अभिगम to both the content of files and the metadata about those files.
It is जिम्मेदार for arranging भंडार space ; विश्वसनीयता, efficiency, and ट्यूनिंग with regard to the physical storage medium are महत्वपूर्ण design considerations.
विलियम Howard taft ( September 15, 1857 – कूच 8, 1930 ) was the 27th President of the United राज्य ( 1909–1913 ) and later the tenth Chief Justice of the United States ( 1921–1930 ).
He is the only person to have परोसा in दोनो of ये offices.
Before becoming President, Taft, a रिपब्लिकन, थी selected to serve on the Superior Court of Cincinnati in 1887.
In 1890, Taft was appointed Solicitor General of the United राज्य and in 1891 a judge on the United States अदालत of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit.
in 1900, अध्यक्ष विलियम McKinley appointed Taft Governor-General of the Philippines.
In 1904, अध्यक्ष Theodore Roosevelt नियुक्त Taft Secretary of War in an effort to groom Taft, तब उसके close political ally, into his handpicked presidential successor.
Taft assumed a prominent role in problem solving, assuming on कुछ occasions the भूमिका of एक्टिंग सचिव of State, while declining दोहराया offers from रूज़वेल्ट to serve on the Supreme अदालत.
Riding a wave of popular support for fellow Republican Roosevelt, Taft won an आसान victory in उसके 1908 bid for the presidency.
in his only term, taft 's घरेलू कार्यसूची emphasized trust-busting, civil सेवा reform, strengthening the अंतरराज्यीय Commerce Commission, improving the performance of the postal सेवा, and passage of the सोलहवीं Amendment.
विदेश, Taft sought to further the economic development of nations in Latin अमेरिका and Asia through `` Dollar Diplomacy ``, and showed decisiveness and restraint in response to revolution in Mexico.
The task-oriented taft was बेख़बर to the political ramifications of his निर्णय, often alienated his अपना कुंजी constituencies, और was overwhelmingly पराजित in his बोली for a दूसरी पद in the अध्यक्षीय election of 1912.
In सर्वेक्षण of अध्यक्षीय scholars, Taft is usually क्रमित near the मध्य of lists of सब American राष्ट्रपतियों.
बाद leaving office, Taft spent his time in academia, मध्यस्थता, और the search लिये संसार peace through his self-founded League to enforce Peace.
in 1921, after the First संसार War, President Warren G. Harding appointed taft मुख्य Justice of the United States.
Taft served in this capacity जबतक shortly before उसके death in 1930.
The Ten आयतें is a 1956 epic film उत्पादित and directed by सेसिल B. DeMille that dramatized the biblical story of the Exodus, in जिससे the Hebrew-born Moses, an adopted Egyptian prince, becomes the deliverer of the यहूदी slaves.
It स्ट्रक्चर Charlton Heston in the lead role, Yul brynner as his adoptive brother, Pharaoh Rameses II, Anne बैक्सटर as Nefretiri, एडवर्ड G. Robinson as Dathan, Yvonne De Carlo as Sephora, Debra पेजेट as Lilia, and John Derek as Joshua.
The supporting cast includes Sir सेड्रिक Hardwicke as Pharaoh सेती I, Nina foch as bithiah, Martha स्कॉट as Yoshebel, जूडिथ एंडरसन as Memnet, विंसेंट दाम as Baka, and जॉन carradine as Aaron.
The फिल्मी थी released by सर्वोपरि Pictures in VistaVision on अक्तूबर 5, 1956.
The Ten Commandments, जिससे DeMille narrated, थी the पिछला film that he निर्देशित.
he was set to direct the 1958 रीमेक of his 1938 फिल्मी the Buccaneer, but his final illness forced उसे to relinquish the directing chores to his son-in-law, actor Anthony Quinn.
DeMille had also नियोजित to film the जीवन of रब Baden पावेल, the संस्थापक of the Scout movement, with दाउद Niven ; this project थी never realized.
The Ten Commandments is a partial रीमेक of demille 's 1923 silent फिल्मी.
कुछ of the cast and crew of the 1956 संस्करण worked on the original.
It has since been remade as a टेलीविज़न miniseries broadcast in April 2006.
the Ten Commandments is एक of the सबसे financially successful films कभी made, grossing over $ 65 million at the u.S. box office.
Adjusting for महंगाई, this makes it the sixth highest-grossing film domestically, with an adjusted कुल of $ 1,025,730,000 in 2012.
the box office जालस्थल `` the Numbers '' सूचियाँ the domestic gross at $ 80 लाख.
in 1999, The टेन Commandments was selected लिये preservation in the United राज्य नेशनल Film Registry by the Library of Congress as होने `` culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant ''.
in जून 2008, the अमरीकी Film Institute revealed its `` Ten Top Ten `` —the बेहतरीन ten films in ten American फिल्मी genres—after polling over 1,500 people from the creative जातियाँ.
the Ten Commandments was listed as the tenth बेहतरीन film in the epic genre.
The फिल्मी received seven Academy Award nominations including बेहतरीन Picture, and won the Academy पुरस्कार for Best Visual Effects.
चार्ल्टन Heston was nominated लिये a Golden ग्लोब पुरस्कार for बेहतरीन गति Picture Actor in the drama category.
Yul Brynner जीती the National फलक of पुनर्विलोकन पुरस्कार for Best कर्ता for उसके role as Rameses, along with उसके other roles in The King and I और Anastasia.
louisville (, or ) is a प्रमुख नगर and the largest city in the U.S. राज्य of Kentucky and the county seat of Jefferson County.
Since 2003, the नगर 's सीमायें have been with those of the county because of a city-county merger.
The city 's total consolidated population at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी was 741,096 ( Louisville 's संतुलन total, 602,011, excludes semi-autonomous कस्बों and is the जनसांख्यिकी listed in most sources and national rankings ).
as of 2010, the Louisville metropolitan क्षेत्रफल ( MSA ) had a population of 1,307,647 ranking 42nd nationally.
The metro area includes Louisville-Jefferson County and 12 surrounding काउंटी, आठ in Kentucky and four in Southern Indiana ( see Geography below ).
The Louisville Combined सांख्यिकीय Area, having a population of 1,451,564, includes the MSA, Hardin काउंटी और Larue County in Kentucky, and Scott County, Indiana.
an important internal shipping port in the 19th century, Louisville today is best known as the location of the Kentucky डर्बी, the पहला of three annual thoroughbred horse races बनाना up the ट्रिपल Crown.
a typical प्रायोगिक setup for an aldol reaction.
Both flasks हैं submerged in a dry ice/acetone कूलिंग bath ( −78 °c ) the temperature of which is being monitored by a तापयुग्म ( the wire on the left ).
A cooling bath, in laboratory chemistry ( often but नहीं सदा organic chemistry ) practice, is a liquid मिश्रण which is प्रयुक्त to maintain कम temperatures, typically between 13 °C and −196 °C.
These low temperatures are प्रयुक्त to collect liquids after distillation, to remove solvents using a rotary evaporator, or to perform a chemical प्रतिक्रिया below room temperature ( see : kinetic control ).
कूलिंग baths are generally एक of two types : ( a ) a ठंडा fluid ( particularly liquid नाइट्रोजन, water, or भी एयर ) — but most commonly the term refers to ( b ) a mixture of 3 components : ( 1 ) a cooling एजेंट ( ऐसे as dry ice or जल ice ) ; ( b ) a liquid 'कैरीr ' ( such as liquid जल, ethylene glycol, acetone, etc. ), which हस्तांतरण heat between the bath and the vessel ; ; and ( c ) an additive to depress the melting-point of the solid/liquid प्रणाली.
( A familiar उदाहरण of इस is the use of an ice/rock-salt mixture to freeze बर्फ cream.
The phase-change of ice into liquid जल requires energy, 'pulling ' ऊष्मा from the system.
adding salt lowers the temp at जिससे this happens, meaning more उर्जा has to be absorbed from the environment in order to melt the ice.
This effectively makes the बर्फ 'colder ' — it जरूर 'pull ' more ऊष्मा इससे its पर्यावरण to become liquid. )
खाने disorders are conditions defined by abnormal eating habits that may involve either insufficient or excessive खाना सेवन to the detriment of an individual 's शारीरिक and mental health.
Bulimia nervosa और anorexia नर्वोज़ा are the सबसे common specific फ़ॉर्म in the United Kingdom.
Other types of eating disorders include binge eating disorder and खाने disorder नहीं otherwise specified.
bulimia nervosa is a disorder characterized by binge eating and purging.
Purging can include self-induce vomiting, over-exercising, और the usage of diuretics, enemas, और laxatives.
एनोरेक्सिया nervosa is characterized by extreme food restriction to the point of self-starvation and excessive वज़न loss.
हालांकि primarily thought of as affecting females ( an estimated 5–10 million being प्रभावित in the U.K. ), eating disorders affect males as खूब.
An अनुमानित 10 – 15 % of people with खाने disorders are males ( गोर्गान, 1999 ).
( an अनुमानित 1 लाख U.K. males होने प्रभावित ).
हालांकि eating विकार are increasing all over the world among दोनो मेन and women, there is evidence to सुझाएँ that it is women in the पश्चिमी world जो हैं at the highest risk of developing them and the उपाधि of westernization increases the risk.
nearly half of all Americans personally know किसी with an eating disorder.
The skill to comprehend the सेंट्रल प्रक्रियाओं of appetite has increased tremendously since leptin was discovered, and the कौशल to observe the functions of the दिमाग as खूब.
Interactions between motivational, homeostatic and self-regulatory control प्रक्रियाओं are involved in eating behaviour, जिससे is a कुंजी घटक in eating विकार.
the precise कारण of खाने विकार is नहीं entirely समझा, लकिन वहीँ is प्रमाण कि it may be linked to other medical conditions और situations.
Cultural idealization of thinness and youthfulness have contributed to eating disorders affecting diverse populations.
एक study showed that लड़कियों with adhd have a greater chance of getting an eating disorder than those not affected by ADHD.
Another study suggested कि women साथ PTSD, especially due to sexually related आघात, are more likely to develop एनोरेक्सिया nervosa.
एक पढ़ाई showed कि फोस्टर लड़कियों are अधिक संभावित to develop bulimia nervosa.
Some think कि peer दबाव and idealized body-types seen in the media are also a significant factor.
Some research show कि for certain people there are genetic reasons why वे may be prone to developing an eating disorder.
Recent studies have found evidence a correlation between patients with bulimia नर्वोज़ा and पदार्थ उपयोग disorders.
In addition, anxiety disorders and personality disorders हैं आम आवृत्ति with clients of eating disorders.
While उचित treatment can be highly effective लिये many suffering from विशिष्ट प्रकार of खाने disorders, the consequences of खाने disorders can be severe, including death ( whether from direct चिकित्सा प्रभाव of disturbed खाने habits or from comorbid conditions such as suicidal सोच ).
गुलामी in the United States existed from the early years of the औपनिवेशिक period ; it was firmly established by the time the United States sought independence from Great Britain in 1776.
however, by 1804, all states north of the मेसन and डिक्सन लकीर था either abolished slavery outright or passed laws for the क्रमिक abolition of slavery.
In 1787 Congress निषिद्ध गुलामी in the Northwest Territory.
But slavery gained new जीवन in the South with the कपास industry after 1800, और expanded into the Southwest.
The nation was polarized into slave and free states along the mason-dixon लकीर, जिससे separated Pennsylvania and Maryland.
The United States और Great ब्रिटेन दोनो prohibited the international slave व्यापार in 1808, but the घरेलू trade, with sales to the Deep दक्षिण, expanded dramatically, and many captives were shipped by the coastwise slave trade.
पहले the 1840s, the South was vigorously defending गुलामी and its expansion into the territories.
in the North some abolitionists denounced it as गुनाहगार, and numerous anti-slavery शक्तियां अस्वीकृत it as detrimental to the rights of फ़्री men.
After विफल compromises and Abraham Lincoln 's चुनाव, in 1861 eleven slave states broke away to रूप the confederate राज्य of America, leading to the अमरीकी Civil युद्ध.
The federal government in 1862 बना abolition of गुलामी a war goal.
In January 1863 President Lincoln freed slaves in the confederacy through the emancipation Proclamation.
After the war, the Thirteenth Amendment, प्रभावी December 1865, abolished slavery throughout the entire United States, सहित the किनारा राज्य and the Indian territories.
इससे the 16th to the 19th centuries, an estimated 12 million africans were shipped as slaves to the Americas.
See Slavery in the Americas.
The great बहुमत went to the sugar बागानों of the West Indies or Brazil, where mortality was ऊँची.
परिचय 645,000 were brought to what is now the United States.
by the 1860 United States Census, the slave population in the अमरीकी South had grown to चार million.
Of all 1,515,605 families in the 15 slave states, nearly 400,000 आयोजित slaves ( roughly एक in four ), amounting to 8 % of सब American families.
जबकि some स्लेव worked as house बन्दों and शहरी शिल्पकार, the great majority worked on plantations or large farms, cultivating lucrative cash crops, such as rice, तम्बाकू, sugar और, after 1800, chiefly cotton.
by 1860 most स्लेव यहूद held in the Deep दक्षिण, where they served in work-gangs ; two-thirds worked in cotton.
In small operations, वे worked with उनके owners.
In large plantations they were directed by श्वेत सशुल्क overseers.
अंतर्गत the प्रणाली that became chattel गुलामी ( ownership of a human होने, और of his/her वंशजों ), a racial तत्व थी आधारभूत : slaves यहूद blacks of African descent and स्वामित्व, almost universally, by whites of European descent.
In the 17th century, Virginia, followed by अन्य southern colonies, enacted law that children of slave माताओं were born into गुलामी.
Slaves could लाभ freedom तभी by running away ( which was difficult and illegal to do ), or by manumission by owners, जिससे was regulated by states, and became increasingly difficult or prohibited.
In the earliest era of chattel slavery, the colonies also organized कार्य by a system of bonded labor known as indentured servitude.
इस typically lasted लिये several सालो लिये दोनो ग़रीब Europeans और Africans alike, to pay off the costs of हस्तांतरण to the colonies.
वे contracted for such arrangements because of poor economies in their home countries.
Between 1680 और 1700, as fewer Europeans migrated to the colonies, planters began to import more Africans as slaves.
Recognizing the importance of slavery, the हाउस of burgesses in Virginia enacted a new slave code in 1705 ; it संयुक्त a किस्में of विधान and added new provisions enforcing श्वेत supremacy in the विधि.
Schematic cross section of part of leaf, xylem दिखाया as red वृत्त at figure 8.
जाइलम is one of the two types of transport tissue in vascular plants ( phloem is the other ).
the word xylem is निकला इससे the Greek word ξύλον ( xylon ), meaning `` wood '' ; the best-known xylem tissue is लकडी, though it is मिला throughout the संयंत्र.
Its basic function is to हस्तांतरण water, but it also transports some nutrients through the संयंत्र.
This clock representation shows some of the major units of geological time and निर्णायक events of धरती इतिहास.
the Hadean eon represents the time before fossil रिकार्ड of जीवन on Earth ; its upper boundary is अभी regarded as 4.0 Ga ( अरब years ago ).
अन्य subdivisions reflect the evolution of life ; the Archean and Proterozoic are both eons, the Palaeozoic, Mesozoic and cenozoic are eras of the phanerozoic eon.
The two million साल Quaternary period, the time of recognizable humans, is too small to be visible at this स्केल.
The geologic समय scale is a system of chronological measurement that relates stratigraphy to time, और is used by geologists, paleontologists, और other earth scientists to describe the timing and relationships between events that have occurred throughout धरती 's history.
The table of geologic time spans प्रस्तुत here agrees with the तिथियाँ और nomenclature नियत forth by the International Commission on Stratigraphy standard color codes of the अंतरराष्ट्रीय Commission on स्तरिकी.
Evidence from radiometric डेटिंग indicates that the Earth is about 4.54 billion years old.
the भूविज्ञान or deep time of Earth 's past has महरूम व्यवस्थित into various units according to कार्यक्रम which took प्लेस in प्रत्येक period.
अलग spans of समय on the gts are usually delimited by changes in the composition of strata which correspond to them, indicating major geological or paleontological events, such as mass extinctions.
For उदाहरण, the boundary between the Cretaceous period and the Paleogene period is defined by the Cretaceous–Paleogene extinction इवेंट, which marked the demise of the dinosaurs and अनेक other groups of जीवन.
Older time spans जिससे predate the reliable चट्टान record ( before the proterozoic Eon ) are पारिभाषित by निरपेक्ष आयु.
The TI-82 is a graphing calculator made by Texas Instruments.
The TI-82 थी designed in 1993 as a stripped down, अधिक user friendly version of the TI-85, and as a बदलना for the ti-81.
It थी the direct predecessor of the TI-83.
it साझा साथ the TI-85 a 6 mhz zilog z80 माइक्रोप्रोसेसर.
Like the TI-81, the TI-82 features a 96x64 pixel display, and the core feature नियत of the ti-81 with अनेक नई features.
The डाल of वर्ण of The King of Fighters XI.
The King of सेनानी fighting game series, produced by SNK playmore, शामिल a wide cast of वर्ण, some of which are लिया from other SNK games.
the story takes place in a fictional ब्रह्मांड in which an annual श्रेणी of 3-on-3 or 4-on-4 fighting tournaments are held.
the first खेल in the series introduces the आरंभिक main character of the श्रेणी, kyo Kusanagi, a यंग Japanese fighter जो is the वारिस to a powerful समूह of martial artists having pyrokinetic abilities.
kyo झगड़े against the kusanagi गोत्र 's enemies, उसके प्रतिद्वंद्वी iori Yagami, and the god Orochi और its human followers, among others.
the first चार games in the श्रेणी revolve about ये fights, while The किंग of Fighters '99 introduces a new स्टोरी arc, revolving around k ', a young man जो seeks to destroy the mysterious NESTS संगठन क्युकी they kidnapped उसे at an early आयु and stripped him of his past यादें, so कि they could force him to be a fighter अंतर्गत their control.
In The किंग of Fighters 2003, a new character named Ash Crimson enters the टूर्नामेंट, to चोरी the powers of the clans who sealed the Orochi in the पास्ट for an unknown reason.
a new group of antagonists, known as Those इससे the Past, also appears in the series ; they want to obtain Orochi 's power लिये the purpose of giving it to उनके अनजान master.
the plot और the characters came from the Yamata no Orochi legend.
There are also several वर्ण in the games कि are parodies or homages to अनेक popular anime, manga, and films.
Merchandise आधारित on the characters has also महरूम released, सहित action आंकड़े and keychains.
the characters have garnered तारीफ़ इससे several video game publications for the quality of उनके डिजाइन and movesets.
Comments केन्द्रित on the lack of सुधार in some of the वर्ण, लकिन added that the रोस्टर is greatly विविध.
Whale युद्धों is a weekly अमरीकी documentary-style वास्तविकता television श्रेणी that premiered on November 7, 2008 on the Animal Planet केबल channel.
The program follows Paul वाटसन, founder of the Sea Shepherd Conservation Society, as he and the crew aboard their various vessels harass जापानी whalers off the coast of Antarctica.
On जनवरी 5, 2013, एनिमल ग्रह renewed the series for a sixth season.
The Harpy Eagle ( harpia harpyja ) is a Neotropical species of eagle.
it is sometimes ज्ञात as the American harpy त्रिभुज to distinguish it from the Papuan त्रिभुज जिससे is sometimes ज्ञात as the New गिनी Harpy Eagle or Papuan harpy Eagle.
it is the largest and most शक्तिशाली raptor found in the Americas, and among the largest extant species of eagles in the world.
it usually inhabits tropical lowland rainforests in the upper ( emergent ) canopy layer.
विनाश of its प्राकृतिक habitat रै देखी it vanish इससे अनेक भाग of इसके former range, and it is nearly extirpated in Central America.
biological वर्गीकरण, or scientific classification in biology, is a method of scientific taxonomy प्रयुक्त to group और categorize organisms into groups such as genus or species.
These groups are ज्ञात as taxa ( एकवचन : taxon ).
Modern biological classification रै its root in the work of Carolus Linnaeus, who grouped species according to shared physical विशेषताएँ.
These groupings have since महरूम संशोधित to improve consistency with the Darwinian principle of common descent.
With the introduction of the cladistic method in the लेट 20th century, phylogenetic taxonomy in जिससे organisms हैं grouped based purely on inferred evolutionary relatedness, ignoring morphological similarity, has become common in कुछ areas of biology.
Molecular phylogenetics, जिससे uses DNA sequences as आंकड़ा, has also चलित many recent revisions and is likely to continue doing so.
Biological classification belongs to the विज्ञान of biological systematics.
लेनन 's हस्ताक्षर
John Winston ओनो Lennon, ( born John Winston Lennon ; 9 अक्तूबर 1940 – 8 दिसम्बर 1980 ) was an English संगीतकार, सिंगर and songwriter who रोज़ to विश्वव्यापी कीर्ति as a founder member of the Beatles, one of the सबसे commercially successful and critically acclaimed acts in the history of लोकप्रिय music.
साथ Paul mccartney, he formed one of the most celebrated songwriting partnerships of the 20th century.
Born and raised in Liverpool, as a teenager लेनन became शामिल in the skiffle craze ; his first band, the quarrymen, विकसित into the बीटल्स in 1960.
As the group disintegrated towards the end of the decade, Lennon embarked on a सोलो career कि उत्पादित the critically acclaimed albums John lennon/plastic ओनो Band and Imagine, and iconic songs such as `` Give Peace a Chance `` and `` imagine ``.
After उसके marriage to Yoko Ono in 1969, he changed उसके नाम to John Ono लेनन.
लेनन disengaged खुद इससे the music business in 1975 to devote समय to raising his शिशु son शॉन, but re-emerged with Ono in 1980 with the new album Double काल्पनिक.
He was murdered तीन weeks बाद its release.
लेनन revealed a rebellious प्रकृति और acerbic wit in उसके music, writing, drawings, on फिल्मी and in interviews.
Controversial through his political and peace activism, he moved to नई York City in 1971, where his criticism of the वियतनाम War resulted in a lengthy attempt by Richard निक्सन 's administration to deport him, while some of his songs were अपनाया as anthems by the anti-war movement.
As of 2012, लेनन 's solo एल्बम sales in the United राज्य exceed 14 million units, and as writer, co-writer or यजमान, he is जिम्मेदार लिये 25 number-one singles on the US Hot 100 चार्ट.
In 2002, a BBC poll on the 100 Greatest britons voted him आठवीं, and in 2008, Rolling Stone ranked him the fifth-greatest singer of all समय.
He was posthumously inducted into the Songwriters Hall of Fame in 1987 और into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 1994.
Statue of Rip वैन Winkle in Irvington, New York, नहीं far from `` Sunnyside ``, the home of Washington इरविंग
`` Rip वैन winkle '' is a short story by American author वॉशिंगटन Irving published in 1819, as well as the नाम of the story 's fictional protagonist.
Written while Irving थी जीना in Birmingham, इंग्लैण्ड, it was भाग of a संग्रहण entitled The Sketch किताब of Geoffrey crayon.
Although the story is set in New यॉर्क 's Catskill Mountains, इरविंग later admitted, `` जब I wrote the स्टोरी, I था never महरूम on the catskills. ''
throughout the fifty-five year history of the Grammy Awards, अनेक significant रिकॉर्ड have been set.
This page तभी includes the competitive awards जीती by various artists.
इस करता नहीं include the various खास awards कि हैं presented by the National अकादमी of Recording Arts and sciences ऐसे as Lifetime Achievement Awards, Trustees Awards, Technical Awards or Legend Awards.
The page however does include अन्य non-performance related grammys ( known as the Craft & Production Fields ) कि may have महरूम presented to the artist ( s ).
Pee-wee Herman is a कॉमिक fictional character निर्मित and portrayed by American हास्य Paul Reubens.
He is best known for his two television series and फिल्मी series दौरान the 1980s.
The childlike Pee-wee Herman character developed as a स्टेज अधिनियम that जल्दी led to an HBO special in 1981.
as the स्टेज performance gained further popularity, Reubens took the अक्षर to गति picture with pee-wee 's बिग एडवेंचर in 1985, toning down the वयस्क innuendo लिये the appeal of children.
This paved the way लिये Pee-wee 's Playhouse, an एमी Award जीतना children 's series कि ran on CBS from 1986-1991.
Another film, Big Top Pee-wee, थी released in 1988.
Due to negative media ध्यान following a scandal in 1991, reubens decided to shelve his alter अहंकार during the 1990s, and then धीरे resurrected it during the following decade.
it थी at that time that Reubens addressed योजनाएँ to write a new Pee-wee film, Pee-wee 's Playhouse : the Movie.
in जून 2007, reubens appeared as Pee-wee Herman for the first time since 1991 at स्पाइक TV 's Guys ' Choice Awards.
That '70s दिखाएँ is an American television काल sitcom कि centers on the lives of a समूह of teenage मित्रों living in the fictional suburban town of Point Place, Wisconsin, from May 17, 1976, to दिसम्बर 31, 1979.
It debuted on the Fox television संजाल, पहला airing on अगस्त 23, 1998, running for eight consecutive सीज़न, and concluding with the 200th episode on may 18, 2006.
The प्रमुख teenage cast members यहूद Topher अनुग्रह, Mila Kunis, एश्टन Kutcher, Danny Masterson, Laura prepon, और wilmer Valderrama.
The प्रमुख adult cast members were Debra jo rupp, Kurtwood Smith, Don Stark and, दौरान the first three seasons, तान्या रॉबर्ट्स.
Kansas ( ) is a u.S. state located in the Midwestern United States.
it is नामित after the Kansas River which flows through it, which in turn was named after the कंस Native American tribe, which inhabited the area.
the tribe 's name ( natively kką : ze ) is प्रायः कहा to mean `` people of the wind '' or `` लोगों of the south wind, '' हालांकि इस was संभवतः not the term 's original meaning.
निवासियों of Kansas are called `` Kansans. ''
For thousands of सालो कया is now Kansas was home to numerous and diverse देशी अमरीकी जनजातियों.
Tribes in the Eastern part of the state generally lived in villages along the river घाटियों.
Tribes in the पश्चिमी part of the state were सेमi- nomadic and hunted large herds of bison.
Kansas was first settled by European Americans in the 1830s, लकिन the pace of settlement accelerated in the 1850s, in the midst of political wars over the slavery issue.
When officially खोली to उपनिवेश by the u.S. government in 1854, abolitionist Free-Staters इससे New इंग्लैण्ड and pro-slavery settlers इससे neighboring मिसौरी rushed to the territory to determine if Kansas would become a free state or a slave state.
यूँ, the क्षेत्रफल was a hotbed of violence and अराजकता in its early days as these शक्तियां collided, and was known as Bleeding Kansas.
The abolitionists eventually prevailed and on January 29, 1861, कान्सास entered the संघ as a फ़्री state.
After the Civil War, the population of Kansas grew rapidly, when waves of immigrants turned the prairie into farmland.
Today, कान्सास is एक of the most productive agricultural राज्य, producing high yields of wheat, sorghum and sunflowers.
Kansas is the 15th most extensive and the 33rd सबसे populous of the 50 United राज्य.
Psychology is an academic and लागू अनुशासन कि involves the scientific study of mental कृत्यों and behaviors.
Psychology has the immediate लक्ष्य of understanding individuals and groups by both establishing सामान्य सिद्धान्त and researching specific cases, और by many खाते it ultimately aims to benefit समाज.
In this field, a professional or researcher is called a psychologist and can be वर्गीकृत as a social, behavioral, or संज्ञानात्मक scientist.
Psychologists attempt to understand the role of mental functions in individual and social behavior, while भी exploring the physiological and neurobiological processes that underlie certain cognitive functions and behaviors.
psychologists explore concepts such as perception, cognition, ध्यान, emotion, phenomenology, motivation, brain कामकाज, व्यक्तित्व, behavior, और interpersonal relationships.
Psychologists of विविध धारियाँ also consider the unconscious mind.
Psychologists employ अनुभवजन्य methods to infer causal और correlational relationships between psychosocial variables.
In addition, or in विपक्ष, to employing empirical and deductive विधि, some—especially clinical और counseling psychologists—at टाइम्स rely upon सांकेतिक interpretation and other inductive techniques.
मनोविज्ञान रै been described as a `` hub science '', साथ psychological findings linking to शोध and perspectives इससे the social sciences, natural sciences, medicine, and the humanities, such as philosophy.
While psychological knowledge is often applied to the assessment and treatment of दिमागी health समस्याएं, it is also directed towards understanding और solving problems in many अलग spheres of human कार्यकलाप.
The बहुमत of psychologists are involved in कुछ kind of therapeutic role, practicing in clinical, counseling, or school settings.
Many do scientific research on a wide range of topics सम्बन्धित to mental प्रक्रियाओं and बर्ताव, और typically कार्य in university psychology विभाग or teach in अन्य अकादमिक settings ( e.g., medical schools, hospitals ).
कुछ are employed in industrial and organizational settings, or in other areas such as human development and aging, खेल, health, and the media, as well as in forensic investigation and अन्य aspects of law.
Thomas जेफरसन ( April 13, 1743 ( April 2, 1743 O.S. ) – July 4, 1826 ) was an अमरीकी founding Father, the principal लेखक of the Declaration of स्वतंत्रता ( 1776 ) and the third अध्यक्ष of the United States ( 1801–1809 ).
At the beginning of the American Revolution, he परोसा in the महाद्वीपीय कॉंग्रेस, representing Virginia and तब परोसा as a wartime राज्यपाल of Virginia ( 1779–1781 ).
बस after the war ended, from mid-1784 Jefferson served as a राजनयिक, stationed in Paris.
In May 1785, he became the United States Minister to France.
Jefferson was the पहला United States Secretary of State ( 1790–1793 ) serving under President George वॉशिंगटन.
With his close friend James मैडिसन he व्यवस्थित the Democratic-Republican पार्टी, and subsequently resigned इससे Washington 's cabinet.
Elected Vice President in 1796, when he came in second to John Adams of the federalists, Jefferson opposed Adams and with Madison secretly लिखा the केंटकी और वर्जिनिया Resolutions, which attempted to nullify the Alien और Sedition अधिनियमों.
Elected अध्यक्ष in what जेफरसन called the क्रान्ति of 1800, he oversaw the purchase of the vast louisiana Territory from France ( 1803 ), and sent the Lewis and Clark Expedition ( 1804–1806 ) to explore the नई west.
उसके second term was घिरा with troubles at home, ऐसे as the विफल देशद्रोह विचारण of his former Vice President Aaron Burr.
With escalating ट्रबल with Britain who was challenging American neutrality and threatening shipping at sea, he tried economic warfare with his embargo कानून which only damaged अमरीकी trade.
in 1803, अध्यक्ष Jefferson initiated a प्रक्रम of Indian tribal हटाना and relocation to the louisiana territory west of the Mississippi नदी, in order to खोलें lands for eventual American settlers.
a नेता in the Enlightenment, Jefferson was a बहुश्रुत who spoke पाँच languages fluently and was deeply interested in science, invention, वास्तुकला, religion और philosophy, interests that led him to the founding of the विश्वविद्यालयों of वर्जिनिया after उसके प्रेसिडेंसी.
He designed his अपना large mansion on a 5,000 acre वृक्षारोपण near Charlottesville, वर्जिनिया, which he named Monticello.
जबकि not a notable orator, Jefferson was a skilled लेखक and corresponded with many influential people in America और यूरोपीय throughout his वयस्क life.
हालांकि Jefferson owned many slaves, he opposed the संस्था all his life और consequently treated and took परवाह of them very खूब and expected them to work no अधिक than free farmers.
Since 1802 इतिहासकारों and others have महरूम विभाजित over the controversy of whether Jefferson was the father of one or more children belonging to सैली Hemings, a slave at Monticello. ''
Historians are also in disagreement with कैसा much जेफरसन थी committed to the anti-slavery cause.
In 1807, President Jefferson signed into law a bill that banned the importation of स्लेव into the United राज्य.
After मार्था Jefferson, उसके wife of ग्यारह years, died in 1782, Jefferson remained a widower लिये the rest of his life ; their marriage produced छह children, of जिसको two survived to adulthood.
Though जेफरसन has been criticized by अनेक आधुनिक दिन scholars over the समस्या of गुलामी, he remains rated as एक of the greatest U.S. presidents.
`` Sun City '' is a 1985 protest सोंग लिखा by Steven Van Zandt, produced by वैन zandt and आर्थर बेकर and recorded by Artists United Against Apartheid to convey opposition to the South African policy of apartheid.
The प्राथमिक अर्थात् of that opposition is to declare that all the कलाकारों involved would refuse any and all offers to perform at सूर्य City, a रिज़ॉर्ट which was located in Bantustan of bophuthatswana, one of a number of internationally unrecognized supposed `` independent '' states created by the दक्षिण African government to forcibly relocate इसके black जनसांख्यिकी.
This page is a list of characters in the पुलिस Academy film and टेलीविज़न series.
विधेयक Russell won 11 championships साथ the Boston सेल्टिक्स.
This is a list of NBA खिलाड़ी साथ most championships won as a खिलाड़ी.
The National बास्केट Association ( NBA ) is a major professional basketball league in उत्तर अमेरिका.
It was founded in 1946 as the Basketball Association of America ( baa ).
The लीग adopted इसके current नाम at the start of the जब it merged with the National बास्केट लीग ( NBL ).
the NBA फाइनल is the चैंपियनशिप series लिये the एनबीए and the निष्कर्ष of the sport 's postseason.
The जीतना टोली of the श्रेणी receives the Larry O'Brien Championship Trophy.
Players इससे the winning टोली प्रायः प्राप्त championship बजती इससे the team honoring their contribution.
however, in some विरल occasion, the teams opted to gave other commemorative items, such as wrist घड़ियाँ, बजाय of बजती.
The number of championships won by NBA superstars is often प्रयुक्त as a measurement of their greatness.
Boston Celtics center Bill Russell holds the record for the सबसे एनबीए championships won साथ 11 titles during his 13-year playing career.
He जीती his first championship with the Boston सेल्टिक्स in his rookie year.
afterwards, he went on to win 10 championships in the अगला 12 years, including आठ लगातार championships from 1959 to 1966.
He won the पिछला two championships in 1968 and 1969 as player-coach.
रसेल 's teammate, sam Jones, won 10 championships इससे 1959 to 1969, the second सबसे in NBA history.
Four सेल्टिक्स players, Tom Heinsohn, K. C. Jones, Satch सैंडर्स and जॉन Havlicek, won eight championships each.
दो other Celtics, Jim Loscutoff and फ़्रैंक Ramsey, जीती seven championships each.
Four players, Bob Cousy, kareem Abdul-Jabbar, माइकल Jordan and Scottie Pippen, won छह championships each.
Jordan and Pippen हैं members of the Chicago Bulls team who जीती three consecutive championships twice in the 1990s.
रॉबर्ट Horry and John Salley are the तभी players to have won the championships with three different teams.
horry जीती seven championships with the Houston Rockets, the Los Angeles Lakers and the San Antonio Spurs, while salley won four championships with the डेट्रॉयट Pistons, the Bulls और the लेकर्स.
Frank Saul and Steve Kerr are the only players to win दो championships साथ दो different teams in consecutive seasons.
Saul won consecutive championships with the रोचेस्टर Royals and the Minneapolis Lakers in the 1950s, while Kerr जीती consecutive championships साथ the Bulls and the Spurs in the 1990s,
सटीकता indicates निकटता of measurement results to the true value, परिशुद्धता to the repeatability, or reproducibility of the measurement
In the fields of science, engineering, industry, and आंकडे, the सटीकता of a measurement प्रणाली is the degree of closeness of measurements of a मात्रा to that quantity 's actual ( true ) मान.
the precision of a मापन system, भी called reproducibility or repeatability, is the उपाधि to which repeated माप under अपरिवर्तित conditions show the वही results.
हालांकि the two words reproducibility and repeatability can be synonymous in colloquial use, they are deliberately contrasted in the कॉन्टेक्स्ट of the scientific method.
A measurement प्रणाली can be accurate but not precise, precise but नहीं accurate, neither, or both.
For example, if an experiment contains a व्यवस्थित error, तब increasing the sample size generally increases precision but करता not improve accuracy.
The result would be a consistent yet inaccurate string of results from the flawed experiment.
eliminating the systematic error improves accuracy but does not बदलें precision.
A measurement system is designated valid if it is both accurate और precise.
Related शर्तें include पूर्वाग्रह ( non- यादृच्छिक or directed प्रभाव caused by a फ़ैक्टर or factors unrelated to the independent variable ) और गलती ( random variability ).
The terminology is भी applied to indirect measurements—that is, values obtained by a कम्प्यूटेशनल कार्यविधि from observed data.
in addition to accuracy and precision, measurements may also have a measurement resolution, which is the smallest change in the underlying physical मात्रा that produces a जवाब in the मापन.
In the मामला of full reproducibility, such as जब rounding a number to a representable फ्लोटिंग point number, the शब्द परिशुद्धता has a meaning नहीं related to reproducibility.
लिये example, in the आईईईई 754-2008 standard it अर्थात् the number of bits in the significand, so it is used as a measure for the relative accuracy साथ जिससे an arbitrary क्रमांक can be represented.
बकवास in इसके literal meaning refers to the act of यौन मैथुन.
It is an अंग्रेज़ी शब्द that is often used as a profanity, either to denote तिरस्कार or as an intensifier.
The origin of the word is obscure.
It is usually माना to be first attested to around 1475, but it may be considerably older.
In modern उपयोग, fuck और इसके derivatives ( such as कमीने and fucking ) can be प्रयुक्त in the position of a noun, a verb, an adjective or an adverb.
There हैं many आम phrases जिससे make use of the शब्द, as खूब as a number of यौगिकों incorporating it, ऐसे as motherfucker.
एनिमेटेड, color-coded map प्रर्दशित the various continents and regions.
Depending on the convention and model, some continents may be consolidated or subdivided : for example, Eurasia is most often subdivided into Europe and Asia ( रेड शेड्स ), जबकि उत्तर और दक्षिण अमेरिका are sometimes recognized as one American महाद्वीप ( green shades ).
A महाद्वीप is एक of अनेक बहुत large landmasses on Earth.
They are generally identified by सम्मेलन rather than any सख्त मापदण्ड, साथ up to seven regions commonly regarded as continents—they हैं ( from largest in size to smallest ) : Asia, Africa, North America, South America, अंटार्कटिक, Europe, and Australia.
In geology, continents are described by means of tectonic plates.
Plate tectonics is the प्रक्रम and पढ़ाई of the गति, collision और division of continents, पहले known as continental drift.
Biker Boyz is a 2003 film about a group of underground motorcycle खीचें racers.
It stars Laurence Fishburne, djimon Hounsou, Derek ल्यूक, Meagan Good, और Larenz Tate and is written and निर्देशित by Reggie चट्टान bythewood.
It also सुविधाएँ Lisa Bonet, Orlando Jones, Kid चट्टान and वैनेसा घंटी calloway.
लिये the स्टील Panther सोंग, see महसूस the Steel.
Community property is a वैवाहिक property regime that originated in civil law jurisdictions and is अभी also मिला in some common विधि jurisdictions.
the states of the United राज्य कि recognize community property are primarily in the West ; it was inherited from मैक्सिको 's ganancial community प्रणाली, which itself was inherited from स्पेनी law ( a रोमन -derived civil law system ) और ultimately from the visigoths.
While अंतर्गत स्पेनी नियम Louisiana अपनाया the ganancial community प्रणाली of acquests और gains, which replaced the traditional French जातियाँ of movables and acquests in its सिविल विधि system.
Map of the संयुक्त राज्य साथ community property states highlighted in रेड.
In addition to the highlighted राज्य, Alaska is a पृथक प्रॉपर्टी state कि permits couples to opt into a जातियाँ property arrangement.
In a community property क्षेत्राधिकार, most property acquired during the marriage ( except लिये उपहार or inheritances ) —the community, or communio bonorum—is owned jointly by दोनो spouses और is divided upon divorce, annulment or death.
संयुक्त ownership is automatically presumed by law in the अनुपस्थिति of specific evidence कि would point to a contrary निष्कर्ष for a particular piece of प्रॉपर्टी.
Division of जातियाँ property may take place by item, by splitting all वस्तुएं or by मान.
In कुछ jurisdictions, such as कैलिफ़ोर्निया, a 50/50 प्रभाग of community प्रॉपर्टी is strictly mandated by statute, meaning that the focus then shifts to whether particular items are to be classified as community or separate property.
In other jurisdictions, such as Texas, a तलाक अदालत may डिक्री an `` equitable distribution `` of community प्रॉपर्टी, which may result in an unequal प्रभाग of such.
In non-community property states प्रॉपर्टी may be विभाजित by equitable distribution.
generally speaking, the property that प्रत्येक संगी brings into the विवाह or receives by gift, bequest or devise during marriage is पुकारा separate property ( i.e., not जातियाँ प्रॉपर्टी ).
देखिए division of property.
Division of जातियाँ debts may not be the same as प्रभाग of community property.
For उदाहरण, in कैलिफ़ोर्निया, community प्रॉपर्टी is जरूरी to be divided `` equally '' जबकि community कर्ज़ is जरूरी to be divided `` equitably ''.
Property कि is owned by one spouse पहले the marriage is the separate प्रॉपर्टी of कि जीवनसाथी, unless the property is `` transmuted '' into community property.
The नियम for इस vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction.
the ड्यूक और duchess of Cambridge हिलाता to the भीड at the Mall shortly after the wedding.
The विवाह of प्रिंस William, ड्यूक of कैम्ब्रिज, and कैथरीन Middleton took place on 29 अप्रैल 2011 at Westminster Abbey in London.
the groom, Prince विलियम, Duke of Cambridge, is the ज्येष्ठ बेटे of Charles, Prince of वेल्स, और is second in the line of succession to the British Throne and the तख्तों of fifteen अन्य Commonwealth realms.
The bride, कैथरीन `` Kate '' मिडलटन is the eldest of three children of Michael और carole मिडलटन of bucklebury, Berkshire.
The Dean of Westminster, जॉन हॉल, presided at the सेवा ; the archbishop of canterbury, Rowan Williams, conducted the विवाह ; Richard chartres, the Bishop of लंदन, preached the उपदेश ; and a reading was given by the bride 's brother, James.
William 's बेहतरीन man was उसके bhai, Prince Harry, while the बहू 's सिस्टर, Pippa, was नौकरानी of honour.
The ceremony was attended by the bride 's and groom 's परिवारों, as well as अनेक foreign royals, diplomats, और the युगल 's chosen personal अतिथि.
After the ceremony, the couple made the traditional रूप on the balcony of बकिंघम Palace.
As प्रिंस William was not the heir apparent to the throne, the wedding थी not a पूरा state अवसर और many विवरण were left to the युगल to decide, such as much of the guest list of about 1,900.
Prince William और Kate मिडलटन met in 2001.
उनके सगाई on 20 October 2010 was घोषित on 16 November 2010.
The build-up to the wedding और the अवसर itself आकर्षित much मीडिया attention, being compared in many ways साथ the 1981 विवाह of William 's parents.
The occasion थी a public अवकाश in the संयुक्त किंगडम और featured many ceremonial पहलुओं, including use of the राज्य carriages and roles for the Foot गार्ड and Household Cavalry.
Events यहूद आयोजित around the Commonwealth to mark the wedding ; organisations and hotels held events across कनाडा, over 5,000 street पार्टियों were held throughout the संयुक्त Kingdom, and one लाख लोगों lined the route between Westminster ऐबी और बकिंघम Palace.
The ceremony was viewed सजीव by tens of millions more around the world, including 72 million on the YouTube royal Channel.
in the United Kingdom, television audiences peaked at 26.3 million viewers, with a total of 36.7 million watching भाग of the coverage.
Vanessa आनन्द Lachey ( née Minnillo ; born November 9, 1980 ) is an American television personality, television host, fashion model, and actress.
Minnillo थी also नामित Miss टीन USA in 1998.
She has been a New York -आधारd correspondent लिये Entertainment tonight and hosted Total निवेदन Live on MTV.
A हाथ ( med. / lat. : manus, pl. manūs ) is a prehensile, multi- fingered extremity स्तिथ at the end of an arm or forelimb of primates and humans, chimpanzees, बंदरों, and lemurs.
a few अन्य vertebrates such as the koala ( which has दो opposable thumbs on each `` हाथ '' और fingerprints remarkably समान to human fingerprints ) are प्रायः described as having either `` hands '' or `` paws '' on their सामने limbs.
हैंड्स are the main structures for physically manipulating the पर्यावरण, used लिये both gross motor कौशल ( such as grasping a large object ) and fine motor कौशल ( such as picking up a छोटी कंकड़ ).
The उंगलियों contain some of the densest areas of nerve endings on the देह, are the richest सोर्स of tactile प्रतिक्रिया, and have the महानतम positioning काबिलियत of the body ; thus the भाव of touch is intimately associated साथ hands.
Like अन्य paired organs ( eyes, फीट, legs ), each hand is dominantly controlled by the opposing brain hemisphere, so that handedness, or the preferred hand choice for single-handed क्रियाएँ such as लिखने with a pencil, reflects व्यक्तिगत brain कामकाज.
कुछ evolutionary anatomists use the term hand to refer to the appendage of digits on the forelimb more generally — for उदाहरण, in the context of whether the three digits of the bird हाथ involved the same homologous loss of दो digits as in the dinosaur hand.
The human हाथ रै 27 bones, नहीं including the sesamoid हड्डियों जिससे number varies between people.
14 of which are the phalanges ( proximal, intermediate और distal ) of the fingers.
The metacarpals are the bones that connects the fingers and the wrist.
Each human हाथ has 5 metacarpals and 8 carpal हड्डियों.
Too Cool was a पेशेवर wrestling tag team and पूर्व गुट most notably active in World Wrestling federation/entertainment between 1998 and 2001 and for a short time in 2004.
Basic digital सचेतक clock without a radio.
The चिह्नित in the top-left of the प्रदर्शक indicates that the समय is 4:00pm, not 4:00am.
a 1969 रेडियो alarm clock ( Sony Digimatic 8FC-59W ) with an early mechanical-digital display.
A digital clock is a प्रकार of क्लॉक that displays the time digitally, i.e. in numerals or अन्य symbols, as opposed to an analog clock, जहाँ the time is indicated by the positions of rotating hands.
Digital घड़ियाँ are प्रायः associated with electronic drives, लकिन the `` digital '' वर्णन refers तभी to the display, not to the drive यांत्रिकी.
( Both एनालॉग और डिजिटल clocks can be driven either mechanically or electronically, but `` clockwork '' mechanisms with digital displays are rare. )
The biggest digital क्लॉक is the Lichtzeitpegel ( `` Light Time स्तर '' ) on the टेलीविज़न मीनार Rheinturm Düsseldorf, जर्मनी.
Family Guy creator Seth MacFarlane भी provides the voices of Peter griffin, stewie Griffin, Brian Griffin, and Glenn Quagmire.
Family guy is an American एनिमेटेड sitcom that features five main voice actors, and numerous नियमित cast और recurring अतिथि stars.
the प्रिंसिपल आवाज़ cast consists of show creator सेठ MacFarlane, Alex Borstein, सेठ ग्रीन, mila Kunis ( who replaced लेसी Chabert after the first season ) and Mike Henry and now, the new actor beau ओसबोर्न.
पुनरावर्ती voice actors include Patrick Warburton, Adam वेस्ट, John G. Brennan, Nicole सुलीवान and Jennifer Tilly, and repeat guest stars शामिल Phyllis Diller, Charles Durning, Rush limbaugh, and Phil LaMarr.
Many डाल members provide आवाज़ें for multiple characters.
The आवाज़ actors, in portraying the various अक्षर personalities on the show, चित्रण inspiration from celebrities और पॉप culture.
Family Guy characters have been played by अधिक than one actor, बाद members of the दिखाएँ left the series or had conflicting obligations.
kunis was मनोनीत for an Annie Award लिये voicing Meg Griffin in the season 5 एपीसोड `` Barely Legal `` and macfarlane रै भी won an Emmy Award for बकाया Voice-Over Performance and an Annie Award लिये Best Voice Acting in an Animated टेलीविज़न Production, though no अन्य cast member रै won an पुरस्कार for their कार्य on the श्रेणी.
The five sets of the फलक game Monopoly चित्रित यहाँ show the evolution of the game 's artwork और डिजाइन in the United States from 1935–2005.
The इतिहास of the board game Monopoly can be traced back to the early 20th century.
The earliest ज्ञात design was by the American, एलिज़ाबेथ magie, patented in 1904 but मौजूदा as early as 1902.
magie 's original intent was to प्रकाशित a board game to illustrate an economic principle, namely the Georgist concept of a single land value tax.
A series of board खेल were developed from 1906 through the 1930s कि involved the खरीदे और selling of land and the development of that land.
By 1934, a board game had been created much like the संस्करण of Monopoly बेची by Parker Brothers और its related कंपनियाँ through the बाकी of the 20th सदी, and into the 21st.
अनेक people, ज़्यादातर in the Midwestern संयुक्त States and निकट the East Coast, contributed to the game 's design and evolution.
By the 1970s, the विचार that the game था महरूम created solely by Charles Darrow था become popular folklore ; it थी printed in the game 's निर्देश for अनेक years, in a 1974 किताब devoted to Monopoly, और was cited in a general किताब परिचय toys even as recently as 2007.
भी a guide to family games published for रीडर 's Digest in 2003 तभी gave credit to Darrow and Elizabeth Magie, erroneously stating that Magie 's original game थी created in the 1800s, और नहीं acknowledging any of the game 's development between Magie 's creation of the खेल, और the eventual प्रकाशन by Parker Brothers.
Also in the 1970s, Professor Ralph Anspach, जो had himself published a फलक game intended to illustrate the principles of both monopolies and trust busting, fought पार्कर Brothers and इसके then parent company, General Mills, over the trademarks of the Monopoly फलक game.
Through the research of Anspach and others, much of the जल्दी history of the game was `` rediscovered ''.
Anspach confronted Maxine ब्रैडी, लेखक of the 1974 book The एकाधिकार Book : रणनीति and Tactics of the संसार 's सबसे Popular Game over the वास्तविक history of the खेल on Barry Farber 's नई York City बात show in 1975.
Because of the lengthy court process, including appeals, the legal status of पार्कर भाइयो ' trademarks on the game was not settled until 1985.
The game 's name remains a पंजीकृत ट्रेडमार्क of पार्कर भाइयो, as do इसके विशिष्ट डिज़ाइन elements.
At the निष्कर्ष of the court case, the game 's logo and graphic डिज़ाइन elements became part of a larger एकाधिकार brand, licensed by Parker Brothers ' parent companies onto a variety of वस्तुएं through the present day.
Despite the `` rediscovery '' of the फलक game 's जल्दी इतिहास in the 1970s और 1980s, and अनेक books and journal articles on the subject, Hasbro ( पार्कर भाइयो ' current parent company ) did नहीं acknowledge any of the game 's history before Charles Darrow on इसके official Monopoly जालस्थल as recently as June 2012.
nor did Hasbro acknowledge anyone अन्य than Darrow in materials published or sponsored by them, at least as recently as 2006.
International tournaments, first held in the early 1970s, continue to the present, with the next world चैंपियनशिप likely scheduled for 2013.
Starting in 1985, a new generation of spin-off board games and card games appeared on both sides of the Atlantic समंदर.
In 1989, the first of many video game और computer खेल editions थी published.
चूंकि 1994, many official विसंगतियाँ of the खेल, based on locations other than अटलांटिक नगर, नई Jersey ( the official U.S. setting ) or लंदन ( the official Commonwealth setting, excepting Canada ), have been published by Hasbro or its licensees.
in 2008, Hasbro permanently changed the रंग scheme and some of the gameplay of the standard U.S. संस्करण of the game to मैच the UK Edition, although the U.S. मानक edition maintains the Atlantic नगर property names.
हास्ब्रो also modified the official logo to give the `` Mr. Monopoly '' character a 3-D computer-generated dekh, जिससे has चूंकि been adopted by licensees USAopoly, जीतना चालें और Winning Solutions.
And Hasbro रै also been including the Speed Die, introduced in 2006 's Monopoly : The Mega Edition by Winning Moves खेल, in versions produced सीधे by Hasbro ( such as the 2009 Championship संस्करण ).
In बेसबॉल, a sacrifice fly is a batted ball that satisfies four criteria:
There are कम than दो outs when the ball is hit.
the ball is hit to the outfield ( fair or foul ), or to infield foul territory.
The batter is put out because an outfielder ( or an infielder running in the outfield, or बेईमानी territory ) catches the ball on the मक्खी ( alternatively if the बैटर होता have been out if not for an error or if the outfielder बूंदें the बॉल and another runner is put out ).
A धावक जो is already on आधार स्कोर on the play.
It is पुकारा a `` sacrifice '' fly because the batter presumably intends to cause a teammate to score a run, while sacrificing his own ability to do so.
मिनेसोटा ( ) is a U.S. राज्य located in the Midwestern United States.
मिनेसोटा was carved out of the eastern half of the Minnesota Territory और admitted to the संघ as the 32nd state on may 11, 1858.
Known as the `` Land of 10,000 झीलों '', the राज्य 's name आता from a Dakota word for `` sky-tinted जल ''.
Those waters, together साथ forests, पार्क, और wilderness क्षेत्रों, offer निवासियों and पर्यटकों a किस्में of outdoor recreational opportunities.
Minnesota is the 12th सबसे extensive and the 21st most populous of the U.S. राज्य.
nearly 60 % of its residents live in the Minneapolis–Saint Paul metropolitan क्षेत्रफल ( ज्ञात as the `` Twin Cities '' ), the center of परिवहन, कारोबार, industry, education, government and घर to an internationally known कला community.
the remainder of the state consists of western prairies now given over to intensive agriculture ; deciduous forests in the southeast, now cleared, farmed and settled ; और the कम आबादी North वुड्स, used लिये mining, forestry, और recreation.
मिनेसोटा is ज्ञात for इसके relatively mixed social and political orientations, and has a high rate of civic भागीदारी and voter turnout.
Minnesota ranks among the healthiest states, और has a highly literate population.
The large majority of residents are of scandinavian and German descent.
the state is known as a center of scandinavian American संस्कृति.
Ethnic diversity रै increased in recent decades.
substantial influxes of Asian, African, and Latin American immigrants have joined the descendants of European settlers and the असली Native अमरीकी inhabitants.
Grants हैं non-repayable funds by एक party ( grant makers ), प्रायः a government department, corporation, न्यास or विश्वास, to a, often ( but not always ) a nonprofit entity, शैक्षणिक संस्था, कारोबार or an व्यक्तिगत.
In order to receive a grant, some form of `` Grant लिखने '' often referred to as either a proposal or an अनुप्रयोग is प्रायः required.
Most grants are बना to निधि a specific project और आवश्यकता some level of compliance and reporting.
the grant writing प्रक्रम involves an आवेदक submitting a proposal ( or सबमिशन ) to a संभावित funder, either on the applicant 's अपना initiative or in response to a Request for Proposal इससे the funder.
Other grants can be given to individuals, such as पीड़ितों of natural आपदाओं or individuals who seek to खोलें a small business.
sometimes ग्रान्ट makers आवश्यकता grant जरुरतमंदों to have some form of tax-exempt औकात, be a पंजीकृत nonprofit organization or a लोकल सरकारी.
For उदाहरण, tiered funding लिये a फ्रीवे are very large grants negotiated at government policy स्तर.
however छोटी grants may be provided by a government agency ( e.g. नगरपालिका government ).
Project-related funding involving governments, business, communities, और individuals is often arranged by अनुप्रयोग either in writing or ऑनलाइन.
Naturally occurring cobalt ( Co ) is रचित of 1 stable isotope, 59Co. 28 radioisotopes have महरूम characterized with the most stable being 60Co with a half-life of 5.2714 सालो, 57Co with a half-life of 271.79 दिनों, 56co with a half-life of 77.27 दिनों, and 58Co with a half-life of 70.86 days.
All of the remaining रेडियोसक्रिय isotopes have half-lives that हैं less than 18 घंटों और the majority of these have half-lives that हैं कम than 1 second.
इस element also रै 11 meta states, all of which have half-lives less than 15 minutes.
The isotopes of cobalt range in atomic वज़न from 47Co to 75Co.
The प्राथमिक decay विधि for isotopes with परमाणु द्रव्यमान unit values कम than that of the सबसे abundant stable isotope, 59Co, is electron capture और the primary विधि of decay for those of greater than 59 परमाणु द्रव्यमान units is बीटा decay.
The primary decay उत्पाद पहले 59Co हैं iron isotopes and the primary उत्पाद after are निकल isotopes.
Standard atomic द्रव्यमान : 58.933195 ( 5 ) u
जो स्थानांतरित My Cheese ?
An Amazing Way to सौदे साथ Change in Your Work और in Your जीवन, प्रकाशित in 1998, is a प्रेरक किताब by Spencer Johnson लिखा in the स्टाइल of a parable or business fable.
It describes बदलें in one 's work and life, and four typical reactions to कहा change by two mice and two `` littlepeople '', during their hunt लिये चीज.
a New York Times business bestseller since release, जो Moved My चीज ?
remained on the list for almost five years और spent over 200 सप्ताह on Publishers साप्ताहिक 's सजिल्द nonfiction list.
It has sold अधिक than 26 million copies worldwide in 37 languages और remains to be one of the best-selling business books.
Nikita Sergeyevich Khrushchev ( – September 11, 1971 ) led the सोवियत Union during part of the ठंडा War.
He served as First Secretary of the कम्युनिस्ट Party of the Soviet Union from 1953 to 1964, and as Chairman of the Council of Ministers, or प्रीमियर, इससे 1958 to 1964.
khrushchev थी responsible लिये the partial de-Stalinization of the सोवियत संघ, for backing the प्रगति of the early Soviet space program, and for several relatively liberal reforms in areas of domestic policy.
khrushchev 's पार्टी colleagues removed उसे इससे power in 1964, replacing him साथ Leonid Brezhnev as पहला Secretary और Alexei Kosygin as Premier.
Khrushchev थी born in the Russian village of kalinovka in 1894, close to the present-day किनारा between Russia and Ukraine.
He was employed as a metalworker in his youth, and during the Russian सिविल युद्ध थी a राजनैतिक commissar.
With the help of lazar Kaganovich, he worked उसके way up the Soviet पदानुक्रम.
he समर्थित जोसेफ Stalin 's purges, and approved thousands of arrests.
In 1939, Stalin भेजा him to govern Ukraine, और he continued the purges there.
During what was known in the Soviet Union as the ग्रेट Patriotic War ( पूर्वी सामने of World War II ), khrushchev was again a commissar, serving as an intermediary between Stalin and his generals.
khrushchev was उपस्थित at the bloody defense of Stalingrad, a fact he took ग्रेट pride in throughout his life.
After the war, he returned to Ukraine before being recalled to मास्को as one of Stalin 's बंद advisers.
In the power संघर्ष triggered by स्टालिन 's death in 1953, Khrushchev, बाद several years, emerged विजयी.
On February 25, 1956, at the 20th Party कॉंग्रेस, he वितरित the `` Secret Speech, '' denouncing स्टालिन 's purges और ushering in a less repressive era in the Soviet Union.
उसके घरेलू policies, aimed at bettering the lives of ordinary नागरिकों, यहूद often ineffective, विशेषकर in the area of कृषि.
Hoping eventually to rely on मिसाइलें for national defense, Khrushchev ordered major cuts in conventional forces.
Despite the कटौती, Khrushchev 's rule saw the tensest years of the Cold War, culminating in the क्यूबन Missile Crisis.
Some of Khrushchev 's policies were seen as erratic, particularly by his emerging विरोधियों, जो चुपचाप रोज़ in strength and deposed him in October 1964.
He did नहीं suffer the deadly fate of कुछ previous losers of सोवियत शक्ति struggles, but was pensioned बंद साथ an apartment in Moscow and a dacha in the countryside.
उसके lengthy memoirs were smuggled to the West and प्रकाशित in भाग in 1970.
Khrushchev died in 1971 of heart disease.
Upper जठरांत्र ( GI ) bleeding refers to hemorrhage in the अपर gastrointestinal tract.
the anatomic cut-off लिये upper GI bleeding is the स्नायु of treitz, which connects the fourth portion of the duodenum to the diaphragm near the splenic flexure of the colon.
Upper gi bleeds are माना चिकित्सा emergencies, and require admission to hospital for urgent diagnosis and प्रबन्धन.
Due to advances in medications and endoscopy, upper GI hemorrhage is अभी usually treated without सर्जरी.
संसार population estimates from 1800 to 2100, based on un 2010 projections ( red, orange, green ) and us Census Bureau ऐतिहासिक estimates ( ब्लैक ).
Actual recorded population figures are in ब्लू.
According to the उच्चतम अनुमान, the world जनसांख्यिकी may rise to 16 billion by 2100 ; according to the न्यूनतम estimate, it may decline to 6 billion.
the world population is the कुल number of जीना humans on धरती.
as of आज, it is estimated to क्रमांक अरब by the संयुक्त States Census Bureau ( USCB ).
The USCB estimates कि the world population exceeded 7 billion on March 12, 2012.
According to a separate estimate by the United Nations Population निधि, it reached इस पड़ाव on October 31, 2011.
The world population has experienced continuous growth since the end of the Great अकाल and the Black मौत in 1350, when it stood at around 370 लाख.
the highest rates of growth – वैश्विक जनसांख्यिकी increases above 1.8 % per year – were seen briefly during the 1950s, और लिये a longer काल during the 1960s and 1970s.
The विकास रेट peaked at 2.2 % in 1963, and had declined to 1.1 % by 2011.
Total सालाना births were highest in the late 1980s at about 138 million, and हैं अभी expected to remain essentially constant at their 2011 स्तर of 134 million, जबकि deaths number 56 million प्रति year, और are expected to increase to 80 million प्रति year by 2040.
Current projections दिखाएँ a continued increase in population in the near future ( but a steady decline in the population growth rate ), with the वैश्विक जनसांख्यिकी expected to पहुँचें between 7.5 and 10.5 billion by 2050.
Various longer-term estimates predict further विकास, stagnation, or भी overall मनाही in the वैश्विक population by 2150.
Some analysts have questioned the sustainability of further world population growth, citing the growing pressures on the environment, global food आपूर्तियाँ, and energy संसाधन.
Philips Lumileds Lighting कम्पनी is the manufacturer of a wide range of high-power/high-efficiency light-emitting diodes ( LEDs ).
it is a now a fully owned प्रभाग of फिलिप्स lighting.
knuckle mnemonic लिये the number of days in each माह of the Gregorian Calendar.
Each projecting knuckle represents a 31-day month.
a mnemonic (, with a silent `` m '' ), or mnemonic device, is any learning technique that aids सूचना retention.
Mnemonics aim to translate सूचना into a form that the human दिमाग can retain बेहतर than इसके original रूप.
Even the process of applying this परिवर्तन might already aid the ट्रांसफ़र of information to long-term memory.
Commonly encountered mnemonics are often for lists and in auditory form, such as short poems, acronyms, or यादगार वाक्यांश, but mnemonics can भी be for other प्रकार of सूचना और in विज़ुअल or kinesthetic forms.
Their use is based on the अवलोकन कि the human mind अधिक easily remembers स्थानिक, personal, आश्चर्यजनक, physical, sexual, humorous, or वरना 'relatable ' information, rather than more abstract or impersonal forms of information.
The word mnemonic is derived from the Ancient Greek word μνημονικός ( mnēmonikos ), अर्थ `` of memory '' और is सम्बन्धित to Mnemosyne ( `` स्मरण '' ), the नाम of the goddess of memory in Greek mythology.
Both of these शब्द are निकला from μνήμη ( mnēmē ), `` remembrance, memory ''.
Mnemonics in प्राचीनता were most often माना in the कॉन्टेक्स्ट of कया is today ज्ञात as the Art of मेमोरी.
Ancient Greeks and romans distinguished between two types of memory : the 'natural ' मेमोरी and the 'artificial ' मेमोरी.
The former is inborn, and is the one that everyone उपयोग automatically and without thinking.
The artificial memory in contrast has to be प्रशिक्षित and विकसित through the सीखना and practicing of a variety of mnemonic techniques.
Mnemonic प्रणालियों हैं special techniques or strategies consciously प्रयुक्त to improve memory, it helps employ सूचना already stored in long-term memory to make memorization an easier task.
President बुश हस्ताक्षर the no Child Left Behind Act at हैमिल्टन H.S. in Hamilton, Ohio.
The No Child बाएँ Behind Act of 2001 ( NCLB ) is a United States अधिनियम of कॉंग्रेस कि is a reauthorization of the Elementary and Secondary Education अधिनियम, which included शीर्षक I, the government 's flagship सहायता program for disadvantaged विद्यार्थी.
NCLB supports standards-based education reform based on the आधार that setting high standards और establishing measurable goals can improve individual outcomes in education.
The Act requires states to develop assessments in मौलिक कौशल.
States must give these assessments to all students at select grade स्तर in अनुक्रम to receive federal स्कूल funding.
the अधिनियम does not assert a national achievement मानक ; standards are set by each individual state.
NCLB expanded the federal भूमिका in पब्लिक education through annual परीक्षण, annual academic progress, report ताश, teacher qualifications, and funding परिवर्तन.
the bill passed in the U.S. Congress साथ bipartisan support.
चकमा b श्रेणी utility circa 1950, driven by Albert Namatjira
A पिकअप truck or pick-up, often बस referred to as a पिकअप, is a लाइट मोटर vehicle साथ an open-top, rear cargo क्षेत्रफल ( bed ).
In North America, the term pickup is used लिये लाइट ट्रक with a हल्का duty chassis and factory निर्मित, integrated bed, as well as for coupé यूटिलिटी vehicles, प्रायः based on a personal car chassis, but also often on a special dedicated chassi for ऐसे उपयोग.
Some countries have their अपना शर्तें समान to pickup, ऐसे as ute in Australia and New जीलैंड, or bakkie in South Africa.
विशाल pickup trucks हैं somewhat rare in यूरोपीय, जहाँ वैन and लाइट lorries are commonly प्रयुक्त for समान roles.
This 15th-century depiction of Charlemagne and Pope Adrian I shows a well-bred medieval horse with मेहराबदार neck, refined head और सुरुचिपूर्ण gait.
Horses in the Middle Ages differed in size, build और breed इससे the आधुनिक horse, and यहूद, on औसत, छोटी.
They were also more central to society than their modern counterparts, being अनिवार्य for युद्ध, agriculture, और transport.
नतीजतन, specific प्रकार of घोड़ा developed, many of जिससे have no modern equivalent.
जबकि an understanding of modern घोड़ा breeds और equestrianism is vital for any विश्लेषण of the medieval horse, researchers also need to consider documentary ( both written और pictorial ) and पुरातत्व evidence.
Horses in the Middle Ages यहूद rarely differentiated by breed, but बल्कि by use.
This led them to be वर्णित, लिये example, as `` chargers `` ( युद्ध horses ), `` palfreys `` ( riding horses ), कार्ट horses or packhorses.
Reference is भी given to their place of उत्पत्ति, such as `` Spanish घोड़े, '' but whether this referred to one breed or several is अनजान.
another difficulty arising during any study of मध्यकालीन documents or literature is the flexibility of the medieval languages, where अनेक शब्द can be used for एक thing ( or, conversely, अनेक objects are referred to by one शब्द ).
Words such as ' courser ' and 'charger ' are used interchangeably ( even within एक document ), and जहाँ one epic may speak disparagingly of a rouncey, another praises its skill and swiftness.
Significant technological अग्रिम in equestrian equipment, प्रायः introduced from other cultures, allowed for significant changes in दोनो warfare और कृषि.
in particular, improved designs लिये the solid-treed saddle as well as the arrival of the रकाब, horseshoe and horse collar यहूद significant advances in medieval समाज.
Consequently, the assumptions and theories developed by historians हैं not निर्णायक, and debate स्टिल rages on many issues, such as the प्रजनन or size of the horse, और a number of sources must be consulted in अनुक्रम to understand the breadth of the subject.
the म्यूज़िक Man is a musical with किताब, म्यूज़िक, and गीत by मेरेडिथ Willson, आधारित on a story by willson and Franklin लेसी.
the प्लाट concerns con man हेरोल्ड Hill, who poses as a boys ' बैंड आयोजक and leader and sells band instruments and वर्दी to naive townsfolk before skipping town साथ the नकदी.
in नदी नगर, Iowa, prim लाइब्रेरियन and piano teacher Marian Paroo sees through him, but when Hill helps her younger brother overcome उसके fear of social interactions due to his lisp, marian begins to fall in love with हेरोल्ड.
हेरोल्ड, in फेरे falling for marian, risks होने caught to win उसके.
In 1957, the दिखाएँ became a hit on Broadway, winning five टोनी Awards, including बेहतरीन Musical, and running for 1,375 performances.
the डाल album जीती the पहला Grammy Award for `` Best Original डाल Album '' and was क्रमांक एक on the Billboard charts for 245 सप्ताह.
The show 's success led to revivals और a popular 1962 film adaptation and a 2003 television remake.
It अक्सर is उत्पादित by both पेशेवर and amateur थिएटर companies.
Surveyor 's व्हील
a surveyor 's wheel, also पुकारा a clickwheel, hodometer, waywiser, trundle व्हील, measuring व्हील, or perambulator is a device for measuring distance.
Largest non-polar deserts
Sand dunes in the Rub ' al खली ( `` खाली quarter '' ) of Saudi अरब.
Makhtesh Ramon, Negev मरुस्थल, Israel
a desert is a landscape or region of land कि is very शुष्क because of low वर्षा amounts ( वर्षण ), often has little कवरेज by plants, और in जिससे streams dry up जबतक they are supplied by water from outside areas.
Deserts can also be वर्णित as areas जहाँ more water is खोया by evapotranspiration than falls as precipitation.
Desert पौधे must have special adaptations to survive साथ this little water.
Deserts generally प्राप्त कम than 25 cm of rain ( वर्षण ) each year.
Semideserts or steppes are regions जिससे प्राप्त between and.
in the Köppen climate classification system, deserts are classed as bwh ( hot desert ) or BWk ( temperate मरुस्थल ).
in the Thornthwaite climate classification प्रणाली, deserts would be classified as arid megathermal climates.
संसार War I ( wwi ) was a global war केंद्रित in Europe that began on 28 July 1914 and lasted until 11 नवम्बर 1918.
It was predominantly called the World युद्ध or the ग्रेट War from इसके occurrence until the start of संसार युद्ध II in 1939, and the First World War or World War I thereafter.
It involved all the world 's great powers, जिससे यहूद assembled in two opposing alliances : the Allies ( आधारित on the Triple entente of the United किंगडम, France and रूस ) and the Central शक्तियां ( originally the ट्रिपल Alliance of Germany, Austria-Hungary and Italy ; लकिन, as Austria–Hungary had taken the offensive against the अनुबंध, इटली did not enter into the युद्ध ).
These alliances were दोनो reorganised and expanded as more राष्ट्र डाला the war : Italy, जापानी और the United States joined the Allies, and the Ottoman Empire and बुल्गारिया the Central Powers.
Ultimately, more than 70 million सैन्य personnel, including 60 million Europeans, यहूद mobilised in one of the largest wars in history.
अधिक than 9 million combatants were killed, largely because of technological advancements that led to enormous increases in the lethality of weapons बगैर corresponding improvements in सुरक्षा or mobility.
It थी the fifth- deadliest conflict in संसार इतिहास, subsequently paving the way for various political changes, ऐसे as revolutions in many of the nations involved.
One of the long-term causes of the युद्ध was the resurgence of imperialism in the foreign policies of the great powers of Europe.
अधिक immediately, the assassination of Archduke फ्रांज फर्डिनेंड of ऑस्ट्रिया, the वारिस to the throne of Austria-Hungary, on 28 June 1914 by यूगोस्लाव nationalist Gavrilo princip in Sarajevo triggered a diplomatic संकट when Austria-Hungary subsequently delivered an ultimatum to the किंगडम of सर्बिया.
Several alliances formed over the previous decades were invoked.
Within weeks, the प्रमुख powers were at युद्ध and, via उनके colonies, the conflict soon spread around the world.
on 28 July, the Austro-Hungarians fired the first shots of the war as preparation for the invasion of Serbia.
While the russians mobilised, the Germans invaded neutral Belgium and Luxembourg on the way to फ़्रांस, providing a casus belli लिये Britain 's declaration of युद्ध विरूद्ध जर्मनी.
बाद the German march on पेरिस was brought to a halt—the so-called Miracle of the marne —the Western सामने settled into a स्थिर battle of attrition with a trench लकीर that बदला little जबतक 1917.
On the Eastern Front, the Russian army was successful against the Austro-Hungarians, but was stopped in its आक्रमण of East Prussia by the Germans.
In नवम्बर the Ottoman साम्राज्य joined the war, खोलने up fronts in the Caucasus, मेसोपोटामिया and the Sinai.
Italy and Bulgaria गई to युद्ध in 1915 और Romania in 1916.
In Russia, the tsar 's government collapsed in March 1917 and a subsequent revolution in नवम्बर brought the russians to terms with the Central Powers.
After a 1918 जर्मनी offensive साथ the western front, the Allies drove back the Germans in a series of successful offensives and American forces began entering the trenches.
Germany, which had its own trouble with revolutionaries, सहमत to an armistice on 11 November 1918.
The war ended in विजय लिये the Allies.
Events on the home fronts were as उग्र as on the battle fronts, as the participants आजमाया to mobilize उनके manpower और आर्थिक संसाधन to fight a total युद्ध.
By the end of the war, four major imperial powers—the German, Russian, Austro-Hungarian and Ottoman empires—ceased to exist.
the successor states of the former दो lost a great राशि of territory, while the latter two यहूद dismantled entirely.
The मैप of central यूरोपीय थी redrawn into several smaller राज्य.
The League of Nations was formed in the hope of preventing another such conflict.
the European राष्ट्रवाद शाखित by the war और the breakup of empires, the repercussions of जर्मनी 's defeat और problems साथ the सन्धि of Versailles हैं agreed to be कारकों contributing to World War ii.
`` Girls Just Want to Have मजा '' is a 1979 सोंग originally लिखा by रॉबर्ट Hazard और made famous by सिंगर cyndi Lauper.
it थी the first major single released by Lauper as a solo artist and the lead-off single इससे her debut album She 's So Unusual.
lauper’s version gained recognition as a feminist गान and promoted by an award-winning video.
It has been covered on either an एल्बम or in सजीव concert by over 30 other artists.
The सिंगल was Lauper 's भेदन hit, reaching # 2 on the बिलबोर्ड Hot 100 and becoming a विश्वव्यापी hit throughout late 1983 and early 1984.
It remains one of lauper 's signature गीतों and was a widely लोकप्रिय सोंग दौरान the era of इसके रिलीज, the 1980s.
The `` Rolling Stone & एमटीवी : '100 Greatest Pop Songs ' : 1-50 '', `` रोलिंग Stone : `` the 100 Top म्यूज़िक Videos '' '' and the `` vh1 : 100 महानतम Videos '' lists ranked the song at # 22, # 39 and # 45, respectively.
The सोंग प्राप्त a ग्रैमी पुरस्कार नामांकन for Record of the Year और Best Female पॉप Vocal प्रदर्शन.
दृश्य of defibrillator electrode position and placement.
Defibrillation is a आम उपचार for life-threatening cardiac dysrhythmias, ventricular fibrillation, and pulseless ventricular tachycardia.
defibrillation consists of delivering a therapeutic dose of electrical energy to the affected heart with a यंत्र called a defibrillator.
This depolarizes a critical mass of the heart muscle, terminates the dysrhythmia, and allows normal sinus rhythm to be reestablished by the body 's प्राकृतिक pacemaker, in the sinoatrial node of the heart.
defibrillators can be external, transvenous, or implanted, depending on the type of यंत्र प्रयुक्त or needed.
Some external units, known as automated external defibrillators ( AEDs ), automate the diagnosis of treatable लय, अर्थ that lay responders or bystanders are समर्थ to use them successfully साथ छोटी, or in some cases no training at all.
the Cato संस्थान is an American libertarian think tank headquartered in Washington, D.C.
It was founded as the Charles Koch Foundation in 1974 by Murray Rothbard, Ed Crane और Charles Koch, अध्यक्ष of the board और मुख्य executive officer of the conglomerate Koch Industries, inc..
In July 1976, the name was changed to the केटो Institute.
according to the 2011 Global go to सोचो Tank Index, केटो is the 6th most influential US based think tank, ranking 3rd in आर्थिक नीति and 2nd in सोशल Policy.
The Institute 's stated mission is `` to increase the समझना of public नीतियों आधारित on the principles of सीमित government, free markets, individual liberty, and सलाम.
the Institute होगा उपयोग the सबसे effective means to originate, advocate, प्रचार, और disseminate applicable नीति प्रस्ताव that create फ़्री, open, and civil societies in the United States और throughout the world. ''
केटो विद्वानों यहूद critical of जार्ज W. Bush 's Republican प्रशासन ( 2001–2009 ) on अनेक मुद्दे, including the Iraq War, सिविल liberties, education, agriculture, उर्जा नीति, and excessive सरकारी spending.
on other issues, वे समर्थित बुश administration पहलों, most notably स्वास्थ्य care, Social Security, global वार्मिंग, tax policy, and आव्रजन.
During the 2008 U.S. presidential election, Cato विद्वानों criticized both major-party candidates, John मैक्केन और Barack Obama.
Cato has criticized President ओबामा 's stances on नीति issues since his inauguration, such as fiscal stimulus, healthcare reform, foreign policy, and the War on Drugs, while supporting उसके stance on the repeal of do n't Ask, do n't Tell और उदार immigration नीति.
Dracula is an 1897 Gothic horror novel by आयरिश लेखक Bram Stoker.
प्रसिद्ध for introducing the character of the vampire गिनती ड्रैकुला, the novel tells the स्टोरी of Dracula 's attempt to relocate इससे Transylvania to England, and the बैटल between Dracula and a small group of men और women led by Professor Abraham Van Helsing.
Dracula रै been आबंटित to many साहित्यिक genres including vampire literature, horror fiction, the गोथिक novel और आक्रमण साहित्य.
the novel touches on themes such as the भूमिका of महिलाओं in Victorian संस्कृति, sexual conventions, immigration, colonialism, और post-colonialism.
Although Stoker किया not invent the पिशाच, he defined its modern रूप, और the novel रै शाखित numerous theatrical, film and television interpretations.
Quidditch is a प्रतिस्पर्धी sport in the wizarding world of the Harry Potter universe, and is इससे the श्रेणी of children 's novels and फिल्मों.
It is an extremely अशिष्ट लकिन very लोकप्रिय semi-contact sport, played by wizards and witches.
Matches are played between दो teams of सात players सवारी उड़ती broomsticks, using चार balls and six elevated ring-shaped goals, तीन on each पक्ष of the quidditch pitch ( field ).
In the Harry Potter universe, quidditch holds a fervent following similar to the स्थिति कि association football holds as a globally popular खेल.
The खेल is monumental throughout the wizarding world.
Harry plays an important स्थिति for उसके हाउस team at Hogwarts : he is the seeker और becomes the captain in his sixth year there.
Regional and international competitions are mentioned throughout the series.
In Goblet of आग, quidditch at हॉग्वार्ट्स is cancelled for the Tri-Wizard Tournament, but Harry और the Weasleys attend the Quidditch World Cup.
In जोड, हैरी उपयोग his Quidditch कौशल to capture a सुनहरी अंडा from a dragon called the Hungarian Horntail ( in the first task of the Tri-Wizard टूर्नामेंट ), to capture a flying key in पारस 's Stone, and on दो key occasions in Deathly hallows — getting थाम of ravenclaw 's Diadem, and दौरान the final fight साथ Voldemort — the `` unerring skill of the Seeker '' is useful to him in snatching the Elder wand out of the air.
Harry Potter रै स्वामित्व two broomsticks, the nimbus 2000 और the Firebolt, दोनो of जिससे हैं नष्ट by the श्रेणी ' end.
The game रै been अपनाया in the real संसार in the form of Muggle Quidditch.
The United राज्य Congress is the bicameral legislature of the federal government of the United States consisting of two houses : the lower house known as the House of Representatives and the अपर house ज्ञात as the Senate.
Congress meets in the कैपिटल in Washington, D.C.
Both representatives and सीनेटरों are chosen through सीधा election.
Congress रै a total of 535 voting members : 435 सदस्यों in the House of Representatives and 100 members in the सीनेट.
Members of the House of प्रतिनिधि serve two-year terms representing the people of a district.
Congressional districts हैं apportioned to राज्य by population using the United States Census results, each state in the संघ having at तनिक one representative in the हाउस of Representatives.
Regardless of जनसांख्यिकी, each of the 50 राज्य रै two सीनेटरों ; the 100 सीनेटरों प्रत्येक serve a six-year term.
the terms are staggered so every two years लगभग one-third of the Senate is up for चुनाव.
Each लड़खड़ाते group of one-third of the senators are पुकारा 'classes '.
no state of the United राज्य has two सीनेटरों from the same क्लास.
Most incumbents seek re-election, and उनके ऐतिहासिक likelihood of winning subsequent elections exceeds 90 प्रतिशत.
In August 2012, a Gallup poll reported that Congress’s approval rating amongst अमेरिकी was at 10 %, matching a 38-year कम reached in November 2011.
`` A छोटी More Country Than That '' is the title of a song लिखा by जॉय + Rory 's Rory ली Feek, Wynn Varble, और Don poythress, and recorded by American country कलाकार Easton Corbin.
It was released in अगस्त 2009 as Corbin 's डेब्यू सिंगल and is शामिल on his self-titled डेब्यू album.
In April 2010, the सोंग reached क्रमांक One on the country music चार्ट, making Corbin the पहला male solo कलाकार in seven सालो to भेजें a debut single to Number एक.
It रै been certified Gold by the RIAA.
The BlackBerry is a लकीर of बेतार हैंडहेल्ड डिवाइस and सेवाएं designed and marketed by शोध In Motion Limited ( RIM ) operating as BlackBerry.
The पहला ब्लैकबेरी device, an email पेजर, थी released in 1999 ; the सबसे हाल BlackBerry devices, the z10 and Q10, यहूद announced on January 30, 2013.
the उपयोक्ता interface varies by मॉडल ; most विशेषता a physical क्वर्टी keyboard, while नए generations have relied on a multi-touch screen and आभासी keyboard.
A ब्लैकबेरी can shoot वीडियो, take photos, play music, and perform online functions such as web-browsing and emailing.
They can also send and receive push email और instant संदेश while maintaining a high स्तर of security through on-device message एन्क्रिप्शन, and are designed to फलन as personal digital assistants.
BlackBerry डिवाइस support a विशाल variety of तत्काल messaging सुविधाएँ, with the सबसे popular being the proprietary BlackBerry Messenger service.
The BlackBerry PlayBook is a tablet computer offered by the कम्पनी.
The 100 millionth BlackBerry smartphone was shipped in June quarter of 2010 and the 200 millionth smartphone थी shipped in सितंबर क्वार्टर of 2012.
BlackBerry खाते for 3 % of mobile device sales worldwide in 2011, making its manufacturer the sixth सबसे popular device मेकर ( 25 % of mobile device sales हैं smartphones ).
The consumer BlackBerry Internet Service is उपलब्धियाँ in 91 countries विश्वव्यापी on over 500 mobile सेवा operators using various mobile technologies.
As of September 2012, there यहूद अस्सी लाख subscribers worldwide to BlackBerry.
In 2011 the Caribbean and Latin America had the highest penetrations of BlackBerry स्मार्टफ़ोन विश्वव्यापी, with up to परिचय 45 per cent in the region having a RIM device.
ब्लैकबेरी, iPhone, एंड्रॉइड, and खिड़कियाँ Phone हैं considered the four major smartphone brands.
BlackBerry is widely referred to as `` CrackBerry '' in the United States, जिससे alludes to इसके excessive उपयोग by its owners and is a reference to the addictiveness of क्रैक cocaine.
उपयोग of the term CrackBerry became so widespread that in November 2006 Webster 's New World College Dictionary नामित `` crackberry '' the `` नई शब्द of the Year. ''
An example of a demand वक्र shifting.
the shift from D1 To D2 means an बढ़ाएँ in demand साथ consequences for the अन्य variables
in economics, the demand वक्र is the graph depicting the relationship between the price of a certain कमोडिटी and the राशि of it that consumers are willing and समर्थ to खरीदें at that given price.
It is a graphic प्रतिनिधित्व of a demand schedule.
the demand वक्र for all consumers together follows इससे the demand curve of every individual उपभोक्ता : the individual demands at each दाम are added साथ.
माँग curves are प्रयुक्त to estimate behaviors in competitive markets, and are often संयुक्त with supply curves to estimate the संतुलन दाम ( the price at जिससे विक्रेता together are willing to sell the same राशि as buyers together हैं willing to buy, also known as मार्केट clearing price ) and the equilibrium quantity ( the amount of that good or सेवा that will be उत्पादित and bought बगैर surplus/excess सप्लाई or shortage/excess माँग ) of that मार्केट.
In a monopolistic market, the demand वक्र facing the monopolist is simply the market demand curve.
Historia
by Nikolaos Gysis ( 1892 )
History ( from यूनानी - historia, अर्थ `` पूछताछ, ज्ञान acquired by investigation '' ) is an umbrella term कि relates to past events as well as the discovery, collection, organization, and presentation of सूचना परिचय these events.
The term includes cosmic, geologic, और organic history, but is often generically implied to mean human इतिहास.
Scholars who write परिचय इतिहास हैं called historians.
History can also refer to the academic discipline which uses a narrative to examine and analyse a sequence of past events, और objectively determine the patterns of cause and प्रभाव कि determine them.
इतिहासकारों sometimes debate the nature of इतिहास and its usefulness by discussing the पढ़ाई of the अनुशासन as an end in itself and as a way of providing `` perspective '' on the problems of the उपस्थित.
Stories common to a particular culture, but not supported by external स्त्रोत ( ऐसे as the किस्से surrounding King Arthur ) are usually classified as cultural heritage or legends, क्युकी they do not support the `` disinterested investigation '' required of the अनुशासन of history.
Events occurring prior to written रिकार्ड are considered prehistory.
हिरोडोटस, a 5th century b.c. Greek इतिहासकार is considered within the Western tradition to be the `` father of history '', and, साथ with उसके समकालीन Thucydides, helped form the foundations for the modern study of इंसान history.
Their work continues to be read today and the divide between the culture-focused Herodotus and the military-focused Thucydides remains a point of contention or approach in modern ऐतिहासिक writing.
in the Eastern परंपरा, a state chronicle the Spring and Autumn annals थी known to be compiled from as early as 722 bce although तभी 2nd century BCE texts survived.
Ancient प्रभाव have helped spawn variant interpretations of the nature of history which have evolved over the सदियां और continue to change today.
The modern study of history is wide-ranging, and शामिल the study of specific regions and the पढ़ाई of निश्चित topical or thematical elements of historical investigation.
Often इतिहास is सिखाया as part of प्राथमिक and द्वितीयक education, and the academic study of history is a major discipline in University studies.
Malcolm X ( ; may 19, 1925February 21, 1965 ), born मैल्कम छोटी और also known as El-Hajj malik el-shabazz ( ), थी an african-american Muslim मंत्री and इंसान अधिकारों activist.
To his admirers, he थी a courageous एडवोकेट for the rights of blacks, a man who indicted white America in the harshest शर्तें for इसके अपराधों against black Americans.
Detractors accused him of preaching जातिवाद, ब्लैक supremacy, and violence.
he रै been called one of the greatest और most influential अफ़्रीकी अमेरिकी in इतिहास.
Malcolm X 's father died—killed by white supremacists, it was rumored—when he थी यंग, and at least एक of his uncles थी lynched.
जब he थी 13, उसके mother was लगाई in a दिमागी hospital, and he थी लगाई in a series of foster homes.
in 1946, at आयु 20, he went to थाना लिये तोड़कर and entering.
In prison, मैल्कम X became a सदस्य of the Nation of Islam ; बाद उसके parole in 1952, he quickly rose to become one of इसके leaders.
For a dozen सालो, Malcolm X was the public face of the विवादास्पद group, लकिन disillusionment with स्वदेश of Islam head इलियास Muhammad led him to leave the Nation in March 1964.
After a period of travel in Africa और the Middle ईस्ट, he लौटे to the United राज्य, where he founded Muslim Mosque, inc. और the Organization of Afro-American Unity.
In February 1965, less than a साल after leaving the Nation of Islam, he was assassinated by three सदस्यों of the समूह.
Malcolm X 's expressed beliefs changed substantially over time.
as a spokesman for the Nation of Islam he सिखाया ब्लैक सर्वोच्चता और advocated separation of ब्लैक और श्वेत Americans —in contrast to the सिविल rights movement 's emphasis on संयोजन.
After breaking साथ the Nation of Islam in 1964—saying of his संघ with it, `` I किया अनेक बाते as a [ ब्लैक ] Muslim that I 'm sorry for now.
i was a zombie then... pointed in a certain direction और told to march '' —and becoming a Sunni मुस्लिम, he disavowed racism and expressed willingness to work साथ सिविल अधिकारों leaders, he continued to emphasize Pan-Africanism, black self-determination, and self-defense.
Henry Merritt `` Hank '' paulson, Jr. ( born March 28, 1946 ) is an American banker who served as the 74th United States सचिव of the Treasury.
he had परोसा as the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Goldman Sachs, और is now chairman of the paulson Institute, which he संस्थापित in 2011 to promote चिरस्थायी economic विकास and a cleaner environment around the world, साथ an initial focus on the United States and चीन.
A आभासी machine ( VM ) is a software implemented abstraction of the underlying hardware, which is presented to the अनुप्रयोग layer of the system.
Virtual मशीने may be based on specifications of a काल्पनिक computer or emulate the computer वास्तुकला and functions of a real world computer.
Spiders ( order araneae ) are air-breathing arthropods कि have eight legs and chelicerae साथ fangs that inject venom.
They हैं the largest order of arachnids and रैंक seventh in कुल species diversity among सब other groups of organisms.
Spiders हैं मिला worldwide on every continent except for अंटार्कटिक, और have become established in nearly every आवास with the एक्सेप्शन of air और sea colonization.
As of 2008, at तनिक 43,678 spider प्रजाति, and 109 families have been अंकित by taxonomists ; however, there has महरूम confusion within the scientific community as to कैसा सब ये families should be वर्गीकृत, as evidenced by the over 20 different classifications कि have been proposed since 1900.
Anatomically, spiders differ from other arthropods in that the usual देह segments are fused into two tagmata, the cephalothorax and abdomen, and joined by a छोटी, cylindrical pedicel.
Unlike कीट, spiders do not have antennae.
In all except the most primitive समूह, the mesothelae, spiders have the most centralized बेचैन प्रणालियों of all arthropods, as सब their ganglia हैं fused into one mass in the cephalothorax.
Unlike सबसे arthropods, spiders have no extensor muscles in their limbs और instead extend उन्हें by hydraulic pressure.
Their abdomens bear appendages that have been परिवर्धित into spinnerets that extrude silk from up to छह types of रेशा glands भीतर उनके abdomen.
Spider webs vary widely in आकार, आकार और the amount of स्टिकी thread used.
it अभी appears that the spiral orb वेब may be एक of the earliest forms, और मकड़ियों that produce tangled cobwebs हैं more abundant और diverse than orb-web spiders.
spider-like arachnids साथ silk-producing spigots appeared in the Devonian काल about, लकिन these animals जाहिर lacked spinnerets.
True spiders have been found in Carboniferous rocks from, और are बहुत समान to the most primitive surviving अनुक्रम, the Mesothelae.
The प्रमुख groups of आधुनिक spiders, mygalomorphae and Araneomorphae, first appeared in the triassic period, before.
A herbivorous species, Bagheera kiplingi, was described in 2008, but सब other ज्ञात species are predators, mostly preying on कीट and on other spiders, although a few large प्रजाति भी take birds and lizards.
Spiders उपयोग a wide range of strategies to capture prey : trapping it in sticky webs, lassoing it साथ स्टिकी bolas, mimicking the शिकार to avoid detection, or running it down.
सबसे detect prey mainly by sensing कंपन, but the active hunters have acute vision, and hunters of the genus Portia दिखाएँ signs of intelligence in उनके choice of tactics and ability to develop new ones.
Spiders ' guts हैं too narrow to take solids, और वे liquidize their food by flooding it साथ digestive enzymes and grinding it with the bases of their pedipalps, as वे do not have true jaws.
पुरूष मकड़ियों identify themselves by a variety of complex प्रेमालाप rituals to avoid होने खाया by the females.
Males of most species survive a few matings, सीमित mainly by उनके short life spans.
Females weave silk egg-cases, each of which may contain hundreds of eggs.
Females of many species care लिये उनके young, for example by carrying उन्हें around or by sharing food with उन्हें.
A minority of प्रजाति are social, building communal webs कि may house anywhere from a few to 50,000 individuals.
सोशल behavior सीमाएँ from precarious toleration, as in the widow spiders, to co-operative शिकार and food-sharing.
Although most spiders live for at most two years, tarantulas और other mygalomorph मकड़ियों can सजीव up to 25 years in captivity.
While the venom of a few प्रजाति is खतरनाक to humans, scientists are now researching the उपयोग of spider venom in medicine और as non-polluting pesticides.
Spider silk provides a combination of lightness, strength और elasticity that is superior to that of synthetic materials, और spider रेशा जीनों have been inserted into स्तनधारियों and पौधे to see if these can be प्रयुक्त as रेशा कारखानों.
As a result of their wide range of व्यवहार, spiders have become common प्रतीकों in art and mythology symbolizing various combinations of patience, cruelty and creative powers.
Donna Marie pinciotti ( Born February 13, 1960 ) is a fictional character and one of the two female लीड in the फॉक्स sitcom That '70s Show, appearing in सब eight seasons.
Portrayed by लौरा Prepon, Donna is the love interest to Eric Forman.
us काउंटी household median आय 2009.
Median us household income, 2001-2011
Household आय is a measure commonly used by the United राज्य सरकारी and private institutions.
Each household is measured by the income of every resident over the आयु of 15.
Income includes मजदूरी and salaries, बेरोजगारी बीमे, विकलांगता payments, चाइल्ड support payments प्राप्त, नियमित rental receipts, as खूब as any personal business, investment, or अन्य kinds of income प्राप्त routinely.
जबकि inflation-adjusted ( `` रियल '' ) household income had महरूम increasing लगभग every year from 1945 to 1999, it रै चूंकि महरूम flat और even decreased recently.
u.S. median household income fell इससे $ 51,144 in 2010 to $ 50,502 in 2011.
Extreme poverty in the United States, अर्थ households living on less than $ 2 प्रति day before government benefits, doubled इससे 1996 to 1.5 million households in 2011, including 2.8 million children.
The residents of the household do not have to be सम्बन्धित to the सिर of the household for उनके earnings to be considered भाग of the household 's income.
As households tend to share a समान आर्थिक context, the use of household income remains among the सबसे widely accepted उपायों of income.
That the आकार of a household is नहीं commonly taken into account in such उपायों may distort any analysis of fluctuations within or among the household income categories, और may रेंडर सीधा comparisons between quintiles मुश्किल or even impossible.
A पंजीकृत agent, also known as a निवासी agent or statutory एजेंट, in संयुक्त States business law, is a business or individual designated to receive service of process ( sop ) जब a business entity is a party in a legal action such as a lawsuit or summons.
The registered agent 's पता may भी be where the राज्य will भेजें the paperwork for the yearly नवीकरण of the कारोबार एंटिटी 's charter.
The पंजीकृत agent for a business entity may be an व्यक्तिगत सदस्य of the company, or ( अधिक often ) a third party, such as the organization 's lawyer or a service कम्पनी.
Failure to properly maintain a registered agent can affect a कम्पनी negatively.
Office for Emergency प्रबन्धन.
दफ्तर of War सूचना युद्ध पोस्टर 1941 - 1945
`` Life, स्वतंत्रता, and the pursuit of Happiness '' is a well-known phrase in the संयुक्त States घोषणा of स्वतंत्रता.
The phrase is meant to exemplify the `` unalienable rights '' साथ which सब human beings हैं endowed by their creator लिये their protection of which they institute governments.
Fencing, is typically divided into Olympic fencing, शास्त्रीय fencing and ऐतिहासिक fencing,.
The खेल of तलवारबाजी ( commonly called olympic fencing or competitive fencing ) is divided into three weapon categories : foil, sabre and épée.
शास्त्रीय तलवारबाजी uses the same three हथियार, but approaches तलवारबाजी as a martial आर्ट.
Competitive तलवारबाजी is one of five खेल which has been featured at every one of the आधुनिक ओलम्पिक Games, the other चार होने Athletics, साइकिलिंग, Swimming, and Gymnastics.
The quadriceps femoris ( Latin लिये `` four-headed muscle of the femur `` ), भी called simply the quadriceps, quadriceps extensor, quads, is a large muscle group that includes the four prevailing muscles on the front of the thigh.
it is the great extensor muscle of the knee, forming a विशाल fleshy mass which कवर the front और पहलू of the femur.
The proper Latin plural form of the adjective quadriceps would be quadricipites.
In modern English उपयोग, quadriceps is प्रयुक्त in both singular and बहुवचन.
The एकवचन form quadricep, produced by hypercorrection, is frequently प्रयुक्त.
RMS टाइटैनिक was a अंग्रेजों यात्री liner कि sank in the North Atlantic Ocean on 15 April 1912 बाद colliding with an iceberg during her maiden voyage from Southampton, UK to New यॉर्क City, US.
the sinking of टाइटैनिक caused the deaths of 1,502 people in one of the deadliest peacetime maritime disasters in modern इतिहास.
The RMS Titanic was the largest ship afloat at the time of her maiden voyage.
She was the second of three Olympic class ocean liners operated by the श्वेत स्टार Line, और she थी built by the Harland and wolff shipyard in Belfast with Thomas एंड्रयूज, who perished with the जलयान, as उसके naval architect.
On her maiden voyage, she carried 2,224 passengers and crew.
Under the कमांड of Edward Smith, her यात्री included some of the wealthiest लोगों in the world, as well as hundreds of emigrants इससे Great Britain and Ireland, Scandinavia and elsewhere throughout Europe seeking a new जीवन in North America.
The ship was designed to be the पिछला word in comfort and luxury, with an on-board gymnasium, swimming pool, पुस्तकालयों, high-class restaurants and opulent केबिन.
वो also had a powerful wireless telegraph provided लिये the convenience of यात्री as खूब as for operational use.
Though she had उन्नत सुरक्षा सुविधाएँ ऐसे as watertight compartments और remotely activated watertight doors, she lacked enough lifeboats to accommodate all of those aboard.
Because of outdated मेरीटाइम सुरक्षा regulations, she carried only enough lifeboats लिये 1,178 people—slightly अधिक than half of the number यात्राएं on the maiden voyage, and one-third उसके total passenger और crew capacity.
After leaving Southampton on 10 April 1912, Titanic called at Cherbourg in France और Queenstown ( now cobh ) in Ireland before heading westwards towards नई York.
On 14 अप्रैल 1912, four days into the crossing और about 375 miles ( 600 km ) south of Newfoundland, she hit an हिमशैल at 11:40 pm जलयान 's समय.
The glancing टक्कर caused Titanics hull plates to बकल inwards along उसके starboard side and opened पाँच of her sixteen watertight compartments to the sea ; the ship gradually filled with जल.
meanwhile, passengers और some crew सदस्यों were evacuated in lifeboats, अनेक of which were शुभारम्भ only partly loaded.
a disproportionate number of मेन were left aboard because of a `` women and children first `` प्रोटोकॉल followed by some of the अधिकारियों लदान the lifeboats.
By 2:20 AM, she broke apart और foundered, with खूब over एक thousand people स्टिल सवार.
Just under two hours after the Titanic foundered, the Cunard liner RMS Carpathia arrived on the झाँकी of the डूब, where she brought aboard an estimated 705 survivors.
the disaster थी greeted with worldwide shock and outrage at the huge घाटा of जीवन and the regulatory और operational असफलताओं that had led to it.
Public inquiries in Britain और the United States led to major improvements in maritime सुरक्षा.
One of उनके सबसे महत्वपूर्ण legacies थी the establishment in 1914 of the International Convention for the सुरक्षा of Life at समुद्र ( SOLAS ), which still governs मेरीटाइम safety today.
Additionally, several नई wireless regulations यहूद passed around the संसार in an प्रयत्न to सीख इससे the many missteps in wireless communications -- -which could have saved many अधिक passengers.
Many of the survivors lost सब of उनके money and possessions and were बाएँ destitute ; many परिवारों, particularly those of crew members from Southampton, खोया उनके primary bread-winners.
वे यहूद helped by an outpouring of public सहानुभूति और charitable donations.
Some of the male survivors were accused of कायरता लिये leaving the ship जबकि people were स्टिल on board ; the White Star Line 's chairman, J. ब्रूस Ismay, faced social ostracism for the rest of उसके life.
The रेक of the Titanic remains on the समुद्रतल, विभाजित in two and gradually disintegrating at a depth of.
Since its डिस्कवरी in 1985, thousands of artefacts have been recovered and put on प्रदर्शक at museums around the world.
Titanic has become one of the most famous ships in history, her memory kept जिंदा by numerous किताबे, folk songs, films, exhibits, and memorials.
The इंसान leg is the entire lower extremity or limb of the human देह, including the foot, thigh and even the hip or gluteal region ; however, the precise definition in human anatomy refers तभी to the section of the lower limb extending इससे the knee to the ankle.
टाँगे हैं used for standing, walking, jumping, running, kicking, and समान क्रियाएँ, और constitute a significant portion of a व्यक्ति 's mass.
This article is परिचय the demographic features of the population of Turkey, सहित population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and अन्य aspects of the population.
As of 2010, the population of Turkey is estimated to be 73.7 million साथ a growth rate of 1.21 % प्रति annum ( 2009 figure ).
the population is अपेक्षाकृत young with 26.6 % falling in the 0-14 age bracket.
according to the oecd/world बैंको population statistics in तुर्कों the population growth इससे 1990 to 2008 थी 16 million or 29 %.
1998 BMW 750iL
Buick Roadmaster
a full-size car is a marketing term प्रयुक्त in उत्तर America for an automobile larger than a mid-size car.
In the United राज्य, the EPA uses the term `` large car '' to denote full-size गाड़ियाँ.
Joel Grey ( born April 11, 1932 ) is an American stage and screen actor, सिंगर, and dancer, known for his role as the Master of Ceremonies in both the stage and film adaptation of the kander & Ebb musical कैबरे.
He has जीती the Academy Award, Tony पुरस्कार और Golden ग्लोब पुरस्कार.
He also originated the भूमिका of जार्ज M. Cohan in the musical George M !
in 1973, the Wizard in the musical दुष्ट.
Grey also starred in the Broadway revivals of anything Goes as Moonface Martin, और शिकागो as Amos Hart.
James Madison, Jr. ( कूच 16, 1751 ( o.s. March 5 ) – June 28, 1836 ) was an अमरीकी statesman and political theorist, the fourth President of the United States ( 1809–1817 ).
He is hailed as the “Father of the Constitution” for होने instrumental in the drafting of the United States संविधान and as the key champion and author of the United राज्य Bill of Rights.
He served as a politician much of his वयस्क life.
बाद the संविधान had been drafted, Madison became एक of the नेताओ in the movement to ratify it.
उसके collaboration with Alexander Hamilton and जॉन Jay produced the Federalist Papers ( 1788 ).
Circulated तभी in New York at the time, वे would later be considered among the most महत्वपूर्ण polemics in support of the Constitution.
He was भी a delegate to the वर्जिनिया constitutional ratifying convention, and was instrumental to the successful ratification effort in वर्जिनिया.
Like most of उसके contemporaries, Madison changed his राजनैतिक views during his life.
During the drafting and ratification of the संविधान, he favored a strong national government, हालांकि later he grew to favor stronger state governments, before settling between the two extremes late in उसके life.
In 1789, Madison became a leader in the नई हाउस of प्रतिनिधि, drafting many basic कानून.
He is notable लिये drafting the पहला ten amendments to the Constitution, और thus is ज्ञात as the `` Father of the विधेयक of Rights ``.
Madison worked closely साथ President George Washington to व्यवस्थित the new federal सरकारी.
तोड़कर with हैमिल्टन और what became the federalist पार्टी in 1791, Madison and Thomas जेफरसन organized कया they called the Republican पार्टी ( later called by historians the Democratic-Republican Party )
As jefferson’s Secretary of State ( 1801–1809 ), मैडिसन supervised the Louisiana खरीदें, which doubled the nation’s size.
After his election to the presidency, he presided over renewed prosperity लिये several सालो.
As president ( 1809–17 ), after the failure of diplomatic protests and a trade embargo against ग्रेट Britain, he led the स्वदेश into the War of 1812.
He was responding to British encroachments on American सम्मान और अधिकारों ; in जोड, he wanted to end the influence of the अंग्रेजों among their भारतीय allies, जिनकी प्रतिरोध blocked संयुक्त States settlement in the मिडवेस्ट around the Great झीलों.
Madison मिला the war to be an administrative दुःस्वप्न, as the United States had neither a दमदार army nor financial प्रणाली ; as a result, he afterward supported a stronger national government और a strong सैन्य, as खूब as the national bank, which he had long opposed.
Like other Virginia statesmen in the slave society, he was a slaveholder who inherited उसके plantation ज्ञात as Montpelier, and owned hundreds of slaves during his lifetime to cultivate तम्बाकू and other crops.
मैडिसन समर्थित the three-fifths compromise that allowed three-fifths of the enumerated population of स्लेव to be counted लिये representation.
`` Roman 's Revenge '' is a song performed by American rapper Nicki Minaj from her debut studio एल्बम गुलाबी Friday.
It थी written by Minaj और rapper Eminem, who is भी प्रदर्शित in the song, और was produced by swizz beatz.
It was released exclusively on October 30, 2010 through the us iTunes Store, as a promotional release preceding the album 's रिलीज.
The सोंग initiated a feud between Lil ' Kim and Minaj, where many people लगा the song was directed at Lil ' किम and regarded around her feelings towards minaj 's rise to fame.
The song सन्दर्भ Minaj 's alter-ego, Roman Zolanski, and एमिनेम 's alter-ego, पतला Shady.
the song garnered very positive reviews इससे critics, सबसे of which praised the song as a stand-out track on the album.
An official remix featuring Minaj 's mentor, Lil वेन, थी released to the US iTunes स्टोर on जनवरी 19, 2011.
The instrumental was used in the सोंग 'firing Squad ' by Horseshoe G.A.N.G.
Hydraulic द्रव होने poured.
हाइड्रोलिक fluids, also called hydraulic liquids, are the medium by which power is transferred in hydraulic मशीनरी.
Common hydraulic fluids हैं आधारित on mineral oil or जल.
Examples of equipment कि might use hydraulic fluids include excavators and backhoes, हाइड्रोलिक brakes, power steering प्रणालियों, transmissions, garbage ट्रक, aircraft flight control systems, lifts, और औद्योगिक machinery.
हाइड्रोलिक systems like the ones उल्लेखित ऊपर होगा work most efficiently if the hydraulic fluid used has no compressibility
Mahindra Tractor
Mahindra Tractors, the फार्म equipment division of Mahindra & Mahindra, builds and स्त्रोत tractors कि are बेची विश्वव्यापी across छह महाद्वीपों.
Mahindra is also among the top three ट्रैक्टर निर्माताओं in the world.
महिंद्रा रै a विशाल consumer base in India, चीन and America and a growing base in ऑस्ट्रेलिया.
The company builds more tractors in इण्डिया than कोई अन्य निर्माता, and has the capacity to build 150,000 tractors a year.
In 1963, m & m formed a joint venture with अंतरराष्ट्रीय Harvester to manufacture tractors carrying the महिंद्रा nameplate for the Indian market.
हथियारबंद साथ engineering, tooling and manufacturing know-how gained इससे this relationship, M & M developed its first tractor, the B-275.
Mahindra tractors with sales of nearly 85,000 units annually is एक of the largest tractor companies in the world, and is number one in sales in India - the largest tractor मार्केट in the संसार.
to विस्तार into the growing tractor मार्केट in China, Mahindra acquired majority stake in Jiangling.
to raise awareness about Mahindra in the US, महिंद्रा USA announced its new प्रायोजन in the nascar Nationwide Series साथ r3 Motorsports, which is participating with a # 23 Mahindra Tractors शेवरलेट.
the car will be चलित by Robert रिचर्डसन, Jr. महिंद्रा यूएसए, Inc. announced a 17-race प्राथमिक and 18-race associate sponsorship for the 2009 nascar Nationwide Series.
साथ इस sponsorship, Mahindra was the first भारतीय company to sponsor a car in NASCAR.
In 2008, Mahindra was a sponsor of the मैकडोनाल्ड Motorsports team which भागा the # 81 car in the nascar देशभर Series.
the POWER6 is a microprocessor developed by IBM कि implemented the शक्ति ISA v.2.03.
जब it became available in systems in 2007, it succeeded the POWER5+ as IBM 's flagship Power माइक्रोप्रोसेसर.
It is part of the eCLipz project, कहा to have a लक्ष्य of converging ibm 's server hardware जहाँ practical ( hence `` ipz '' in the acronym : iSeries, pSeries, and zSeries ).
The American मध्य class is a social class in the United States.
While the concept is typically ambiguous in लोकप्रिय opinion and आम language उपयोग, contemporary सोशल scientists have put आगे अनेक, more or less congruent, theories on the American middle क्लास.
depending on क्लास model प्रयुक्त, the middle क्लास may constitute anywhere from 25 % to 66 % of households.
One of the first प्रमुख studies of the middle class in America was श्वेत कॉलर : The American मध्य वर्ग, published in 1951 by समाजशास्त्री C. Wright Wright_Mills मिलों wright_mills.
Later sociologists such as Dennis Gilbert of हैमिल्टन College commonly divide the मध्य class into दो sub-groups.
Constituting roughly 15 % to 20 % of households is the upper or professional मध्य class consisting of highly शिक्षित, वेतनभोगी professionals and प्रबंधक.
Constituting roughly one third of households is the lower मध्य class consisting mostly of semi-professionals, skilled craftsmen and lower-level management.
Middle-class व्यक्तियों commonly have a comfortable standard of जीना, significant economic security, considerable work स्वायत्तता और rely on their expertise to sustain themselves.
Members of the middle class belong to diverse समूह जिससे ओवरलैप with each other.
overall, middle-class व्यक्तियों, विशेषकर upper-middle-class individuals, are characterized by conceptualizing, बनाना और परामर्श.
Thus, college शिक्षा is one of the प्रमुख indicators of middle-class status.
largely attributed to the nature of middle-class occupations, मध्य class values tend to emphasize independence, adherence to मूलभूत मानकों, valuing नवीनता और respecting non-conformity.
Politically more क्रियाशील than other demographics, college educated middle class professionals हैं split between the two major पार्टियों.
Income varies considerably from निकट the नेशनल median to well in excess of $ 100,000.
Household income आंकड़े, however, do not always reflect class status and standard of living, as वे हैं largely बहकावे by the number of आय earners और fail to recognize household size.
It is इसलिए संभावित for a large, dual-earner, lower middle class household to out-earn a छोटी, one-earner, upper middle class household.
The मध्य classes are very influential, as they encompass the majority of voters, writers, teachers, journalists, and editors.
Most societal रुझान in the US originate within the middle classes.
the following is a सूची of शनिवार Night Live cast सदस्यों, past and present.
The डाल सदस्यों of Saturday रात्रि Live were originally referred to as the `` Not तैयार For Prime Time खिलाड़ी ''.
The असली डाल ( l to r ) : Laraine न्युमैन, John Belushi, Jane Curtin, gilda radner, डान Aykroyd, Garrett मॉरिस, और Chevy Chase
Ruins इससे the 1906 San Francisco earthquake, remembered as one of the worst natural disasters in United States इतिहास
A disaster is a natural or man-made ( or technological ) जोखिम resulting in an event of substantial extent causing significant शारीरिक damage or destruction, loss of life, or drastic change to the environment.
A disaster can be ostensively पारिभाषित as any tragic event stemming from events such as earthquakes, floods, catastrophic accidents, fires, or विस्फोट.
it is a phenomenon that can cause क्षति to जीवन and property और destroy the economic, सोशल and cultural life of people.
in contemporary academia, आपदाओं are seen as the consequence of inappropriately managed risk.
ये risks are the product of a combination of both hazard/s और vulnerability.
जोखिमों that strike in areas with low vulnerability will never become आपदाओं, as is the मामला in uninhabited regions.
Developing देशों suffer the greatest costs जब a विपत्ति hits – more than 95 percent of all मौतों caused by disasters occur in विकासशील countries, और losses due to प्राकृतिक आपदाओं are 20 times greater ( as a percentage of जीडीपी ) in developing देशों than in industrialized countries.
In computing, booting ( also known as booting up ) is the initial set of operations that a computer system performs जब electrical शक्ति to the cpu is switched on.
the process begins जब a computer is turned on for the first time or is re-energized after being turned off, and ends when the computer is तैयार to perform its सामान्य operations.
On आधुनिक general purpose computers, this can take tens of सेकेंड and typically involves performing a power-on self-test, locating और initializing peripheral devices, and then ढूंढना, loading and starting an operating प्रणाली.
Many computer प्रणालियों also allow ये परिचालन to be initiated by a तन्त्र command without cycling power, in कया is known as a soft रिबूट, हालांकि some of the आरंभिक operations might be skipped on a नरम रिबूट.
a boot लोडर is a computer कार्यक्रम that loads the main operating system or runtime environment for the computer बाद completion of the self-tests.
The computer term boot is छोटी for बूटस्ट्रैप or bootstrap लोड and derives from the phrase to pull oneself up by एक 's bootstraps.
the उपयोग काल्स attention to the आवश्यकता that, if most software is loaded onto a कंप्यूटर by other software already कार्यशील on the computer, some यांत्रिकी must exist to load initial software onto the computer.
जल्दी computers used a variety of ad-hoc methods to get a small program into memory to solve this problem.
The invention of integrated circuit read-only memory ( ROM ) of various प्रकार solved इस विरोधाभास by allowing कंप्यूटर to be shipped with a प्रारंभ up कार्यक्रम कि could not be erased.
विकास in the क्षमता of rom has अनुमत ever more विस्तृत start up procedures to be implemented.
On सामान्य purpose कंप्यूटर, the boot process begins साथ the execution of an initial program stored in boot roms or read in another fashion.
in some older computers, the आरंभिक program might have महरूम the अनुप्रयोग to चलाएं, if no operating system थी used, or the ऑपरेटिंग system.
In other कंप्यूटर, the initial program is a बूट loader that may then load into random-access memory ( राम ), इससे nonvolatile secondary storage ( such as a hard disk ड्राइव ) or, in some पुरानी computers, इससे a मीडियम such as punched cards, punched tape, or चुम्बकीय tape in older computers, the शब्दकोष code of an operating system or runtime पर्यावरण and तब execute it.
If the boot loader is सीमित in इसके size and capabilities, it may, instead, load a larger and more capable secondary boot लोडर, which होता तब load the ऑपरेटिंग प्रणाली or runtime पर्यावरण.
Some embedded systems do not require a noticeable boot sequence to शुरू functioning and when turned on may simply चलाएं operational programs that are stored in rom.
firebird is an open source एसक्यूएल रिलेशनल डेटाबेस management प्रणाली that रनों on Linux, Windows, और a variety of Unix.
The डेटाबेस forked from Borland 's open source संस्करण of InterBase in 2000, लकिन since firebird 1.5 the code रै been largely rewritten.
Outsourcing is the contracting आउट of an internal business process to a third-party organization.
the practice of contracting a business process out to a third party rather than स्टॉफ it internally is common in the आधुनिक economy.
The term `` outsourcing '' became popular in the संयुक्त राज्य निकट the turn of the 21st century.
Outsourcing sometimes involves transferring employees और assets from one firm to another, but not always.
The definition of आउटसोर्सिंग includes both विदेशी and घरेलू contracting, और sometimes includes offshoring, which means relocating a business फलन to another country.
Financial बचत from lower international labor दरों is a बिग motivation for outsourcing/offshoring.
The opposite of आउटसोर्सिंग is पुकारा insourcing, which entails bringing प्रक्रियाओं handled by third-party firms in-house, and is sometimes accomplished via vertical integration.
however, a business can provide a contract service to another कारोबार without necessarily insourcing that business process.
इंसान immunodeficiency virus ( HIV ) is a lentivirus ( slowly replicating retrovirus ) that causes acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( एड्स ), a condition in इंसानो in which progressive विफलता of the immune system allows life-threatening opportunistic infections and cancers to thrive.
Infection with HIV occurs by the transfer of blood, वीर्य, vaginal द्रव, pre-ejaculate, or breast milk.
Within these bodily fluids, HIV is उपस्थित as both फ़्री virus particles और virus within संक्रमित immune cells.
HIV infects vital कोशिकाएं in the human immune system such as helper T कोशिकाएं ( specifically CD4 + T कोशिकाएं ), macrophages, और dendritic cells.
hiv संक्रमण लीड to low स्तर of CD4+ T cells through a क्रमांक of mechanisms including : apoptosis of uninfected bystander कोशिकाएं, सीधा viral killing of infected कोशिकाएं, and हत्या of संक्रमित cd4+ T cells by cd8 cytotoxic lymphocytes कि recognize संक्रमित cells.
When CD4+ T cell numbers decline नीचे a नाजुक स्तर, cell-mediated immunity is lost, and the देह becomes progressively more susceptible to opportunistic infections.
the firepole in a आग station in Toronto
A fireman 's pole ( भी पुकारा a sliding pole or firepole ) is a wooden pole or a मेटल tube or pipe संस्थापित between floors in fire स्टेशन, allowing अग्निशमन responding to an सचेतक to जल्दी descend to the ground floor faster than by using a standard staircase.
The device थी invented in the 1870s by David kenyon, in Chicago, Illinois, although it is प्रायः incorrectly credited to the Boston Fire विभाग.
Mary Poppins is the title character of a series of children 's books written by P. L. ट्रेवर्स.
throughout the Mary poppins series, which lasted from 1934 to 1988, Mary Shepard was the illustrator और acted as a second लेखक.
The books centre on a जादुई अंग्रेज़ी nanny, Mary Poppins.
She is blown by the ईस्ट wind to Number सत्रह Cherry Tree लेन, London, and into the Banks ' household to परवाह for उनके children.
Encounters साथ चिमनी sweeps, shopkeepers and various adventures follow until मरियम Poppins abruptly leaves, i.e., `` pops-out ''.
The adventures take प्लेस over a कुल of आठ books.
However, only the पहला three books विशेषता मरियम Poppins arriving और leaving.
the बाद five books recount previously unrecorded adventures इससे her original three visits.
As P. L. Travers explains in her introduction to Mary Poppins in the Park, `` She can नहीं forever arrive and depart. ''
the books यहूद adapted in 1964 into a musical Disney film starring जूली Andrews और लंड Van dyke.
In 2004, Disney Theatrical produced a स्टेज musical adaptation in the West End थिएटर.
the stage musical was transferred to ब्रॉडवे in 2006 where it ran until its closing on March 3, 2013.
It has been highly कामयाब, as was the 1964 फिल्मी.
The Last सोंग is a 2010 अमरीकी coming of age टीन romantic नाटक film विकसित alongside Nicholas स्पार्क्स ' novel by the same नाम.
the film was directed by जूली Anne Robinson in उसके feature film directorial debut और co-written by Sparks and जेफ़ वैन wie.
The Last सोंग stars Miley सायरस, Liam hemsworth, and Greg kinnear and फ़ॉलो a troubled teenager as she reconnects with her estranged father and falls in love during a summer in a शांत Southern United States बीच town.
The film is distributed by Touchstone तस्वीरें.
स्पार्क्स was approached to लिखें both the फिल्मी 's screenplay and the अनोखा.
Sparks completed the पटकथा in जनवरी 2009, prior to the पूर्णता of the novel, बनाना The पिछला सोंग his first script to be optioned लिये film.
the सेटिंग, originally in North Carolina like the novel, moved to Georgia बाद the states had campaigned लिये महीने to host उत्पादन.
upon beginning production in Tybee द्वीप, Georgia and nearby savannah, The Last Song became the first movie to be both शॉट और set in Tybee द्वीप.
Filming lasted from June 15 to August 18, 2009 with much of it occurring on the द्वीप 's beach और pier.
The पिछला Song थी originally scheduled लिये wide रिलीज on January 8, 2010, लकिन थी स्थगित to March 31, 2010.
लिखा Simlish
simlish is a fictional language प्रदर्शित in ea खेल ' Sim series of खेल.
It debuted in SimCopter, and has been especially prominent in The Sims, The Sims 2 and The सीम 3.
The सीम विकास टोली created the unique Simlish language by experimenting साथ fractured Ukrainian, French, Latin, फ़िनिश, English, Fijian, सेबुआनो, and Tagalog.
Simlish can also be heard in SimCity 4, SimCity समाजों and SimCity 2013, लकिन far less अक्सर.
Civilized Creatures in Spore can also be taught to बोलो Simlish.
It is भी प्रदर्शित to an extent in Firaxis Games ' Sid Meier 's simgolf.
Designer Will Wright was conscious of the need for dialogue in the game, लकिन विचार that using a real language would मेक it sound too repetitive और would भी be too costly to hire translators for world languages.
initially, inspired by the Native American कोड talkers of World War II, Sims निर्माता होगा Wright and भाषा विशेषज्ञ Marc gimbel suggested experimenting साथ the navajo language to create Simlish.
However, they ultimately decided कि Simlish worked best as a `` language '' बना up of gibberish words कि could n't be translated, so that इसके meaning would be left open to the कल्पना of the खिलाड़ी.
Wright later commented कि using `` बकवास language '' turned out to be the right development choice, as people were सक्षम of imagining it more realistically than a कंप्यूटर could सिमुलेट a रियल एक.
the वास्तविक ध्वनि of Simlish थी निर्मित improvisationally by voice actors Stephen Kearin और Gerri Lawlor.
an example of Ultrasonic Testing ( UT ) on blade roots of a V2500 iae aircraft engine.
Step 1 : The UT जांच is लगाई on the root of the blades to be inspected with the help of a खास borescope tool ( video probe ).
कदम 2 : Instrument settings are input.
Step 3 : The probe is scanned over the blade root.
In इस मामला, an indication ( peak in the data ) through the red लकीर ( or gate ) indicates a good blade ; an indication to the left of that range indicates a crack.
Principle of अल्ट्रासोनिक परीक्षण.
बाएँ : A probe sends a ध्वनि wave into a test material.
There हैं two indications, one इससे the initial पल्स of the probe, and the second due to the back वॉल echo.
RIGHT : A defect creates a third indication और simultaneously reduces the amplitude of the back wall indication.
The depth of the defect is determined by the अनुपात D/E
in ultrasonic testing ( UT ), very short ultrasonic pulse-waves with center बारंबारता ranging from 0.1-15 MHz and occasionally up to 50 mhz are launched into materials to detect internal flaws or to characterize सामग्री.
a आम example is ultrasonic मोटाई measurement, which tests the thickness of the test object, for example, to monitor pipework corrosion.
अल्ट्रासोनिक testing is often performed on steel and other metals and alloys, हालांकि it can भी be used on कंक्रीट, wood and composites, albeit with less resolution.
It is a form of non-destructive परीक्षण used in many industries including aerospace, automotive and other transportation सेक्टर.
the vas deferens ( plural : vasa deferentia ), भी called ductus deferens ( Latin : `` carrying-away vessel '' ; plural : ductus deferentes ), is part of the पुरूष anatomy of अनेक vertebrates ; वे हस्तांतरण sperm from the epididymis in पुट of ejaculation.
Vascular ischemia of the toes with characteristic cyanosis.
in आयुर्विज्ञान, ischemia, also spelled as ischaemia or ischæmia, ( ; from यूनानी language ισχαιμία, ischaimía ; isch- रूट denoting a प्रतिबंध or thinning or to make or grow thin/lean, haema blood ) is a restriction in blood supply to tissues, causing a shortage of oxygen and ग्लूकोज needed लिये cellular चयापचय ( to रखना tissue alive ).
Ischemia is generally caused by problems with रक्त vessels, with resultant damage to or dysfunction of ऊतक.
It भी अर्थात् local रक्ताल्पता in a दिए part of a body sometimes resulting from जमघट ( ऐसे as vasoconstriction, thrombosis or embolism ).
bas syndrome ( DS ) or Down 's सिंड्रोम, also ज्ञात as trisomy 21, is a genetic विकार caused by the उपस्थिति of सब or part of a third copy of chromosome 21.
bas सिंड्रोम is the most आम chromosome abnormality in humans.
it is typically associated with a delay in cognitive ability ( दिमागी retardation, or MR ) and physical विकास, and a particular set of facial विशेषताएँ.
the average IQ of यंग वयस्कों साथ Down syndrome is around 50, whereas young adults without the condition typically have an iq of 100.
( MR रै historically been defined as an IQ below 70. )
A large proportion of individuals with bas सिंड्रोम have a severe degree of बौद्धिक disability.
Down syndrome is named बाद जॉन Langdon Down, the अंग्रेजों physician जो वर्णित the syndrome in 1866.
the कंडीशन थी clinically described earlier by Jean Etienne Dominique esquirol in 1838 and Edouard Seguin in 1844.
Down सिंड्रोम was identified as a chromosome 21 trisomy by Dr. jérôme lejeune in 1959.
bas सिंड्रोम can be identified in a baby at जनम or before जनम by prenatal screening.
Pregnancies with this diagnosis are often terminated.
The CDC estimates कि about one of every 691 शिशु born in the United States प्रत्येक year is born with Down syndrome.
अनेक children with bas सिंड्रोम are शिक्षित in regular school वर्ग while अन्य require specialised शैक्षणिक facilities.
Some children graduate from ऊँची school, and, in the US, there are increasing opportunities for participating in post-secondary education.
Education and proper care रै been दिखाया to improve quality of life significantly.
अनेक adults with bas Syndrome are able to कार्य at paid employment in the community, while others require a अधिक sheltered कार्य environment.
hot flashes ( भी ज्ञात as hot flushes, or night sweats if they happen at night ) are a लक्षण which may have several other causes, but which is often caused by the changing hormone levels कि are characteristic of menopause.
The Servicemen 's Readjustment Act of 1944 ( P.L. 78-346, 58 स्टेट. 284m ), known informally as the G.I. विधेयक, थी a law that provided a range of benefits for returning World War II veterans ( commonly referred to as G.I.s ).
Benefits included low-cost mortgages, low-interest loans to start a कारोबार or farm, cash payments of tuition and living expenses to attend college, high school or vocational education, as well as एक year of unemployment मुआवजे.
It थी available to प्रत्येक दिग्गज who had been on क्रियाशील ड्यूटी during the युद्ध years लिये at least ninety days और had नहीं been dishonorably discharged ; combat was not required.
by the end of the program in 1956, roughly 2.2 लाख veterans had used the G.I. विधेयक education benefits in अनुक्रम to attend colleges or universities, and an अतिरिक्त 6.6 million प्रयुक्त these लाभ for कुछ दयालु of training program.
Since the असली 1944 law, the term has come to शामिल other दिग्गज benefit programs निर्मित to assist veterans of subsequent wars as well as peacetime service.
Historians and economists consider the G.I. Bill a major राजनैतिक success—especially in कंट्रास्ट to the treatments of World War i veterans—and a major योगदान to अमेरिका 's stock of human capital कि sped long-term आर्थिक विकास.
The वाटरगेट scandal was a political scandal कि occurred in the संयुक्त राज्य in the 1970s as a result of the June 17, 1972 break-in at the लोकतांत्रिक National Committee headquarters at the Watergate office जटिल in Washington, D.C., और the Nixon प्रशासन 's attempted cover-up of इसके involvement.
The scandal आखिरकार led to the इस्तीफा of Richard निक्सन, the President of the United States, on अगस्त 9, 1974 — the तभी resignation of a U.S. President.
the scandal भी resulted in the indictment, trial, conviction, and incarceration of forty-three persons, dozens of whom यहूद निक्सन 's top administration officials.
The affair began with the arrest of पाँच men for breaking and entering into the Democratic National Committee ( DNC ) headquarters at the Watergate complex on जून 17, 1972.
the Federal Bureau of छानबीन ( एफबीआई ) connected cash मिला on the burglars to a slush fund used by the Committee लिये the re-election of the President, the आधिकारिक संगठन of निक्सन 's campaign.
In July 1973, as evidence mounted against the president 's staff, including गवाही provided by former staff सदस्यों in an investigation conducted by the सीनेट वाटरगेट कमेटी, it was नाज़िल that President निक्सन था a tape-recording system in his offices and he had recorded many conversations.
Recordings from these tapes implicated the president, revealing he had attempted to cover up the questionable ( and illegal ) goings-on कि had taken place during उसके administration, both before and after the break-in.
After a protracted series of bitter court battles, the U.S. Supreme Court unanimously ruled कि the president had to hand over the tapes to government investigators ; he ultimately complied.
Facing near-certain impeachment in the House of प्रतिनिधि and a strong सम्भावना of a conviction in the Senate, Nixon resigned the presidency on August 9, 1974.
उसके successor, जेराल्ड Ford, then issued a pardon to him.
Elizabeth Imogene Webber ( formerly Lansing और Spencer ) is a fictional character on the ABC दिन साबुन ओपेरा सामान्य Hospital.
एलिज़ाबेथ is the granddaughter of Dr. Steve Hardy ( John beradino ), एक of the originating कोर characters of the series.
रेबेका herbst originated the character on अगस्त 1, 1997 और has been the only contract actress to खेल the role.
Elizabeth is part of two supercouple pairings, Lucky Spencer and Elizabeth Webber और Jason Morgan and Elizabeth webber.
The संयुक्त States presidency of Ronald reagan, also ज्ञात as the Reagan administration, was a Republican administration headed by रोनाल्ड Reagan इससे January 20, 1981, to January 20, 1989.
domestically, the administration favored reducing government कार्यक्रम and introduced the largest across-the-board कर cuts in American history.
the economic नीतियों enacted in 1981, ज्ञात as `` reaganomics ``, were an उदाहरण of supply-side economics.
reagan aimed to encourage उद्यमिता और limit the growth of सोशल spending, as well as the reduction of regulation और inflation.
Economic growth saw a strong रिकवरी in the 1980s, helping Reagan to win a landslide re-election.
the national debt increased significantly, however.
Regarding विदेशी policy, the प्रशासन was steadfastly anti-communist, कॉलिंग the Soviet Union an `` evil साम्राज्य `` and ending 1970s détente.
Reagan accelerated the massive buildup of the military started by his पूर्ववर्ती, including an आक्रमण of Grenada, the first major विदेशी action by U.S. troops चूंकि the end of the Vietnam युद्ध.
The `` Reagan doctrine `` controversially granted aid to अर्धसैनिक शक्तियां seeking to overthrow communist सरकारें, particularly in war-torn Central America और Afghanistan.
Reagan also promoted नई technologies such as मिसाइल defense प्रणालियों in order to confront the Soviets and their allies.
In diplomacy, Reagan forged a strong alliance with UK प्रधान Minister मार्गरेट Thatcher, और he मिले with सोवियत General सचिव Mikhail Gorbachev four टाइम्स, aiming to shrink the superpowers ' नाभिकीय arsenals.
reagan 's प्रेसिडेंसी has been termed the `` Reagan क्रान्ति '', or the Age of Reagan in recognition of the political realignment both within and परे the u.S. in एहसान of his brand of conservatism and his faith in free markets.
The Reagan administration worked toward the पतन of Soviet साम्यवादी, and it did collapse just as he बाएँ दफ्तर.
Victory in the Cold War led to a unipolar संसार with the U.S. as the world 's sole महाशक्ति.
While the damaging Iran-Contra affair engulfed several reagan aides दौरान उसके second पद, Reagan himself left दफ्तर with a 63 percent स्वीकृति rating, one of the higher स्वीकृति ratings of दूँ राष्ट्रपतियों.
बाद सालो of unstinting तारीफ़ from the सही, and unrelenting आलोचना from the बाएँ, historian David Henry finds that by 2009 a consensus had emerged among scholars कि Reagan revived conservatism and turned the nation to the right by demonstrating a `` pragmatic कोसा '' कि प्रचारित ideology भीतर the constraints imposed by the divided political system.
Furthermore, says Henry, the सर्वसम्मति viewpoint agrees that he revived faith in the presidency and American self-confidence, and contributed critically to ending the Cold War.
crude death rate by देश ( 2006 ).
Mortality rate is a माप of the number of मौतों ( in सामान्य, or due to a specific कारण ) in a जनसांख्यिकी.
Scaled to the size of that population, प्रति unit of time.
Mortality रेट is typically expressed in units of deaths per 1000 individuals per साल ; thus, a मृत्यु rate of 9.5 ( out of 1000 ) in a population of 1,000 would mean 9.5 deaths per year in that entire population, or 0.95 % out of the total.
it is पृथक from morbidity रेट, which refers to the number of individuals in poor स्वास्थ्य during a दिए time period ( the prevalence rate ) or the number of newly appearing cases of the बीमारी प्रति ईकाई of time ( incidence rate ).
The पद `` mortality `` is also sometimes inappropriately प्रयुक्त to refer to the क्रमांक of मौतों among a set of diagnosed हॉस्पिटल मामले लिये a disease or चोट, rather than for the general जनसांख्यिकी of a country or जातीय group.
This disease mortality statistic is अधिक precisely referred to as `` case fatality रेट `` ( CFR ).
One distinguishes:
The crude death rate, the total number of deaths per साल per 1000 लोगों.
the crude मौत rate लिये the whole world is about 8.37 per 1000 per साल according to the current CIA World Factbook.
the perinatal mortality rate, the sum of neonatal deaths and fetal deaths ( stillbirths ) प्रति 1000 births.
The maternal मृत्यु अनुपात, the क्रमांक of maternal मौतों प्रति 100,000 सजीव births in same समय period.
the maternal mortality rate, the number of मातृ deaths per 1,000 women of reproductive age in the population ( generally defined as 15–44 सालो of age ).
The शिशु mortality rate, the number of deaths of children कम than 1 साल old per 1000 live births.
the child मृत्यु rate, the number of deaths of children कम than 5 years old per 1000 सजीव births.
the standardised mortality ratio ( SMR ) - This represents a proportional comparison to the numbers of deaths that would have been अपेक्षित if the population had been of a मानक composition in terms of age, gender, etc.
The age-specific mortality रेट ( asmr ) - This refers to the total number of deaths per year per 1000 लोगों of a given age ( e.g. आयु 62 last birthday ).
in regard to the or विफलता of medical उपचार or procedures, one would also distinguish:
the जल्दी mortality rate, the कुल क्रमांक of deaths in the early stages of an ongoing उपचार, or in the period immediately following an उपचार.
The late मृत्यु रेट, the कुल number of deaths in the late stages of an ongoing उपचार, or a significant लंबाई of time after an acute treatment.
Note that the crude death रेट as defined ऊपर and applied to a पूरे population can give a misleading impression.
The crude मौत rate depends on the age ( and gender ) specific mortality rates and the age ( and लिंग ) distribution of the population.
The क्रमांक of मौतों per 1000 people can be higher for विकसित nations than in less-developed देशों, despite life expectancy being उच्चतर in developed देशों due to standards of health होने बेहतर.
इस happens because developed countries typically have a completely different जनसांख्यिकी आयु वितरण, with a much higher proportion of पुरानी people, due to both lower recent birth दरों और निम्नतर mortality rates.
A more complete picture of mortality is given by a life table which shows the mortality रेट separately for each आयु.
A life तालिका is necessary to दे a good estimate of जीवन expectancy.
an otoacoustic उत्सर्जन ( oae ) is a ध्वनि which is generated from भीतर the inner ear.
Having महरूम predicted by थामस Gold in 1948, its existence was first demonstrated experimentally by David Kemp in 1978 and otoacoustic emissions have चूंकि been shown to उठता by a क्रमांक of different cellular mechanisms within the inner ear.
अध्ययन have shown that OAEs गायब after the भीतरी ear has been damaged, so OAEs हैं often used in the laboratory और the क्लिनिक as a measure of inner ear health.
Broadly बोलना, there are दो types of otoacoustic emissions : spontaneous otoacoustic emissions ( soaes ), जिससे can occur without external stimulation, and evoked otoacoustic emissions ( eoaes ), which require an evoking stimulus.
Hurricane Tomas थी the nineteenth named storm and twelfth hurricane of the 2010 Atlantic hurricane season.
टॉमस विकसित from a tropical wave east of the windward Islands on October 29.
Quickly intensifying into a hurricane, it moved through the Windward Islands और passed बहुत निकट Saint लूसिया.
After reaching Category 2 status on the Saffir-Simpson scale, Tomas जल्दी weakened to a तीव्र तूफ़ान in the central Caribbean समुद्र, due to strong wind shear और dry एयर.
Tomas बाद regained hurricane औकात as it reorganized near the windward ड्योढ़ी.
throughout the hurricane 's path, 71 लोगों are known to have महरूम killed, 14 of जिसको यहूद in Saint Lucia.
मौद्रिक losses throughout the Windward Islands were अनुमानित at US $ 588 million, mainly in Saint लूसिया.
In the वेक of the storm in Haiti, बाढ़ intensified an जारी cholera outbreak indirectly causing more fatalities.
According to a report released in दिसम्बर 2010, 55 people यहूद मारे in Cuba and hispanola, though the distribution of ये fatalities are अनजान.
Overall damage from the storm was at तनिक $ 741 million.
Victoria Jackson ( born August 2, 1959 ) is an American comedian, अभिनेत्री, satirist, singer और अंतरजाल ब्लॉगर बेहतरीन known as a डाल member of the NBC टेलीविज़न sketch comedy श्रेणी शनिवार Night Live ( SNL ) from 1986 to 1992.
She has received ध्यान as a गायन आलोचक of अध्यक्ष Barack Obama, and is an active participant in the चाय Party movement.
Postmodern literature is literature characterized by heavy reliance on तकनीकों जैसे fragmentation, paradox, and questionable narrators, and is often ( though नहीं exclusively ) defined as a style or ट्रेंड which उभरा in the post–World War II era.
Postmodern works हैं देखी as a reaction against Enlightenment thinking और modernist approaches to literature.
Postmodern literature, like postmodernism as a whole, tends to resist definition or classification as a `` गति ''.
बेशक, the अभिसरण of postmodern literature with विभिन्न modes of critical theory, विशेषकर reader-response और deconstructionist approaches, और the subversions of the अव्यक्त अनुबंध between लेखक, टेक्स्ट और रीडर by जिससे its works are often characterised, have led to pre-modern fictions such as cervantes ' Don Quixote ( 1605,1615 ) and Laurence sterne 's eighteenth-century satire Tristram Shandy being retrospectively inducted into the मोड़ें.
जबकि there is little consensus on the precise characteristics, scope, and importance of postmodern literature, as is प्रायः the मामला साथ artistic आंदोलनों, postmodern साहित्य is commonly defined in संबंध to a precursor.
For example, a postmodern literary कार्य tends not to conclude साथ the neatly tied-up समाप्ति as is often मिला in modernist साहित्य, but often parodies it.
Postmodern authors tend to celebrate chance over शिल्प, and further employ metafiction to undermine the लेखक 's प्राधिकार.
Another characteristic of postmodern साहित्य is the questioning of भेद between high and low संस्कृति through the use of pastiche, the combination of subjects and जाति not previously deemed fit for literature.
Enigma is an electronic musical project founded in Germany by Michael Cretu, David fairstein और फ़्रैंक Peterson in 1990.
The Romanian-born Cretu conceived the Enigma project while working in Germany, लकिन based his recording स्टुडियो A.R.T. Studios in Ibiza, स्पेन, from the जल्दी 1990s until May 2009, जहाँ he रै अंकित all of Enigma 's स्टुडियो रिलीज to date.
cretu is both the composer and the producer of the प्रोजेक्ट.
His former wife, pop singer सैंड्रा, often provided vocals on Enigma tracks.
Jens Gad co-arranged and निभाई गिटार on तीन of the Enigma albums.
पीटर कॉर्नेलियस भी contributed to Enigma during the 1990s.
सात studio albums have महरूम उत्पादित अंतर्गत the नाम of the प्रोजेक्ट.
Scooby-Doo is an American एनिमेटेड cartoon franchise, comprising अनेक एनिमेटेड टेलीविज़न series produced from 1969 to the present day.
The original series, scooby-doo, Where Are तुम !
, was निर्मित लिये Hanna-Barbera Productions by लेखक जो माणिक्य and Ken स्पीयर्स in 1969.
इस Saturday morning cartoon श्रेणी featured four teenagers— फ्रेड Jones, Daphne Blake, velma Dinkley, और Norville `` Shaggy '' रोजर्स — और their talking brown Great Dane dog named Scooby-Doo, who solve mysteries involving supposedly supernatural creatures through a series of antics and missteps.
Following the success of the original series, Hanna-Barbera and its successor Warner Bros. Animation have produced numerous follow-up और spin-off animated series and several सम्बन्धित works, including television specials and telefilms, a लकीर of direct-to-video films, और two warner Bros. –produced theatrical feature films.
Some versions of Scooby-Doo विशेषता different variations on the show 's supernatural theme, and include characters ऐसे as Scooby 's cousin Scooby-Dum और nephew scrappy-doo in addition to or instead of कुछ of the original वर्ण.
scooby-doo was originally broadcast on CBS from 1969 to 1976, when it स्थानांतरित to ABC.
ABC aired the दिखाएँ until canceling it in 1986, and प्रस्तुत a spin-off featuring the characters as children, a Pup नामित Scooby-Doo, from 1988 until 1991.
दो नई Scooby-Doo श्रेणी, What 's New, Scooby-Doo ?
और shaggy and Scooby-Doo Get a a Clue ! ] ], aired as part of Kids WB on The wb network and its successor, The CW network, from 2002 until 2008.
the most recent Scooby-Doo श्रेणी, Scooby-Doo !
Mystery Incorporated, aired on Cartoon Network इससे 2010 to 2013.
Repeats of the various Scooby-Doo श्रेणी हैं broadcast frequently on Cartoon संजाल और Boomerang in the संयुक्त States and other देशों.
Call of Duty is a first-person और third-person shooter computer/ video game franchise.
The श्रेणी began on the PC, और later expanded to consoles and handhelds.
अनेक spin-off games have also been released.
the पहले खेल in the series are नियत primarily in World War II, this includes : Call of ड्यूटी, कॉल of ड्यूटी 2, and कॉल of Duty 3.
शुरूआत with Modern Warfare, जिससे is set in आधुनिक times, the series रै shifted focus दूर इससे World War II.
कॉल of Duty 4 : Modern warfare ( released नवम्बर 2007 ) was followed by कॉल of Duty : World at युद्ध and Call of ड्यूटी : Modern Warfare 2.
Black ops ( released नवम्बर 2010 ) takes place in the Cold War, जबकि Modern warfare 3 ( released November 2011 ) takes place in the near-future setting.
Black Ops 2 ( released नवम्बर 13, 2012 ) takes प्लेस in the साल 2025.
The Call of Duty खेल हैं published and owned by Activision with Aspyr Media publishing it for ठहराना OS x.
While the स्टुडियो अनंत Ward primarily स्टिल develops them, treyarch has also विकसित several of the शीर्षक with the रिलीज of the studios ' खेल interlaced with each अन्य.
Some खेल have been developed by Gray पदार्थ Interactive, चिंगारी Unlimited, विस्मित Entertainment, n-space, विद्रोह Developments, Ideaworks Game स्टुडियो, Sledgehammer खेल और nStigate Games.
The games use a variety of इंजन, सहित the id Tech 3, the Treyarch NGL, and the IW 5.0.
Other उत्पाद in the franchise include a line of action figures designed by Plan-B Toys, a card खेल created by अपर Deck, and a comic book mini-series published by WildStorm.
As of November 11, 2011, the Call Of ड्यूटी श्रेणी have sold over 100 million copies.
As of March 31, 2012 वहीँ हैं 40 लाख monthly active players across all of the कॉल of ड्यूटी शीर्षक, साथ 10 लाख Call of Duty : Elite users और 2 million paying annual members.
over 1.6 अरब hours of online gameplay have been logged Modern Warfare 3 since इसके 2011 release.
The estate tax in the United States is a tax imposed on the transfer of the `` taxable estate `` of a मृतक person, whether such property is transferred via a होगा, according to the राज्य laws of intestacy or otherwise made as an incident of the death of the owner, such as a transfer of प्रॉपर्टी इससे an intestate एस्टेट or विश्वास, or the payment of certain life insurance benefits or financial account रकम to beneficiaries.
the estate कर is एक भाग of the Unified Gift and Estate Tax system in the United राज्य.
The other भाग of the system, the gift tax, imposes a tax on transfers of property दौरान a व्यक्ति 's जीवन ; the gift tax prevents avoidance of the estate कर should a व्यक्ति want to give away his/her एस्टेट.
in जोड to the संघीय government, अनेक states also impose an एस्टेट tax, साथ the state version called either an estate tax or an उत्तराधिकार tax.
Opponents of the estate tax call it the `` मौत tax ''.
if an asset is left to a जीवनसाथी or a Federally recognized दान, the tax प्रायः does नहीं apply.
in जोड, up to $ 5,250,000 can be given by an व्यक्तिगत, पहले and/or upon उनके मौत, without incurring संघीय gift or estate कर.
Gavin McGregor Rossdale ( born 30 October 1967 ) is an English कर्ता और संगीतकार, ज्ञात as the lead singer और rhythm guitarist of the चट्टान band Bush.
Following Bush 's विरह in 2002, जिससे lasted लिये eight years, he थी the lead सिंगर and guitarist लिये Institute, और बाद began a solo career.
When performing सोलो, Gavin plays गीतों from his extensive musical libraries.
rossdale has been ranked in the Top 100 Heavy Metal vocalists by hit parader ( # 75 ).
raffaello Sanzio da Urbino ( April 6 or कूच 28, 1483 – April 6, 1520 ), बेहतर ज्ञात बस as Raphael, थी an Italian चित्रकार and architect of the ऊँची पुनर्जागरण.
His work is admired for its clarity of form and ease of composition and for इसके visual achievement of the neoplatonic आदर्श of human grandeur.
Together साथ Michelangelo and लियोनार्डो da Vinci, he forms the traditional ट्रिनिटी of great masters of कि period.
Raphael थी enormously productive, running an unusually विशाल workshop, and despite his death at 37, a large देह of his work remains.
Many of his works are मिला in the Vatican राजमहल, where the frescoed Raphael कक्ष were the central, and the largest, work of his career.
the बेहतरीन ज्ञात कार्य is The School of एथेंस in the Vatican stanza della Segnatura.
बाद his early years in रोम much of his work was self-designed, but लिये the सबसे part executed by the workshop from his drawings, साथ considerable घाटा of quality.
He was अत्यधिक influential in his आजीवन, though outside Rome his work was ज़्यादातर known इससे his collaborative printmaking.
बाद his death, the influence of his ग्रेट rival Michelangelo was more फैली until the 18th and 19th centuries, when Raphael 's more serene and harmonious qualities यहूद again regarded as the highest models.
His career जलप्रपात naturally into three phases और three शैलियाँ, first described by Giorgio vasari : his जल्दी सालो in Umbria, then a period of about four years ( from 1504–1508 ) absorbing the artistic परंपराओं of Florence, followed by his last hectic and triumphant twelve years in Rome, working लिये two Popes and their close associates.
Julia फिओना रॉबर्ट्स ( born October 28, 1967 ) is an American actress.
वो became a Hollywood star after headlining the रोमांटिक comedy Pretty स्त्री ( 1990 ), which grossed $ 464 लाख worldwide.
After receiving Golden ग्लोब Awards and अकादमी पुरस्कार nominations for Steel magnolias ( 1989 ) और Pretty Woman, she जीती the Academy Award for Best अभिनेत्री for her performance in एरिन Brockovich ( 2000 ).
Her films The pelican Brief ( 1993 ), my Best dost 's विवाह ( 1997 ), रहस्यवादी पिज़्ज़ा ( 1988 ), Notting Hill ( 1999 ), Runaway Bride ( 1999 ), Ocean 's Eleven ( 2001 ), Ocean 's बारह ( 2004 ), Charlie विल्सन 's War ( 2007 ), Valentine 's Day ( 2010 ), Eat Pray प्रेम ( 2010 ), और दर्पण Mirror ( 2012 ) have collectively brought box office receipts of over $ 2.6 अरब, बनाना her one of the most कामयाब actresses in terms of box office receipts.
रॉबर्ट्स था become one of the highest-paid actresses in the world, टॉपिंग The Hollywood Reporters annual `` power list '' of top-earning मादा stars from 2005 to 2006.
उसके fee लिये 1990 's Pretty Woman was $ 300,000 ; in 2003, she was paid an unprecedented $ 25 लाख लिये उसके role in Mona लिसा मुस्कान ( 2003 ).
As of 2010, Roberts 's जाल worth was estimated to be $ 140 million.
Roberts has been नामित one of लोगों पत्रिका 's `` 50 Most Beautiful People in the World '' eleven टाइम्स, tied with Halle Berry.
In 2011, she was named एक of the `` 100 Hottest Women of All-Time '' by Men 's Health.
In 2001, Ladies Home Journal ranked her as the 11th most शक्तिशाली स्त्री in the United राज्य.
Mark इलियट zuckerberg ( born May 14, 1984 ) is an American कंप्यूटर programmer and अंतरजाल entrepreneur.
He is बेहतरीन known as one of five co-founders of the social networking website Facebook.
as of April 2013, Zuckerberg is the chairman और मुख्य executive of Facebook, Inc. और in 2013 his personal wealth थी अनुमानित to be us $ 13.3 अरब.
Together with उसके कॉलेज roommates and fellow Harvard University विद्यार्थी Eduardo Saverin, Andrew McCollum, Dustin moskovitz and Chris ह्यूजेस, Zuckerberg शुभारम्भ Facebook from Harvard 's शयनागार rooms.
The group then introduced फेसबुक onto अन्य campuses nationwide और moved to पालो Alto, California, संयुक्त States ( u.S. ) shortly afterwards.
In 2007, at the age of twenty-three years, Zuckerberg became a billionaire as a result of Facebook and the क्रमांक of Facebook उपयोक्ता worldwide reached a total of एक billion in 2012.
Zuckerberg was involved in various legal विवादों that यहूद initiated by others in the group, who claimed a share of the company based upon their भागीदारी during the development phase of Facebook.
चूंकि 2010, Zuckerberg has been named among the 100 wealthiest और most influential people in the world by Time magazine as a भाग of इसके Person of the साल accolade.
Zuckerberg was निभाई by actor Jesse Eisenberg in the 2010 Hollywood film the Social Network in जिससे the rise of फेसबुक is portrayed.
The Mayflower was the जलयान that in 1620 transported 102 अंग्रेज़ी तीर्थयात्रियों, including a core group of Separatists, to नई England.
Their स्टोरी is one of travail and survival in a हर्ष New World environment.
framedThe
कमेटी of Ways और Means is the chief tax -writing committee of the संयुक्त States हाउस of Representatives.
Members of the Ways and Means Committee are not allowed to serve on कोई other House समितियों जबतक they लागू for a waiver from their पार्टी 's congressional leadership.
The Committee रै क्षेत्राधिकार over सब taxation, tariffs and अन्य revenue-raising measures, as खूब as a क्रमांक of अन्य programs including:
सोशल Security
Unemployment benefits
Medicare
Enforcement of चाइल्ड support laws
Temporary Assistance for Needy परिवारों, a संघीय welfare program
Foster care and adoption programs
The u.S. Constitution requires कि सब बिल्स regarding taxation जरूर originate in the हाउस of प्रतिनिधि.
Since हाउस procedure is that all बिल्स regarding taxation must go through इस committee, the committee is very influential, as is its Senate बंटवारा, the U.S. Senate Committee on वित्त.
The Ways और Means Committee in the 111th कॉंग्रेस थी chaired by चार्ली Rangel, who had लिया a छोड़ of अनुपस्थिति as chairman until House ethics उल्लंघनों were resolved.
However, his leave of अनुपस्थिति as chairman was शासित to be a resignation.
Pete Stark resigned as एक्टिंग अध्यक्ष, so sander Levin held कि position जबतक the start of the 112th कॉंग्रेस.
डेव Camp became the committee chair for the 112th Congress, after the Republicans जीती control of the House in the 2010 election.
The blue whale ( balaenoptera musculus ) is a marine mammal belonging to the suborder of baleen whales ( पुकारा Mysticeti ).
at in length and or more in weight, it is the largest ज्ञात animal to have ever existed.
long and slender, the ब्लू whale 's body can be various शेड्स of bluish-grey dorsally and somewhat lighter underneath.
There are at least three पृथक subspecies : B. m. musculus of the North Atlantic and उत्तर Pacific, B. m. intermedia of the दक्षिणी समंदर and B. m. brevicauda ( also known as the सानो blue whale ) found in the Indian Ocean and दक्षिण Pacific समंदर.
B. m. indica, found in the Indian Ocean, may be another subspecies.
as with अन्य baleen whales, इसके diet consists almost exclusively of छोटी crustaceans known as krill.
ब्लू whales were abundant in nearly all the महासागर on Earth until the beginning of the twentieth सदी.
For over a century, they were hunted almost to extinction by whalers जबतक protected by the international community in 1966.
A 2002 report estimated वहीँ were 5,000 to 12,000 blue whales विश्वव्यापी, स्तिथ in at तनिक five groups.
अधिक हाल research into the Pygmy subspecies suggests इस may be an underestimate.
Before whaling, the largest population was in the Antarctic, क्रमांकन लगभग 239,000 ( दायरा 202,000 to 311,000 ).
वहीँ remain only much smaller ( around 2,000 ) एकाग्रता in प्रत्येक of the eastern उत्तर Pacific, Antarctic, and Indian Ocean groups.
There are two more groups in the North Atlantic, and at least दो in the दक्षिणी Hemisphere.
The globe artichoke ( Cynara cardunculus var. scolymus ) is a variety of a species of thistle cultivated as a food.
The खाद्य matter is buds कि रूप within the पुष्प heads पहले the flowers come into bloom.
The buds go away or बदलें to a coarse, मुश्किल खाद्य रूप जब the पुष्प blooms.
the uncultivated or wild किस्में of the species is पुकारा a cardoon.
It is a perennial plant देशी to the भूमध्यसागरीय प्रदेश.
The United States one hundred-dollar bill ( $ 100 ) is a denomination of संयुक्त राज्य currency.
U.S. statesman, inventor, and diplomat Benjamin Franklin is फिलहाल featured on the obverse of the bill.
on the reverse of the banknote is an चित्र of Independence Hall.
the $ 100 विधेयक is the largest denomination that has been मुद्रित चूंकि July 13, 1969, when the denominations of $ 500, $ 1,000, $ 5,000, and $ 10,000 were retired.
The ब्यूरो of नक्काशी और Printing says the average life of a $ 100 bill in circulation is 90 months ( 7.5 years ) before it is replaced due to पहनें और tear.
The bills are also commonly referred to as `` Benjamins '', in reference to the use of बेंजामिन Franklin 's portrait on the denomination, or `` c-notes '', based on the रोमन numeral for 100.
The bill is one of दो denominations printed today that does नहीं feature a President of the United राज्य ; the other is the $ 10 bill, featuring Alexander Hamilton.
The time on the क्लॉक of स्वतंत्रता हॉल on the reverse, according to the u.S. ब्यूरो of Engraving and Printing, shows approximately 4:10.
One सौ hundred-dollar bills are delivered by संघीय आरक्षित Banks in mustard-colored straps ( $ 10,000 ).
The Series 2009 $ 100 विधेयक redesign was unveiled on अप्रैल 21, 2010, and थी to be जारी to the public on February 11, 2011, but production was shut down in December 2010 क्युकी as many as 30 % were unusable due to a manufacturing flaw.
A vertical crease in the paper reveals a blank space on the bill when खींचा out.
In उनके replacement, और continuing the high demand of इस denomination, the श्रेणी 2006A was launched retaining the previous design ( 1996-generation ).
On अप्रैल 24, 2013, the Federal आरक्षित announced the new $ 100 bill would डालें परिसंचरण on October 8, 2013.
King दाउद in robes of a Byzantine emperor.
miniature from the Paris Psalter.
दाउद ( ; ISO 259-3 Dawid ; ' ; Strong 's : Daveed ) according to the यहूदी Bible, was the second king of the United Kingdom of Israel, and according to the New Testament Gospels of मैथ्यू और Luke, an ancestor of Jesus.
उसके life is conventionally dated to c. 1040–970 BCE, his reign over Judah c. 1010–1002 BCE, और उसके शासनकाल over the United Kingdom of इसराईल c. 1002–970 bce.
the Books of सैमुएल, 1 Kings, and 1 Chronicles are the only sources of information on David, although the tel डान stele ( dated c. 850–835 BCE ) contains the phrase ( bytdwd ), read as `` हाउस of David '', जिससे most scholars take as confirmation of the अस्तित्व in the mid-9th सदी BCE of a Judean royal dynasty called the House of दाउद.
He is depicted as a righteous king, हालांकि नहीं without त्रुटियां, as well as an acclaimed योद्धा, musician, और कवि, traditionally credited for composing अनेक of the psalms contained in the Book of Psalms.
दाउद is central to Jewish, Christian, and Islamic doctrine और culture.
biblical tradition maintains that a direct descendant of David होगा be the मसीहा.
In Islam he is considered to be a prophet and the king of a nation.
काठमांडू ( ; ) is the पूंजी और largest urban agglomerate of Nepal.
The agglomerate consists of Kathmandu Metropolitan City at its core, and its sister शहरों Patan, kirtipur, Thimi, and Bhaktapur.
it also includes the recently recognized urban areas of Shankhapur, karyabinayak, and Champapur.
banepa, dhulikhel, and panauti are satellite urban क्षेत्रों of Kathmandu located just बाहर the Kathmandu घाटी.
काठमांडू is also known informally as `` KTM '' or the `` tri-city ''.
according to a census conducted in 2011, Kathmandu metropolis अलोन has 975,453 inhabitants ; और the agglomerate रै a population of more than 2.5 million inhabitants.
the metropolitan city area is and has a population density of 19,250 per km2.
the city stands at an elevation of approximately in the bowl-shaped Kathmandu Valley of सेंट्रल Nepal.
it is घिरी by four प्रमुख mountains : shivapuri, Phulchoki, Nagarjun, and चंद्रगिरि.
काठमांडू Valley is part of three districts ( काठमांडू, Lalitpur, और भक्तपुर ), has the highest population density in the country, and is home to about a twelfth of Nepal 's population.
During Rana and Shah eras, the name `` Nepal '' referred only to the Kathmandu Valley ; it थी what people जो lived बाहर the valley called it.
During this काल, अंग्रेजों इतिहासकारों called the valley itself `` नेपाल Proper ''.
Today, काठमांडू is not तभी the capital of the Federal Democratic Republic of Nepal, but also the headquarters of the Central Development Region of Nepal.
the Central Region comprises three zones : bagmati, Narayani, और Janakpur.
Kathmandu is स्तिथ in the bagmati मण्डल.
Kathmandu is the gateway to tourism in नेपाल.
It is also the nerve center of the country 's economy.
It रै the most advanced अवसंरचना of कोई urban क्षेत्रफल in Nepal, and its अर्थव्यवस्था is focused on पर्यटन, जिससे accounted for 3.8 % of नेपाल 's जीडीपी in 1995–96.
( पर्यटन in काठमांडू declined thereafter during a period of political अशांति, लकिन since then has improved. )
The city has a rich history, spanning nearly 2000 सालो, as inferred इससे inscriptions found in the valley.
Religious और cultural festivities रूप a प्रमुख part of the lives of people residing in Kathmandu.
सबसे of Kathmandu 's people follow Hinduism and many अन्य follow Buddhism.
There हैं लोगों of other religious मान्यताओं as खूब, giving Kathmandu a कॉस्मोपॉलिटन culture.
Nepali is the सबसे commonly spoken language in the city.
नेपाल bhasa is the indigenous language spoken by the Newar people.
Hindi is widely समझा and अंग्रेज़ी is understood by Kathmandu 's शिक्षित निवासियों.
The city 's साक्षरता rate is 98 %.
Kathmandu 's sister cities ( Lalitpur patan ) and Bhaktapur are integral to Kathmandu 's cultural विरासत, tourism industry, and economy ; therefore युनेस्को 's World Heritage Site lists all तीन शहरों ' स्मारक और attractions together under एक heading, `` Kathmandu valley- युनेस्को World Heritage साईट ``.
Field हॉकी, usually referred to simply as hockey, is a team खेल of the hockey family जिससे is played between दो teams of eleven खिलाड़ी साथ hockey sticks और a मुश्किल, solid plastic बॉल.
At the turn of the 21st century, the game is played globally, with particular popularity throughout Europe, Asia, Oceania, and South America – in addition to being the national sport of Pakistan और India.
the पद `` फ़ील्ड hockey '' is प्रयुक्त primarily in Canada, the संयुक्त States, and other regions of the world where the sport of बर्फ hockey is more popular.
During play, goal keepers are the तभी players जो हैं allowed to touch the बॉल साथ any भाग of their body ( with the exception of a player 's हाथ माना 'part of the stick ' ), with this only applying within the shooting circle ( also known as the D, or shooting arc, or just the circle ), जबकि field players खेल the ball with the flat side of their स्टिक.
The team that स्कोर the most लक्ष्य by the end of the match विन्स.
If the score is tied at the end of the game, either a draw is declared or the game goes into अतिरिक्त time and/or a दंड shootout, depending on the competition 's format.
The governing body of hockey is the International Hockey Federation ( FIH ), साथ मेन और महिलाओं being represented internationally in competitions including the Olympic games, Commonwealth खेल, Hockey World Cup, Champions Trophy और जूनियर हॉकी World Cup, साथ many countries running extensive junior, senior, और मास्टर्स ' club competitions.
The FIH is also responsible for organising the Hockey Rules Board and developing the नियम for the खेल.
A popular रूपांतर of field hockey is indoor hockey, which differs in a number of respects while embodying the primary principles of hockey.
Indoor hockey is a 6-a-side variant, साथ a फ़ील्ड which is reduced to approximately 40m × 20m.
साथ अनेक of the rules remaining the वही, including रुकावट और feet, there हैं several कुंजी variations - Players may not उठाएँ the ball unless shooting on goal, खिलाड़ी may not hit the ball ( instead utilising pushes to ट्रांसफ़र the बॉल ), and the sidelines हैं replaced with ठोस barriers which the ball होगा rebound बंद.
Ethan `` cane '' Ashby ( né एटकिन्सन ) is a fictional अक्षर इससे the अमरीकी CBS साबुन opera The यंग और the बेचैन.
He is portrayed by ऑस्ट्रेलियाई actor Daniel गोडार्ड, who originally auditioned for Brad Snyder on As the World Turns लकिन was अनुशंसित for a भूमिका on The यंग and the Restless instead.
The role थी to be portrayed as an American, लकिन Goddard 's Australian descent influenced the character 's background.
पूर्व सिर writer Lynn Marie Latham introduced him during the एपीसोड airing on January 12, 2007 as an Australian bartender in search of his family, a debut that received a mixed जवाब.
Latham created cane as the son of Phillip Chancellor II ( Donnelly rhodes ) and jill Foster Abbott ( जेस Walton ) but the character 's पृष्ठभूमि was rewritten by Maria Arena Bell in 2009, reestablishing him as the son of Colin and genevieve Atkinson ( Tristan Rogers and Genie फ्रांसिस ).
Though characterized as `` mysterious '', Cane is `` loyal and समर्पित '', while Goddard described the character as a `` typical Australian, working-class kind of guy ''.
He was the first सदस्य of the एटकिन्सन family to appear on the series, followed by his parents और एकसमान twin brother.
Soon बाद उसके डेब्यू, he became a leading अक्षर, a decision praised by दर्शक and critics.
The character has महरूम involved with Amber Moore ( Adrienne Frantz ), Chloe Mitchell ( Elizabeth Hendrickson ) and most notably Lily Winters ( Christel Khalil ), a romance that garnered significant fan attention.
in 2009, Cane and Lily were married ; Global bc होता later call लिली the प्रेम of Cane 's life.
the pair had two children, Charlie and mattie ashby.
In 2011, the actor was fired, and cane was शॉट to death onscreen.
However, गोडार्ड was rehired soon after दर्शक campaigned for his return, revealing that Cane 's identical जुड़वा brother थी in fact the man who died.
This sacrificed his marriage to Lily, but the couple were remarried on Valentine 's दिन in 2012.
गोडार्ड has महरूम widely acclaimed for his portrayal ; canyon News कहा that he portrays the character honestly, and is `` always dependable, on fire and exciting ''.
जॉन Christopher `` Johnny '' Depp II ( born June 9, 1963 ) is an अमरीकी actor, फिल्मी निर्माता, and musician.
he रै जीती the Golden Globe Award और स्क्रीन Actors गिल्ड पुरस्कार लिये Best Actor.
Depp रोज़ to prominence on the 1980s television श्रेणी 21 Jump गली, becoming a टीन idol.
असंतुष्ट साथ that औकात, Depp turned to film for more challenging भूमिकाएँ ; he played the title अक्षर of the acclaimed एडवर्ड Scissorhands ( 1990 ) और later found box office success in films such as Sleepy खोखला ( 1999 ), Charlie and the Chocolate Factory ( 2005 ), Alice in Wonderland ( 2010 ), rango ( 2011 ) and the Pirates of the Caribbean film series ( 2003–present ).
he has collaborated with निदेशक और friend Tim Burton in आठ films ; the सबसे recent being अंधेरा Shadows ( 2012 ).
डेप has gained acclaim for his portrayals of such लोगों as ed Wood in Ed Wood, Joseph D. Pistone in Donnie Brasco, Hunter S. Thompson in भय and Loathing in लास वेगास, George Jung in Blow, and the bank robber John dillinger in Michael Mann 's पब्लिक Enemies.
films featuring Depp have grossed over $ 3.1 billion at the संयुक्त States box office and over $ 7.6 billion worldwide.
He has महरूम मनोनीत for top पुरस्कार many times, winning the Best कर्ता Awards from the Golden –_motion_picture_musical_or_comedy Globes –_motion_picture_musical_or_comedy for स्वीनी Todd : the Demon Barber of Fleet गली and from the Screen अभिनेताओं Guild लिये Pirates of the Caribbean : The अभिशाप of the ब्लैक Pearl.
He भी has garnered a sex प्रतीक औकात in अमरीकी cinema, being twice named as the `` sexiest Man Alive `` by People magazine in 2003 and 2009.
He has महरूम listed in the 2012 गिनीज Book of World Records as the उच्चतम paid actor, with $ 75 लाख.
The संसार Wide Web ( abbreviated as WWW or W3, commonly ज्ञात as the web ), is a system of interlinked हाइपरटेक्स्ट documents accessed via the Internet.
With a वेब browser, one can view web pages that may contain टेक्स्ट, images, videos, and other multimedia, and navigate between them via hyperlinks.
Using concepts from his पहले hypertext प्रणालियों like ENQUIRE, British इंजीनियर, computer वैज्ञानिक and at that समय employee of the CERN, सर Tim Berners-Lee, now Director of the World Wide Web consortium ( W3C ), wrote a proposal in कूच 1989 for what would eventually become the World Wide Web.
At CERN, a यूरोपीय research organisation निकट जेनेवा straddling the border between फ़्रांस and स्विट्ज़रलैंड, Berners-Lee and Belgian कंप्यूटर वैज्ञानिक रॉबर्ट cailliau proposed in 1990 to use हाइपरटेक्स्ट `` to link and access information of various kinds as a web of nodes in which the user can ब्राउज़ at होगा '', and वे सरेआम introduced the project in दिसम्बर of the same year.
चिह्नित ट्रैविस John Sanchez ( born November 11, 1986 ) is an American football क्वार्टरबैक for the New York Jets of the National Football लीग ( NFL ).
He थी drafted in the first round of the 2009 एनएफएल Draft as the पांचवां overall selection by the Jets and the second quarterback taken overall.
He played college football at the University of Southern California ( USC ).
Sanchez grew up in a well-disciplined और athletic family.
in the eighth grade, he began to play फ़ुटबॉल and learn the intricacies of the quarterback position, training साथ his पिता, Nick.
A well-regarded prospect, Sanchez committed to Southern कैलिफ़ोर्निया following his successful high school career in which he led उसके team to a championship शीर्षक during his फाइनल season.
At USC, Sanchez थी relegated as the backup quarterback दौरान his first three years हालांकि he rose to prominence due to his brief appearances on the field in 2007 due to injuries suffered by starting quarterback John David बूटी.
Sanchez also became popular within the जातियाँ due to उसके mexican-american विरासत.
Named the starter in 2008, Sanchez led USC to a 12–1 record और जीती the रोज़ Bowl against Penn State for जिससे Sanchez was awarded the सबसे Valuable Player award लिये his performance on offense.
Although अनेक considered him too inexperienced, सांचेज़ announced his इरादे to enter the 2009 NFL Draft.
He was चयनित by the Jets बाद they traded up with the Cleveland Browns, और was named the starting quarterback prior to the start of the season.
despite a subpar प्रदर्शन, सांचेज़ led the jets to the afc Championship Game, a losing effort to the Indianapolis Colts, बनने the fourth rookie quarterback in NFL इतिहास to जीत his first playoff game and the second to win two playoff games.
In उसके second season, Sanchez continued to develop और led the Jets to the playoffs and the team 's second consecutive AFC Championship Game where they narrowly lost to the Pittsburgh Steelers, 24–19.
साथ the win over the New England देशप्रेमी the सप्ताह prior, Sanchez tied four other quarterbacks for the second most post-season सड़क victories by a क्वार्टरबैक in NFL इतिहास.
In leading the Jets to two consecutive सम्मेलन championships, Sanchez joined quarterback Ben Roethlisberger as the only two quarterbacks in NFL history to पहुँचें the सम्मेलन championship in their first two seasons in the लीग.
The next two सीज़न would be a regression लिये दोनो the team and Sanchez as they failed to पहुँचें the playoffs.
Fans और media आलोचकों called for a struggling सांचेज़ to be benched.
He eventually was replaced towards the end of the 2012 season साथ ग्रेग McElroy.
पॉल एवेरी ( April 2, 1934december 10, 2000 ) was an American पुलिस reporter, best known for his कहानियां on the infamous serial कातिल known as the Zodiac, and बाद for उसके कार्य on the पेट्रीसिया Hearst kidnapping.
A छोटी submersible ac sump pump with a गार्डन hose connector
A sump pump is a pump used to हटाएँ water कि has संचित in a water collecting sump basin, commonly मिला in the basement of घरों.
The water may डालें via the perimeter नालों of a तहखाने waterproofing system, funneling into the basin or because of rain or natural ground जल, if the basement is नीचे the water तालिका स्तर.
sump pumps are used where basement flooding happens regularly and to remedy dampness where the जल table is above the foundation of a home.
sump पंपों send water दूर from a house to any place where it is no longer समस्यापूर्ण, such as a municipal storm drain or a dry well.
Pumps may discharge to the sanitary sewer in older संस्थापना.
Once माना acceptable, this practice may now violate the plumbing कोड or municipal bylaws, because it can overwhelm the municipal sewage treatment system.
municipalities urge homeowners to disconnect and reroute sump pump discharge away इससे sanitary sewers.
Fines may be imposed लिये noncompliance.
अनेक homeowners have inherited उनके sump pump configurations and do नहीं realize that the pump discharges to the sewer.
If the discharge is fed to a laundry sink in the basement, it 's संभावित going to the sewer.
Usually hardwired into a home 's electrical system, sump पंपों may have a battery backup.
the home 's pressurized जल supply powers some पंपों, eliminating the need लिये electricity at the expense of using potable water, potentially making them अधिक महंगी to operate than विद्युत पंपों and बनाना an अतिरिक्त जल disposal problem.
Since a sump basin may overflow if not constantly pumped, a backup system is important for cases when the main power is out for prolonged अवधि of time, as दौरान a कठोर तूफ़ान.
वहीँ हैं generally दो प्रकार of sump पंपों — pedestal और submersible.
The pedestal pump 's motor is आरोहित ऊपर the sump, जहाँ it is more easily serviced, but is also अधिक conspicuous.
the pump impeller is driven by a long, vertical एक्सटेंशन shaft and the impeller is in a scroll housing in the आधार of the pump.
The submersible pump is entirely mounted अंदर the sump, और is specially sealed to prevent electrical short circuits.
Sump pump systems हैं also utilized in औद्योगिक और commercial applications to control water table -related problems in सतह soil.
An artesian aquifer or periodic ऊँची water table हालात can cause the ground to become unstable due to water saturation.
As long as the pump कृत्यों, the surface soil होगा remain stable.
These sumps are typically ten feet in depth or अधिक ; lined with corrugated metal pipe कि contains perforations or drain holes throughout.
They may include electronic control systems with विज़ुअल and audible alarms और are प्रायः covered to prevent debris and पशु from falling in.
Bleeding Kansas, Bloody Kansas or the Border War, was a श्रेणी of violent राजनैतिक confrontations involving anti-slavery free-staters and pro-slavery `` Border ruffian `` elements, कि took place in the Kansas Territory and the neighboring towns of मिसौरी between 1854 और 1861.
at the दिल of the conflict was the question of whether Kansas would enter the Union as a फ़्री राज्य or slave state.
as such, Bleeding Kansas was a proxy युद्ध between northerners and Southerners over the issue of slavery in the United States.
The term `` Bleeding Kansas '' was coined by Horace Greeley of the नई York Tribune ; the events it encompasses directly presaged the American Civil युद्ध.
Congress had long struggled to balance the रूचि of pro-slavery forces and anti-slavery forces.
The events later ज्ञात as bleeding Kansas were set into गति by the kansas–nebraska अधिनियम of 1854, which nullified the Missouri Compromise और बजाय implemented the concept of popular sovereignty.
An ostensibly democratic idea, popular प्रभुता stated कि the निवासियों of each territory or state should decide whether it would be a free or slave state ; however, this resulted in आव्रजन en masse to Kansas by activists from both sides.
At एक point, Kansas था two separate governments, each with its अपना constitution, हालांकि only एक थी federally recognized.
on जनवरी 29, 1861, Kansas was admitted to the संघ as a free state, कम than three months before the Battle of Fort sumter जिससे began the Civil War.
Benzene is an सशुल्क रासायनिक compound with the आणविक formula c6 H|Hydrogen|H6.
Its molecule is composed of 6 carbon atoms joined in a ring, साथ 1 हाइड्रोजन atom संलग्न to प्रत्येक carbon atom.
Because its molecules contain only कार्बन and हाइड्रोजन atoms, benzene is classed as a hydrocarbon.
बेंजीन is a प्राकृतिक constituent of crude oil, और is एक of the सबसे basic petrochemicals.
बेंजीन is an aromatic हाइड्रोकार्बन and the second [ n ] - annulene ( [ 6 ] -annulene ), a चक्रीय hydrocarbon with a continuous pi बंध.
it is sometimes abbreviated Ph –h. Benzene is a colorless and highly flammable liquid with a मीठी smell.
It is मुख्यतः used as a precursor to heavy chemicals, such as ethylbenzene and cumene, जिससे are उत्पादित on a billion किलोग्राम scale.
Because it has a high octane क्रमांक, it is an important component of गैसोलीन, composing a few percent of its mass.
सबसे non-industrial applications have been limited by benzene 's carcinogenicity.
Giovanni Virginio Schiaparelli ( ; 14 March 1835 – 4 July 1910 ) was an इतालवी astronomer and विज्ञान historian.
वी homebrew refers to the reuse of निन्टेंडो 's Wii खेल console to चलाएं software that रै not been प्राधिकृत by Nintendo.
it achieves this by defeating the Wii 's copy protection और कोड signing उपायों.
In more general terms, Wii homebrew refers to the use of the वी 's hardware, accessories and software for purposes outside those intended by the manufacturer.
Original प्रयत्न focused on using the वी रिमोट as a pointing यंत्र on other operating systems, or running web-based games in the built-in web browser.
Subsequent developments in games exploits, such as the `` गोधूलि hack ``, `` bannerbomb '' और its later incarnation `` letterbomb '', `` Smash Stack '', `` Indiana pwns '', `` yu-gi-owned '', `` bathaxx '', and `` Return of the Jodi '', बना installing the `` Homebrew Channel `` possible.
Hadley ( right ) discussing the 2006 Israel-Lebanon crisis साथ बुश and Rice.
Stephen जॉन Hadley ( born फ़रवरी 13, 1947 ) was the 21st U.S. सहायक to the President for नेशनल Security Affairs ( commonly referred as National Security Advisor ), serving अंतर्गत President George W. Bush.
Take identical growing plants और give उर्वरक to half of उन्हें.
If there are differences between the fertilized plant समूह and the unfertilized `` कंट्रोल '' समूह, ये differences may be due to the fertilizer.
A scientific कंट्रोल is an experiment or observation designed to minimize the effects of variables अन्य than the सिंगल स्वतंत्र परिवर्तनीय.
This increases the reliability of the परिणाम, often through a comparison between control measurements and the other माप.
Scientific नियंत्रण हैं a भाग of the scientific विधि.
लिये उदाहरण, दौरान ड्रग testing, scientists will कोशिश to control two समूह to keep them as identical as possible, then allow एक group to try the drug.
Another example might be परीक्षण संयंत्र fertilizer by giving it to तभी हाफ the plants in a garden : the पौधे that receive no उर्वरक are the कंट्रोल group, because वे establish the baseline level of growth कि the fertilizer-treated पौधे will be compared against.
बगैर a control group, the experiment can not determine whether the fertilizer-treated plants grow अधिक than they would have if untreated.
Ideally, all variables in an प्रयोग will be नियंत्रित ( accounted लिये by the कंट्रोल माप ) और none होगा be uncontrolled.
in ऐसे an experiment, if all the नियंत्रण work as expected, it is possible to conclude that the experiment is working as intended और that the परिणाम of the experiment are due to the effect of the variable being tested.
That is, scientific नियंत्रण allow an investigator to make a claim like `` Two परिस्थितियों यहूद identical until factor x occurred.
Since factor X is the only difference between the two situations, the new निष्कर्ष थी caused by factor X. ''
< < रासायनिक तत्व आंकड़ा references
John एडम्स ( October 30, 1735 ( O.S. October 19, 1735 ) – July 4, 1826 ) was the second president of the संयुक्त राज्य ( 1797–1801 ), having पहले परोसा as the first वाइस president of the संयुक्त States.
an अमरीकी Founding Father, he was a statesman, राजनयिक, और a leading advocate of अमरीकी स्वतंत्रता from ग्रेट Britain.
खूब शिक्षित, he was an Enlightenment राजनैतिक theorist who promoted republicanism और लिखा prolifically परिचय his प्रायः seminal ideas, दोनो in प्रकाशित works और in letters to his wife and key adviser अबीगैल as well as to other Founding Fathers.
Adams आए to prominence in the early stages of the American क्रान्ति.
A वकील and public figure in Boston, as a delegate from Massachusetts to the महाद्वीपीय Congress, he played a leading भूमिका in persuading कॉंग्रेस to declare स्वतंत्रता.
he assisted थामस Jefferson in drafting the Declaration of स्वतंत्रता in 1776, और was इसके primary एडवोकेट in the Congress.
Later, as a diplomat in यूरोपीय, he helped negotiate the eventual सलाम सन्धि with ग्रेट Britain, and was जिम्मेदार for obtaining vital governmental लोन from एम्सटर्डम bankers.
A राजनैतिक theorist और historian, Adams largely wrote the Massachusetts Constitution in 1780, which साथ with his earlier Thoughts on Government, influenced American political thought.
One of his महानतम roles was as a judge of character : in 1775, he nominated George Washington to be commander-in-chief, and 25 सालो बाद nominated John मार्शल to be मुख्य इंसाफ of the United States.
Adams ' revolutionary credentials secured him दो terms as George Washington 's vice president and his अपना चुनाव in 1796 as the second president.
During his one term, he encountered ferocious हमले by the Jeffersonian republicans, as well as the dominant गुट in his own federalist Party led by his bitter enemy सिकंदर Hamilton.
एडम्स हस्ताक्षरित the controversial Alien और राजद्रोह Acts, and built up the फौज और navy especially in the face of an undeclared naval war ( called the `` quasi-war `` ) with France, 1798–1800.
The प्रमुख accomplishment of his presidency was his peaceful resolution of the विरोध in the face of हैमिल्टन 's opposition.
In 1800, Adams was पराजित for re-election by Thomas Jefferson and retired to Massachusetts.
He later resumed उसके friendship with Jefferson.
he and उसके बीवी, Abigail Adams, founded an संपन्नता परिवार लकीर of राजनेता, diplomats, and इतिहासकारों अभी referred to as the Adams political family.
Adams was the father of जॉन Quincy Adams, the sixth President of the United States.
His उपलब्धियाँ have received greater recognition in modern times, हालांकि उसके योगदान were not initially as celebrated as those of other Founders.
Adams थी the first U.S. president to reside in the building कि eventually became known as the White House.
A Watt steam इंजन.
The steam इंजन, fuelled primarily by coal, propelled the Industrial क्रान्ति in Great Britain and the world.
the Industrial क्रान्ति was the transition to नई manufacturing processes that occurred in the काल from about 1760 to कुछ समय between 1820 and 1840.
This transition शामिल going from हाथ production विधि to machines, new chemical निर्माण and iron production processes, improved efficiency of जल power, the increasing use of भाप power and development of machine टूल्स.
the परिवर्तन also included the change from wood and other bio-fuels to कोयले.
The Industrial revolution began in Britain and within a few decades spread to Western यूरोपीय और the संयुक्त States.
The Industrial क्रान्ति marks a प्रमुख turning point in history ; almost every पहलू of रोज़ जीवन थी बहकावे in कुछ रास्ता.
सबसे notably, औसत income and population began to प्रदर्शनी unprecedented sustained growth.
In the words of नोबेल पुरस्कार winner Robert E. Lucas, jr., `` लिये the first time in history, the living standards of the masses of ordinary लोगों have begun to undergo sustained growth... nothing remotely like this economic बर्ताव is mentioned by the शास्त्रीय अर्थशास्त्रियों, even as a theoretical सम्भावना. ''
विलियम घंटी Scott आयरन and Coal, 1855-60
The period of समय covered by the Industrial Revolution varies with different historians.
Eric Hobsbawm held that it 'broke out ' in Britain in the 1780s और was not fully felt until the 1830s or 1840s, while T. S. Ashton आयोजित कि it occurred roughly between 1760 and 1830.
Some 20th-century historians ऐसे as John clapham and निकोलस Crafts have argued that the प्रक्रम of economic and सोशल बदलें took place gradually and the term क्रान्ति is a misnomer.
This is still a subject of बहस among इतिहासकारों.
GDP प्रति capita was broadly stable पहले the औद्योगिक Revolution and the emergence of the modern capitalist economy.
the औद्योगिक क्रान्ति began an era of per-capita आर्थिक growth in capitalist economies.
Economic इतिहासकारों are in agreement that the onset of the Industrial Revolution is the most important इवेंट in the इतिहास of humanity since the domestication of animals and plants.
The First Industrial क्रान्ति evolved into the Second औद्योगिक Revolution in the परिवर्तन years between 1840 and 1870, when technological and economic प्रगति gained आवेग साथ the increasing adoption of steam-powered boats, जहाजों and रेल, the विशाल scale manufacture of machine tools and the increasing use of steam संचालित factories.
Juliet AnnMarie Huddy ( born सितंबर 27, 1969 ), is an American टेलीविज़न news रिपोर्टर, currently appearing on Fox न्यूज Channel.
This list ranks u.S. शहरों by land क्षेत्रफल ( not including लाशें of जल ).
Total क्षेत्रों ( including water ) are also दिए, लकिन note कि, जब ranked by total area, a number of coastal cities appear disproportionately `` larger ''.
San Francisco is an extreme example ; water makes up nearly 80 % of इसके कुल area of 232 square मील ( 601 km2 ).
Note also that in many cases a city may be geographically large primarily because its नगरपालिका government रै merged साथ the government of the surrounding county.
In some cases the county no longer exists, while in अन्य the व्यवस्था has formed a संचित city–county ( or city- borough in अलास्का, or city- मोहल्ला in louisiana ).
ये हैं दिखाया in bold in the list below ( लकिन नहीं all उदाहरण may be indicated ).
** ये हैं independent cities, meaning वे हैं नहीं a part of any county.
the large intestine ( or bowel, कोलन ) is the पिछला part of the digestive प्रणाली in vertebrate animals.
Its function is to absorb water from the remaining indigestible food पदार्थ, and then to pass useless waste सामग्री from the देह.
This article is primarily about the human gut, though the information परिचय its processes are directly लागू to most mammals.
The large intestine consists of the cecum, rectum और anal canal.
It starts in the right iliac region of the pelvis, just at or नीचे the सही waist, where it is joined to the bottom end of the small intestine.
From here it continues up the abdomen, then across the width of the abdominal गुहा, and then it turns down, continuing to इसके endpoint at the anus.
The large intestine is about long, which is about one-fifth of the whole length of the intestinal कनाल.
In terminologia Anatomica the large आंत includes the cecum, colon, rectum, and anal canal.
However, some स्त्रोत exclude the गुदा कनाल.
the ग्रीन Bay Packers are an American football टोली based in Green Bay, विस्कॉन्सिन.
वे are members of the उत्तर Division of the National Football Conference ( NFC ) in the नेशनल Football League ( एनएफएल ).
Green खाड़ी is the third-oldest franchise in the NFL, having been organized और playing in 1919.
The Packers हैं the तभी non-profit, community-owned प्रमुख league professional sports team in the United States.
The Packers are the पिछला vestige of `` छोटी कस्बा teams '' that यहूद एकबार आम in the NFL दौरान the 1920s and 1930s.
Founded in 1919 by Earl `` घुंघराले '' lambeau ( hence the name lambeau Field on which the team plays ) and जार्ज Whitney Calhoun, the Green Bay पैकर्स can trace their lineage to अन्य semi-professional teams in Green Bay डेटिंग back to 1896.
In 1919 और 1920 the Packers competed as a semi-professional football team विरूद्ध clubs from around Wisconsin और the मिडवेस्ट.
They joined the American Professional Football संघ ( APFA ) in 1921, the forerunner to कया is known आज as the National फ़ुटबॉल लीग ( एनएफएल ).
Although Green Bay is the last NFL `` छोटी town '' team, its local fan आधार और media extends into nearby Milwaukee ; the टोली also निभाई selected घर games there between 1933 और 1994.
The ग्रीन Bay पैकर्स have won 13 league championships ( more than any other टोली in the NFL ), सहित नौ NFL championships prior to the Super Bowl era और four सुपर Bowl victories —in 1967 ( Super Bowl i ), 1968 ( Super Bowl II ), 1997 ( सुपर कटोरी XXXI ) and 2011 ( सुपर Bowl XLV ).
the Packers have long-standing, bitter rivalries with their nfc North ( formerly the NFC Central ) opponents, the Chicago Bears, Minnesota Vikings and the Detroit Lions.
The Bears-Packers फंसने is one of the oldest rivalries in एनएफएल history, डेटिंग back to 1921.
The San Fernando Valley ( locally known as `` The Valley '' ) is an urbanized घाटी located in the लॉस Angeles metropolitan क्षेत्रफल of दक्षिणी California, United States, defined by the mountains of the अनुप्रस्थ सीमाएँ circling it.
Home to 1.76 million people, it झूठ north of the larger and more populous Los Angeles जलाशय.
Nearly two thirds of the Valley 's जमीन क्षेत्रफल is part of the City of लॉस Angeles.
The अन्य incorporated cities in the valley हैं ग्लेनडेल, Burbank, San फर्नांडो, Hidden Hills और calabasas.
सैन Fernando Valley, Los एंजिल्स
The exterior of the current संसार of Coca-Cola at pemberton Place.
The World of Coca-Cola, is a स्थाई प्रदर्शनी featuring the history of the Coca-Cola Company.
इसके well-known advertising as well as a host of entertainment areas and attractions, and is located in Atlanta, Georgia ( where the company 's headquarters are located ) at Pemberton Place ( नामित in सम्मान of John Pemberton, the inventor of Coca-Cola ).
as भाग of जॉर्जिया 's संग्रहालय.
the complex स्तिथ across Baker Street इससे centennial ओलम्पिक Park कि is home to the Georgia Aquarium and भविष्य बीच for Civil & Human Rights.
it opened to the public on May 24, 2007, relocating इससे और replacing the original प्रदर्शनी.
pretties is a 2005 विज्ञान fiction novel and the second book of the Uglies Trilogy written by स्कॉट westerfeld.
It is नियत in a future dystopian world in which everyone is turned `` Pretty '' by चरम cosmetic surgery upon reaching age 16.
It tells the story of किशोरावस्था Tally Youngblood who rebels against society 's enforced conformity.
Susan Leigh Vaughan स्मिथ ( born September 26, 1971 ) is an अमरीकी woman sentenced to life in थाना for murdering her children.
Born in Union, South कैरोलिना, और a former छात्र of the University of South Carolina Union, she was convicted on July 22, 1995 for murdering her two बेटे, 3-year-old Michael Daniel Smith, born October 10, 1991, and 14-month-old Alexander Tyler Smith, born August 5, 1993.
the मामला gained worldwide attention shortly after it developed, due to उसके claiming कि a ब्लैक man चुराया her car and kidnapped her sons.
She बाद claimed that she suffered इससे mental health issues that impaired उसके judgment.
according to the दक्षिण Carolina Department of Corrections, स्मिथ होगा be eligible for पैरोल on November 4, 2024, after serving a न्यूनतम of thirty years.
She is incarcerated at South Carolina 's Leath Correctional Institution, निकट greenwood.
Mount McKinley ( also known as Denali लिया from the Inuit Koyukon Athabaskan भाषा अर्थ `` The Great One '' ) is the highest mountain peak in the संयुक्त States and in North America with a summit elevation of above समुद्र level.
at some, the base to peak वृद्धि is माना the largest of any mountain situated entirely above समुद्र स्तर.
Measured by topographic prominence, it is the third most prominent peak after Mount Everest and अकोंकागुआ.
स्तिथ in the अलास्का दायरा in the interior of us state of Alaska, it is the centerpiece of Denali National Park and Preserve.
The पहला यूरोपीय to document sighting the पहाड़ was जार्ज वैंकूवर in 1794.
in 1903, James wickersham recorded the first attempt at climbing McKinley which was unsuccessful.
in 1906, Frederick Cook claimed the first ascent which was later proven to be गलत.
The पहला verifiable ascent to mckinley 's summit थी achieved on June 7, 1913 by climbers Hudson Stuck, Harry Karstens, Walter Harper, and Robert टैटम.
In 1951, Bradford Washburn pioneered the वेस्ट Buttress route considered to be the safest and easiest रूट and इसलिए the most popular currently in use.
The Honda s600 is an ऑटोमोबाइल manufactured by Honda.
It was launched in March 1964.
Available as a roadster – bearing strong resemblance to the Honda s500 – and as a fastback coupé – introduced in March 1965 – the S600 थी the पहला Honda available in दो trim levels.
दौरान इसके उत्पादन चलाएं up to 1966, the model styling होता remain pretty much the same, with the most notable परिवर्तन coming to the front grille, bumper, and headlights.
Powered by a dohc, water-cooled, four-cylinder इनलाइन engine साथ चार carburetors, the engine क्षमता was increased to 606 cc from the S500 's 531 cc.
the engine उत्पादित at 8,500 rpm and had a शीर्ष speed of.
साथ the convertible weighing in at mere, the extra sheet metal of the कूप तभी added to the overall weight.
Suspension was स्वतंत्र with sealed रोलर chain drive to प्रत्येक पश्च wheel.
The S600 was the first mass marketed Honda car.
पहला offered तभी in right-hand ड्राइव, it soon became उपलब्धियाँ in left-hand drive to अपील to निर्यात बाज़ार.
There were a few pre-production s500s manufactured in left हाथ drive, two or तीन even being दिखाया in some early बिक्री विवरणिका.
Both the S600 roadster और coupé यहूद उपलब्धियाँ in standard trim and a खास, upgraded पैकेज called the sm600 which included, among अन्य items, special paint colors, exclusive badging, a मानक radio and speaker, a special antenna in the passenger side sun छज्जा, standard reversing lights, a standard सिगरेट हल्का, a मानक heater, better cushioned seats, and a detachable seat track for जल्दी हटाना of the passenger seat.
Honda built 3,912 roadsters in 1964, साथ production climbing to 7,261 convertibles and 1,519 coupes in 1965.
उत्पादन dropped off in 1966 ( as वे were shifting to the S800 ) with only 111 roadsters and 281 coupes, giving tallies of 11,284 convertibles and 1,800 coupes लिये the 3 year span.
everybody Hates Chris is an अमरीकी टेलीविज़न period sitcom that depicts the teenage experiences of comedian क्रिस Rock ( who is भी the narrator ) while growing up in the bedford-stuyvesant neighborhood of ब्रुकलीन, New यॉर्क.
the show is set between 1983 और 1987 ; however, Rock खुद was a teenager between 1978 और 1983.
चट्टान grew up साथ a boy नामित Kenny montero, whom he has प्रायः referred to as the inspiration for a lot of the episodes.
In many interviews, Rock has वर्णित Kenny as the reason he got into comedy in the first place.
The show 's title parodies the CBS sitcom Everybody Loves Raymond.
Rock stated : `` Everybody Loves रेमंड लकिन everybody Hates क्रिस ! ``.
The show 's lead अभिनेताओं हैं टायलर जेम्स Williams, Terry क्रू, tichina Arnold, Tequan Richmond, imani Hakim, and Vincent Martella.
In Fall 2008, the The cw moved everybody hates क्रिस and The Game to the Friday रात्रि death स्लॉट.
The fourth season of the series premiered शुक्रवार, October 3, 2008, at 8:00PM Eastern/7:00PM Central.
On May 21, 2009, the CW announced कि it था cancelled Everybody hates क्रिस.
prior to this, executive producer Chris Rock announced that the end of season 4 matched up साथ his own past—dropping out of ऊँची स्कूल to become a comedian—and कि it was time to end the दिखाएँ.
Pleural effusion is excess fluid that accumulates between the two pleural परतों, the fluid-filled space that surrounds the lungs.
excessive amounts of such द्रव can impair श्वास by limiting the expansion of the lungs during ventilation.
Beowulf ( ; in Old English or ) is the conventional title of an बूढ़ा English heroic epic poem consisting of 3182 alliterative long lines, set in Scandinavia, commonly cited as एक of the most important works of Anglo-Saxon literature.
it survives in a सिंगल manuscript ज्ञात as the Nowell Codex.
Its composition by an बेनाम Anglo-Saxon poet is दिनाँक between the 8th और the जल्दी 11th सदी.
in 1731, the manuscript थी badly damaged by a fire that swept through a building housing a collection of मध्यकालीन पांडुलिपियों assembled by Sir Robert ब्रूस Cotton.
The कविता fell into अस्पष्टता लिये दशकों, and इसके existence did not become widely known again जबतक it was printed in 1815 in an edition prepared by the icelandic-danish scholar grímur Jónsson Thorkelin.
In the poem, Beowulf, a hero of the Geats in Scandinavia, आता to the help of Hroðgar, the king of the danes, whose मीड hall ( in heorot ) has महरूम under attack by a दानव ज्ञात as Grendel.
बाद बियोवुल्फ़ जानबूझ उसे, Grendel 's mother attacks the hall and is then also defeated.
विजयी, बियोवुल्फ़ goes home to Geatland in Sweden and later becomes king of the Geats.
After a काल of पचास years has passed, Beowulf defeats a dragon, लकिन is fatally wounded in the battle.
After his मौत, उसके attendants bury him in a tumulus, a दफ़न mound, in Geatland.
shem हैम and Japheth by James Tissot 1904.
Shem ( ; sēm ; Arabic : Sām ; Ge'ez : ሴም, Sēm ; `` renown ; prosperity ; name '' ) थी one of the sons of Noah in the यहूदी Bible as खूब as in Islamic literature.
He is most popularly regarded as the eldest son, though some परंपराओं regard him as the दूसरी son.
Genesis 10:21 refers to सापेक्ष ages of Shem and his brother Japheth, लकिन with sufficient ambiguity to have yielded different अनुवाद.
The श्लोक is translated in the KJV as `` Unto Shem also, the father of सब the children of Eber, the brother of japheth the elder, even to him were children born. ``.
however, the New अमरीकी Standard Bible gives, `` Also to Shem, the पिता of all the children of Eber, and the older brother of Japheth, children यहूद born. ''
Genesis 11:10 records कि Shem was स्टिल 100 years old at the जनम of arphaxad, ( but nearly 101 - see Chronology नोट, ) two years after the flood, बनाना उसे मुश्किल 99 at the time the बाढ़ began ; और that he lived for another 500 years after इस, making his age at death 600 years.
the children of Shem यहूद ईलम, Asshur, Arphaxad, Lud, and Aram, in addition to बेटियां.
Abraham, the patriarch of the Hebrews और Arabs, was one of the descendants of arphaxad.
इस्लामी literature describes Shem as एक of the believing sons of Noah.
कुछ sources भी identify shem as a prophet in his own सही and कि he was the next नबी बाद उसके father.
In एक मुस्लिम लेजेंड, Shem was one of the people that God बना Jesus resurrect as a sign to the Children of इसराईल.
The 1st century इतिहासकार Flavius Josephus, among many अन्य, recounted the tradition कि these पाँच sons were the progenitors of the nations of ईलम, Assyria, Chaldea, Lydia, and सीरियाई, क्रमशः.
Semitic is still a commonly प्रयुक्त term for the सामीती भाषाएं, as a उपसमुच्चय of the Afro-Asiatic languages, denoting the common भाषाई heritage of Arabic, Aramaic, Akkadian, Ethiopic, Hebrew and Phoenician languages.
according to some Jewish traditions ( e.g., B. talmud Nedarim 32b ; उत्पत्ति Rabbah 46:7 ; उत्पत्ति Rabbah 56:10 ; Leviticus Rabbah 25:6 ; संख्याएँ Rabbah 4:8. ), Shem is believed to have been Melchizedek, King of सलेम whom Abraham is recorded to have met after the battle of the four kings.
In a few of the many extra-biblical sources कि describe him, shem is also credited with killing Nimrod, son of Cush.
Shem is mentioned in उत्पत्ति 5:32, 6:10 ; 7:13 ; 9:18,23,26-27 ; 10 ; 11:10 ; also in 1 Chronicles 1:4.
Geographic identifications of Flavius Josephus, c. 100 AD ; Japheth 's sons shown in red, हैम 's sons in blue, shem 's बेटे in green.
go Daddy or Go Daddy समूह Inc. is a privately held कम्पनी कि is primarily an internet डोमेन registrar and web hosting कम्पनी.
Go Daddy समूह inc. दायर for an IPO in 2006, but बाद canceled it, due to `` market uncertainties ''.
In जोड to domain registration and hosting go Daddy also बिकता e-business सम्बन्धित software और सेवाएं.
On June 24, 2011, The वॉल Street जर्नल reported that private-equity firms केकेआर and Silver झील Partners, along with a third investor, were nearing a सौदे to buy the कम्पनी for between $ 2–2.5 billion.
On July 1, 2011 go Daddy confirmed that KKR, Silver Lake Partners और Technology Crossover ventures था closed the deal.
हालांकि the purchase price was not officially announced it was reported to be $ 2.25 अरब, for 65 % of the company.
, Bob Parsons था ceded the CEO role of go Daddy to वारेन Adelman, who था been साथ the company for about 10 years.
the Andorran coat of arms at the andorran parliament.
अंडोरा ( ;, ), officially the Principality of अंडोरा ( ), also called the Principality of the घाटियों of Andorra, ( ), is a landlocked microstate in southwestern यूरोपीय, located in the पूर्वी Pyrenees mountains and bordered by Spain and France.
It is the sixth smallest nation in Europe, having an क्षेत्रफल of और an estimated जनसांख्यिकी of 85,000 in 2012.
Its capital, अंडोरा la Vella, is the highest capital city in यूरोपीय, at an elevation of above sea level.
The official language is कैटलन, हालांकि Spanish, Portuguese, and फ्रेंच are also commonly spoken.
Created under a charter in 988, the present Principality was formed in 1278.
It is known as a principality as it is a साम्राज्य headed by दो co-princes – the Bishop of urgell and the President of France.
Andorra is a prosperous देश mainly because of its tourism उद्योग, which सेवाएं an estimated 10.2 million विज़िटर annually, and also क्युकी of इसके status as a tax हेवन.
It is not a member of the यूरोपीय Union, but the euro is the de facto currency.
the लोगों of Andorra have the 4th उच्चतम human life expectancy in the world — 82 सालो at birth.
The George Washington University ( GW, gwu, or George वॉशिंगटन ) is a comprehensive निजी, coeducational research विश्वविद्यालयों स्तिथ in Washington, D.C..
it awards certificates, Bachelor डिग्री, Masters degrees, and PhDs across several dozen disciplines.
The विश्वविद्यालयों थी चार्टर्ड by an Act of Congress on फ़रवरी 9, 1821 as the Columbian कॉलेज in the District of कोलंबिया.
Kimberly Noel `` किम '' कार्दशियन ( born अक्तूबर 21, 1980 ) is an American socialite, टेलीविज़न personality और occasional actress.
in 2007, she gained notoriety as the subject of a sex tape कि subsequently resulted in a court awarding उसके $ 5 million ; बाद in that वही year, she and her family रोज़ to prominence with their E !
reality television series Keeping Up with the Kardashians, and its subsequent spin-offs, including Kourtney and Kim Take New York और कोर्टनी and Kim Take मियामी.
in 2010, कार्दशियन was the highest-earning reality स्टार, with estimated earnings of $ 6 million.
साथ बहनों Kourtney और Khloé, Kardashian co-owns the फ़ैशन boutique chain D-A-S-H.
वो has been involved in the उत्पादन of अनेक लाइनों of clothing और fragrances.
in अगस्त 2011, Kardashian शादीशुदा basketball player क्रिस Humphries in a widely publicized ceremony.
कि October, Kardashian filed लिये divorce following 72 days of marriage.
The move garnered significant backlash from the media, जो labeled it a `` publicity stunt ''.
After 536 दिनों, कार्दशियन और Humphries पहुँचे an undisclosed settlement at the Los एंजिल्स श्रेष्ठ अदालत, finalizing the तलाक in अप्रैल 2013.
aerial दृश्य of Oahu साथ freeways और highways, 3d computer-generated image
Fly-around दौरे of the island
Oahu ( ) or Oahu, known as `` The Gathering प्लेस '', is the third largest of the Hawaiian आइलैंड्स and the most populous of the islands in the u.S. state of Hawaii.
the state पूंजी, Honolulu, is on Oahu 's southeast coast.
Including small close-in offshore islands such as घाट Island and the islands in Kaneohe Bay and off the eastern ( windward ) coast, it has a कुल जमीन area of, बनाना it the 20th largest island in the संयुक्त राज्य.
in the महानतम dimension, this volcanic island is long and आरपार.
The length of the shoreline is.
the द्वीप is the result of two separate shield ज्वालामुखी : Waianae और Koolau, साथ a व्यापक `` valley '' or saddle ( the central Oahu मैदान ) between them.
the highest point is Mt. Ka'ala in the Waianae Range, rising to above sea level.
The base currency of the United राज्य is the U.S. डालर, और is printed on bills in denominations of $ 1, $ 2, $ 5, $ 10, $ 20, $ 50, and $ 100.
at one time, however, U.S. currency शामिल पाँच larger denominations.
Notes in the denominations of $ 500, $ 1,000, $ 5,000, and $ 10,000 were printed for सामान्य उपयोग, and a $ 100,000 note थी printed for certain आतंरिक transactions.
British Honduras was a British colony in Central America.
In 1981, the colony gained full independence, और is now the स्वतंत्र nation of Belize.
First colonised by Spaniards in the 17th सदी, the territory on the ईस्ट coast of Central America, south of Mexico, became a British crown colony in 1862.
In 1964, it became a self-governing उपनिवेश.
बेलीज़ became fully स्वतंत्र from the United Kingdom in 1981.
Belize was the last continental possession of the United किंगडम in the americas.
Spelt, भी ज्ञात as dinkel wheat, or hulled wheat, is an ancient species of गेहूं from the fifth millennium BC.
spelt थी an महत्वपूर्ण staple in parts of यूरोपीय from the Bronze Age to medieval times ; it अभी survives as a relict crop in Central यूरोपीय and northern Spain and रै found a new मार्केट as a health food.
Spelt is sometimes माना a subspecies of the closely सम्बन्धित प्रजाति आम wheat ( T. aestivum ), in which मामला its वनस्पति नाम is माना to be Triticum aestivum subsp. spelta.
It is a hexaploid wheat, which अर्थात् it has छह sets of chromosomes.
Sherlock Holmes ( or ) is a fictional detective created by author और physician Sir Arthur Conan Doyle.
a london-based `` परामर्श detective '' whose abilities किनारा on the fantastic, Holmes is famous लिये उसके astute लॉजिकल reasoning, his क्षमता to adopt almost any disguise, और उसके use of forensic science skills to solve difficult cases.
Holmes, जो first appeared in प्रकाशन in 1887, was featured in चार novels और 56 short stories.
The पहला अनोखा, A पढ़ाई in स्कारलेट, appeared in Beeton 's Christmas सालाना in 1887 और the second, The Sign of the चार, in Lippincott 's Monthly Magazine in 1890.
the character grew tremendously in popularity with the first series of short stories in The Strand पत्रिका, शुरूआत साथ A कांड in Bohemia in 1891 ; further series of short stories and two novels प्रकाशित in serial रूप appeared between then and 1927.
The कहानियां cover a period from around 1880 up to 1914.
सब but चार stories are narrated by Holmes 's friend and biographer, dr. जॉन H. Watson ; two are narrated by Holmes himself ( `` The Blanched Soldier `` and `` The शेर 's Mane `` ) and two others हैं written in the third व्यक्ति ( `` The Mazarin Stone `` और `` His पिछला Bow `` ).
In दो कहानियां ( `` The Musgrave Ritual `` and `` The Gloria Scott `` ), holmes tells Watson the main स्टोरी from his यादें, जबकि वाटसन becomes the narrator of the फ़्रेम story.
The first and fourth novels, A Study in Scarlet और The Valley of Fear, each include a long अंतराल of सर्वज्ञ narration recounting events unknown to either holmes or Watson.
The United States House of Representatives is one of the two houses of the United States Congress ( a bicameral legislature ).
It is अक्सर referred to as the हाउस.
The other house is the Senate.
the composition और powers of the House are established in Article एक of the United राज्य संविधान.
The प्रमुख power of the हाउस is to pass संघीय legislation कि affects the entire देश although its bills जरूर also be passed by the Senate and further agreed to by the u.S. अध्यक्ष पहले becoming law ( unless both the House और Senate re-pass the legislation with a two-thirds बहुमत in each कक्ष ).
The House has several exclusive शक्तियां : the power to initiate revenue bills, to impeach officials, and to elect the u.S. President in case there is no बहुमत in the Electoral College.
Each U.S. राज्य is represented in the House in proportion to its population but is entitled to at least one representative.
The most populous राज्य, California, currently रै 53 representatives.
the total क्रमांक of voting representatives is fixed by law at 435.
Each representative serves for a two-year term.
the Speaker of the United राज्य House of प्रतिनिधि, जो presides over the कक्ष, is elected by the members of the House, और is इसलिए traditionally the leader of the हाउस लोकतांत्रिक caucus or the हाउस रिपब्लिकन Conference, whichever party has अधिक मतदान सदस्यों.
The House meets in the south wing of the संयुक्त राज्य Capitol.
Jell-O is a brand name belonging to U.S.-based Kraft Foods for a number of gelatin desserts, including fruit gels, puddings and no-bake मलाई pies.
The brand 's popularity has led to it being used as a जेनेरिक पद for gelatin dessert आरपार the U.S. and Canada.
Kennywood is an amusement park located in वेस्ट Mifflin, Pennsylvania, a उपनगरीय of Pittsburgh.
the park पहला opened in 1898 as a `` ट्राली park '' attraction at the समाप्त of the Mellon family 's Monongahela Street Railway.
The पार्क थी खरीदा in 1906 by F. W. Henninger और एंड्रयू McSwigan और thus began the Kennywood Entertainment company कि has remained a closely आयोजित परिवार business for over 100 years.
This traditional amusement पार्क still has structures और rides डेटिंग back to इसके opening और the early 1900s.
साथ with rye Playland Park, it is one of only दो amusement पार्क सूचीबद्ध in the National Register of Historic Places.
Kennywood is owned by Kennywood Entertainment Company, जिससे जबतक December 2007 was a closely held family business स्वामित्व by the Henninger and McSwigan families.
Kennywood Entertainment is now operated by California-based Palace Entertainment, a subsidiary of Parques Reunidos, an अंतरराष्ट्रीय मनोरंजन park company based in Madrid, Spain.
Parque Reunidos is in turn a subsidiary of Candover Investments, an निवेश fund based in the UK.
A सोशल Security card issued by the रेलरोड रिटायरमेंट Board in 1943 to a अभी deceased व्यक्ति.
In the संयुक्त States, a Social सुरक्षा number ( SSN ) is a nine-digit number जारी to U.S. citizens, permanent निवासियों, and temporary ( working ) निवासियों under section 205 ( c ) ( 2 ) of the सोशल Security Act, codified as.
the number is जारी to an व्यक्तिगत by the Social Security प्रशासन, an independent agency of the United States सरकारी.
इसके प्राथमिक purpose is to track individuals for Social Security purposes.
A Social सुरक्षा number may be obtained by applying on Form SS-5, `` Application for A सोशल सुरक्षा Number Card ''.
minimalism describes आंदोलनों in विभिन्न फ़ॉर्म of आर्ट and design, विशेषकर visual art and म्यूज़िक, जहाँ the work is नियत out to expose the essence or identity of a subject through eliminating all non-essential forms, सुविधाएँ or अवधारणाओं.
Minimalism is any डिज़ाइन or style in जिससे the सरलतम और fewest elements are प्रयुक्त to create the अधिकतम effect.
As a specific movement in the कला it is identified with developments in post–world War II Western आर्ट, सबसे strongly with अमरीकी विज़ुअल कला in the 1960s and early 1970s.
Prominent artists associated साथ this movement include Donald judd, जॉन mccracken, Agnes Martin, डान flavin, Robert Morris, Anne Truitt, and Frank Stella.
It is rooted in the reductive aspects of Modernism, and is often interpreted as a reaction विरूद्ध Abstract expressionism and a bridge to Postminimal art practices.
The शर्तें have विस्तारित to encompass a movement in music which features repetition and iteration, as in the रचनाएं of La Monte Young, Terry Riley, Steve Reich, Philip Glass, and John Adams.
Minimalist compositions are sometimes known as systems music.
The term `` अल्पतम '' is often लागू colloquially to designate anything that is अतिरिक्त or stripped to its essentials.
It has भी been used to describe the plays and novels of सैमुएल Beckett, the films of Robert Bresson, the stories of Raymond Carver, and even the automobile designs of कोलिन Chapman.
The word was first प्रयुक्त in English in the early 20th सदी to describe the mensheviks.
In chemistry and physics, डाल्टन 's law ( also पुकारा डाल्टन 's law of partial pressures ) states कि the total pressure exerted by the mixture of non-reactive gases is equal to the sum of the आंशिक pressures of individual gases.
This empirical law थी observed by John डाल्टन in 1801 and is सम्बन्धित to the ideal gas कानून.
Mathematically, the pressure of a mixture of gases can be defined as the संकलन
or
जहाँ represent the partial pressure of each घटक.
It is assumed that the गैसों do not प्रतिक्रिया with each अन्य
where is the mole fraction of the i-th घटक in the कुल mixture of n components.
the relationship below provides a way to determine the आवाज़ आधारित concentration of कोई व्यक्तिगत गैसीय घटक
where is the concentration of the i-th component expressed in ppm.
Dalton 's विधि is नहीं exactly followed by real gases.
Those deviations are considerably विशाल at high pressures.
In such conditions, the volume occupied by the molecules can become significant compared to the free space between them.
In particular, the short औसत distances between molecules raises the intensity of intermolecular शक्तियां between gas अणुओं enough to substantially change the दबाव exerted by उन्हें.
Neither of those effects are considered by the ideal gas मॉडल.
इस is a सूची of the largest United राज्य colleges और universities by enrollment for कॉलेजों and universities in the United States.
What this list शामिलs:
कॉलेजों and विश्वविद्यालयों भीतर the United States
University systems if the system is चलाएं under a single administration
Enrollment is the sum of the headcount of undergraduate and graduate students
Enrollment is counted by the Integrated post-secondary Education System within the U.S. Department of Education.
Enrollment is the 12-month unduplicated headcount, indicating the क्रमांक of unique students who attended the university दौरान the year.
कया this list does not include:
कोई indication of how अनेक of the नामांकित students are full or part time ( e.g., some universities may have a high नामांकन, but have most विद्यार्थी enrolled in तभी a single class )
लिये other lists कि माप university enrollment, see the देखिए Also section नीचे.
`` Right Round '' is a सोंग performed by अमरीकी rapper flo rida, released as the सीसे सिंगल इससे his दूसरी studio album, R.O.O.T.S. ( 2009 ).
The song features guest vocals from kesha.
It was released to radio on 27 January 2009 and was digitally released on 10 फ़रवरी by पो Boy Entertainment and Atlantic Records.
The सोंग lyrically बोलती of Flo Rida 's जाल बॉल referee enthusiasm, while adapting the chorus of the 1984 मुर्दे or जिंदा सोंग `` You Spin Me Round ( जैसे a Record ) `` in its hook.
According to one of the song 's लेखक, the chorus refers to मौखिक sex.
Kesha contributed guest vocals to the song, but in the संयुक्त States, during the चलाएं atop the chart, kesha थी uncredited.
The सोंग received mostly negative समीक्षाएँ from आलोचकों, who claimed it थी kitsch और misogynistic.
However, it was a commercial success, reaching the शीर्ष टेन of the charts in nineteen countries worldwide.
in the United राज्य, it became Flo Rida 's दूसरी number-one सिंगल और broke the रिकार्ड लिये first-week बिक्री जब it थी released to डिजिटल retailers.
The single 's accompanying म्यूज़िक वीडियो was निर्देशित by Malcolm जोन्स and nominated लिये an MTV Video Music Award.
The song has been used in अनेक movies, ऐसे as the Hangover, The Ugly सच्चाई और the तेलुगु movie Pilla Zamindar.
in the movie Pitch Perfect, the सोंग is performed by the a cappella group the treblemakers.
The Chief Justice of the संयुक्त राज्य is the सिर of the संयुक्त States federal court system ( the judicial शाखा of the federal सरकारी of the United राज्य ) and the chief judge of the Supreme अदालत of the United राज्य.
The Chief Justice is एक of nine Supreme Court justices ; the other eight are the Associate justices of the Supreme Court of the United States.
इससे 1789 until 1866, the office was known as the Chief Justice of the परम् Court.
the Chief Justice is the highest judicial अधिकारी in the country, and acts as a chief administrative officer for the federal courts and as head of the न्यायिक Conference of the United States appoints the director of the Administrative Office of the United राज्य Courts.
the Chief Justice भी serves as a प्रवक्ता for the judicial branch.
the Chief Justice लीड the business of the Supreme अदालत.
He presides over मौखिक arguments before the court.
When the court renders an opinion, the Chief Justice—when in the majority—decides who writes the अदालत 's opinion.
the Chief Justice भी रै significant agenda-setting शक्ति over the court 's meetings.
In the मामला of an महाभियोग of a President of the United States, जिससे has occurred twice, the Chief इंसाफ presides over the विचारण in the Senate.
In modern tradition, the मुख्य इंसाफ has the ceremonial ड्यूटी of administering the oath of office of the President of the संयुक्त States.
the first Chief इंसाफ was John Jay.
The 17th and current Chief इंसाफ is John G. Roberts, Jr.
Caribou near prudhoe Bay, 1973
Prudhoe Bay आयल Field is a विशाल oil फ़ील्ड on अलास्का 's उत्तर Slope.
it is the largest oil field in both the संयुक्त States and in North अमेरिका, covering and originally containing लगभग of oil.
the amount of recoverable आयल in the field is अधिक than दोगुना that of the next largest फ़ील्ड in the संयुक्त राज्य, the East Texas oil field.
the फ़ील्ड is operated by BP ; partners are ExxonMobil and ConocoPhillips अलास्का.
Labor unions are legally recognized as प्रतिनिधि of मजदूर in many industries in the United राज्य.
उनके activity आज centers on collective bargaining over wages, benefits, और working conditions for their membership, and on representing उनके members in विवादों with प्रबन्धन over उल्लंघनों of contract provisions.
larger unions also typically engage in lobbying activities and electioneering at the राज्य and federal स्तर.
Most unions in America are aligned with one of दो larger छतरियाँ organizations : the AFL-CIO created in 1955, and the Change to जीत संघ which split from the afl-cio in 2005.
Both advocate policies और legislation on behalf of मजदूर in the United States and Canada, and लो an active role in politics.
The AFL-CIO is especially चिंतित with global trade मुद्दे.
In 2010, the percentage of मजदूर belonging to a union in the United States ( or कुल labor union `` घनत्व '' ) was 11.4 %, compared to 18.4 % in Germany, 27.5 % in Canada, और 70 % in Finland.
Union सदस्यता in the निजी sector has गिरे under 7 % — levels नहीं seen चूंकि 1932.
Unions allege that employer-incited opposition has contributed to this decline in membership.
The most prominent unions are among public sector employees ऐसे as teachers and police.
Members of unions are disproportionately older, पुरूष and निवासियों of the Northeast, the Midwest, और कैलिफ़ोर्निया.
संघ workers average 10-30 % higher pay than non-union in अमेरिका after controlling लिये individual, job, and मजदूर market characteristics.
हालांकि much smaller compared to उनके peak membership in the 1950s, अमरीकी unions remain a prominent political factor, both through mobilization of उनके own सदस्यताएँ and through coalitions with like-minded activist organizations around issues such as immigrant अधिकारों, trade policy, स्वास्थ्य care, and जीना wage campaigns.
To fight कथित employer anti-union programs, संघ are फिलहाल advocating new `` card check `` federal legislation that would require employers to bargain with a union if अधिक than 50 % of workers signed फ़ॉर्म, or `` cards, '' stating they wish to be represented by that union.
The वर्तमान procedure involves waiting 45 to 90 days लिये a federally पर्यवेक्षित secret-ballot कर्मचारी referendum on the subject.
The अर्थशास्त्री Joseph Stiglitz रै asserted that, `` Strong unions have helped to reduce inequality, whereas weaker unions have बना it easier for ceos, sometimes working with मार्केट शक्तियां कि वे have helped shape, to increase it. ''
the decline in unionization since WWII in the United States रै been associated with a pronounced वृद्धि in income और माल inequality.
a ईसाई Lacroix फ़ैशन boutique
a boutique is a small shopping outlet, विशेषकर one that specializes in elite and फैशनेबल items ऐसे as कपडे and jewelry.
the word is French for `` shop '', via Latin from यूनानी ἀποθήκη ( apothēkē ), `` storehouse ''.
the term entered into everyday अंग्रेज़ी उपयोग in the late 1960s जब, for a brief period, London was the centre of the fashion trade.
Carnaby Street और the Kings Road यहूद the focus of much media attention as home to the most fashionable boutiques of the era.
Now the ईस्ट of London has been regenerated और अधिक Boutiques pop up in fashionable areas, ऐसे as मीनार सेतु सड़क.
it can also refer to a specialised कड़ such as a boutique निवेश bank or बुटीक विधि firm.
The word is often प्रयुक्त to describe a प्रॉपर्टी in the independent section of the hotel market ( such as The rockwell in London ) in अनुक्रम to फर्क themselves from larger जंजीरों ( such as Hilton Hotels ).
In ऐसे मामले the establishments aim to convey the idea कि the operation is elite और highly specialised.
In the strictest sense of the word, boutiques would be one-of-a-kind but more generally speaking, some chains can be referred to as boutiques if they specialize in particular शैलियाँ.
Recently, the पद `` boutique '' has प्रारंभ being applied to normally-mass-market items कि are either niche or produced in intentionally छोटी numbers at very high कीमतें.
इस may be referred to as boutique निर्माण.
For उदाहरण, before the release of the वी, a Time Magazine article suggested that निन्टेंडो could become a `` boutique video-game कम्पनी '', producing games for niche audiences, rather than trying to compete directly with Microsoft and Sony.
in the traditional luxury- watch उद्योग scalfaro अंतरराष्ट्रीय is माना as the precursor in manufacturing और बिक्री of bespoke घड़ियाँ.
The Swiss company uses a highly flexible बुटीक manufacturing site, which allows producing small श्रेणी or even unique timepieces.
हालांकि कुछ boutiques specialise in hand-made items और other truly one-of-a-kind items, others बस produce t-shirts, स्टिकर, and other fashion accessories in artificially छोटी runs and बेचें them at unusually high prices.
in the early 1990s सेलिना started निर्माण her own line of women 's कपडे.
Opening two boutiques labeled as `` सेलिना Etc. Boutique & Salon '' एक located in Corpus Christi and एक located in सैन अंतोनियो, टेक्सास.
एक थी due to open in Monterrey, मैक्सिको, in 1995 but due to her death it was not खोली.
Around 1999 the San Antonio स्थान closed और the Corpus Christi location थी closed in 2009.
In लेट 1990s कुछ European खुदरा व्यापारियों developed the idea of tailoring a shop towards a lifestyle theme, in the form of `` अवधारणा स्टोर्स '', which specialised in cross-selling without using separate विभाग.
एक of the पहला concept stores was 10 कोरसो Como in मिलान, इटली followed by Colette in पेरिस and quartier 206 in बर्लिन.
Several well-known American जंजीरों such as Urban outfitters, D-A-S-H, and the Gap, Australian chain Billabong and, though कम common, रब & Taylor adapted to the अवधारणा store trend after 2000.
Navy Federal Credit Union ( or Navy Federal ) is a credit union headquartered in Vienna, Virginia, चार्टर्ड and regulated under the authority of the National Credit संघ प्रशासन ( NCUA ) of the u.S. संघीय government.
नेवी Federal is the largest natural member ( or खुदरा ) credit union in the संसार, both in asset size and in सदस्यता.
as of September 2012, Navy संघीय था over $ 50 billion USD in assets, and over 4 million members.
Stevland hardaway मॉरिस ( born may 13, 1950 as stevland Hardaway judkins ), known by उसके स्टेज name Stevie Wonder, is an American singer, songwriter, और multi-instrumentalist, a child prodigy who developed into one of the most creative musical figures of the लेट 20th century.
Blind since shortly बाद birth, Wonder हस्ताक्षरित with Motown 's Tamla label at the age of eleven, and continues to perform और record for motown to this दिन.
Among Wonder 's best known works हैं singles ऐसे as `` Superstition ``, `` सर Duke ``, `` You हैं the Sunshine of My Life `` and `` I Just पुकारा to Say I Love You ``.
Well known albums also include Talking Book, innervisions और Songs in the कुंजी of Life.
He has अंकित more than thirty u.S. top टेन hits and received twenty-two Grammy Awards, the most ever awarded to a male solo artist.
Wonder is also noted for his work as an activist for राजनैतिक causes, including उसके 1980 campaign to make Martin Luther किंग, Jr. 's birthday a अवकाश in the United States.
In 2009, Wonder was नामित a संयुक्त Nations Messenger of Peace.
In 2008, बिलबोर्ड पत्रिका released a सूची of the hot 100 All-Time शीर्ष Artists to celebrate the us singles chart 's पचासवें वर्षगांठ, साथ Wonder at number five.
By popular vote, स्टीवी was inducted into The SoulMusic Hall of Fame at SoulMusic.com in December 2012.
मनस्ताप ( इससे the Greek ψυχή `` psyche '', लिये mind/soul, और -ωσις `` -osis '', लिये abnormal कंडीशन or derangement ) refers to an abnormal condition of the mind, and is a जेनेरिक मनोरोग term लिये a mental राज्य often described as involving a `` घाटा of सम्पर्क साथ reality ``.
People कष्ट इससे psychosis हैं described as psychotic.
मनस्ताप is given to the more severe forms of psychiatric disorder, दौरान which hallucinations and delusions, सकल उत्तेजना or stupor and impaired इनसाइट may occur.
the term `` psychosis '' is very broad and can औसत anything from relatively normal aberrant experiences through to the complex and catatonic expressions of schizophrenia and द्विध्रुवी type 1 विकार.
moreover a wide variety of central nervous प्रणाली diseases, इससे दोनो external substances and internal physiologic illness, can produce symptoms of psychosis.
This led many professionals to कह कि मनस्ताप is not specific enough as a निदान पद.
despite this, `` psychosis '' is generally दिए to noticeable deficits in normal behavior ( negative लक्षण ) and अधिक commonly to diverse types of hallucinations or delusional beliefs ( e.g. grandiosity, delusions of persecution ).
Someone exhibiting very स्पष्ट signs may be described as `` frankly psychotic '', whereas एक exhibiting बहुत हल्का लक्षण could be classified in the category of an `` attenuated psychotic रिस्क syndrome ''.
an excess in dopaminergic signalling is traditionally linked to the positive symptoms of psychosis, especially those of schizophrenia.
This is विचार to occur through a mechanism of aberrant salience of environmental stimuli.
Many antipsychotic drugs accordingly target the dopamine system ; meta-analyses of placebo-controlled ट्रायल of these drugs, however, show either no significant difference between drug and placebo, or a very small effect आकार, suggesting that the pathophysiology of psychosis is much अधिक complex than an overactive dopamine system.
People experiencing psychosis may exhibit कुछ personality changes and thought disorder.
Depending on its गंभीरता, this may be accompanied by unusual or bizarre behavior, as well as परेशानी with social interaction और impairment in carrying आउट daily life क्रियाएँ.
General grievous is a fictional character in the Star युद्धों universe.
A recurring antagonist, he is the Supreme Commander of the Confederacy of स्वतंत्र Systems, a political faction of planetary systems waging युद्ध on the Galactic Republic.
Trained in सब seven forms of lightsaber combat by Count dooku, he is a ruthless and शक्तिशाली योद्धा devoted to जेडी 's destruction during the Clone Wars.
उसके acts of wanton आक्रामकता और high जेडी body count would prompt the आकाशगंगा to दे him the nickname the knightslayer.
Though the बदनाम Jedi slayer was the being in the galaxy during the Clone युद्धों who had killed the सबसे जेडी in single combat, he did not hesitate to flee इससे battles he knew he would lose.
आंकडे play an महत्वपूर्ण role in summarizing baseball performance और evaluating players in the sport.
Since the प्रवाह of a baseball game रै natural ब्रेक to it, and normally players act individually rather than performing in clusters, the खेल lends itself to आसान record-keeping and आंकडे.
Statistics have been kept for professional baseball since the creation of the National लीग और American League, now part of Major लीग बेसबॉल.
Many statistics are also available इससे outside of Major League Baseball, इससे leagues ऐसे as the National संघ of Professional आधार Ball Players और the Negro Leagues.
dorothea Lange 's Migrant Mother depicts destitute pea pickers in California, centering on Florence Owens Thompson, आयु 32, a माँ of seven children, in nipomo, कैलिफ़ोर्निया, March 1936.
यूएसए सालाना real GDP from 1910–60, with the years of the ग्रेट अवसाद ( 1929–1939 ) highlighted.
The unemployment rate in the US 1910–1960, with the years of the Great Depression ( 1929–1939 ) highlighted.
The Great Depression थी a कठोर worldwide economic अवसाद in the decade preceding World War II.
The timing of the Great Depression varied आरपार nations, but in सबसे countries it प्रारंभ in 1930 और lasted जबतक the late 1930s or middle 1940s.
It was the longest, most फैली, and deepest अवसाद of the 20th सदी.
In the 21st century, the Great Depression is commonly used as an उदाहरण of how दूर the world 's economy can decline.
The depression originated in the u.S., after the fall in stock कीमतें that began around September 4, 1929, and became worldwide न्यूज साथ the stock मार्केट क्रैश of October 29, 1929 ( ज्ञात as ब्लैक Tuesday ).
The ग्रेट Depression था devastating effects in countries rich and poor.
Personal income, tax revenue, profits and prices dropped, while international trade plunged by अधिक than 50 %.
बेरोजगारी in the U.S. rose to 25 %, and in some देशों रोज़ as high as 33 %.
Cities all around the world were hit hard, especially those निर्भर on heavy उद्योग.
Construction was virtually halted in अनेक countries.
Farming and rural areas suffered as क्रॉप prices गिरी by लगभग 60 %.
Facing plummeting demand with few alternate sources of कार्य, areas निर्भर on primary sector industries such as cash cropping, mining and लॉगिंग suffered the most.
Some economies प्रारंभ to रिकवर by the mid-1930s.
in many countries, the ऋणात्मक effects of the Great अवसाद lasted जबतक the समाप्त of संसार War II.
a असामयिक ventricular संकुचन ( पीवीसी ), भी known as a premature ventricular complex, ventricular असामयिक contraction ( or जटिल or देवालय ) ( vpc ), ventricular premature beat ( VPB ), or ventricular extrasystole ( VES ), is a relatively आम event where the heartbeat is initiated by Purkinje fibres in the ventricles rather than by the sinoatrial node, the normal heartbeat initiator.
The electrical events of the दिल detected by the electrocardiogram allow a पीवीसी to be easily distinguished from a normal heart beat.
A PVC may be perceived as a `` skipped beat `` or लगा as palpitations in the chest.
In a सामान्य heartbeat, the ventricles contract बाद the atria have helped to fill them by contracting ; in this way the ventricles can pump a maximized amount of रक्त both to the lungs और to the rest of the body.
In a PVC, the ventricles contract first and before the atria have optimally filled the ventricles with रक्त, which means that परिसंचरण is inefficient.
However, सिंगल ताल PVC arrhythmias do not usually पोज़ a danger और can be asymptomatic in healthy individuals.
William Gary Busey ( born जून 29, 1944 ), better known as Gary Busey, is an American फिल्मी and स्टेज कर्ता, और कलाकार.
He has appeared in a किस्में of films, including Lethal Weapon, Point Break, और Under घेरा, as well as guest appearances on Gunsmoke, Walker, Texas Ranger, विधि & अनुक्रम, and अनुगामी.
he थी nominated for an Academy Award for Best Actor in 1978 for उसके भूमिका in The Buddy Holly Story.
The Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement ( ACTA ), is a multinational सन्धि लिये the purpose of establishing international मानकों for बौद्धिक property अधिकारों प्रवर्तन.
the अनुबंध aims to establish an international legal फ्रेमवर्क for targeting नकली goods, जेनेरिक medicines and कापीराइट infringement on the Internet, और would create a नई governing body outside existing forums, such as the World Trade Organization, the World बौद्धिक प्रॉपर्टी Organization, or the संयुक्त Nations.
The अनुबंध थी हस्ताक्षरित in अक्तूबर 2011 by Australia, कनाडा, Japan, Morocco, नई जीलैंड, सिंगापुर, South कोरियाई, and the United States.
in 2012, मैक्सिको, the यूरोपीय Union and 22 countries जिससे हैं member राज्य of the European Union signed as well.
One signatory ( Japan ) रै ratified ( formally approved ) the agreement, which होता come into फ़ोर्स in countries that ratified it बाद ratification by छह countries.
समर्थक have described the agreement as a response to `` the increase in global trade of counterfeit goods and pirated copyright protected works ''.
Trades Unions representing workers in the music, film and TV उद्योग और विशाल intellectual property-based organizations such as the Motion Picture Association of America and फार्मास्युटिकल Research and निर्माताओं of America were active in the treaty 's development.
प्रतिद्वंद्वियों कह the सम्मेलन adversely affects fundamental rights including freedom of expression and privacy.
ACTA रै also been criticised by Doctors Without Borders for endangering access to दवाइयाँ in developing देशों.
The secret प्रकृति of negotiations has excluded सिविल society समूह, developing countries and the general public from the agreement 's negotiation process and it रै been described as policy laundering by critics including the इलेक्ट्रॉनिक Frontier Foundation और the Entertainment Consumers संघ.
The signature of the EU and many of इसके member राज्य resulted in the resignation in विरोध of the यूरोपीय Parliament 's appointed मुख्य investigator, rapporteur Kader Arif, as well as फैली protests across Europe.
In 2012 the newly-appointed rapporteur, अंग्रेजों MEP दाउद Martin, recommended विरूद्ध the treaty, stating : `` The intended लाभ of this international agreement are far outweighed by the potential threats to civil liberties ''.
On 4 July 2012, the European पार्लियामेंट rejected the agreement in plenary session, with 478 voting विरूद्ध the treaty, 39 in favour और 165 MEPs abstaining.
FAW semi-trailer truck in China
Tractor साथ side dump trailer semi-trailer
A tractor with an auto-transport semi-trailer.
Semi-trailer truck with sleeper पीछे the cab.
A semi-trailer ट्रक is an articulated vehicle that consists of a towing engine, known as a tractor in the United States and ट्रक in अनेक other places, attached to one or more semi-trailers to carry भाड़ा.
It is also ज्ञात as a transport in कनाडा, prime mover in Australia, semi, tractor-trailer, truck and trailer, transfer ट्रक, 18-wheeler, mack truck, बिग रिग in the संयुक्त States, or artic, short for articulated lorry, in Britain और Ireland.
A semi-trailer करता नहीं trail completely behind the towing vehicle, but is attached at a point कि is बस आगे of the rear-most धुरी of the towing unit.
This is किया so that a fraction of the weight of the trailer is carried by the prime mover.
This arrangement means कि both ट्रैक्टर and semi-trailer will have a distinctly different design than a rigid truck and ट्रेलर.
the पिट्सबर्ग Steelers are a professional फ़ुटबॉल टोली आधारित in पिट्सबर्ग, Pennsylvania.
the team currently belongs to the उत्तर प्रभाग of the American फ़ुटबॉल Conference ( AFC ) in the नेशनल Football League ( NFL ).
Founded in, the Steelers are the oldest मताधिकार in the afc.
Pittsburgh has won more Super कटोरी titles ( six ), won more AFC Championship Games ( eight ) and played in ( fifteen ) and hosted more ( eleven ) conference championship games than any अन्य AFC or NFC टोली.
The Steelers share the record लिये सबसे Super Bowl appearances with the डलास Cowboys ( आठ ).
The Steelers won उनके most हाल championship, Super Bowl XLIII, on फ़रवरी 1, 2009.
the Steelers were founded as the Pittsburgh Pirates on जुलाई 8, 1933, by Art Rooney, लेने its original name from the बेसबॉल team of the वही नाम, as was common अभ्यास for NFL teams to do at the time.
The ownership of the स्टीलर्स has remained within the Rooney family since its founding.
The current owner is Art 's बेटे, Dan Rooney, who रै given much कंट्रोल of the franchise to his son Art रूनी II.
long एक of the एनएफएल 's flagship teams, the Steelers आनंद a large, widespread fanbase nicknamed Steeler स्वदेश.
The Steelers currently खेल their home games at Heinz Field on Pittsburgh 's North Side in the North Shore neighborhood, which also होस्ट the University of Pittsburgh Panthers.
निर्मित in 2001, the स्टेडियम replaced तीन Rivers Stadium which hosted the Steelers for 31 seasons.
prior to Three नदियाँ, the Steelers था played their games in Pitt स्टेडियम और फोर्ब्स Field.
तीन अलग kinds of wheat और rye flour
Flour is a चूर्ण which is made by grinding cereal grains, or other seeds or जड़ें ( जैसे Cassava ).
It is the प्रमुख संघटक of ब्रैड, which is a staple food for many cultures, making the उपलब्धता of adequate supplies of flour a major economic और political समस्या at विभिन्न times throughout इतिहास.
Wheat flour is one of the सबसे important foods in यूरोपीय, उत्तर American, मध्य पूर्वी, Indian और North अफ़्रीकी cultures, और is the defining ingredient in most of their styles of breads और pastries.
जबकि गेहूं is the most आम base for आटा, मकई flour रै been important in Mesoamerican cuisine चूंकि ancient टाइम्स, and remains a staple throughout the Americas.
rye flour is an महत्वपूर्ण constituent of bread in much of central Europe, और rice can also be प्रयुक्त in flour, though this is relatively uncommon.
दिल rate is the number of heartbeats per unit of time, typically expressed as beats प्रति minute ( bpm ).
Heart रेट can vary as the देह 's need to absorb oxygen and excrete carbon dioxide changes, ऐसे as दौरान शारीरिक exercise, sleep, बीमारी, or as a परिणाम of ingesting दवाएँ :
Central nervous प्रणाली stimulants such as amphetamines बढ़ाएँ heart rate.
Central बेचैन प्रणाली depressants or sedatives decreases the heart rate ( apart from some विशेषकर अजीब ones with equally अजीब effects, ऐसे as ketamine which can कारण - amongst many other things - stimulant-like effects ऐसे as tachycardia ).
There are many ways in which the दिल rate speeds up or slows down.
Most involve stimulant-like endorphins and hormones होने released in the brain, many of which हैं those that are 'forced'/'enticed ' out by the ingestion and processing of drugs.
Due to individuals having a constant रक्त volume, one of the physiological तरीके to उद्धार more oxygen to an organ is to increase heart rate to permit blood to pass by the organ more often.
Normal resting heart rates range इससे 60-100 bpm.
Bradycardia is defined as a resting दिल rate नीचे 60 bpm.
However, दिल rates from 50 to 60 bpm are आम among स्वस्थ लोगों और do नहीं necessarily require खास attention.
Tachycardia is defined as a resting heart rate above 100 bpm, though persistent rest दरों between 80-100 bpm, mainly if they हैं present दौरान sleep, may be signs of हाइपरथाइरॉयडिज़्म or रक्ताल्पता ( देखिए below ).
Catherine ii 's carved, painted and gilded राजतिलक Coach ( Hermitage Museum )
A carriage is a wheeled vehicle लिये लोगों, usually horse-drawn ; litters ( palanquins ) and sedan chairs are excluded, चूंकि वे are wheelless vehicles.
The carriage is विशेषकर designed for निजी passenger use and लिये comfort or लालित्य, though कुछ are also used to transport goods.
It may be light, smart और fast or भारी, large and comfortable.
carriages सामान्यतः have suspension using leaf springs, elliptical springs ( in the 19th सदी ) or leather strapping.
a पब्लिक यात्री vehicle would नहीं प्रायः be called a carriage – शर्तें for such include stagecoach, charabanc and omnibus.
Working vehicles such as the ( four-wheeled ) वैगन and ( two-wheeled ) cart share important parts of the history of the carriage, as is the तेज़ ( two-wheeled ) chariot.
The 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake was an undersea megathrust earthquake that occurred at 00:58:53 utc on Sunday, 26 December 2004, साथ an epicentre बंद the west coast of Sumatra, Indonesia.
The quake itself is known by the वैज्ञानिक community as the Sumatra–Andaman earthquake.
The resulting सुनामी was given various names, सहित the 2004 Indian Ocean tsunami, दक्षिण Asian tsunami, Indonesian tsunami, and the Boxing Day tsunami.
The भूकंप थी caused by subduction and triggered a series of विनाशकारी tsunamis along the coasts of most landmasses bordering the Indian Ocean, हत्या over 230,000 people in चौदह देशों, and inundating coastal समुदायों with waves up to ऊँची.
It was एक of the deadliest प्राकृतिक disasters in अंकित history.
Indonesia was the hardest-hit देश, followed by Sri Lanka, India, और थाईलैंड.
साथ a परिमाण of Mw 9.1–9.3, it is the तीसरा largest earthquake ever अंकित on a seismograph.
the earthquake था the longest अवधि of faulting ever observed, between 8.3 and 10 मिनट्स.
it caused the संपूर्ण planet to vibrate as much as और triggered अन्य earthquakes as दूर दूर as अलास्का.
Its epicentre was between Simeulue and mainland Indonesia.
The plight of the affected लोगों and countries prompted a worldwide humanitarian response.
In all, the worldwide जातियाँ donated more than $ 14 अरब ( 2004 us $ ) in humanitarian सहायता.
भाप उठती from the Nesjavellir Geothermal Power स्टेशन in Iceland.
geothermal energy is thermal energy generated and stored in the Earth.
Thermal energy is the उर्जा that determines the तापमान of matter.
The Geothermal उर्जा of the धरती 's crust originates from the original गठन of the planet ( 20 % ) and from रेडियोसक्रिय decay of minerals ( 80 % ).
the geothermal gradient, which is the difference in temperature between the core of the ग्रह and its surface, ड्राइव a निरन्तर conduction of thermal energy in the form of ऊष्मा इससे the कोर to the surface.
The adjective geothermal originates from the Greek roots γη ( ge ), अर्थ earth, and θερμος ( thermos ), meaning hot.
At the core of the धरती, थर्मल उर्जा is created by रेडियोसक्रिय decay और temperatures may पहुँचें over 5000 °C ( 9,000 °f ).
Heat conducts इससे the core to surrounding cooler rock.
The high तापमान और pressure कारण some rock to melt, creating मैग्मा संवहन upward चूंकि it is हल्का than the solid rock.
The मैग्मा heats चट्टान and water in the crust, sometimes up to 370 °C ( 700 °F ).
From hot springs, geothermal उर्जा has been प्रयुक्त लिये bathing since Paleolithic times and लिये space heating since प्राचीन Roman times, but it is now better known for electricity generation.
Worldwide, परिचय 10,715 megawatts ( mw ) of geothermal power is online in 24 countries.
an additional 28 gigawatts of direct geothermal heating क्षमता is installed लिये district हीटिंग, space heating, spas, industrial processes, desalination और agricultural applications.
Geothermal शक्ति is cost effective, विश्वसनीय, sustainable, and environmentally दोस्ताना, but रै historically been limited to क्षेत्रों near tectonic plate boundaries.
Recent technological advances have dramatically expanded the range and size of viable संसाधन, विशेषकर for अनुप्रयोग such as home heating, opening a संभावित for फैली exploitation.
geothermal wells release ग्रीनहाउस गैसों फंस गहन within the earth, but these emissions हैं much निम्नतर प्रति energy unit than those of चट्टान fuels.
as a परिणाम, geothermal power has the potential to सहायता mitigate global warming if widely deployed in प्लेस of fossil fuels.
the Earth 's geothermal संसाधन are theoretically more than adequate to supply मानवता 's energy needs, but तभी a बहुत small fraction may be profitably exploited.
खुदाई and exploration for deep संसाधन is very expensive.
Forecasts for the future of geothermal power depend on assumptions about technology, energy prices, subsidies, and interest rates.
पायलट programs जैसे EWEB 's ग्राहक ऑप्ट in Green Power Program दिखाएँ that customers would be willing to pay a छोटी अधिक for a renewable energy सोर्स like geothermal.
But as a result of government assisted research and उद्योग experience, the cost of generating geothermal power has decreased by 25 % over the पास्ट दो decades.
in 2001, geothermal energy cost between two and ten cents per सम्पात.
The term cubic foot is an Imperial and us customary ( non- metric ) unit of volume, प्रयुक्त in the United राज्य and the United Kingdom.
It is defined as the volume of a cube with sides of one foot ( 0.3048 m ) in length.
To calculate cubic feet multiply लंबाई X width X height.
Hồ Chí Minh ( Northern Vietnamese उच्चारण :, Southern Vietnamese pronunciation : ) ; 19 May 1890 – 2 September 1969 ), born Nguyễn Sinh Cung and also known as nguyễn Tất Thành and Nguyễn ái Quốc, was a Vietnamese communist क्रांतिकारी leader who was prime minister ( 1945–1955 ) and president ( 1945–1969 ) of the लोकतांत्रिक गणतंत्र of Vietnam ( उत्तर Vietnam ).
he was a कुंजी फिगर in the foundation of the लोकतांत्रिक Republic of Vietnam in 1945, as खूब as the people’s Army of Vietnam ( PAVN ) and the Việt cộng ( nlf or vc ) during the Vietnam War.
He led the Việt मिन्ह independence movement इससे 1941 onward, establishing the communist -ruled Democratic Republic of वियतनाम in 1945 and defeating the French Union in 1954 at the बैटल of Điện biên Phủ.
He officially stepped down इससे power in 1955 due to health problems, लकिन remained a अत्यधिक visible figurehead and प्रेरणा for those Vietnamese fighting for his cause—a united, communist vietnam—until his मौत.
After the युद्ध, Saigon, capital of the गणतंत्र of Vietnam, थी renamed hồ Chí Minh नगर.
सब Roads Lead घर is a feature film released on September 26, 2008.
निर्देशित by Dennis fallon, it stars Peter Boyle, Patton Oswalt, Jason London, Vivien cardone, वैनेसा शाखा, पीटर कायोटी, स्टीफन मिल्टन, and Allan Kayser.
The movie was filmed in and around कान्सास नगर, Missouri.
The movie made its World प्रीमियर January 27 at the Santa Barbara International Film Festival.
The फिल्मी has also recently been in several film festivals, और has received bad reviews.
Peter बॉयल died before the movie 's release.
It was the last फिल्म he appeared in.
Sales taxes in the संयुक्त States are taxes placed on the बिक्री or lease of goods and services in the United States.
While no national general sales कर exists, the संघीय government levies अनेक national चयनात्मक बिक्री कर on the sale or lease of particular goods and services.
furthermore, forty-five राज्य, the ज़िला of कोलंबिया, और Guam impose general sales taxes कि apply to the sale or lease of सबसे goods and कुछ services, and राज्य also may levy selective sales taxes on the sale or पट्टे of particular goods or services.
States may also delegate to लोकल सरकारें the authority to impose additional सामान्य or selective बिक्री कर.
Sales tax is calculated by multiplying the purchase दाम by the applicable कर rate.
Tax दरों vary widely by jurisdiction and range from less than 1 % to over 10 %.
Sales tax is collected by the seller at the समय of बिक्री.
Use tax is self assessed by a buyer who रै not paid sales tax on a taxable purchase.
Unlike the value added tax, a बिक्री tax is imposed तभी once, at the retail level.
However, in cases where items are बेची at retail अधिक than once, such as प्रयुक्त cars, the sales tax can be charged on the same मद indefinitely.
The definition of खुदरा sales and what goods and services are taxable vary among the states.
Nearly all jurisdictions provide numerous categories of goods and सेवाएं कि are exempt from बिक्री कर, or taxed at reduced rates.
The purchase of goods for further manufacture or for resale is uniformly exempt from sales कर.
सबसे jurisdictions exempt food sold in किराना stores, prescription medications, and अनेक agricultural supplies.
Sales कर, including those imposed by लोकल governments, are generally administered at the state level.
States imposing sales tax आवश्यकता retail sellers to collect tax from customers, file रिटर्न, and remit the कर to the state.
Procedural rules vary widely.
Sellers generally must collect tax from in-state purchasers unless the purchaser provides an exemption certificate.
Most states allow or require electronic remittance.
A central processing unit ( CPU ), also referred to as a central processor unit, is the हार्डवेयर within a कंप्यूटर that carries आउट the निर्देश of a कंप्यूटर program by performing the मौलिक arithmetical, logical, और input/output परिचालन of the system.
the term has been in उपयोग in the computer industry at least चूंकि the जल्दी 1960s.
The form, डिज़ाइन, and implementation of CPUs have बदला over the कोर्स of their history, but their आधारभूत operation remains much the same.
a कंप्यूटर can have more than one CPU ; this is called multiprocessing.
Some एकीकृत circuits ( ICs ) can contain multiple CPUs on a single chip ; those ICs are पुकारा multi-core processors.
Two ठेठ components of a CPU are the arithmetic logic unit ( ALU ), जिससे performs arithmetic and लॉजिकल परिचालन, and the control unit ( CU ), which extracts instructions from मेमोरी and decodes और executes them, calling on the alu when necessary.
नहीं all computational systems rely on a central प्रसंस्करण unit.
An array processor or वेक्टर processor has multiple parallel computing elements, with no one unit considered the `` center ''.
In the distributed computing मॉडल, समस्याएं are हल by a distributed interconnected नियत of processors.
RFID chip next to a grain of rice.
This chip contains a radio-frequency electromagnetic field कुंडली कि modulates an बाह्य चुम्बकीय फ़ील्ड to ट्रांसफ़र a coded identification number when queried by a reader device.
This small type is incorporated in consumer products, और implanted in पालतु, लिये identification purposes.
Radio-frequency पहचान ( RFID ) is the wireless non-contact use of radio-frequency electromagnetic fields to transfer data, for the उद्देश्य of automatically identifying and tracking tags संलग्न to objects.
The tags contain electronically stored information.
Some tags हैं powered and read at short ranges ( a few meters ) via चुम्बकीय fields ( electromagnetic induction ).
Others use a लोकल शक्ति source such as a battery, or else have no battery but collect energy from the interrogating EM field, and then act as a passive transponder to emit microwaves or UHF radio waves ( i.e., electromagnetic विकिरण at ऊँची frequencies ).
Battery powered टैग may operate at hundreds of meters.
Unlike a bar code, the tag करता नहीं necessarily need to be within लकीर of sight of the रीडर, and may be अंतःस्थापित in the tracked object.
RFID tags are प्रयुक्त in many industries.
an RFID टैग संलग्न to an ऑटोमोबाइल during उत्पादन can be used to track its progress through the assembly line.
Pharmaceuticals can be tracked through warehouses.
पशुधन and pets may have टैग injected, allowing धनात्मक identification of the animal.
Since RFID tags can be attached to clothing, possessions, or भी implanted भीतर लोगों, the possibility of पढना personally-linked information without consent has उठाया गोपनीयता concerns.
Overtime is the amount of time किसी works beyond normal working hours.
Normal hours may be संकल्पित in several रास्ताs:
by कस्टम ( कया is considered स्वस्थ or reasonable by society ),
by practices of a given व्यापार or profession,
by legislation,
by अनुबंध between employers and workers or उनके प्रतिनिधि.
Most nations have ओवरटाइम labor कानून designed to dissuade or prevent employers इससे forcing their employees to work excessively long घंटों.
These laws may take into खाता other considerations than the humanitarian, such as preserving the health of workers so that they may continue to be productive, or increasing the overall level of employment in the economy.
One common approach to regulating ओवरटाइम is to आवश्यकता employers to pay workers at a higher hourly rate लिये overtime work.
कंपनियाँ may choose to pay workers higher overtime अदा भी if नहीं obliged to do so by law, विशेषकर if they believe कि वे फेस a backward झुकने supply वक्र of labour.
Overtime pay rates can कारण workers to work longer घंटों than they would at a flat hourly रेट.
Overtime laws, attitudes toward overtime and hours of work vary greatly from country to country और between different आर्थिक sectors.
Visualization of links between pages on a विक using a force-directed लेआउट.
Force-directed graph drawing algorithms are a class of algorithms for drawing graphs in an aesthetically pleasing way.
Their purpose is to position the nodes of a graph in two-dimensional or three-dimensional space so कि all the edges are of more or less equal लंबाई और there are as few crossing edges as possible, by assigning forces among the set of किनारे and the नियत of nodes, based on their relative positions, and then using ये forces either to simulate the गति of the edges और nodes or to minimize their energy.
While आलेख drawing can be a difficult problem, force-directed algorithms, होने physical simulations, प्रायः आवश्यकता no खास knowledge about graph सिद्धान्त such as planarity.
Purchasing शक्ति ( sometimes retroactively called adjusted लिये महंगाई ) is the amount of goods or सेवाएं that can be खरीदा with a ईकाई of currency.
For example, if you had taken one dollar to a store in the 1950s, you would have been able to buy a greater number of items than तुम would आज, indicating कि you होता have had a greater खरीदना power in the 1950s.
Currency can be either a commodity money, जैसे सुनहरा or silver, or fiat currency, or free-floating market-valued currency like US डॉलर.
As आदम स्मिथ noted, having money देता one the ability to `` कमांड '' अन्य ' labor, so purchasing शक्ति to some extent is power over other लोगों, to the extent that they are willing to व्यापार their labor or goods for धन or currency.
If one 's monetary आय stays the same, but the price level increases, the खरीदना power of that income falls.
Inflation does not always imply falling purchasing power of एक 's money income since it may वृद्धि faster than the दाम स्तर.
A higher रियल income means a higher खरीदना शक्ति since real आय refers to the income adjusted for inflation.
For a price index, its value in the base साल is प्रायः normalized to a value of 100.
The purchasing शक्ति of a ईकाई of currency, say a डालर, in a given year, expressed in dollars of the base year, is 100/p, where P is the price index in that year.
So, by definition the purchasing power of a dollar decreases as the price level rises.
The खरीदना power in today 's money of an राशि C of money, t years into the future, can be computed with the formula for the उपस्थित value :
जहाँ in this case i is an assumed future सालाना महंगाई रेट.
Education in South कोरियाई is viewed as being निर्णायक for success और competition is consequently very heated and fierce.
A central administration oversees the process for the education of children from kindergarten to the third and final year of high school.
Mathematics, science, Korean, English, और social studies are generally considered to be the most महत्वपूर्ण subjects.
सामान्यतः physical education is नहीं considered important as it is नहीं recognised, by the generally अकादमिक elitist South कोरियाई populace, as education and इसलिए many स्कूलों lack high-quality gymnasiums and varsity athletics.
South कोरियाई थी the first country in the संसार to provide high-speed internet अभिगम to all प्राथमिक, junior, और ऊँची schools.
हालांकि South Korean विद्यार्थी often रैंक highly on international comparative assessments when compared to students of most Western education systems, the South Korean education system is criticised for emphasising too much upon passive learning और memorisation.
The South कोरियाई education प्रणाली is rather notably strict और overly संरचित as compared to its counterparts in सबसे Western societies.
Also, the prevalence of non-school for-profit private institutes such as academies or cram-schools ( hagwon [ 학원 ] ), which too emphasise on passive memorisation, as opposed to conceptual understanding, in students are criticised as a प्रमुख सोशल प्रॉब्लम.
The My Lai नरसंहार (, ;,, or ) was the Vietnam War mass हत्या of between 347 and 504 unarmed civilians in South Vietnam on March 16, 1968, by संयुक्त States Army soldiers of `` Charlie '' Company of 1st Battalion, 20th Infantry Regiment, 11th ब्रिगेड of the Americal Division.
Victims शामिल women, men, children, and infants.
Some of the महिलाओं यहूद gang-raped और their bodies were बाद found to be mutilated और many महिलाओं were allegedly raped prior to the killings.
While 26 U.S. soldiers यहूद initially चार्ज with criminal offenses लिये their actions at Mỹ Lai, तभी दूसरी Lieutenant William Calley, a platoon leader in Charlie Company, was convicted.
मिला अपराधी of हत्या 22 ग्रामीणों, he was originally given a life sentence, but only परोसा three और a half years अंतर्गत house गिरफ़्तार.
the massacre took प्लेस in the hamlets of my Lai और my khe of Son my village.
The event is भी known as the Son My Massacre, विशेषकर in the Vietnamese राज्य media.
The U.S. military codeword for the `` Viet Cong stronghold '' was `` pinkville ''.
The incident prompted वैश्विक आक्रोश when it became पब्लिक knowledge in 1969.
The massacre भी increased domestic opposition to the U.S. भागीदारी in the Vietnam War.
Three u.S. servicemen who had tried to halt the massacre और protect the wounded were initially denounced by several U.S. Congressmen as traitors.
They received नफ़रत mail and मौत threats and found mutilated animals on उनके doorsteps.
the तीन were later widely praised और decorated by the Army for their heroic क्रियाएँ.
The hijackers in the सितंबर 11 attacks यहूद 19 men affiliated with al-qaeda, and 15 of the 19 यहूद citizens of सऊदी Arabia.
Others यहूद इससे मिश्र, लेबनान, और the uae.
The hijackers were organized into four टीमों, each led by a pilot-trained hijacker with four `` muscle hijackers '' who were trained to help subdue the pilots, passengers, and crew.
The first hijackers to arrive in the संयुक्त States यहूद Khalid al-mihdhar and nawaf al-hazmi, जो settled in the San Diego क्षेत्रफल in जनवरी 2000.
वे were followed by three hijacker-pilots, Mohamed Atta, marwan al-Shehhi, और Ziad Jarrah जल्दी in the summer of 2000 to undertake उड़ान training in south फ्लोरिडा.
The fourth hijacker-pilot, Hani Hanjour, arrived in San डिएगो in December 2000.
The rest of the `` मांसपेशी hijackers '' arrived in the spring and early गर्मियाँ of 2001, बस महीने before the September 11 हमले.
abū al-Qāsim Muḥammad ibn ʿabd Allāh ibn ʿAbd al-Muṭṭalib इब्न Hāshim ( ) ( circa| 570 – circa| 8 June 632 ), also transliterated as Muhammad ( ), थी a धार्मिक, political, and सैन्य leader from Mecca who unified Arabia into a single धार्मिक polity under Islam.
he is believed by मुसलमान और Bahá'ís to be a messenger और नबी of परमेश्वर.
Muhammad is almost universally considered by मुसलमान as the last prophet भेजा by परमेश्वर लिये mankind.
Non-Muslims regard Muhammad as the संस्थापक of islam.
मुसलमान consider him to be the restorer of an unaltered असली monotheistic आस्था of Adam, नूह, अब्राहम, Moses, Jesus, and अन्य prophets.
Born in about 570 CE in the Arabian city of Mecca, he was orphaned at an early आयु and brought up under the care of his uncle Abu तालिब.
He later worked ज़्यादातर as a merchant, as खूब as a गड़रिये, and was first married by आयु 25.
Being in the habit of periodically retreating to a cave in the surrounding kyu लिये अनेक nights of seclusion and prayer, he later reported that it was there, at age 40, that he received उसके first revelation इससे God.
Three years after इस event Muhammad started preaching these revelations publicly, proclaiming कि `` परमेश्वर is One ``, that पूरा `` surrender '' to उसे ( lit.
islām ) is the only way ( dīn ) acceptable to परमेश्वर, and कि he खुद was a prophet और messenger of God, in the same vein as अन्य Islamic prophets.
Muhammad gained few followers जल्दी on, और was मिले with दुश्मनी from कुछ meccan tribes ; he और his followers यहूद treated harshly.
to escape persecution, Muhammad भेजा some of his followers to Abyssinia before he and his followers in Mecca migrated to Medina ( then known as Yathrib ) in the year 622.
This event, the Hijra, marks the beginning of the Islamic calendar, which is also known as the hijri Calendar.
In मदीना, मुहम्मद संयुक्त the tribes under the Constitution of मदीना.
बाद eight years of लड़ with the Meccan जनजातियों, his followers, who by तब had grown to 10,000, took control of मक्का in the largely peaceful Conquest of Mecca.
He destroyed the pagan मूर्तियों in the city and तब sent his followers आउट to destroy सब of the remaining pagan temples in पूर्वी अरब.
In 632, a few months बाद returning to Medina from the Farewell Pilgrimage, मुहम्मद fell ill and died.
By the time of उसके मौत, most of the arabian Peninsula had converted to Islam, and he had संयुक्त Arabia into a single मुस्लिम धार्मिक polity.
the खुलासे ( or Ayah, lit.
`` Signs [ of God ] '' ) — which मुहम्मद reported receiving until his मौत – रूप the verses of the Quran, regarded by Muslims as the `` Word of God '' and around जिससे the religion is based.
Besides the कुरान, Muhammad 's life ( सिरा ) and परंपराओं ( sunnah ) are भी upheld by मुसलमान as the sources of sharia law.
They discuss Muhammad and other नबियों of Islam with reverence, adding the phrase peace be upon him whenever their names हैं उल्लेखित.
While conceptions of मुहम्मद in medieval Christendom and premodern times यहूद largely ऋणात्मक, appraisals in modern history have been far कम so.
इस is a सूची of tables of the verified oldest people in the world in ordinal rank, ऐसे as oldest person or oldest man.
In these tables, a supercentenarian is considered 'verified ' if उसके or her claim has been validated by an अंतरराष्ट्रीय body that specifically deals in आयु research, such as the Gerontology Research Group ( GRG ) or गिनीज World Records.
The longest unambiguously documented इंसान lifespan is कि of Jeanne Calment of France ( 1875–1997 ), who died at age 122 years, 164 days.
She met Vincent वैन gogh जब she was 12 or 13.
This led to न्यूज media attention in 1985, after calment turned 110.
subsequent investigation found दस्तावेज़ीकरण लिये Calment 's age, परे any उचित question, in the records of her native city, Arles, France.
अधिक evidence of calment 's lifespan has been produced than for any other supercentenarian ; उसके case serves as an archetype in the methodology for verifying the ages of the world 's oldest people.
The longest undisputed lifespan for male supercentenarians is that of Jiroemon किमुरा, who फिलहाल lives in Japan और is age as of.
Since the death of 115-year old Dina Manfredini of the United States, on 17 December 2012, किमुरा, born 19 अप्रैल 1897, is the oldest जीना person in the संसार whose आयु can be documented.
He has also been the oldest living man since the death of 114-year old Walter Breuning on 14 April 2011.
Since the death of 115-year बूढ़ा Koto Okubo of Japan on 12 January 2013, the oldest living woman रै महरूम -year-old misao Okawa, also इससे Japan, born on 5 कूच 1898.
This is a timeline of the African-American Civil Rights गति.
The Civil Rights गति थी a freedom संघर्ष by African Americans in the 1950s और 1960s to gain equality.
the लक्ष्य of the movement were freedom from discrimination, equal opportunity in नियुक्ति, education and आवास, the right to vote and equal access to public facilities.
भारी metal ( प्रायः referred to as metal ) is a genre of rock music कि developed in the late 1960s और जल्दी 1970s, largely in the United Kingdom and in the United States.
With जड़ें in blues rock and psychedelic rock, the bands कि created भारी मेटल developed a thick, massive sound, characterized by अत्यधिक amplified distortion, extended गिटार solos, emphatic beats, and overall loudness.
Heavy metal lyrics and performance styles are generally संबद्ध with masculinity and machismo.
The first heavy मेटल bands such as led Zeppelin, गहन Purple and Black Sabbath attracted large ऑडियंस, though वे were प्रायः derided by critics, a status आम throughout the इतिहास of the genre.
In the mid-1970s Judas पुजारी helped spur the genre 's evolution by discarding much of इसके ब्लूज़ influence ; Motörhead introduced a पंक rock sensibility and an increasing जोर on speed.
Bands in the New वेव of British Heavy मेटल such as Iron Maiden followed in a समान रग.
पहले the end of the decade, heavy metal fans became known as `` metalheads `` or `` headbangers ``.
During the 1980s, glam मेटल became a वाणिज्यिक force with समूह like mötley Crüe and Poison.
Underground दृश्यों produced an सरणी of more चरम, aggressive styles : thrash metal broke into the mainstream साथ bands such as Metallica, Megadeth, slayer, and Anthrax, while other styles of the सबसे extreme subgenres of metal like death metal and ब्लैक metal remain subcultural phenomena.
चूंकि the mid-1990s, popular styles such as nu metal, which प्रायः incorporates तत्व of grunge and hip hop ; and metalcore, which blends extreme मेटल with hardcore पंक, have further expanded the definition of the genre.
the far-right ( also known as the extreme सही ) refers to the highest उपाधि of rightism in right-wing politics.
Far right politics involves support of दमदार or complete social पदानुक्रम in society, और supports supremacy of certain individuals or समूह deemed to be innately superior or अस्तबलों who हैं to be more valued than those deemed to be innately inferior or undesirable.
the दूर सही 's advocacy of supremacism is आधारित on what its adherents perceive as innate characteristics of people that can not be changed.
This स्टैंड as a point of difference साथ the centre-right 's attribution of behaviours, ऐसे as laziness or decadence, as the primary स्त्रोत of सोशल inequalities.
the centre right—unlike the दूर right—claims that people can end उनके behavioural inferiority through बदलना their habits and चुनाव.
The असली दूर right, which emerged in France after the फ्रेंच Revolution, refused to accept the French गणतंत्र and समर्थित a counter-revolution to restore the फ्रेंच monarchy and aristocracy.
The दूर सही is commonly संबद्ध साथ व्यक्तियों or समूह who hold extreme nationalist, xenophobic, जातिवाद, religious fundamentalist or प्रतिक्रियावादी views.
The सबसे extreme-right movements have pursued oppression and genocide against groups of people on the आधार of their alleged inferiority.
Thomas Hobbes of Malmesbury ( 5 April 1588 – 4 December 1679 ), in some older ग्रन्थ थामस Hobbs of malmsbury, was an अंग्रेज़ी philosopher, best known आज लिये his work on political philosophy.
उसके 1651 book leviathan स्थापित the न्यास लिये सबसे of पश्चिमी political दर्शनशास्त्र from the perspective of social contract theory.
hobbes was a champion of absolutism for the sovereign, लकिन he भी developed कुछ of the fundamentals of European उदार thought : the right of the व्यक्तिगत ; the natural equality of सब men ; the कृत्रिम character of the political order ( जिससे led to the later distinction between civil society and the state ) ; the view कि सब legitimate political शक्ति must be `` representative '' and based on the consent of the people ; और a उदार interpretation of विधि जिससे leaves people free to do whatever the law does not explicitly forbid.
He was एक of the founders of modern political दर्शनशास्त्र.
उसके समझना of humans as being पदार्थ and motion, obeying the same physical laws as other matter and गति, remains influential ; and his खाता of human प्रकृति as self-interested cooperation, and of political communities as being based upon a `` social अनुबंध `` remains one of the प्रमुख विषय of राजनैतिक philosophy.
In जोड to political दर्शनशास्त्र, Hobbes also contributed to a diverse सरणी of other fields, सहित history, geometry, the physics of gases, theology, ethics, and सामान्य philosophy.
Emotional intelligence ( EI ) is the क्षमता to identify, assess, and control the भाव of oneself, of others, और of groups.
It can be divided into ability EI and trait ei.
क्षमता EI is usually measured using maximum performance tests and has stronger relationships with परंपरागत प्रज्ञा, whereas trait EI is प्रायः measured using self-report questionnaires and has stronger relationships साथ personality.
Criticisms have centered on whether ei is a रियल intelligence और whether it has incremental validity over IQ and the बिग Five व्यक्तित्व traits.
आनुवंशिकता is the passing of traits to औलाद from its parents or ancestor.
इस is the प्रक्रम by which an offspring कोशिका or organism acquires or becomes predisposed to the विशेषताएँ of its जनक cell or organism.
Through heredity, विसंगतियाँ exhibited by individuals can accumulate और cause कुछ species to evolve.
the study of आनुवंशिकता in biology is called आनुवंशिकी, which includes the फ़ील्ड of epigenetics.
For United राज्य व्यक्तिगत income tax, समायोजित gross income ( agi ) is कुल gross आय ऋण विशिष्ट reductions.
taxable आय is adjusted सकल income minus allowances for personal exemptions और itemized deductions.
For सबसे individual tax purposes, agi is अधिक relevant than gross income.
Gross आय is sales दाम of goods or property, minus cost of the प्रॉपर्टी बेची, प्लस other आय.
it includes wages, ब्याज, dividends, कारोबार आय, rental income, and सब अन्य प्रकार of आय.
Adjusted gross income is सकल income less deductions इससे a कारोबार or rental activity और 21 other specific वस्तुएं.
अनेक deductions ( e.g. medical expenses and miscellaneous itemized deductions ) are limited based on a प्रतिशत of AGI.
निश्चित phase outs, सहित those of lower tax rates और itemized deductions, are based on स्तर of agi.
Many states आधार state income tax on agi साथ certain deductions.
`` Lazy Eye '' is the तीसरा single इससे silversun pickups ' debut एल्बम Carnavas.
The band performed the song on the Late Show with David Letterman, The Tonight Show साथ Jay लीनो, बाद With Jools Holland, and Last Call साथ कार्सन Daly.
The song is a playable track on Rock Band 2 and Guitar Hero : World Tour.
an alternate version of the song, साथ a लंबाई of 7:27, was निभाई on xmu before the shorter संस्करण was played on FM और अन्य xm चैनल्स.
This version was featured on their डेमो CD ( which featured early versions of four tracks ).
a telephone prefix is the first set of अंक of a telephone number ; in the North अमरीकी Numbering योजना देशों ( country code 1 ), it is the first three digits of a seven-digit phone क्रमांक.
in other देशों both the prefix and the number may have different lengths.
It shows which exchange the बाकी numbers refer to.
a पूरा टेलीफोन number is usually made up of country code ( required for international calls only ), area कोड ( required लिये calls between telephone क्षेत्रों ), prefix, and subscriber क्रमांक.
कुछ स्थान सीमित certain prefixes to fax numbers or कोशिका फोन only ; in अन्य places such dedicated prefixes are नहीं used.
As टेलीफोन technology advanced, the precise significance of the prefix became blurred in अनेक places ; 485 in लंदन, UK, was एकबार the GULliver एक्सचेंज, but now 44207485xxxx is just considered one of many क्रमांक blocks served by the CLKEN Kentish Town exchange ; 4420770703xx is another.
metformin ( BP, सुनाया, ; originally sold as Glucophage ) is an oral antidiabetic drug in the biguanide class.
It is the first-line drug of choice for the treatment of type 2 मधुमेह, in particular, in overweight and obese लोगों and those with सामान्य गुर्दा function.
इसके उपयोग in गर्भकालीन diabetes has महरूम limited by सुरक्षा concerns.
it is also प्रयुक्त in the treatment of polycystic ovary syndrome, and has been investigated for other रोगों where insulin resistance may be an important फ़ैक्टर.
Metformin works by suppressing ग्लूकोज production by the liver.
Metformin is the तभी antidiabetic drug that has been conclusively shown to prevent the cardiovascular complications of मधुमेह.
it helps reduce ldl cholesterol और triglyceride levels, और is not संबद्ध with वज़न लाभ.
, metformin is one of only two मौखिक antidiabetics in the संसार स्वास्थ्य Organization Model List of Essential Medicines ( the अन्य being glibenclamide ).
When विहित appropriately, metformin causes few प्रतिकूल प्रभाव ( the most common is gastrointestinal upset ) and is associated with a low रिस्क of hypoglycemia.
लैक्टिक एसिडोसिस ( a buildup of lactate in the blood ) can be a गंभीर concern in overdose और when it is prescribed to people with contraindications, but otherwise, there is no significant risk.
First synthesized and मिला to reduce blood sugar in the 1920s, metformin थी forgotten for the next two decades as research shifted to insulin और अन्य antidiabetic दवाएँ.
Interest in metformin was rekindled in the लेट 1940s after several reports that it could reduce रक्त sugar levels in people, and in 1957, French physician Jean Sterne published the first clinical trial of metformin as a उपचार for diabetes.
It was introduced to the United Kingdom in 1958, कनाडा in 1972, और the United राज्य in 1995.
metformin is अभी believed to be the most widely prescribed antidiabetic drug in the world ; in the United राज्य अलोन, अधिक than 48 million prescriptions were filled in 2010 for its जेनेरिक formulations.
The Mount Rushmore National Memorial is a sculpture carved into the granite फेस of Mount rushmore निकट keystone, South डकोटा, in the United States.
sculpted by Danish-American Gutzon Borglum and his बेटे, Lincoln Borglum, Mount Rushmore features sculptures of the heads of four संयुक्त States presidents : George Washington, Thomas Jefferson, Theodore Roosevelt और अब्राहम lincoln.
The entire memorial covers and is above sea level.
The tallest mountain in the प्रदेश is Harney Peak ( ).
South डकोटा इतिहासकार Doane Robinson is credited साथ conceiving the विचार of carving the likenesses of famous people into the Black पहाड़ियाँ प्रदेश of South Dakota in order to promote पर्यटन in the region.
Robinson 's initial विचार थी to sculpt the needles ; however, Gutzon borglum rejected the Needles site क्युकी of the ग़रीब quality of the granite and strong opposition from environmentalists and Native American groups.
They settled on the Mount Rushmore स्थान, which also रै the advantage of facing southeast for maximum सूर्य exposure.
Robinson wanted it to विशेषता western नायक like Lewis and Clark, Red बादल और Buffalo Bill Cody but Borglum decided the sculpture should have a more national फ़ोकस, and chose the four presidents whose likenesses would be carved into the mountain.
After securing federal funding, निर्माण on the memorial began in 1927, और the राष्ट्रपतियों ' चेहरों were completed between 1934 and 1939.
upon gutzon Borglum 's death in कूच 1941, his son Lincoln Borglum took over construction.
Although the initial concept called for प्रत्येक president to be चित्रित इससे head to waist, कमी of funding मजबूर निर्माण to समाप्त in late October 1941.
The u.S. National Park Service took कंट्रोल of the memorial in 1933, while it was स्टिल under निर्माण, and रै managed the मेमोरियल to the उपस्थित day.
it attracts nearly three million लोगों annually.
charvet dress shirt इससे the 1930s, norsk Folkemuseum, Oslo.
A कमीज़, पोशाक shirt, button-front, button-front shirt, or button-up shirt is a परिधान साथ a कॉलर, a full-length opening at the front इससे the कॉलर to the hem, and टाँक with cuffs.
Shirts are predominantly प्रयुक्त by men, चूंकि women usually पहनें blouses.
the front opening is fastened using buttons or studs, and the cuffs बंद with buttons or cuff links.
शर्ट are normally बना इससे woven cloth, और are often accompanied by a jacket और tie, for उदाहरण with a suit or formalwear, but शर्ट are also worn more casually.
In अंग्रेजों English, dress shirt means specifically the more formal evening garment worn साथ black- or white- tie, also discussed below.
कुछ of these formal shirts have stiff fronts and detachable छल्लों संलग्न with collar studs.
The term `` button-down '' ( which refers a type of कमीज़ which रै a कॉलर fastened down by buttons ) is sometimes used in गलती to apply to सब शर्ट ( with or without buttoned down collars ), होने प्रयुक्त as a synonym लिये `` button-up '' or `` button-front ''.
Administrative पेशेवर Day ( also known as Secretaries दिन or Admin Day ) is an unofficial secular holiday observed in अनेक देशों to recognize the work of secretaries, administrative assistants, receptionists, और other administrative support professionals.
in उत्तर America, it is मनाये on the बुधवार of the पिछला full week of April ( April 24 in 2013 ).
In फ़्रांस it is celebrated on the तीसरा Thursday in अप्रैल ( April 18 in 2013 ).
In Australia it is celebrated on the पहला शुक्रवार in may
Blasting can be:
अक्खड़ धमाकेदार
Blast furnace
Rock blasting
Nicolas Poussin ( ; 15 जून 1594 – 19 November 1665 ) थी the अग्रणी चित्रकार of the classical French Baroque style, although he खर्च most of his working life in Rome.
His work is characterized by स्पष्टता, logic, and अनुक्रम, and favors line over color.
Until the 20th सदी he remained a प्रमुख प्रेरणा for such classically उन्मुख artists as Jacques-Louis David, Jean-Auguste-Dominique ingres और पॉल Cézanne.
He worked in Rome for a वृत्त of leading collectors there और elsewhere, except for a छोटी काल when Cardinal रिचलू ordered उसे वापस to France to serve as First Painter to the King.
Most of his works are history paintings of धार्मिक or mythological subjects कि very प्रायः have a विशाल landscape तत्व.
Jackie Keith Whitley ( July 1, 1954stambler, इरविन, और Grelun landon ( 2000 ). - Country Music : The Encyclopedia. - New York : St. Martin 's Press. - p.533. - ISBN 978-0-312-26487-1.—carlin, Richard ( 2003 ). - देश Music : a Biographical Dictionary. - New York : Routledge - p.427. - ISBN 978-0-415-93802-0.—Larkin, Colin ( 1995 ). - The Guinness Encyclopedia of Popular Music. - New York : Stockton दबायें - P.4462. - ISBN 978-0-85112-662-3.—Stanton, Scott ( 2003 ). - The Tombstone पर्यटक : Musicians. - नई यॉर्क : Pocket Books. - p.395. - ISBN 978-0-7434-6330-0.—Hicks, Jack. - `` सिंगर Keith Whitley 's Memory Alive through गीतों, प्रेम in Home Town ''. - The Kentucky पोस्ट. - September 25, 1991.— '' Country म्यूज़िक Star Keith whitley Dead at 33 ''. - Lexington Herald-Leader. - may 10, 1989.——hurst, Jack. - `` whitley 's Last दिनों ''. - शिकागो Tribune. - may 14, 1989.— '' Alcohol Kills देश सिंगर Keith Whitley ''. - United Press International. - ( c/o the San Francisco Chronicle ). - May 10, 1989. — May 9, 1989 ), known professionally as Keith Whitley, थी an American country म्यूज़िक singer.
whitley 's brief career in mainstream country music lasted from 1984 जबतक उसके death in 1989, लकिन he continues to influence an entire generation of गायकों and songwriters.
He charted 19 singles on the Billboard देश charts, सहित पाँच consecutive क्रमांक Ones : `` Do n't बंद Your Eyes ``, `` When तुम Say nothing at All ``, `` I 'm no Stranger to the बरसात ``, `` i Wonder do You Think of Me `` and `` It ai n't Nothin ' `` ( the last two posthumously ).
Statute of ग्रैंड duchy of Lithuania, लिखा in Polish
A statute is a formal written enactment of a legislative authority कि governs a राज्य, city, or county.
Typically, statutes command or prohibit something, or घोषित policy.
The word is प्रायः प्रयुक्त to distinguish विधि बना by legislative bodies from case law, decided by courts, और regulations जारी by सरकारी agencies.
Statutes are sometimes referred to as legislation or `` ब्लैक letter विधि. ''
As a सोर्स of law, statutes are considered primary authority ( as opposed to secondary प्राधिकार ).
Ideally all statutes must be in सामंजस्य साथ the आधारभूत विधि of the land ( constitutional ).
इस word is used in contradistinction to the common विधि.
Statutes acquire their फ़ोर्स from the समय of their passage, however unless वरना provided.
statutes are of several kinds ; namely, Public or private.
Declaratory or remedial.
अस्थाई or perpetual.
A temporary statute is one which is limited in its अवधि at the time of its enactment.
it continues in force until the time of its limitation has expired, जबतक sooner repealed.
A perpetual statute is one लिये the फिराकर of which there is no limited समय, although it may not be expressly घोषित to be so.
If, however, a statute which किया not itself contain any limitation is to be governed by another जिससे is temporary only, the former will also be temporary and निर्भर upon the अस्तित्व of the latter.
Before a statute becomes law in some countries, it must be सहमत upon by the highest executive in the government, and आखिरकार published as part of a code.
in many countries, statutes are व्यवस्थित in topical इंतजाम ( or `` संहिताबद्ध '' ) within publications पुकारा codes, such as the United States Code.
In many राष्ट्र statutory law is distinguished from and subordinate to संवैधानिक law.
The external iliac धमनियों are दो major धमनियों which bifurcate off the आम iliac arteries anterior to the sacroiliac joint of the pelvis.
वे proceed anterior and अवर along the medial border of the psoas major muscles.
वे exit the श्रोणि girdle posterior and inferior to the inguinal ligament परिचय एक third laterally from the insertion पाइंट of the inguinal ligament on the pubic tubercle at जिससे पाइंट वे are referred to as the femoral धमनियों.
The बाह्य iliac artery is usually the धमनी used to attach the renal artery to the प्राप्तकर्ता of a kidney transplant.
भाप is a digital distribution, digital rights प्रबन्धन, multiplayer और संचार platform developed by वाल्व निगम.
it is प्रयुक्त to distribute games and related media ऑनलाइन, from small independent डेवलपर to larger software घरों ; in अक्तूबर 2012, वाल्व विस्तारित the service to include non-gaming तन्त्र.
भाप provides the उपयोक्ता साथ installation and automatic management of software आरपार multiple कंप्यूटर, community features ऐसे as friends सूचियाँ and groups, cloud छायांकन, and in-game voice and chat functionality.
the तन्त्र provides a freely available अनुप्रयोग प्रोग्रामिंग interface, Steamworks, that developers can take लाभ of to integrate अनेक of भाप 's functions within उनके तन्त्र products, including copy protection, networking and matchmaking, in-game achievements and micro-transactions, and support for user-created सामग्री through Steam Workshop.
Though initially विकसित for use on microsoft खिड़कियाँ, the क्लाएंट has expanded to include OS X and Linux संस्करण, and clients with limited functionality on the प्लेस्टेशन 3 कंसोल and for दोनो iOS and एंड्रॉइड mobile devices.
in addition to being a central hub for gaming software, Valve has created a version of भाप with altered कार्यक्षमता to be used in schools for शैक्षणिक software, सहित a modified version of Portal 2 for teaching science और critical सोच lessons.
, there are nearly 2000 games available through Steam, और 54 million active user खाते.
as of January 2013, Steam has seen over 6.6 million संयुक्त players.
भाप रै an estimated 50–70 % share of the digital distribution मार्केट for वीडियो games.
the Steam logo is a stylised left-side fly-crank और लाठी from the Walschaerts वाल्व gear of a steam locomotive.
जेरी लुईस ( born March 16, 1926 ) is an अमरीकी comedian, actor, singer, film producer, screenwriter and film director.
he is ज्ञात लिये उसके slapstick humor in film, television, stage and रेडियो.
He was originally paired up साथ Dean Martin in 1946, forming the famed comedy team of Martin and Lewis.
In addition to the duo 's लोकप्रिय nightclub work, they starred in a successful श्रेणी of comedy films लिये Paramount Pictures.
Lewis is भी known for his charity fund-raising telethons and position as national chairman लिये the Muscular Dystrophy संघ ( MDA ).
Lewis has won several awards लिये आजीवन achievements इससे The American Comedy पुरस्कार, Los Angeles Film Critics संघ, and Venice Film पर्व, और he has दो stars on the Hollywood Walk of Fame.
in 2005, he received the Governors Award of the अकादमी of टेलीविज़न Arts & Sciences Board of Governors, जिससे is the highest Emmy पुरस्कार presented.
On February 22, 2009, the Academy of Motion Picture कला and Sciences awarded लुईस the Jean hersholt Humanitarian पुरस्कार.
The राइन ( ; ; ) is a European river that रनों from the Swiss canton of Grisons in the southeastern स्विस Alps through Germany और eventually flows into the North Sea coast in the नीदरलैंड्स और is the twelfth longest नदी in Europe, at परिचय, साथ an average discharge of more than.
The Rhine and the Danube formed most of the northern अंतर्देशीय frontier of the Roman Empire and, since those days, the राइन has been a vital and navigable जलमार्ग carrying व्यापार and goods deep अंतर्देशीय.
it has also served as a defensive feature and has been the basis for regional और international borders.
The अनेक castles and prehistoric fortifications along the Rhine गवाही to its importance as a जलमार्ग.
नदी traffic could be रोका at these स्थितियाँ, usually for the purpose of collecting tolls, by the state that controlled that portion of the नदी.
Sri ( Sinhala )
श्री ( Devanagari : श्री, IAST ; Śrī ), भी transliterated as Sree or Shri or श्री is a word of Sanskrit उत्पत्ति, used in the Indian subcontinent as polite रूप of address समतुल्य to the English `` Mr. '' in लिखा and spoken भाषा, or as a शीर्षक of veneration for deities ( usually translated as `` Holy '' ).
Design of complex structures जैसे the International Space Station needs in-depth understanding of Structural Analysis.
सिविल अभियान्त्रिकी is a professional अभियान्त्रिकी अनुशासन कि deals with the डिज़ाइन, construction, और maintenance of the physical और naturally built environment, including works like roads, पुलों, नहरों, dams, और buildings.
Civil engineering is the oldest engineering discipline after सैन्य engineering, and it थी पारिभाषित to distinguish non-military engineering from military engineering.
it is traditionally broken into several sub-disciplines including environmental engineering, geotechnical engineering, geophysics, भूगणित, control engineering, structural अभियान्त्रिकी, biomechanics, nanotechnology, transportation अभियान्त्रिकी, धरती विज्ञान, atmospheric sciences, forensic अभियान्त्रिकी, municipal or शहरी engineering, water resources engineering, सामग्री engineering, coastal engineering, सर्वेक्षण, and construction engineering.
Civil engineering takes place on all levels : in the public sector from नगरपालिका through to national governments, and in the निजी sector from individual homeowners through to अंतरराष्ट्रीय companies.
कैथरीन Dunham in Tropical revue
Katherine dunham in स्टुडियो
कैथरीन dunham in Tropical Review Tropical Review, Martin Beck Theatre
Katherine Dunham wearing नृत्य costume
Katherine Dunham in Cumbia
Katherine Dunham ( June 22, 1909 – May 21, 2006 ) थी an अमरीकी dancer, कोरियोग्राफर, लेखक, educator, and सोशल activist.
dunham had one of the most successful dance करियर in American and European theater of the 20th century, and directed उसके अपना dance company लिये अनेक years.
वो has been called the `` matriarch और queen mother of black dance ''.
During her heyday in the 1940s and 1950s, Dunham थी renowned throughout Europe और Latin America और was widely popular in the संयुक्त States, where the Washington Post पुकारा उसके `` dancer कैथरीन the Great ''.
For almost thirty सालो she maintained the Katherine Dunham Dance Company, the only self-supported American black dance troupe at that समय, और over her long career she choreographed more than ninety individual dances.
dunham was an innovator in African-American modern dance as खूब as a leader in the field of नृत्य anthropology, or ethnochoreology.
Sphagnum is a genus of between 1510 and 3500 species of mosses, commonly called peat मॉस due to its prevalence in wet habitats where it contributes to the formation of peat bogs and mires.
Sphagnum accumulations can store water, चूंकि both living and dead plants can hold large quantities of water inside उनके cells ; पौधे may hold from 16-26 times as much water as their dry weight depending on the species.
The empty cells help retain water in drier conditions.
hence, as sphagnum moss grows, it can slowly spread into drier conditions, forming larger peatlands, both raised bogs and कंबल bogs.
These peat accumulations तब provide habitat for a wide सरणी of peatland plants, including sedges and ericaceous shrubs, as खूब as orchids और मांसाहारी plants.
Sphagnum and the peat formed from it do not क्षय readily क्युकी of the phenolic compounds embedded in the moss 's cell walls.
In जोड, bogs, जैसे all wetlands, develop anaerobic soil conditions, which produces slower anaerobic decay बल्कि than एरोबिक microbial action.
Peat moss can also acidify its surroundings by taking up cations, such as calcium और मैग्नीशियम, और releasing hydrogen ions.
Under the right conditions, peat can accumulate to a depth of अनेक meters.
Different species of sphagnum have different tolerance limits for बाढ़ और pH, so कोई one peatland may have a number of different Sphagnum प्रजाति.
Individual peat moss पौधे consist of a main स्टेम, with tightly arranged clusters of branch fascicles usually consisting of two or three spreading branches और दो to four hanging शाखाओं.
The top of the plant, or capitulum, रै compact clusters of young branches.
Along the स्टेम are बिखरे leaves of various shapes, नामित stem leaves ; the आकार varies according to प्रजाति.
the leaves consist of two kinds of cells ; small, ग्रीन, जीना कोशिकाएं ( chlorophyllose cells ), and विशाल, clear, structural, dead cells ( hyaline cells ).
the latter have the विशाल water-holding capacity.
The earliest version of the संजाल Card, issued manually rather than through an aptis यंत्र.
The first aptis संस्करण of the संजाल Card.
This was used इससे the start of the aptis era in 1986/1987 until well into the 1990s, as स्टॉक्स had to be used up despite the introduction of the new-look orange-banded version in 1991.
The परिचय of the weekday minimum fare condition in 2002 resulted in a minor बदलें : the red `` R '' shows कि this is the `` Revised '' संस्करण of the railcard.
इस version is still in use as of 2007.
The संजाल Railcard is a discount कार्ड introduced in 1986 by अंग्रेजों रेल, upon the creation of their संजाल SouthEast area around London, England.
The कार्ड is intended to encourage leisure सफर by rail by offering छूट for adults and accompanying children on a wide range of off-peak fares.
The दायरा of discounts available, and the price of the कार्ड, have varied since that time, लकिन the card has always been valid लिये a year 's असीमित use.
It can be purchased by any व्यक्ति aged 16 or over from कोई staffed नेशनल Rail station or रेल Appointed Travel Agent, by completing an application form - no फ़ोटोग्राफ़िक पहचान or other documentation is needed to buy or use the card.
It is one of a number of concessionary fare schemes available on the British railway प्रणाली.
The United Nations ( un ; French : Organisation देस Nations Unies, ONU ) is the संसार 's largest, foremost, और most prominent international organization.
The stated aims of the संयुक्त Nations शामिल promoting and facilitating cooperation in international law, international security, आर्थिक विकास, social progress, इंसान अधिकारों, सिविल अधिकारों, civil liberties, राजनैतिक freedoms, democracy, and the achievement of स्थायी संसार peace.
The UN was founded in 1945 बाद World War II to replace the League of Nations, to stop wars between देशों, और to provide a मंच for संवाद.
It contains multiple subsidiary organizations to carry out its मिशन.
at its founding, the UN had 51 member राज्य ; as of 2011, there are 193.
From its offices around the world, the UN and its specialized agencies decide on सत्य and administrative मुद्दे in नियमित meetings आयोजित throughout the year.
The संगठन has six principal organs : the General सभा ( the main deliberative सभा ) ; the Security Council ( for deciding निश्चित resolutions लिये peace और security ) ; the Economic और सोशल Council ( लिये assisting in promoting international आर्थिक and social cooperation और विकास ) ; the Secretariat ( for providing studies, सूचना, और facilities needed by the UN ) ; the International Court of Justice ( the primary judicial अंग ) ; and the United Nations Trusteeship Council ( which is currently inactive ).
अन्य prominent UN प्रणाली एजेंसियों include the World Health Organization ( WHO ), the World खाना Programme ( wfp ) and United Nations Children 's निधि ( यूनिसेफ ).
The UN 's most prominent स्थिति is that of the office of Secretary-General which रै been held by Ban Ki-moon of दक्षिण Korea since 2007.
The United Nations मुख्यालय resides in international territory in New York City, with further main offices at Geneva, Nairobi, and Vienna.
the संगठन is financed from assessed and voluntary contributions इससे its सदस्य states, और has six आधिकारिक languages : अरबी, चाइनीज, English, French, रूसी, and Spanish.
South Beach, also nicknamed SoBe, is a neighborhood in the city of Miami Beach, Florida, United States, located due ईस्ट of Miami नगर proper between Biscayne खाड़ी and the अटलांटिक Ocean.
The area encompasses सब of the barrier islands of मियामी बीच south of Indian Creek.
This area was the first section of Miami Beach to be developed, starting in the 1910s, धन्यवाद to the विकास प्रयत्न of Carl G. फिशर, the Lummus Brothers, और John S. Collins, the latter whose construction of the कॉलिन्स Bridge provided the first vital जमीन कड़ी between मेनलैंड मियामी and the beaches.
the area has gone through numerous artificial and natural changes over the years, including a booming regional economy, increased tourism, and the 1926 hurricane, which destroyed much of the area.
as of 2010, about 39,186 निवासियों live in दक्षिण Beach.
the United States presidential election of 1960 was the 44th quadrennial presidential चुनाव, आयोजित on Tuesday, November 8, 1960.
The रिपब्लिकन Party nominated लाज़िम Vice-President Richard निक्सन, जबकि the Democratic पार्टी nominated जॉन F. Kennedy, Senator from मैसाचुसेट्स.
The incumbent अध्यक्ष, Republican ड्वाइट D. Eisenhower, was not eligible लिये re-election बाद सेवारत the maximum दो terms allowed by the twenty-second Amendment.
Kennedy थी elected साथ a सीसे of 112,827 votes, or 0.17 % of the popular vote, giving him a victory of 303 to 219 in the चुनावी College, the closest चूंकि 1916.
This थी the first election in which all fifty of the वर्तमान United States participated.
A number of factors explain why the election was so close.
Kennedy gained since there was an आर्थिक recession जिससे ठेस the incumbent Republican, and he था the advantage of 17 million more पंजीकृत डेमोक्रेट than republicans.
furthermore, the new votes that Kennedy gained among catholics almost neutralized the नई votes Nixon gained among protestants.
Kennedy 's campaigning कौशल decisively outmatched Nixon 's.
In the end, Nixon 's emphasis on उसके experience carried little वज़न, and he wasted energy by campaigning in सब 50 states instead of concentrating on the swing राज्य.
Kennedy used उसके विशाल, well-funded campaign organization to win the nomination, सुरक्षित endorsements, और, with the aid of the last of the big-city bosses, to get out the vote in the big cities.
He relied on running mate Lyndon B. Johnson to थाम the South और used टेलीविज़न effectively.
इस चुनाव is notable as being the पहला time in U.S. history that दो sitting U.S. Senators ( कैनेडी and जॉनसन ) were निर्वाचित as president और vice-president, a phenomenon that रै been दोहराया once, by Barack Obama and जो बिडेन in 2008 ( in both cases, the अध्यक्ष थी the younger, more junior सीनेटर ).
a poster लिये a c. 1884 अमरीकी production of Macbeth, starring Thomas W. keene.
चित्रित, counter clockwise from top-left, are : Macbeth और Banquo मिलें the witches ; just after the murder of Duncan ; Banquo 's ghost ; मैकबेथ duels Macduff ; and Macbeth.
Macbeth is a play written by विलियम Shakespeare.
It is माना एक of his darkest and most powerful tragedies.
Set in Scotland, the play dramatizes the corroding psychological and political प्रभाव produced when its समर्थक, the स्कॉटिश रब Macbeth, chooses evil as the way to fulfill his ambition for power.
He commits regicide to become king और then furthers उसके moral descent साथ a शासनकाल of murderous आतंक to stay in power, eventually plunging the country into civil war.
In the end, he loses everything that gives अर्थ और purpose to उसके जीवन पहले खोने his life itself.
the play is believed to have been लिखा between 1603 and 1607, and is most commonly दिनाँक 1606.
the earliest account of a performance of what was probably शेक्सपियर 's play is अप्रैल 1611, when Simon Forman अंकित seeing such a play at the Globe Theatre.
it was first published in the folio of 1623, संभवतः from a संकेत book.
it was most likely लिखा during the reign of जेम्स I, who had महरूम James VI of स्कॉटलैंड पहले he succeeded to the English सिंहासन in 1603.
James was a संरक्षक of Shakespeare’s acting company, और of सब the plays Shakespeare लिखा during James’s reign, मैकबेथ most clearly reflects the playwright’s relationship साथ the sovereign.
मैकबेथ is Shakespeare’s shortest tragedy, and tells the स्टोरी of a brave Scottish general named Macbeth who receives a prophecy इससे a तिकड़ी of witches that one day he will become King of Scotland.
खपत by ambition and spurred to कार्रवाई by his बीवी, Macbeth हत्याएं किंग डंकन और takes the सिंहासन for himself.
His reign is racked साथ guilt और paranoia, और he soon becomes a tyrannical ruler as he is forced to कमिट more और अधिक murders to protect himself इससे enmity और suspicion.
The bloodbath swiftly takes Macbeth and Lady Macbeth into realms of arrogance, madness, और मौत.
Shakespeare 's source for the त्रासदी is the account of किंग Macbeth of Scotland, Macduff, and डंकन in Holinshed 's क्रॉनिकल्स ( 1587 ), a history of इंग्लैण्ड, Scotland और Ireland परिचित to Shakespeare and his contemporaries, हालांकि the कार्यक्रम in the खेल differ extensively from the history of the real Macbeth.
In the backstage world of theatre, some believe कि the play is cursed, and होगा not mention its title aloud, referring to it instead as `` the Scottish play ``.
Over the कोर्स of many सदियां, the play रै attracted कुछ of the सबसे renowned actors to the भूमिकाएँ of Macbeth and महिला मैकबेथ.
It has been adapted to film, television, opera, novels, comic books, and other media.
The Milton Hershey School is a निजी philanthropic ( pre-k through 12 ) बोर्डिंग स्कूल in Hershey, पेन्सिलवेनिया.
Originally named the Hershey Industrial School, the institution was संस्थापित and funded by chocolate industrialist Milton Snavely Hershey and his wife, Catherine स्वीनी Hershey.
The school was originally स्थापित लिये impoverished, healthy, Caucasian, पुरूष orphans, जबकि today it serves विद्यार्थी of various backgrounds.
The Milton Hershey School विश्वास, जिससे निधि the school, owns controlling interest in The Hershey Company and owns the Hershey entertainment और रिसॉर्ट कम्पनी ( HERCO ) जिससे oversees many of the area होटल along with a theme पार्क called hersheypark.
With over छह अरब dollars in assets, the Milton Hershey School is एक of the wealthiest schools in the संसार.
the स्कूल is overseen by a Board of प्रबंधक.
the school currently serves 1,818 विद्यार्थी, and plans to grow to 2,100 students by 2013.
A सदस्य of कोर : गठबन्धन for Residential Education, it is the largest आवासीय education कार्यक्रम in the us.
epub may refer to:
EPUB, a फ़्री और open e-book standard
Electronic आलेख, articles in scholarly journals or magazines कि can be accessed via electronic transmission
The Controlled Substances अधिनियम ( CSA ) was enacted into विधि by the कॉंग्रेस of the United राज्य as Title ii of the Comprehensive Drug गाली Prevention and Control Act of 1970.
The CSA is the federal U.S. drug policy under which the manufacture, importation, possession, use and distribution of certain substances is regulated.
The Act भी served as the national implementing विधान for the Single Convention on Narcotic दवाएँ.
the legislation निर्मित पाँच Schedules ( classifications ), साथ varying qualifications लिये a पदार्थ to be शामिल in प्रत्येक.
दो संघीय agencies, the Drug प्रवर्तन Administration और the Food और Drug प्रशासन, determine जिससे substances हैं added to or removed इससे the various schedules, though the statute passed by कॉंग्रेस निर्मित the आरंभिक listing, and कॉंग्रेस has sometimes scheduled other substances through legislation such as the Hillory J. Farias and Samantha reid date-rape Prevention अधिनियम of 2000, जिससे placed गामा hydroxybutyrate in Schedule I. वर्गीकरण निर्णय हैं जरूरी to be बना on criteria सहित potential for abuse ( an undefined term ), फिलहाल accepted medical use in उपचार in the United States, और international treaties.
Second-language अधिग्रहण or second-language learning is the प्रक्रम by which people learn a second language.
second-language acquisition ( प्रायः abbreviated to SLA ) भी refers to the scientific अनुशासन devoted to studying that प्रक्रम.
दूसरी language refers to any language learned in addition to a person 's first language ; although the अवधारणा is नामित second-language acquisition, it can also चरितार्थ the learning of तीसरा, चौथी, or subsequent भाषाएं.
Second-language acquisition refers to what learners do ; it करता not refer to practices in language teaching.
The academic discipline of second-language acquisition is a subdiscipline of लागू linguistics.
it is broad-based और relatively नई.
As well as the विभिन्न branches of भाषाविज्ञान, second-language अधिग्रहण is also closely सम्बन्धित to मनोविज्ञान, cognitive psychology, and education.
To separate the academic अनुशासन from the learning प्रक्रम itself, the शर्तें second-language acquisition research, second-language अध्ययन, and second-language acquisition studies are also used.
SLA research began as an interdisciplinary फ़ील्ड, and because of इस it is मुश्किल to पहचानो a precise starting date.
however, it करता appear to have developed a great सौदे चूंकि the mid-1960s.
The term अधिग्रहण थी originally used to emphasize the subconscious nature of the learning process, but in recent सालो learning and acquisition have become largely synonymous.
Second-language acquisition can incorporate heritage language learning, but it does नहीं प्रायः incorporate bilingualism.
Most SLA researchers देखिए bilingualism as being the end result of सीखना a language, not the process itself, and see the term as referring to native-like fluency.
Writers in fields ऐसे as education and मनोविज्ञान, however, often use bilingualism loosely to refer to all forms of बहुभाषिकता.
Second-language acquisition is also not to be contrasted with the acquisition of a foreign language ; rather, the learning of second languages और the सीखना of विदेशी languages involve the same आधारभूत processes in different situations..
There has महरूम much debate about exactly how language is learned, और many issues are still unresolved.
There are many theories of second-language acquisition, but none हैं accepted as a complete explanation by all SLA researchers.
Due to the interdisciplinary प्रकृति of the field of second-language acquisition, this is not expected to happen in the foreseeable future.
Forbes list of billionaires is an annual ranking of the world 's wealthiest people, compiled और published by फोर्ब्स, an American national कारोबार magazine.
the total net लायक of each individual on the list is estimated, in संयुक्त States dollars, based on their assets and accounting for debt.
The सूची only represents प्रत्येक person 's valuation on a single day, due to daily fluctuations among एक्सचेंज rates and stock valuations.
the United States रहस्य Service is a u.S. federal law enforcement agency that is part of the United States Department of Homeland Security.
The sworn सदस्यों are divided among the खास Agents and the Uniformed प्रभाग.
जबतक March 1, 2003, the Service थी भाग of the United States Department of the Treasury.
The U.S. रहस्य Service has two पृथक areas of responsibility:
Financial Crimes, covering मिशन such as prevention and investigation of counterfeiting of U.S. करेंसी and U.S. treasury securities, and छानबीन of प्रमुख धोखाधड़ी.
सुरक्षा, which entails ensuring the safety of वर्तमान and former national leaders और their families, ऐसे as the President, पास्ट राष्ट्रपतियों, वाइस presidents, presidential candidates, visiting heads of राज्य, and विदेशी embassies ( प्रति an agreement with the U.S. State विभाग 's Bureau of Diplomatic Security ( DS ) Office of Foreign Missions ( OFM ), etc. )
The Secret सेवा 's आरंभिक जिम्मेदारी थी to investigate counterfeiting of u.S. currency, which was rampant following the U.S. Civil War.
the एजेंसी then विकसित into the United States ' first domestic intelligence और counterintelligence agency.
Many of the agency 's मिशन were later taken over by subsequent agencies such as the संघीय Bureau of छानबीन ( FBI ), ब्यूरो of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives ( atf ), Immigration और Customs Enforcement ( ICE ), and Internal Revenue Service ( IRS ).
`` me and Bobby mcgee '' is a song written by Kris Kristofferson and फ्रेड Foster, originally performed by रोजर Miller.
Others performed the सोंग later, including kristofferson खुद, और Janis Joplin who topped the U.S. singles chart साथ the song in 1971 after her death, making the song the second posthumous number-one सिंगल in u.S. chart history बाद `` ( sittin ' On ) The Dock of the Bay `` by Otis redding.
Franklin Delano रूज़वेल्ट ( or ; January 30, 1882 – अप्रैल 12, 1945 ), also known by his initials, FDR, was the 32nd President of the United राज्य ( 1933–1945 ) और a central figure in world events during the mid-20th century, leading the संयुक्त राज्य during a time of worldwide economic depression और कुल war.
a dominant leader of the Democratic Party and the only American president elected to more than two terms, he built a नई Deal गठबन्धन कि realigned American politics बाद 1932, as his domestic policies defined American liberalism for the मध्य third of the 20th सदी.
With the bouncy popular song `` Happy दिनों Are Here again `` as his campaign theme, FDR defeated लाज़िम Republican Herbert Hoover in November 1932, at the depth of the Great Depression.
Energized by his निजी victory over polio, FDR 's unfailing optimism and सक्रियता contributed to a renewal of the national spirit.
He worked closely with British प्रधान Minister विंस्टन चर्चिल and सोवियत General सचिव Joseph Stalin in leading the Allies against जर्मनी and Japan in World War ii, और restoring prosperity to the nation 's economy.
In his first सौ दिनों in office, which began कूच 4, 1933, Roosevelt पथप्रदर्शन major विधान and issued a profusion of executive orders that instituted the New Deal —a variety of programs designed to produce relief ( government कार्य for the बेरोजगार ), रिकवरी ( आर्थिक विकास ), and reform ( through विनियमन of Wall गली, बैंको और transportation ).
The economy improved rapidly from 1933 to 1937, but then relapsed into a deep recession.
the bipartisan Conservative Coalition that formed in 1937 prevented his पैकिंग the Supreme अदालत or passing any considerable विधान ; it abolished many of the relief programs जब unemployment diminished दौरान World War ii.
Most of the regulations on business यहूद ended about 1975–85, except for the विनियमन of वॉल Street by the Securities and एक्सचेंज Commission, which still exists.
साथ साथ अनेक smaller programs, major surviving programs include the संघीय Deposit Insurance निगम, जिससे थी created in 1933, and Social Security, जिससे Congress passed in 1935.
As World War II loomed after 1938, साथ the Japanese invasion of चीन and the aggression of Nazi जर्मनी, fdr gave strong राजनयिक and financial support to China and Great Britain, while बाकी officially neutral.
His goal थी to make America the `` Arsenal of Democracy `` which would supply munitions to the Allies.
In March 1941, रूज़वेल्ट, with Congressional approval, provided lend-lease सहायता to the देशों fighting विरूद्ध नाजी जर्मनी with ब्रिटेन.
With very दमदार national support, he made war on Japan and जर्मनी after the Japanese attack on पर्ल Harbor on December 7, 1941, कॉलिंग it a `` date which होगा live in infamy ``.
He पर्यवेक्षित the mobilization of the U.S. economy to support the Allied war प्रयत्न.
As an active सैन्य leader, Roosevelt implemented an overall war strategy on two fronts कि ended in the defeat of the Axis शक्तियां and the development of the संसार 's first atom बमबारी.
In 1942 Roosevelt ordered the internment of 100,000 Japanese American civilians.
Unemployment dropped to 2 %, relief programs largely ended, and the industrial economy grew rapidly to new heights as millions of लोगों moved to new jobs in war centers, and 16 million मेन और 300,000 महिलाओं were drafted or volunteered लिये military service.
Roosevelt dominated the अमरीकी political scene नहीं only during the twelve years of his presidency, लकिन also for decades afterward.
He orchestrated the realignment of voters that created the Fifth Party System.
fdr 's New सौदे गठबन्धन संयुक्त labor unions, बिग city मशीने, श्वेत ethnics, African Americans and rural श्वेत Southerners.
He also influenced the बाद सृष्टि of the United Nations and Bretton Woods.
Roosevelt is consistently rated by scholars as one of the top three U.S. Presidents, along with अब्राहम Lincoln and George Washington.
a liberal डेमोक्रेट, Roosevelt defined उसके ideological position as `` a little बाएँ of center. ''
Mara salvatrucha ( commonly abbreviated as MS, मारा, and MS-13 ) is a transnational criminal gang कि originated in Los एंजिल्स और रै spread to अन्य parts of the United States, कनाडा, Mexico, और Central America.
The majority of the gang is ethnically composed of Central अमेरिकी and active in urban और suburban areas.
In the U.S., the ms-13 रै an विशेषकर भारी presence in Los एंजिल्स County and the सैन Francisco Bay Area in Northern California ; the वॉशिंगटन, D.C. महानगर areas of फेयरफैक्स County, Virginia, मोंटगोमरी County, मेरीलैंड, और प्रिंस George 's काउंटी, मेरीलैंड ; long Island, नई York ; the Boston, Massachusetts area ; Charlotte, North Carolina ; and Houston, Texas.
There is also a presence of MS-13 in टोरंटो, ओंटारियो, Canada.
Members of MS फर्क themselves by tattoos covering the body and also प्रायः the face, as खूब as the उपयोग of their own sign language.
They are बदनाम for their use of हिंसा and a subcultural moral code that predominantly consists of merciless revenge और cruel retributions.
This क्रूरता of the distinguished members of the `` Maras '' or `` mareros '' earned उन्हें a पाथ to be recruited by the sinaloa Cartel battling against लॉस Zetas in an जारी ड्रग war दक्षिण of the संयुक्त States border.
उनके wide-ranging क्रियाएँ have drawn the attention of the FBI and Immigration and Customs Enforcement, जो have initiated wide-scale raids against known and suspected gang members – netting hundreds of arrests across the देश.
हड्डियों is an American crime comedy-drama television series that premiered on the फॉक्स network in the United राज्य on September 13, 2005.
The show is आधारित on forensic मानवशास्त्र और forensic पुरातत्व, with each episode focusing on an FBI case file concerning the mystery behind human remains brought by FBI खास एजेंट Seeley बूथ ( David Boreanaz ) to the forensic anthropologist dr. Temperance `` Bones '' Brennan ( एमिली Deschanel ).
The rest of the main cast includes Michaela Conlin, T. J. Thyne, eric Millegan, tamara Taylor, Jonathan Adams, और जॉन Francis डाले.
Created by Hart Hanson, the series is very loosely आधारित on the life and writings of novelist and forensic anthropologist Kathy reichs, जो also produces the show.
Its title अक्षर, Temperance ब्रेनन, is named after the protagonist of Reichs ' अपराधों novel series.
Conversely, Dr. Brennan writes successful रहस्य novels based around a fictional ( in the हड्डियों universe ) forensic anthropologist नामित Kathy reichs.
हड्डियों is a joint उत्पादन by जोसेफसन entertainment, दूर फ़ील्ड Productions and 20th Century Fox Television.
The series has समाप्त airing इसके eighth season और has been renewed for a ninth season.
Super Bowl XXV थी an अमरीकी football game between the अमरीकी Football Conference ( afc ) चैंपियन Buffalo Bills and the National Football सम्मेलन ( NFC ) champion New York Giants to decide the National Football लीग ( NFL ) champion लिये the 1990 ऋतु.
The Giants defeated the बिल्स by the score of 20–19, winning their second कभी Super Bowl.
It is the only सुपर Bowl decided by one point.
the game was held at tampa Stadium in tampa, फ्लोरिडा, on January 27, 1991, during the ऊँचाई of the Gulf War.
it was यूँ निभाई under much patriotic fervor.
The proceedings included a rousing rendition of `` the Star-Spangled Banner `` by व्हिटनी Houston during the pregame ceremonies.
The Bills और उनके explosive no-huddle offense were making उनके first Super Bowl रूप बाद finishing the regular ऋतु with a 13-3 record, और leading the लीग in कुल points scored with 428.
In advancing to their दूसरी Super Bowl, the Giants भी posted a 13-3 regular ऋतु record, लकिन with a ball-control offense and a defense that अनुमत a league low 211 अंक.
The game is best remembered लिये Bills placekicker स्कॉट Norwood 's last-second field goal attempt which गई चौड़ी सही of the uprights, leading to a Giants विजय, and starting a four-game losing streak in the Super कटोरी for the Bills.
The Giants नियत a सुपर Bowl रिकार्ड पकड़कर possession of the ball for 40 minutes और 33 seconds.
New York also overcame a 12-3 second-quarter deficit, और बना a 75-yard touchdown ड्राइव कि consumed a Super Bowl रिकार्ड 9:29 बंद the क्लॉक.
Giants running back Ottis Anderson, who carried the ball 21 टाइम्स लिये 102 yards and one touchdown, was named सुपर Bowl MVP.
He थी the first awardee to receive the newly named `` पीट rozelle ट्रॉफी '' ( named for the former commissioner ).
एंडरसन also recorded one reception for seven yards.
Malcolm X ( ; may 19, 1925February 21, 1965 ), born मैल्कम छोटी and also known as El-Hajj malik el-shabazz ( ), was an African-American Muslim minister and human rights activist.
to his admirers, he was a courageous advocate for the rights of blacks, a man जो indicted श्वेत America in the harshest शर्तें for its crimes against black Americans.
detractors accused him of preaching racism, black supremacy, और violence.
He रै been called one of the greatest and most influential African Americans in history.
मैल्कम X 's father died—killed by white supremacists, it was rumored—when he was young, और at तनिक one of उसके uncles थी lynched.
जब he was 13, his mother थी लगाई in a mental hospital, and he was लगाई in a series of foster homes.
in 1946, at age 20, he went to prison for तोड़कर and entering.
in prison, Malcolm x became a member of the Nation of Islam ; after his parole in 1952, he quickly rose to become one of its नेताओ.
For a dozen years, Malcolm X was the public फेस of the controversial समूह, but disillusionment with स्वदेश of Islam सिर Elijah Muhammad led him to छोड़ the स्वदेश in March 1964.
After a period of सफर in अफ़्रीकी and the Middle East, he returned to the United राज्य, where he founded Muslim Mosque, inc. और the Organization of afro-american एकता.
In फ़रवरी 1965, less than a year after leaving the Nation of Islam, he was assassinated by तीन सदस्यों of the group.
Malcolm X 's expressed beliefs changed substantially over समय.
As a spokesman for the Nation of Islam he taught black supremacy and advocated separation of black and श्वेत Americans —in contrast to the civil rights गति 's emphasis on संयोजन.
After तोड़कर with the Nation of islam in 1964—saying of his association with it, `` i किया many बाते as a [ Black ] मुस्लिम that I 'm sorry for now.
i was a zombie then... pointed in a certain direction and बताई to march '' —and becoming a Sunni मुस्लिम, he disavowed जातिवाद and expressed willingness to कार्य with civil rights leaders, he जारी to emphasize Pan-Africanism, black self-determination, and self-defense.
the third season of 90210, an American television series, premiered on सोमवार September 13, 2010.
The CW officially नवीनीकृत the show for a तीसरा season on February 16, 2010.
With the खुलासा of the networks fall 2010 schedule, they announced उनके निर्णय to move 90210 to Monday nights at 8:00 pm, as a lead-in to Gossip Girl.
It premiered on September 13, 2010 and was met with generally धनात्मक समीक्षाएँ from आलोचकों.
the ऋतु चयन up at the समाप्त of summer और focuses on the students senior year of high स्कूल.
It follows Adrianna 's rise to fame, a new relationship between चांदी and Navid और a confused टेडी who decides to reveal to his परिवार and friends he is gay.
It भी deals with the aftermath of नाओमी Clark 's assault.
Regular cast members for the season शामिल Shenae ग्रिम्स, Tristan Wilds, AnnaLynne mccord, Ryan Eggold, जेसिका Stroup, Michael Steger, Jessica lowndes, Matt Lanter, Gillian Zinser, Trevor Donovan और लोरी loughlin.
Rebecca sinclair continued her role as कार्यपालिका producer for the season.
The season premiered to 1.96 million viewers and a 0.9 rating in the वयस्कों 18–49 demographic.
Christmas-themed episode `` अवकाश Madness '', hit ऋतु highs in all कुंजी demos साथ 2.1 in The cw 's निशाना डेमो of women 18–34, a 1.4 in adults 18–34 और a 1.1 in adults 18–49.
it was भी the most watched episode in over a साल साथ 2.2 लाख viewers tuning in.
The season finale aired on May 16, 2011.
The season averaged 1.75 million live viewers और a 0.9 adults 18–49 rating.
it was released on DVD in the संयुक्त States on August 30, 2011.
Elizabeth II ( Elizabeth एलेक्जेंड्रा Mary ; born 21 April 1926 ) is the संवैधानिक monarch of 16 sovereign states, ज्ञात as the Commonwealth realms, और their territories and dependencies, और head of the 54-member Commonwealth of राष्ट्र.
She is Supreme Governor of the Church of इंग्लैण्ड और, in some of उसके realms, carries the title of Defender of the Faith as part of उसके full title.
on उसके accession on 6 February 1952, Elizabeth became Head of the Commonwealth और queen regnant of सात independent Commonwealth countries : the संयुक्त किंगडम, Canada, ऑस्ट्रेलिया, New Zealand, South Africa, Pakistan and Ceylon.
From 1956 to 1992, the number of her realms varied as territories gained independence और कुछ realms became republics.
At present, in addition to the first four aforementioned देशों, Elizabeth is महारानी of Jamaica, Barbados, the बहामा, Grenada, पापुआ नई Guinea, the Solomon आइलैंड्स, Tuvalu, संत Lucia, Saint Vincent और the Grenadines, Belize, अण्टीगुआ and Barbuda and Saint Kitts and नेविस.
Her reign of years is currently the second longest for a अंग्रेजों monarch ; only महारानी Victoria has reigned longer at over 63 years.
एलिज़ाबेथ was born in London and educated privately at घर.
Her father acceded to the throne as जार्ज VI in 1936 on the abdication of his brother Edward VIII, from which time she थी the heir presumptive.
She began to undertake public duties during the Second World War, in which she served in the Auxiliary territorial Service.
In 1947, वो शादीशुदा Prince फिलिप, ड्यूक of Edinburgh, with whom she has four children : चार्ल्स, Anne, Andrew, और एडवर्ड.
उसके coronation service took place in 1953 और was the first to be televised.
The Queen 's many historic visits और meetings शामिल a state visit to the Republic of Ireland and reciprocal visits to and इससे the Pope.
the Queen has seen major constitutional changes in her realms, such as devolution in the संयुक्त Kingdom and the patriation of the कनाडाई constitution.
Times of personal significance have included the births और marriages of her children, the births of उसके grandchildren, the investiture of the Prince of Wales, and the celebration of माइलस्टोन such as उसके Silver, सुनहरी, and Diamond Jubilees in 1977, 2002, and 2012, respectively.
Major कार्यक्रम in the Queen 's reign have included the Troubles in Northern आयरलैंड, the Falklands युद्ध, युद्धों साथ Iraq और the War in Afghanistan.
वहीँ have महरूम times of personal विषाद for उसके जिससे शामिल the death of her पिता at 56, the assassination of Prince Philip 's uncle, रब Mountbatten, the breakdown of her children 's विवाह in 1992 ( a year deemed her annus horribilis ), the death in 1997 of her पूर्व daughter-in-law, Diana, Princess of Wales, and the deaths of her mother and sister in 2002.
the महारानी रै occasionally faced severe दबायें criticism of the royal family and republican sentiments, but support लिये the monarchy and उसके निजी popularity remain high.
the 2010 संयुक्त States Senate चुनाव in Florida took place on November 2, 2010 along with other elections to the संयुक्त States Senate in other states as well as all चुनावों to the United States हाउस of प्रतिनिधि and various state and लोकल elections.
रिपब्लिकन Marco rubio, former स्पीकर of the फ्लोरिडा House of Representatives, defeated independent Charlie Crist and Democrat Kendrick नम्र in a three-way रेस.
One term Senator mel Martinez was निर्वाचित in a very close race विरूद्ध Democrat Betty Castor in 2004 with 49 % of the vote.
मार्टिनेज announced on दिसम्बर 2, 2008 that he होता not seek re-election to the Senate, और would resign prior to the end of his term.
in August 2009, राज्यपाल चार्ली crist announced that he would नियुक्त उसके पूर्व Chief of Staff, जार्ज LeMieux, a रिपब्लिकन, to the Senate सीट होने vacated by Martinez.
Governor Crist publicly announced he was running लिये the seat in mid-2009.
At the time he received many Republican समर्थन, such as the National रिपब्लिकन senatorial Committee, Martinez, और the 2008 Republican presidential nominee John McCain.
His support of the अमरीकी रिकवरी and Reinvestment Act of 2009 hurt his popularity among conservatives, and प्रत्याशी Marco Rubio surged.
in April 2010 Crist announced he would drop आउट of the Republican primary and चलाएं as an स्वतंत्र.
The नेशनल Republican Senatorial Committee withdrew its endorsement of crist और demanded a refund of its अभियान funds कि it provided for the Crist campaign.
Congressman Kendrick नम्र was the first Democrat to declare उसके intention to run.
सिकंदर Snitker was the first member of the libertarian Party on the ballot for senator in Florida 's history.
Satellite view of Doha
दोहा (, ' or ', literally : `` the बिग tree '' ) is the पूंजी city of the राज्य of क़तर.
स्तिथ on the coast of the Persian Gulf,
it had a population of 998,651 in 2008, और is भी one of the municipalities of क़तर.
दोहा is Qatar 's largest city, with over 60 % of the nation 's जनसांख्यिकी residing in Doha or its surrounding suburbs, और is भी the आर्थिक केन्द्र of the country.
दोहा also serves as the seat of government of क़तर, जिससे is ruled by Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa al Thani.
Doha is घर to the Education नगर, an area devoted to research और शिक्षा.
दोहा was the साईट of the पहला ministerial-level meeting of the Doha Development Round of World Trade संगठन negotiations.
the नगर of Doha held the 2006 एशियाई खेल, which was the largest Asian खेल ever held.
Doha also hosted the 2011 Pan Arab Games and most of the खेल at the 2011 AFC एशियाई कप.
दोहा hosted the UNFCCC Climate Negotiations ( COP 18 ) December 2012 और will host a large number of the venues for the 2022 फीफा World Cup.
The World Petroleum Council held the 20th World Petroleum Conference in Doha in दिसम्बर 2011.
Paranasal साइनस are a समूह of चार paired air-filled spaces that surround the nasal cavity ( maxillary sinuses ), above the आँखें ( frontal sinuses ), between the eyes ( ethmoid sinuses ), and behind the ethmoids ( sphenoid साइनस ).
The sinuses are named लिये the फेशियल हड्डियों in जिससे वे are located.
Lean manufacturing, lean enterprise, or lean production, often बस, `` Lean, '' is a production practice that considers the expenditure of resources लिये कोई goal other than the सृष्टि of मान लिये the end ग्राहक to be wasteful, and यूँ a निशाना for elimination.
working from the perspective of the customer who consumes a product or सेवा, `` value '' is defined as any action or process कि a customer would be willing to अदा for.
Essentially, lean is centered on preserving value with कम work.
Lean manufacturing is a management philosophy निकला mostly from the Toyota Production प्रणाली ( tps ) ( hence the term Toyotism is भी प्रचलित ) and identified as `` Lean '' only in the 1990s.
tps is renowned for इसके focus on कटौती of the original Toyota सात wastes to improve overall customer मान, but वहीँ are varying perspectives on how इस is बेहतरीन achieved.
The steady growth of टोयोटा, from a small company to the संसार 's largest automaker, has focused ध्यान on कैसा it has हासिल this कामयाबी.
iCarly लोगो
icarly is an अमरीकी sitcom that airs on Nickelodeon, which premiered on September 8, 2007.
Nickelodeon प्रचारित many एपीसोड so far ऐसे as `` iDo '', `` iHire an Idiot '', `` iPity the Nevel '', `` iDate Sam & फ्रेडी '', इत्यादि. as specials, despite their being नियमित episodes.
Every episode शीर्षक begins with a lower मामला i which represents the internet, as in `` icarly ''.
the show was मनोनीत for an एमी award लिये Outstanding children 's कार्यक्रम in 2009.
The series starring Miranda cosgrove as Carly Shay, a 13-year-old जो becomes an Internet star.
the series ended on नवम्बर 23, 2012 with the one-hour special episode `` igoodbye ''.
a total of 7 seasons and 109 episodes were broadcast.
The largest दर्शक of the series थी 11.2 million viewers, with the special episode `` isaved अपना Life '' premiered in January 2010.
When कार्ली ( Miranda Cosgrove ) and her sassy बेहतरीन dost Sam ( Jennette McCurdy ) अधिनियम मजेदार at a स्कूल talent show audition, tech-savvy Freddie ( Nathan kress ) टेपों it and पोस्ट it online without telling them.
After देखकर the लड़कियों ' दमदार chemistry and banter, the online audience clamors for more and the iCarly webcast is born.
जबकि grappling साथ ठेठ issues of adolescence, कार्ली, sam, and Freddie find out कि they have भी become online celebrities as their show – which सुविधाएँ हुनर contests, व्यंजनों, problem-solving, and यादृच्छिक नाचना – garners international accolades.
Carly lives in Seattle, वॉशिंगटन with her 26-year-old brother and guardian Spencer ( Jerry Trainor ) and produces the show in a makeshift third-floor studio loft in उनके अपार्टमेंट.
Their माँ has never been seen or उल्लेखित, but their father, Steven शे ( David chisum ), is a u.S. Air फ़ोर्स अधिकारी temporarily stationed on a submarine, and is often उल्लेखित but is only seen in person during the series finale एपीसोड, `` iGoodbye ''.
Westlife were an Irish boy band which formed in 1998 और disbanded in 2012.
Originally signed by Simon Cowell और managed by लुई Walsh, the group 's फाइनल line-up consisted of Nicky Byrne, kian Egan, Mark feehily and Shane Filan.
Brian McFadden थी a सदस्य from 1998 जबतक his departure in 2004.
Westlife sold over 50 million records worldwide, a total that included studio एल्बम, singles, वीडियो releases, and compilation albums.
the group संचित 14 number-one singles in the United Kingdom ( the third-highest in uk history ), tying with Cliff Richard और ranking बस behind The Beatles and Elvis प्रेस्ली.
They achieved a कुल of 26 top टेन singles over their 14-year करियर.
By 2010, westlife थी listed in the गिनीज संसार Records, as the UK 's top-selling एल्बम समूह of the 21st century.
They also won The Record of the Year ( the only music award based on public मत in the UK ) a record-breaking four times and in 2012, the आधिकारिक Charts Company सूचीबद्ध westlife 34th amongst the biggest-selling singles artists in British music इतिहास.
despite their यूरोपीय और एशियाई success, westlife never प्रबंधित to break into the U.S. market, achieving only एक hit single in 2000 : `` Swear It again ``.
in October 2011, westlife घोषित their intention to split in 2012, following उनके महानतम Hits दौरे and the release of their Greatest हिट्स album.
The boyband 's final concerts were held on 22 and 23 जून 2012 at croke Park Stadium in Dublin.
the पहला farewell कॉन्सर्ट, offering 85,000 टिकटें, sold आउट in a record-breaking 5 minutes और the latter screened live in cinemas worldwide.
Vitamin A is a समूह of nutritionally unsaturated hydrocarbons, which include रेटिनॉल, retinal, retinoic एसिड और अनेक provitamin A carotenoids among जिससे beta-carotene is the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण.
Vitamin A has अनेक functions, it is important लिये विकास and विकास, लिये the मेंटेनेंस of the प्रतिरक्षा system and good vision.
Vitamin a is needed by the retina of the eye in the रूप of retinal, जिससे combines साथ प्रोटीन opsin to form rhodopsin the light-absorbing molecule, कि is necessary लिये both low-light ( scotopic vision ) और color vision.
विटामिन A also functions in a very अलग role as an irreversibly oxidized रूप of retinol known as retinoic acid, which is an important hormone-like growth factor लिये epithelial and other cells.
in भोजन of animal origin, the प्रमुख form of vitamin A is an ester, primarily retinyl palmitate, which is converted to रेटिनॉल ( chemically an alcohol ) in the छोटी intestine.
The retinol रूप functions as a storage form of the विटामिन, and can be परिवर्तित to और from its visually active aldehyde form, retinal.
the संबद्ध एसिड ( retinoic एसिड ), a metabolite that can be irreversibly synthesized from vitamin A, has तभी आंशिक vitamin A कार्यकलाप, and does not फलन in the retina for the विज़ुअल cycle.
retinoic acid is used for विकास और cellular differentiation.
All forms of विटामिन A have a beta-ionone ring to जिससे an isoprenoid chain is attached, called a retinyl समूह.
Both संरचनात्मक सुविधाएँ are essential for vitamin कार्यकलाप.
The orange pigment of गाजर – beta-carotene – can be represented as two connected retinyl groups, जिससे are प्रयुक्त in the देह to योगदान to विटामिन A स्तर.
Alpha-carotene and gamma-carotene also have a सिंगल retinyl group, जिससे give them some vitamin activity.
None of the other carotenes have vitamin activity.
The carotenoid beta- cryptoxanthin possesses an ionone group and has vitamin कार्यकलाप in humans.
विटामिन a can be found in two principal forms in foods :
Retinol, the रूप of vitamin A absorbed when eating animal food sources, is a पीला, fat-soluble substance.
Since the pure दारू form is अस्थिर, the vitamin is found in tissues in a रूप of retinyl ester.
It is also commercially produced and administered as esters ऐसे as retinyl acetate or palmitate.
The carotenes alpha-carotene, beta-carotene, gamma-carotene ; and the xanthophyll beta-cryptoxanthin ( all of which contain beta-ionone rings ), but no other carotenoids, function as provitamin A in herbivores और सर्वाहारी animals, जिससे possess the एंजाइम ( 15-15'-dioxygenase ) which cleaves beta-carotene in the intestinal mucosa और converts it retinol.
In general, carnivores हैं poor converters of ionine-containing carotenoids, और pure carnivores such as cats and ferrets lack 15-15'-dioxygenase and can not convert any carotenoids to retinal ( resulting in none of the carotenoids being forms of vitamin A for ये species ).
सेलिना Marie गोमेज़ ( born जुलाई 22, 1992 ) is an अमरीकी सिंगर and actress.
She made her डेब्यू as a child अभिनेत्री in Barney & Friends.
In 2007, Gomez came to prominence as a अभिनीत cast member in the television series wizards of Waverly Place.
She signed to Hollywood Records the following year, और became the संस्थापक and lead सिंगर of the pop band Selena गोमेज़ & the Scene.
उनके स्टुडियो एल्बम Kiss & Tell ( 2009 ), A साल Without Rain ( 2010 ), and When the Sun goes Down ( 2011 ) were certified Gold by the रिकॉर्डिंग उद्योग Association of America ( riaa ) and have spawned Platinum-certified singles `` Naturally ``, `` Who Says ``, and `` Love तुम like a प्रेम सोंग ``.
After the रिलीज of television films and their accompanying soundtracks, Gomez made उसके theatrical film debut in Ramona and beezus in 2010 and starred in Monte कार्लो in 2011.
upon the निष्कर्ष of wizards of Waverly प्लेस and the hiatus of Selena गोमेज़ & the Scene in 2012, she केन्द्रित on उसके film career, serving as a आवाज़ actress in होटल Transylvania और starring in Spring Breakers the following year.
उसके debut सोलो एल्बम is tentatively scheduled to be released in summer 2013, और is preceded by its lead सिंगल `` आइये & Get It ``.
Outside of उसके work in the entertainment industry, Gomez is involved in philanthropic activities through दान work and various social and environmental causes.
tracie Monique स्पेंसर ( born July 12, 1976 ) is an American R & B and pop singer-songwriter, actress, and model.
Sacramento is the capital city of the u.S. state of कैलिफ़ोर्निया and the seat of government of Sacramento काउंटी.
It is located at the confluence of the Sacramento River and the American नदी in the उत्तरी portion of California 's expansive सेंट्रल Valley.
साथ an estimated 2011 जनसांख्यिकी of 477,891, it is the sixth-largest city in कैलिफ़ोर्निया and the 35th largest city in the United States.
Sacramento is the core सांस्कृतिक और economic center of the Sacramento metropolitan area which शामिल seven counties with an अनुमानित 2009 population of 2,527,123.
इसके metropolitan क्षेत्रफल is the fourth largest in California बाद the Greater लॉस Angeles Area, San फ्रांसिस्को Bay Area, and the San डिएगो metropolitan area, as well as the 25th largest in the United States.
Sacramento was cited by Time magazine as America 's most ethnically और racially integrated city in 2002.
Sacramento became a नगर through the efforts of the Swiss immigrant John sutter, Sr., उसके son जॉन Sutter, Jr., and जेम्स W. मार्शल.
sacramento grew quickly thanks to the protection of Sutter 's फोर्ट, which थी established by sutter in 1839.
During the California Gold Rush, Sacramento was a major distribution point, a commercial and agricultural center, and a terminus for वैगन trains, stagecoaches, riverboats, the telegraph, the Pony Express, and the पहला Transcontinental Railroad.
California State University, Sacramento, more commonly known as Sacramento राज्य or Sac State, is the largest local university.
It is एक of the twenty-three campuses of the California State University system.
drexel University Sacramento is located in Downtown, sacramento.
University of the Pacific 's McGeorge School of विधि is located in the Oak Park neighborhood.
In addition, the University of California, Davis is located in nearby डेविस, west of the capital.
The uc Davis Medical बीच, a world-renowned शोध हॉस्पिटल, is स्तिथ in the city of Sacramento.
मेमोरियल Day is a United राज्य संघीय अवकाश which occurs every year on the final Monday of may.
Memorial Day is a day of remembering the men and महिलाओं जो died while serving in the United States Armed Forces.
Formerly ज्ञात as Decoration Day, it originated after the American Civil War to commemorate the Union and Confederate सैनिको जो died in the सिविल War.
By the 20th सदी मेमोरियल Day had been extended to honor all Americans who have died in सब wars.
It typically marks the प्रारंभ of the summer vacation ऋतु, while Labor दिन marks its end.
Many people visit cemeteries और memorials, विशेषकर to honor those who have died in military service.
Many volunteers place an American flag on each grave in national cemeteries.
by the जल्दी 20th सदी, Memorial Day was an occasion लिये अधिक general expressions of memory, as लोगों visited the graves of their deceased रिश्तेदारों in church cemeteries, whether they था served in the सैन्य or not.
It also became a long weekend increasingly devoted to खरीदारी, family महफिलों, आतिशबाजी, trips to the बीच, and national मीडिया events.
सालाना सजावट Days for particular कब्रिस्तान are held on a Sunday in late वसन्त or early गर्मियाँ in some ग्रामीण areas of the American दक्षिण, notably in the mountains.
In मामले involving a परिवार graveyard where remote ancestors as well as those who were deceased अधिक recently are दफ्न, this may take on the character of an extended परिवार reunion to जिससे some people travel hundreds of मील.
People एकत्रित on the designated day and put flowers on क़ब्रों and renew सम्पर्क with kinfolk and अन्य.
There प्रायः is a religious सेवा and a `` dinner on the ground, '' the traditional term for a potluck भोजन in which people used to spread the dishes out on sheets or tablecloths on the grass.
It is believed that this practice began before the American Civil War and thus may reflect the रियल origin of the `` मेमोरियल day '' idea.
Memorial Day is नहीं to be confused with Veterans Day ; Memorial Day is a day of remembering the men and women who died while serving, while Veterans Day मनाता the सेवा of all U.S. military veterans, living or dead.
Mt. Zion Church state history marker near Philadelphia, मिसिसिपी.
Freedom गर्मियाँ ( also known as the Mississippi Summer Project ) was a campaign in the United States launched in June 1964 to attempt to register as many अफ़्रीकी American voters as possible in Mississippi, which had historically excluded most blacks from voting.
the project also set up dozens of Freedom Schools, Freedom Houses, और community centers in छोटी कस्बों throughout Mississippi to aid the लोकल black population.
The प्रोजेक्ट थी organized by the Council of Federated Organizations ( COFO ), a गठबन्धन of the Mississippi शाखाओं of the चार प्रमुख civil rights संगठन ( sncc, कोर, NAACP और SCLC ).
Most of the impetus, नेतृत्व, और financing for the गर्मियाँ Project came इससे the SNCC.
रॉबर्ट Parris Moses, SNCC field सचिव और co-director of COFO, directed the summer project.
Blues is the name given to both a musical form and a music genre कि originated in communities of primarily the `` Deep South `` of the United States around the end of the 19th century from spirituals, work songs, फ़ील्ड hollers, shouts and chants, और rhymed simple narrative ballads.
the blues रूप, सर्वव्यापी in jazz, rhythm और blues, और rock and roll is characterized by specific chord progressions, of which the twelve-bar blues chord progression is the most common.
the ब्लू notes that, for expressive purposes are sung or played flattened or gradually bent ( नाबालिग 3rd to प्रमुख 3rd ) in संबंध to the पिच of the major scale, are also an important भाग of the ध्वनि.
The ब्लूज़ genre is based on the blues form but possesses other विशेषताएँ such as specific lyrics, bass lines, और यंत्र.
ब्लूज़ can be subdivided into अनेक subgenres ranging from country to शहरी blues कि were more or less लोकप्रिय during different अवधि of the 20th century.
Best ज्ञात हैं the Delta, Piedmont, Jump, and Chicago ब्लूज़ styles.
World War II marked the परिवर्तन from acoustic to electric ब्लूज़ और the progressive opening of blues music to a wider audience, विशेषकर white listeners.
In the 1960s and 1970s, a hybrid form called blues-rock evolved.
The term `` the ब्लूज़ '' refers to the `` blue devils '', meaning melancholy and sadness ; an early उपयोग of the term in इस sense is found in George Colman 's one-act तमाशा Blue Devils ( 1798 ).
Though the use of the phrase in African-American music may be older, it has been attested to since 1912, when Hart Wand 's `` डलास Blues `` became the पहला copyrighted ब्लूज़ composition.
In गीत the phrase is often प्रयुक्त to describe a depressed mood.
a quarter dollar, commonly shortened to quarter, is a coin worth 1⁄4 of a संयुक्त States dollar or 25 cents.
the quarter has been produced since 1796.
The चुनाव of 25¢ as a denomination, as opposed to 20¢ which is अधिक common in अन्य parts of the world, originated साथ the practice of dividing Spanish Milled Dollars into eight कील तराशा segments ( cf. `` pieces of eight `` ).
at one time `` दो बिट्स ``, i.e. two wedges, प्रत्येक wedge an eighth, यूँ a क्वार्टर of the स्पेनी रियल, was a आम nickname लिये a quarter.
Day of the मुर्दे ( ) is a Mexican holiday celebrated throughout मैक्सिको and around the संसार in अन्य cultures.
The holiday focuses on महफिलों of परिवार and friends to pray for and remember friends और परिवार members जो have died.
It is particularly celebrated in Mexico, जहाँ it is a national अवकाश, और सब banks are closed.
the celebration takes place on नवम्बर 1 and 2, in कनेक्शन with the Catholic holidays of All संतो ' Day और All souls ' Day.
परंपराओं connected with the holiday include building private altars honoring the मृतक using sugar skulls, marigolds, और the favorite भोजन और beverages of the रजि and visiting graves साथ ये as gifts.
They भी leave possessions of the मृतक.
Scholars ट्रेस the origins of the modern Mexican holiday to indigenous observances डेटिंग वापस hundreds of years and to an एज़टेक festival dedicated to the goddess Mictecacihuatl.
The holiday has स्प्रेड throughout the संसार : In Brazil, Dia de Finados is a public holiday that अनेक Brazilians celebrate by visiting cemeteries और churches.
In Spain, there are festivals and parades, और, at the समाप्त of the दिन, people एकत्रित at कब्रिस्तान and pray लिये their मुर्दे loved ones.
समान observances occur elsewhere in Europe, and similarly प्रसंग जश्न appear in many Asian and African cultures.
ANITA mk VIII.
the ANITA Mark सात and ANITA Mark VIII calculators were launched simultaneously in late 1961 as the संसार 's first all- electronic डेस्कटॉप calculators.
Designed और निर्मित by the घंटी पंच Co.
in ब्रिटेन, and marketed through its Sumlock Comptometer प्रभाग, they used वैक्यूम tubes and cold-cathode switching tubes in उनके logic circuits और nixie tubes for their numerical displays.
They were the first of a series of desktop and hand-held electronic calculators that the कम्पनी was to develop and बेचें अंतर्गत the ANITA name into the mid-1970s.
George वॉशिंगटन ( –, 1799 ) थी the पहला President of the United States ( 1789–1797 ), the commander-in-chief of the Continental Army during the अमरीकी Revolutionary युद्ध, और one of the Founding Fathers of the United राज्य.
he presided over the convention कि drafted the Constitution, जिससे replaced the Articles of Confederation and established the स्थिति of अध्यक्ष.
वॉशिंगटन थी elected अध्यक्ष as the unanimous choice of the 69 electors in 1788, and he served two शर्तें in दफ्तर.
He oversaw the सृष्टि of a दमदार, well-financed national सरकारी that maintained neutrality in the wars raging in Europe, suppressed rebellion, and जीती स्वीकृति among Americans of all types.
His नेतृत्व स्टाइल established अनेक forms and rituals of government that have महरूम used since, such as using a cabinet प्रणाली and delivering an inaugural पता.
Further, the शांतिपूर्ण transition from his presidency to the presidency of John Adams established a tradition that continues into the 21st century.
Washington was hailed as `` पिता of his country `` even during उसके lifetime.
Washington was born into the provincial gentry of Colonial Virginia ; his wealthy planter family owned tobacco बागानों and स्लेव.
After both उसके father और older brother died जब he was यंग, Washington became personally and professionally attached to the powerful William Fairfax, who promoted his करियर as a निरीक्षक and soldier.
Washington जल्दी became a senior अधिकारी in the औपनिवेशिक forces during the पहला चरण of the फ्रेंच and Indian War.
Chosen by the Second महाद्वीपीय Congress in 1775 to be commander-in-chief of the Continental Army in the American Revolution, वॉशिंगटन managed to force the British आउट of Boston in 1776, but थी defeated and almost captured बाद that year जब he lost New York City.
बाद crossing the Delaware River in the dead of winter, he पराजित the British in दो लड़ाइयों, retook New Jersey और restored momentum to the Patriot cause.
क्युकी of his strategy, क्रांतिकारी forces captured two major British armies at साराटोगा in 1777 and Yorktown in 1781.
Historians laud Washington for his selection and पर्यवेक्षण of his सेनापतियों, encouragement of morale and ability to थाम together the फौज, coordination with the state राज्यपालों and state militia units, संबंध साथ कॉंग्रेस and attention to supplies, logistics, and प्रशिक्षण.
In बैटल, however, वॉशिंगटन was repeatedly outmaneuvered by British generals with larger armies.
After victory had been finalized in 1783, Washington resigned as Commander-in-chief rather than seize power, proving his opposition to तानाशाही and his commitment to American republicanism.
Dissatisfied साथ the weaknesses of the आलेख of Confederation, in 1787 Washington presided over the Constitutional Convention that drafted the United States Constitution.
निर्वाचित unanimously as the first President of the संयुक्त राज्य in 1789, he attempted to bring rival factions together to unify the स्वदेश.
he supported Alexander हैमिल्टन 's programs to pay off all state and नेशनल debt, to implement an effective tax system and to create a national bank ( despite opposition from Thomas Jefferson ).
Washington proclaimed the United राज्य न्यूट्रल in the युद्धों raging in Europe बाद 1793.
He avoided war with Great ब्रिटेन और guaranteed a decade of peace और profitable trade by securing the jay Treaty in 1795, despite intense opposition इससे the Jeffersonians.
हालांकि never officially joining the Federalist Party, he समर्थित its programs.
वॉशिंगटन 's विदाई पता थी an influential primer on republican virtue and a warning विरूद्ध partisanship, sectionalism, and involvement in foreign युद्धों.
He retired from the presidency in 1797 and returned to his home, Mount vernon, and उसके domestic जीवन जहाँ he managed a variety of उद्यमों.
He freed सब his slaves by his final होगा.
Washington had a vision of a great and शक्तिशाली nation that would be built on republican lines using federal power.
He sought to use the national government to बचाना स्वतंत्रता, improve अवसंरचना, खोलें the western lands, प्रचार commerce, found a स्थाई पूंजी, reduce regional तनाव and promote a spirit of American राष्ट्रवाद.
at his death, वॉशिंगटन was eulogized as `` first in war, first in peace, and पहला in the hearts of उसके देशवासियों '' by Henry ली.
The Federalists made him the symbol of their party but for many सालो, the Jeffersonians continued to distrust his influence and delayed building the Washington Monument.
As the leader of the पहला successful क्रान्ति against a colonial साम्राज्य in world history, वॉशिंगटन became an international प्रतीक for liberation और राष्ट्रवाद, especially in फ़्रांस और Latin America.
फिस्कल साल 2012 U.S. संघीय Spending – नकदी or बजट आधार.
फिस्कल साल 2012 U.S. Federal रसीदें.
The Budget of the United States Government often begins as the President 's proposal to the U.S. Congress which recommends funding levels for the next fiscal year, beginning October 1.
However, Congress is the body required by law to pass a बजट annually और to submit the बजट passed by both houses to the अध्यक्ष लिये signature.
Congressional decisions are governed by rules and legislation regarding the federal बजट process.
बजट committees set spending हद लिये the House और Senate committees and for Appropriations subcommittees, जिससे then approve individual appropriations बिल्स to allocate funding to various federal programs.
If Congress fails to pass an annual budget ( as has महरूम the case चूंकि 2009 ), a श्रेणी of Appropriations बिल्स must be passed as `` stop gap '' measures.
After Congress approves an appropriations bill, it is भेजा to the President, who may sign it into law, or may veto it ( as he would a budget when passed by the कॉंग्रेस ).
A vetoed bill is sent back to Congress, which can pass it into law with a two-thirds बहुमत in each कक्ष.
कॉंग्रेस may also combine all or कुछ appropriations bills into an omnibus reconciliation bill.
in जोड, the अध्यक्ष may request और the कॉंग्रेस may pass supplemental appropriations बिल्स or emergency supplemental appropriations बिल्स.
अनेक सरकारी एजेंसियों provide budget आंकड़ा और analysis.
These include the Government Accountability दफ्तर ( GAO ), congressional बजट दफ्तर, the Office of Management and Budget ( omb ) and the U.S. Treasury विभाग.
ये agencies have reported that the federal government is facing a series of important financing challenges.
In the short-run, कर revenues have declined significantly due to a severe recession and tax policy choices, जबकि expenditures have expanded for wars, unemployment insurance and अन्य safety जाल spending.
In the long-run, expenditures related to healthcare कार्यक्रम such as Medicare and Medicaid हैं projected to grow faster than the economy overall as the population matures.
New Guinea ( भी, टोक Pisin : Niugini, डच : Nieuw गिनी, and ; historically : पापुआ ) is the world 's second largest island, after ग्रीनलैंड, covering a land area of 786,000 km2.
स्तिथ in the southwest Pacific समंदर, it झूठ geographically to the east of the Malay Archipelago, with which it is sometimes included as भाग of a वृहद Indo-Australian Archipelago.
Geologically it is a part of the same tectonic थाली as ऑस्ट्रेलिया.
जब world sea स्तर were कम, the two साझा shorelines ( which अभी lie 100 to 140 metres below sea स्तर ), combining with lands now inundated into the tectonic continent of sahul, also known as वृहद Australia.
the two landmasses became अलग when the क्षेत्रफल now known as the टोरेस जलसन्धि flooded बाद the end of the last glacial period.
anthropologically, नई Guinea is माना part of Melanesia.
Politically, the western half of the island comprises two Indonesian provinces : Papua and West पापुआ.
the eastern half फ़ॉर्म the मेनलैंड of the country of Papua New गिनी.
the island has a population of परिचय 7.5 million, with a very low population density of only 8 inh/km2.
New गिनी is differentiated from इसके drier, flatter, and कम fertile southern counterpart, Australia, by its much उच्चतर rainfall और its क्रियाशील volcanic geology, with its उच्चतम point, Puncak Jaya, reaching an उन्नयन of 4,884 m ( 16,023 ft ).
Yet the two land masses share a similar animal fauna, with marsupials, सहित wallabies and possums, and the egg-laying monotreme, the spiny anteater, or echidna.
अन्य than bats and some two dozen indigenous rodent genera, there हैं no pre-human indigenous placental mammals.
Pigs, several अतिरिक्त species of चूहे, और the पूर्वज of the New गिनी Singing श्वान were introduced साथ इंसान colonization.
the human उपस्थिति on the द्वीप dates back at least 40,000 years to the oldest human migrations out of अफ़्रीकी.
Research indicates कि the highlands were an early and independent center of agriculture, with evidence of irrigation going back at तनिक 10,000 सालो.
Because of the time depth of इसके inhabitation and its highly fractured landscape, an unusually high number of भाषाएं are spoken on the island, with some 1,000 languages ( a figure उच्चतर than that of सबसे महाद्वीपों ) having महरूम catalogued आउट of an estimated world-wide pre-columbian total of 6,000 human dialects.
Most हैं classified as Papuan languages, a generally accepted geographical term जिससे a minority of लेखक hold to be a जेनेटिक one.
a number of Austronesian languages हैं spoken on the coast and on offshore islands.
in the 16th सदी Spanish explorers discovered the island और पुकारा it Nueva Guinea.
In recent इतिहास western New गिनी was included in the Dutch East इंडीज colony.
The germans annexed the northern coast of the eastern half of the द्वीप as जर्मनी नई Guinea in their pre–World War I प्रयत्न to स्थापित themselves as a colonial power, whilst the south eastern portion was reluctantly claimed by Britain.
following the Treaty of Versailles, the जर्मनी portion was awarded to Australia ( which was already शासी the British claim, named the Territory of Papua ) as a लीग of Nations mandate.
The eastern half of the द्वीप थी granted स्वतंत्रता from ऑस्ट्रेलिया as Papua New गिनी in 1975.
The western half gained independence इससे the Dutch in 1961, but became part of Indonesia जल्द afterwards in विवादास्पद हालातों.
`` The वैन Buren लड़कों '' is the 148th episode of the sitcom seinfeld, and name of a fictional नई यॉर्क street gang.
Their sign is crossing the हैंड्स, साथ one हाथ with all the fingers 'up ' and spread आउट.
the अन्य hand रै all but the अंगूठा और pointer उंगली up, लिये a total of eight ( 8 ).
The गिरोह is नामित लिये the 8th President of the संयुक्त States, मार्टिन Van Buren ( who थी the first president इससे New यॉर्क ).
This थी the 14th episode for the 8th ऋतु.
It aired on February 6, 1997.
bevo sign
Bevo was a non-alcoholic malt पेय, or near beer, brewed in the United States by the Anheuser-Busch company beginning in the early 20th सदी.
Bevo enjoyed its greatest कामयाबी during the time of prohibition, जब beer, wine and distilled liquors, यहूद बना illegal for thirteen years.
The Anheuser-Busch कम्पनी started brewing Bevo when alcoholic beverages यहूद prohibited in 1916 by the United States armed forces.
उत्पादन rose greatly with national prohibition in 1919, and Bevo was by दूर the सबसे लोकप्रिय of the अनेक `` cereal beverages '' or `` निकट beers '' of the समय.
At the peak of इसके लोकप्रियता in the early 1920s, more than five million मामले of Bevo यहूद sold annually.
Renard with a mug of bevo, चित्रित in terra cotta on the interior walls of the Bevo building, st. Louis
Labels on the bottles billed it as `` Bevo the पेय ''.
The name `` Bevo '' was coined from the word `` पेय '' and the Slavic language word for बियर `` pivo '', and was pronounced `` bee-vo ''.
Some Bevo advertising featured the character `` Renard the फॉक्स `` ( आधारित on the protagonist of a medieval फ्रेंच folk-tale ), and promotional mugs with this अक्षर यहूद manufactured.
In 1930 Anheuser-Busch built a series of boat-bodied cars in its st. Louis shops called the `` bevo Boats '' which were used लिये प्रमोशन.
Seven are believed to have महरूम built on pierce-arrow 8-cylinder chassis while एक surviving example थी based upon 1930 Cadillac 353 v8.
Billboard advertising bevo in trenton, New Jersey, 1917
A contemporary विज्ञापन read `` Cooling और invigorating, Bevo the पेय.
अनुक्रम by the case इससे your पंसारी, druggist, or dealer. ''
The paper label on the back of the bottle read `` The All-Year-Round Soft Drink.
appetizing - Healthful - पौष्टिक - Refreshing.
Milk or water may contain जीवाणु.
bevo never does. ''
bevo became part of the popular culture of the time, और is mentioned in various लोकप्रिय songs and Vaudeville skits of the era.
This led to secondary slang uses of the शब्द ; लिये उदाहरण, in अमरीकी military कठबोली a young and inexperienced officer was पुकारा a `` bevo ''.
The University of Texas नामित its शुभंकर `` bevo '', a name जिससे has stuck to इस day.
Irving Berlin included a paean to the पेय, `` तुम Ca n't रहो up on bevo '', in his 1917 army revue, यिप Yip yaphank.
in the late 1920s smuggled बूटलेग बियर और liquor as well as `` homebrew ``, cut into bevo 's marketshare.
With बिक्री flattening to 100,000 cases by 1929, Anheuser-Busch stopped उत्पादन.
The bevo Mill, St. Louis, in 2008
The bevo building, with the renard अक्षर prominently displayed at the corners, स्टिल operates as a bottling facility at their प्रमुख brewery in St. Louis, Missouri.
The landmark Bevo Mill, constructed by अगस्त Anheuser बुच, sr. in 1917.
It was बंद in 2009, but it reopened in October 2009 under new owners.
Bevo is also mentioned in the छोटी story `` The Killers `` by अर्नेस्ट Hemingway ; as खूब as in babbitt by Sinclair Lewis.
Mylanta is an over the काउंटर medication used for the treatment of acid reflux, heartburn, and gastroesophageal reflux disease ( also known as GERD ).
foremilk और Hindmilk samples of human breast milk
A कांच of pasteurized गाय मिल्क
मिल्क is a white liquid produced by the mammary ग्रंथियों of mammals.
It is the primary सोर्स of nutrition लिये young mammals before वे हैं समर्थ to digest other types of food.
अर्लy- lactation मिल्क contains colostrum, which carries the माँ 's antibodies to the baby and can reduce the रिस्क of many diseases in the baby.
It also contains many other nutrients.
As an agricultural उत्पाद, milk is extracted इससे mammals और used as खाना for humans.
Worldwide, dairy farms उत्पादित about 730 लाख tonnes of मिल्क in 2011.
इण्डिया is the संसार 's largest producer और उपभोक्ता of milk, yet neither exports nor imports milk.
नई Zealand, the यूरोपीय Union 's 27 member राज्य, Australia, and the संयुक्त States are the world 's largest निर्यातक of milk और मिल्क products.
China and Russia हैं the संसार 's largest importers of मिल्क and milk products.
Throughout the world, there are more than 6 billion consumers of milk and मिल्क products.
Over 750 लाख लोगों live भीतर dairy farming households.
Milk is a key योगदानकर्ता to improving nutrition और खाना सुरक्षा particularly in विकासशील countries.
Improvements in livestock and दुग्ध technology offer significant वादा in reducing poverty और कुपोषण in the संसार.
Motorcycle स्पीडवे, usually referred to as स्पीडवे, is a मोटरसाइकिल sport involving four and sometimes up to छह riders स्पर्धा over four anti-clockwise laps of an oval circuit.
Speedway मोटरसाइकिल use only एक gear and have no brakes और racing takes place on a flat ओवल track प्रायः consisting of मैल or loosely packed shale.
प्रतिस्पर्धी use this surface to slide उनके machines sideways, powersliding or broadsiding into the bends.
On the सीधा भाग of the track the motorcycles reach speeds of up.
The exact origins of the sport are unknown but वहीँ is evidence of a type of speedway रेसिंग होने practised in the USA पहले the पहला संसार युद्ध और in Australia in the late 1910s और early 1920s.
There हैं अभी दोनो domestic and international competitions in a number of देशों including the स्पीडवे World Cup whilst the highest overall scoring व्यक्तिगत in the स्पीडवे Grand प्रिक्स कार्यक्रम is pronounced the संसार चैंपियन.
Speedway is popular in सेंट्रल and उत्तरी Europe and to a lesser extent in Australia और North America.
A variant of track racing, speedway is administered internationally by the Fédération Internationale de Motocyclisme ( FIM ).
Domestic speedway events are regulated by FIM संबद्ध national motor sport federations.
Vitamin d is a group of fat-soluble secosteroids जिम्मेदार for intestinal अवशोषण of calcium and phosphate.
in humans, the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण सम्बन्धित compounds of विटामिन D are विटामिन D2 and vitamin D3.
Cholecalciferol ( विटामिन D3 ) and ergocalciferol ( vitamin d2 ) हैं unique as they constitute what we know as विटामिन d and can be ingested from the diet and/or supplements.
The body can भी synthesize विटामिन D ( from cholesterol ) when sun एक्सपोज़र is adequate ( hence its nickname, the `` sunshine vitamin '' ).
हालांकि vitamin D is commonly called a vitamin, it is नहीं actually an अनिवार्य dietary vitamin in the strict sense, as it can be synthesized in पर्याप्त amounts by most mammals exposed to धूप.
( Cats and कुत्तो can not synthesize विटामिन d efficiently और must receive it in their diet. )
An organic chemical compound ( or related set of compounds ) is only scientifically called a vitamin when it can not be synthesized in sufficient quantities by an organism, और जरूर be प्राप्त from their आहार.
However, as with other compounds commonly पुकारा विटामिन, विटामिन D थी discovered in an effort to find the dietary substance that was lacking in a disease, namely, rickets, the childhood रूप of osteomalacia.
Additionally, जैसे other यौगिकों पुकारा vitamins, in the developed world vitamin d is added to staple foods, ऐसे as milk, to avoid disease due to deficiency.
Measures of serum levels reflect endogenous संश्लेषण from exposure to धूप as well as सेवन from the diet, and it is believed that synthesis may contribute generally to the मेंटेनेंस of adequate serum एकाग्रता.
the प्रमाण indicates that the संश्लेषण of विटामिन D इससे sun exposure works in a प्रतिक्रिया loop that prevents toxicity but, because of uncertainty about the cancer risk from sunlight, no recommendations हैं issued by the संस्थान of Medicine, USA, for the amount of सूर्य exposure required to meet विटामिन D आवश्यकताएँ.
Accordingly, the dietary Reference Intakes for विटामिन d assume that no संश्लेषण occurs and that सब of a person 's विटामिन D is from their आहार, although that will rarely occur in practice.
In the liver vitamin D is परिवर्तित to calcidiol, which is also ज्ञात as calcifediol ( INN ), 25-hydroxycholecalciferol, or 25-hydroxyvitamin D—abbreviated 25 ( OH ) D ; and जिससे is the specific विटामिन D metabolite that is measured in serum to determine a person 's vitamin D status.
भाग of the calcidiol is परिवर्तित by the गुर्दे to calcitriol, the biologically active form of विटामिन D. calcitriol circulates as a hormone in the blood, regulating the concentration of कैल्सियम and phosphate in the bloodstream और promoting the healthy growth and remodeling of bone.
Calcidiol is भी converted to calcitriol बाहर of the गुर्दे for other purposes, such as the proliferation, differentiation और apoptosis of cells ; calcitriol भी affects neuromuscular फलन and सूजन.
Beyond its उपयोग to prevent osteomalacia or rickets, the evidence for other health effects of विटामिन D supplementation in the general population is inconsistent.
the बेहतरीन evidence of benefit is लिये bone health and a decrease in mortality in elderly women.
The Duramax is a General Motors diesel engine family for light- and मीडियम duty ट्रक, designed by Isuzu.
The 6.6-liter duramax is produced by dmax, a joint venture between gm and Isuzu in Moraine, Ohio.
This engine was initially installed in 2001 model year Chevy and जीएमसी trucks and has महरूम an option since then in pickups, vans, and medium-duty trucks.
In 2006, उत्पादन at Moraine was reportedly limited to लगभग 200,000 इंजन प्रति साल.
on may 9, 2007, DMAX announced the production of the 1,000,000th duramax V-8 डीज़ल at its Moraine facility.
Duramax LML
Balto.
is also a traditional लिखा abbreviation for बाल्टीमोर, Maryland.
Statue of Balto in Central Park ( New York City )
Balto ( 1919 – कूच 14, 1933 ) was a Siberian Husky sled dog who led his team on the final leg of the 1925 serum run to Nome, in which diphtheria antitoxin थी transported from anchorage, अलास्का, to nenana, Alaska, by train और then to Nome by श्वान sled to combat an outbreak of the बीमारी.
The run is commemorated by the annual Iditarod Trail sled Dog Race.
Balto थी named after the Sami explorer सैमुएल balto.
balto died at the age of 14.
प्राध्यापक Stephen Hawking, ज्ञात for being a theoretical physicist, has appeared in many works of popular culture.
The Nissan Maxima is a mid-size / entry-level luxury car manufactured by Nissan, marketed as the `` four-door sports car ''.
The origins of the Maxima began in July 1976 as the Datsun 810, an upscale six-cylinder version of the bluebird, और was spun into its own line in 1981, having महरूम made लगातार since then.
the `` Maxima '' name थी applied धीरे, beginning in 1981.
Most pre-2004 maximas were built in Oppama, जापानी, until the वर्तमान उत्तर American Maximas प्रारंभ being assembled in Smyrna, Tennessee.
the `` Maxima '' has भी been applied to cefiros and Laurels in various markets.
Propolis as hive sealing
Propolis is a resinous mixture that honey मधुमक्खियों collect from tree buds, sap बहती, or other botanical sources.
It is used as a sealant for unwanted खोलें स्पेसेस in the hive.
Propolis is प्रयुक्त for small gaps ( लगभग or less ), while larger spaces are usually filled with beeswax.
इसके रंग varies depending on its botanical सोर्स, the most आम होने अंधेरा भूरा.
Propolis is sticky at और ऊपर room temperature,.
At lower temperatures, it becomes hard and बहुत brittle.
Steven Tyler ( born Steven Victor Tallarico ; March 26, 1948 ) is an American सिंगर, songwriter, and multi-instrumentalist, best ज्ञात as the frontman and lead singer of the Boston -based चट्टान band एरोस्मिथ, in जिससे he भी plays the harmonica, और occasional पियानो and percussion.
he is known as the `` Demon of Screamin ' '' due to his high screams और उसके wide गायन range.
he is also ज्ञात for his on-stage acrobatics.
दौरान his high-energy performances, he usually पोशाक in bright, colorful outfits with his trademark scarves फांसी from उसके microphone stand.
in the 1970s, Tyler रोज़ to prominence as the frontman of Aerosmith, which released such milestone hard rock albums as Toys in the Attic and Rocks.
In the late 1970s and early 1980s, टायलर था a heavy drug and alcohol addiction, and the बैंड 's लोकप्रियता waned.
He completed ड्रग rehabilitation in 1986 और subsequently कायम sobriety for over 20 years, but had a relapse with prescription painkillers in the late 2000s, for which he successfully प्राप्त treatment in 2009.
बाद Aerosmith शुभारम्भ a remarkable comeback in the लेट 1980s और early 1990s साथ the albums Permanent Vacation, Pump, and Get a पकड़, Tyler became a household name and has remained a relevant rock प्रतीक.
as a result, he रै since embarked on several solo endeavors including guest दिखावे on अन्य artists ' music, फिल्मी and TV भूमिकाएँ ( सहित as a न्यायधीश on American Idol ), authoring a bestselling book, and solo कार्य ( including a Top 40 hit single in 2011 ).
however, he has continued to record music and perform with एरोस्मिथ, after अधिक than 43 years in the band.
The बैंड 's latest album, Music इससे Another Dimension !
, थी released on November 6, 2012.
Tyler is included among Rolling Stones 100 Greatest गायकों.
He was also ranked 3rd on Hit parader 's Top 100 Metal Vocalists of सब समय.
In 2001 he was inducted into the चट्टान and Roll Hall of Fame with Aerosmith, और he was the presenter when AC/DC थी inducted into the Hall of Fame in 2003.
In 2013, Tyler and his songwriting partner Joe Perry will be प्राप्तकर्ता of the ASCAP Founders पुरस्कार and होगा also be inducted into the songwriters Hall of कीर्ति.
the liver produces यूरिया in the urea cycle as a बर्बाद product of the digestion of protein.
Normal human adult blood चाहिए contain between 7 to 21 mg of यूरिया nitrogen प्रति 100 ml ( 7–21 mg/ dL ) of रक्त.
व्यक्तिगत laboratories may have different reference ranges, and इस is because the procedure may vary.
Wayne fontes ( born फ़रवरी 2, 1940 ) is a former American फ़ुटबॉल coach और कॉलेज और professional football player जो थी the head कोच of the एनएफएल 's डेट्रॉयट Lions from 1988 to 1996.
His 67 wins and 71 नुकसान are प्रत्येक the most for a head coach in team history.
The Jews ( आईएसओ 259-3 Israeli उच्चारण ), also ज्ञात as the यहूदी people, are a nation और an ethnoreligious group, originating in the israelites or hebrews of the Ancient निकट East.
The यहूदी ethnicity, राष्ट्रीयता, and धर्म हैं strongly interrelated, as judaism is the परंपरागत faith of the Jewish nation.
converts to Judaism, whose status as Jews भीतर the Jewish ethnos is equal to those born into it, have महरूम अवशोषित into the Jewish people throughout the millennia.
In Jewish परंपरा, Jewish ancestry is traced to the biblical patriarchs Abraham, Isaac और Jacob in the second मिलेनियम BCE.
The आधुनिक State of Israel was स्थापित as a यहूदी nation-state, और defines itself as ऐसे in इसके Basic Laws.
Its Law of Return grants the सही of नागरिकता to कोई Jew who requests it.
इसराईल is the only देश where Jews हैं a बहुमत of the population.
Jews भी enjoyed political स्वायत्तता twice before in प्राचीन history.
The first of these periods lasted from 1350 to 586 bce, और encompassed the periods of the Judges, the United Monarchy, and the Divided Monarchy of the kingdoms of Israel and Judah, ending with the destruction of the First Temple.
The second was the काल of the Hasmonean Kingdom spanning from 140 to 37 bce.
Since the destruction of the पहला टेम्पल, most यहूदियों have lived in diaspora.
A अल्पसंख्यक in every country in which they live ( except इसराईल ), they have frequently experienced persecution throughout इतिहास, resulting in a population that has fluctuated both in numbers and distribution over the centuries.
The संसार यहूदी population पहुँचे a शिखर of 15 लाख prior to the Second World War, but six million यहूदियों यहूद killed in the holocaust.
चूंकि then the population has risen again and, थी अनुमानित at 13.4 million by the North American Jewish Data बैंको, or less than 0.2 % of the कुल संसार जनसांख्यिकी ( roughly one in every 514 people ).
According to इस report, about 42.5 % of सब Jews reside in Israel ( 5.7 million ), and 39.3 % in the United राज्य ( 5.3 लाख ), साथ most of the remainder living in Europe ( 1.5 million ) और कनाडा ( 0.4 लाख ).
These numbers include all those जो consider themselves Jews, whether or not they are affiliated साथ a यहूदी संगठन.
the कुल world यहूदी population, however, is मुश्किल to measure.
In addition to issues साथ census methodology, वहीँ are halakhic विवादों regarding who is a Jew and secular, राजनैतिक, और ancestral identification factors कि may affect the figure considerably.
Corpus christi procession.
Oil on canvas by Carl Emil Doepler.
Corpus Domini redirects here.
लिये अन्य उपयोग see कॉर्पस domini ( बहुविकल्पी )
The Feast of कॉर्पस Christi ( Latin for देह of मसीह ), also known as Corpus domini, is a Latin Rite liturgical solemnity celebrating the tradition और belief in the देह and blood of Jesus Christ and his Real Presence in the Eucharist.
It emphasizes the joy of the institution of the Eucharist, जिससे was observed on Holy Thursday in the somber atmosphere of the nearness of शुभ Friday.
in the उपस्थित Roman Missal, the feast is designated the solemnity of The Most पावन Body and Blood of मसीह.
it is भी celebrated in some Anglican, लूथरन, और बूढ़ा कैथोलिक Churches that hold similar beliefs regarding the Real उपस्थिति.
The feast is liturgically celebrated on the गुरुवार after ट्रिनिटी Sunday or, `` where the Solemnity of the Most Holy Body and रक्त of Christ is not a Holy Day of Obligation, it is assigned to the Sunday after the Most Holy ट्रिनिटी as इसके proper दिन ''.
At the समाप्त of Holy Mass, there is often a बारात of the Blessed sacrament, generally displayed in a monstrance.
The procession is followed by Benediction of the Blessed Sacrament.
A notable Eucharistic procession is कि presided over by the Pope प्रत्येक year in Rome, जहाँ it begins at the Archbasilica of St. John Lateran and makes its way to the Basilica of Saint मरियम Major, जहाँ it concludes with Benediction.
C-reactive प्रोटीन ( CRP ) is a protein found in the blood, the स्तर of which वृद्धि in response to inflammation ( i.e. C-reactive protein is an acute-phase protein ).
Its physiological role is to bind to phosphocholine expressed on the सतह of मुर्दे or मरना cells ( and some types of जीवाणु ) in अनुक्रम to activate the पूरक system via the C1Q complex.
सीआरपी is synthesized by the liver in response to कारकों released by macrophages and fat cells ( adipocytes ).
It is a member of the pentraxin family of proteins.
It is not related to C-peptide or protein C.
C-reactive प्रोटीन was the पहला pattern मान्यता receptor ( PRR ) to be identified.
the start of the systematic European colonization of the Americas is typically dated to 1492, when a Spanish expedition headed by Christopher कोलंबस sailed लिये इण्डिया to open trade but inadvertently खोजा the americas.
European conquest, large-scale exploration and colonization soon followed.
Seeing that यूरोपीय was preoccupied with many आतंरिक wars और थी slowly recovering इससे the many मौतों that the bubonic plague caused, the rapid expansion at which it grew in wealth and शक्ति थी unforeseeable in the early 1400s.
the first expeditions occurred along the caribbean coasts on the islands of Hispaniola, Puerto रीको and Cuba, and after 1500 extended into the interiors of दोनो North and South America.
in 1497, sailing from the north on behalf of England, John cabot landed on the North American coast, और a साल later, Columbus 's third voyage reached the South American coast.
France founded colonies in much of eastern उत्तर अमेरिका, on a number of Caribbean islands, and in South America.
Portugal colonized Brazil.
Eventually, the entire पश्चिमी गोलार्ध came under the control of यूरोपीय governments, leading to profound परिवर्तन to its landscape, population, and plant and animal जीवन.
In the 19th सदी alone over 50 million लोगों left Europe for the Americas.
The post-1492 era is known as the period of the Columbian Exchange.
Keith Richards ( born 18 December 1943 ) is an अंग्रेज़ी संगीतकार, singer-songwriter and founder member of the English rock band the Rolling Stones.
Rolling Stone magazine said Richards had निर्मित `` चट्टान 's महानतम single देह of riffs '', ranking him 4th on इसके सूची of 100 best guitarists.
Fourteen songs Richards wrote साथ the Rolling Stones ' lead vocalist मिक Jagger are listed among रोलिंग स्टोन magazine 's `` 500 Greatest गीतों of All समय ``.
Richards ' notoriety लिये illicit drug use stems in part from several drug busts during the late 1960s and 1970s and उसके candour regarding his addiction to and eventual abstinence from heroin.
टेस्टोस्टेरोन is a steroid hormone from the androgen समूह and is found in mammals, reptiles, birds, and other vertebrates.
In स्तनधारियों, testosterone is primarily secreted in the testicles of males and the ovaries of females, although small amounts are भी secreted by the adrenal glands.
It is the principal पुरूष sex hormone और an anabolic स्टेरॉयड.
in men, टेस्टोस्टेरोन plays a कुंजी भूमिका in the development of पुरूष reproductive tissues such as the testis and prostate as well as promoting द्वितीयक यौन characteristics ऐसे as increased muscle, bone mass, and the विकास of body hair.
In addition, टेस्टोस्टेरोन is अनिवार्य for health and well-being as खूब as the prevention of ऑस्टियोपोरोसिस.
on average, in वयस्क इंसान males, the plasma concentration of टेस्टोस्टेरोन is about 7–8 times as great as the concentration in adult इंसान females ' प्लाज्मा, but as the metabolic consumption of testosterone in males is greater, the daily उत्पादन is about 20 times greater in men.
Females भी are more sensitive to the हार्मोन.
Testosterone is observed in most vertebrates.
Fish make a थोड़ा different form called 11-ketotestosterone.
Its counterpart in insects is ecdysone.
ये ubiquitous steroids suggest that sex हार्मोन have an ancient विकासवादी इतिहास.
Cluster sampling is a sampling technique used when `` प्राकृतिक '' but relatively homogeneous groupings हैं evident in a statistical population.
It is प्रायः used in marketing शोध.
In this technique, the कुल जनसांख्यिकी is विभाजित into these groups ( or clusters ) और a simple random नमूना of the groups is selected.
Then the required सूचना is एकत्रित इससे a simple random sample of the elements भीतर each selected समूह.
This may be किया for every element in these groups or a subsample of elements may be selected भीतर each of these groups.
A common प्रेरणा लिये क्लस्टर sampling is to reduce the total number of साक्षात्कार and costs दिए the desired accuracy.
Assuming a fixed sample size, the technique gives more accurate परिणाम जब सबसे of the variation in the जनसांख्यिकी is भीतर the groups, नहीं between उन्हें.
jamestown is a town in Guilford County, North कैरोलिना, संयुक्त States, and is a suburb of the nearby cities of Greensboro और High Point.
The population was 3,382 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी.
Natalie Portman ( born Natalie hershlag ; ; जून 9, 1981 ) is an actress and model साथ dual American and israeli citizenship.
Her first role थी as an orphan लिया in by a hitman in the 1994 कार्रवाई film, but mainstream success came when वो was cast as Padmé Amidala in the Star Wars prequel त्रयी ( released in 1999, 2002 and 2005 ).
In 1999, she enrolled at Harvard विश्वविद्यालयों to study psychology while still working as an actress.
She completed her bachelor 's degree in 2003.
in 2001, पोर्टमैन opened in नई York City 's Public थिएटर production of Anton Chekhov 's The Seagull.
In 2005, Portman received a nomination for the Academy Award for Best Supporting अभिनेत्री and won the Golden ग्लोब पुरस्कार लिये Best Supporting Actress - Motion Picture लिये the drama करीब.
वो जीती a Constellation Award लिये बेहतरीन Female Performance and a Saturn Award लिये बेहतरीन Actress लिये उसके अभिनीत role in v लिये वेंडेट्टा ( 2006 ).
वो played leading roles in the ऐतिहासिक dramas Goya 's Ghosts ( 2006 ) and The अन्य Boleyn लड़की ( 2008 ).
In May 2008, she served as the youngest सदस्य of the 61st सालाना Cannes Film पर्व jury.
पोर्टमैन 's directorial debut, Eve, opened the 65th वेनिस International फिल्मी पर्व 's शॉर्ट्स competition in 2008.
Portman निर्देशित a खण्ड of the collective फिल्मी New York, I Love You.
in 2011, Portman won the Academy पुरस्कार, the Golden ग्लोब Award, the bafta Award, the Screen Actors गिल्ड Award, and the Independent स्पिरिट Award for उसके lead performance as Nina Sayers in Black Swan.
Copper is a रासायनिक तत्व साथ the प्रतीक cu ( from ) and परमाणु number 29.
It is a ductile मेटल with very high thermal and electrical conductivity.
Pure तांबे is soft और malleable ; a freshly exposed surface has a reddish-orange color.
it is used as a कंडक्टर of heat and electricity, a भवन material, and a constituent of various metal alloys.
the मेटल and its alloys have been used for thousands of years.
In the Roman era, copper थी principally mined on Cyprus, hence the origin of the नाम of the मेटल as сyprium ( मेटल of Cyprus ), later shortened to сuprum.
Its compounds are commonly encountered as copper ( II ) लवण, which often impart blue or green रंगों to minerals such as azurite and turquoise और have महरूम widely used historically as pigments.
Architectural structures निर्मित with तांबे corrode to give ग्रीन verdigris ( or patina ).
Decorative art prominently features copper, both by itself और as भाग of pigments.
तांबे is essential to all living organisms as a trace dietary mineral क्युकी it is a कुंजी constituent of the respiratory enzyme जटिल cytochrome c oxidase.
In molluscs और crustacea तांबे is a constituent of the रक्त pigment hemocyanin, which is replaced by the iron-complexed hemoglobin in fish and other vertebrates.
the main areas जहाँ तांबे is found in vertebrates हैं liver, muscle and bone.
In sufficient concentration, तांबे compounds are poisonous to उच्चतर organisms and हैं प्रयुक्त as bacteriostatic substances, fungicides, and wood preservatives.
The major professional खेल leagues, or simply major leagues, in the United राज्य and कनाडा हैं the highest पेशेवर competitions of team खेल in the two देशों.
हालांकि individual sports such as golf, tennis, and auto रेसिंग are भी very लोकप्रिय, the term is प्रायः limited to team खेल.
the term `` major league '' was first प्रयुक्त in 1921 in reference to प्रमुख लीग Baseball ( MLB ), the top level of professional American बेसबॉल.
Today, the major northern North America पेशेवर टोली खेल leagues हैं Major लीग Baseball ( MLB ), the National बास्केट Association ( NBA ), the National Football लीग ( NFL ), और the National हॉकी League ( NHL ).
Other notable लीग include Major League सॉकर ( MLS ), the Canadian Football लीग ( CFL ), the एरिना फ़ुटबॉल लीग, Major League lacrosse, the नेशनल Lacrosse लीग and the Women 's National बास्केट Association.
The NFL, MLB, एनबीए, और NHL are commonly referred to as the बिग Four.
प्रत्येक of these is the richest professional club प्रतियोगिता in इसके sport worldwide.
the best players can become cultural icons in both countries and elsewhere in the world, क्युकी the लीग आनंद a significant प्लेस in popular culture in the US and Canada.
The NFL has 32 टीमों, and the others have 30 each.
the vast majority of major league teams हैं concentrated in the most populous metropolitan areas of the United States.
Baseball, football, हॉकी, और soccer have had पेशेवर leagues for over 100 years ; early leagues ऐसे as the National संघ, Ohio लीग, and National Hockey Association formed the basis of the आधुनिक MLB, NFL and NHL respectively.
Soccer थी first professionalized in 1894, but leagues suffered greatly from कमी of sustainability और seldom lasted more than a दशक.
Soccer 's महानतम सफलताओं यहूद in the form of the अमरीकी सॉकर League ( 1921-1933 ), the असली North American सॉकर League ( 1968-1984 ), the National पेशेवर सॉकर लीग ( 1984-2001 ) और, currently, प्रमुख लीग सॉकर ( 1996-present ).
Basketball is a relatively new विकास ; the NBA विकसित इससे the National Basketball लीग and its splinter group the Basketball संघ of America, taking on its current form in 1949.
Every major league averages 15,000 fans in उपस्थिति per game or higher as of 2011.
मध्याह्न Altitude is an खगोलीय navigation method of calculating an observer 's latitude.
Earned value management ( EVM ), or Earned मान project/performance प्रबन्धन ( EVPM ) is a प्रोजेक्ट management तकनीक for measuring project performance and progress in an उद्देश्य manner.
Because EVM has the ability to combine माप of :
पैमाना
अनुसूची
and cost,
in a सिंगल integrated system, Earned मान Management is समर्थ to provide accurate forecasts of project प्रदर्शन समस्याएं, जिससे is an important contribution for project management.
Early EVM शोध showed कि the areas of planning and control are significantly impacted by इसके use ; and similarly, using the methodology improves both पैमाना definition as well as the विश्लेषण of overall प्रोजेक्ट performance.
अधिक recent research अध्ययन have shown that the principles of EVM are धनात्मक predictors of प्रोजेक्ट success.
Popularity of EVM has grown significantly in recent years परे सरकारी contracting, in जिससे sector its महत्व continues to rise ( e.g., recent new DFAR rules ), in part because EVM can also surface in और सहायता substantiate अनुबंध विवादों.
Colorful वसन्त गार्डन flowers
Spring is one of the four conventional temperate सीज़न, following winter and preceding summer.
वहीँ are various तकनीकी definitions of spring, लकिन लोकल usage of the term varies according to local climate, cultures and कस्टम.
When it is spring in the northern hemisphere, it will be पतझड़ in the southern hemisphere.
At the spring विषुव, days are close to 12 घंटों long साथ दिन length increasing as the ऋतु progresses.
Spring and `` springtime '' refer to the season, and भी to विचार of rebirth, कायाकल्प, renewal, resurrection, और regrowth, with त्यौहार such as कार्निवल, ईस्टर and holi being celebrated at this time.
Jamestown was a settlement in the उपनिवेश of Virginia, the first permanent अंग्रेज़ी उपनिवेश in the americas.
स्थापित by the Virginia Company of London as `` James फोर्ट '' on May 14, 1607 ( o.s., may 24, 1607 n.s. ), it followed several earlier विफल attempts, including the Lost Colony of Roanoke.
Jamestown served as the capital of the colony for 83 सालो, from 1616 जबतक 1699.
the उपनिवेश was located भीतर the territory of a political entity known as Tsenacommacah, the राज्य of the powhatan confederacy, with around 14,000 देशी निवासियों, and specifically was in part of the subdivision known as the paspahegh tribe.
The natives initially सत्कार the colonists with dancing, feasting और tobacco ceremonies, and they provided crucial प्रावधानों and support for the अस्तित्व of the colonists, जो were not agriculturally inclined, although relations with the newcomers also soured fairly जल्दी on, अग्रणी to the total annihilation of the paspahegh in warfare भीतर 3 years.
भीतर a साल of Jamestown 's founding, the वर्जिनिया कम्पनी brought Polish and Dutch colonists to help improve the settlement.
in 1619, the first प्रलेखित Africans were brought to jamestown, though the modern conception of slavery in the future United States did not begin in Virginia until 1660.
When the उपनिवेश was subdivided into the असली eight shires of वर्जिनिया in 1634, the town became located in the eponymous James नगर Shire.
the लंदन Company 's second settlement, Bermuda, दावा to be the site of the oldest कस्बा in the English New संसार, as st. George 's, बरमूडा थी officially established ( as New लंदन ) in 1612, whereas James Fort, in वर्जिनिया, was not to be converted into James towne जबतक 1619, and further did नहीं survive into the present day.
in 1699, the capital was relocated इससे Jamestown to what is today Williamsburg, बाद which Jamestown ceased to exist as a settlement, existing today तभी as an archaeological साईट.
Today, Jamestown is one of three स्थितियाँ comprising the ऐतिहासिक Triangle of Colonial Virginia, along साथ Williamsburg and Yorktown, with two primary विरासत साइट.
Historic Jamestowne, the archaeological site on jamestown द्वीप, is a cooperative effort by Jamestown नेशनल Historic साईट ( भाग of Colonial नेशनल Historical Park ), and Preservation Virginia.
the jamestown उपनिवेश, a living history interpretive site, is operated by the Jamestown yorktown Foundation in conjunction with the Commonwealth of Virginia.
James Christopher Frey ( born September 12, 1969 ) is an अमरीकी writer.
उसके किताबे A लाख Little Pieces ( 2003 ) and My dost Leonard ( 2005 ), as well as Bright Shiny Morning ( 2008 ), were bestsellers.
He was the subject of a scandal when investigators discovered that prison time and the extent of certain चोटों were exaggerated in A लाख Little Pieces, a purportedly autobiographical account of the author 's संघर्ष with addiction.
Deere & कम्पनी, most commonly ज्ञात by its name जॉन Deere, is an American corporation based in Moline, Illinois, and एक of the largest निर्माताओं of agricultural मशीनरी in the संसार.
in 2012, it थी listed as 97th in the सौभाग्य 500 अमेरिका 's ranking और 190th in the Fortune 500 Global ranking.
Deere and कम्पनी agricultural products, sold under the John Deere नाम, include tractors, combine harvesters, cotton harvesters, balers, planters / seeders, sprayers, and UTVs.
The company is भी a manufacturer of construction equipment and forestry equipment, as well as a supplier of diesel इंजन और drivetrains ( axles, transmissions, gearboxes ) प्रयुक्त in heavy equipment.
Additionally, John Deere manufactures equipment प्रयुक्त in lawn, grounds, and turf care, such as walk-behind लॉन mowers, zero-turn लॉन mowers, lawn tractors, and snowthrowers.
To support the core businesses, John Deere also provides financial सेवाएं और other related activities.
The company 's slogan is `` nothing Runs Like a Deere '' and रै a picture of a leaping deer as a logo, a word play pun on `` nothing runs like a deer ''.
कार्ल westby coined the phrase `` Nothing रनों Like a deere '' for a marketing अभियान to sell snowmobiles.
The कम्पनी 's products are also identifiable by its distinctive shade of green paint, usually augmented by पीला trim.
The United States ten-dollar विधेयक ( $ 10 ) is a denomination of संयुक्त States करेंसी.
The first U.S. सचिव of the Treasury ( 1789–95 ), Alexander Hamilton, is currently featured on the obverse of the विधेयक, while the U.S. Treasury भवन is featured on the reverse.
( Hamilton is one of two non-presidents featured on currently issued U.S. bills.
The other is Benjamin फ्रैंकलिन, on the $ 100 bill.
हैमिल्टन is one of only four people featured on u.S. पेपर करेंसी ( 1861 to the present ) जो थी not born in the continental संयुक्त States, as he थी इससे the West इंडीज.
the others हैं : Albert Gallatin, Switzerland ( $ 500 1862/63 विधिक Tender ) ; George Meade, स्पेन ( $ 1,000 1890/91 राजकोष Note ) ; और Robert Morris, इंग्लैण्ड ( $ 1,000 1862/63 Legal Tender ; $ 10 1878/80 Silver प्रमाणपत्र ).
In addition, Kamehameha i, appears on the 2008 Hawaii state quarter. )
All $ 10 bills issued today हैं Federal Reserve Notes.
The Bureau of Engraving और Printing says the औसत life of a $ 10 bill in circulation is 18 महीने पहले it is replaced due to पहनें.
लगभग 6 % of all us banknotes printed in 2009 were $ 10 bills.
Ten dollar bills are वितरित by Federal Reserve Banks in yellow straps.
The source of the face on the $ 10 विधेयक is John Trumbull ’s 1805 portrait of Hamilton कि belongs to the पोर्ट्रेट संग्रहण of नई York नगर हॉल.
The $ 10 bill is the only U.S. paper currency in circulation in which the portrait faces to the left ( the $ 100,000 bill featured a पोर्ट्रेट of Woodrow Wilson facing to the left, but was प्रयुक्त only for intra-government transactions ).
Andy Samuel ग्रिफ़िथ ( June 1, 1926 – July 3, 2012 ) was an American actor, television निर्माता, Grammy Award -winning Southern-gospel singer, and writer.
He was a Tony Award nominee लिये two भूमिकाएँ, and gained prominence in the starring भूमिका in निदेशक Elia Kazan 's फिल्मी a फेस in the Crowd ( 1957 ) पहले he became better known for his टेलीविज़न भूमिकाएँ, playing the सीसे characters in the 1960–1968 situation comedy The Andy Griffith Show and in the 1986–1995 legal drama matlock.
Theresa Penelope `` terri '' Irwin, ( née raines ; born July 20, 1964 ) is an Australian -आधारd, अमरीकी -born naturalist, लेखक, the widow of Australian naturalist Steve Irwin and owner of Australia Zoo at Beerwah, Queensland, ऑस्ट्रेलिया.
She co-starred with her husband on The मगरमच्छ शिकारी, their unconventional television nature documentary series साथ with its spin-off series, क्रोक Files and The Crocodile Hunter Diaries.
She has lived in Australia चूंकि 1992, जब she married स्टीव Irwin.
andreas cellarius 's illustration of the Copernican system, from the harmonia Macrocosmica ( 1660 ).
Heliocentrism, or heliocentricism, is the खगोलीय model in which the Earth and planets revolve around a relatively stationary Sun at the center of the Solar System.
The शब्द comes from the Greek ( helios `` sun '' and kentron `` center '' ).
Historically, heliocentrism was opposed to geocentrism, which placed the धरती at the बीच.
The ख़्याल that the धरती घूमती around the Sun था महरूम proposed as early as the 3rd century BC by Aristarchus of Samos, but Aristarchus 's heliocentrism आकर्षित little ध्यान until कोपरनिकस revived and elaborated it.
Lucio Russo, however, argues that this is a misleading छाप resulting इससे the loss of scientific works of the Hellenistic Era.
Using indirect evidence he argues कि a heliocentric view was expounded in Hipparchus 's कार्य on गम्भीरता.
It was not until the 16th century that a fully predictive गणितीय मॉडल of a heliocentric प्रणाली was presented, by the Renaissance mathematician, astronomer, और Catholic मौलवी nicolaus कोपरनिकस of Poland, अग्रणी to the Copernican क्रान्ति.
in the following century, Johannes कॅप्लर elaborated upon और expanded इस मॉडल to शामिल अंडाकार orbits, and supporting observations बना using a दूरदर्शी were presented by Galileo Galilei.
With the observations of William Herschel, Friedrich Bessel, और others, खगोलशास्त्रियों एहसास that the sun was not the बीच of the ब्रह्मांड and by the 1920s एडविन Hubble had दिखाया कि it was part of a galaxy ( the Milky Way ) that was only one of many अरबों.
Norah जोन्स ( born Geetali Norah Jones शंकर ; March 30, 1979 ) is an American singer-songwriter, pianist, और अभिनेत्री.
She is the daughter of भारतीय सितार player Ravi Shankar और मुकदमा जोन्स.
वो is also Anoushka Shankar 's half-sister.
In 2002, वो launched her solo music करियर with the release of the commercially successful और critically acclaimed एल्बम Come दूर with Me, a संलयन of country म्यूज़िक and पॉप साथ तत्व of जैज़ जिससे was certified डायमंड album, selling over 26 million नक़ल.
The record earned जोन्स five ग्रैमी Awards, including the Album of the Year, Record of the Year, और Best New कलाकार.
उसके subsequent स्टुडियो एल्बम, Feels Like Home, released in 2004, Not too लेट, released in 2007, the वही year वो made her फिल्मी debut in my Blueberry नाइट्स, and her 2009 release The पतन सब gained Platinum status, selling over a लाख copies और were generally well received by आलोचकों.
Jones ' पांचवां studio album, छोटी टूटा Hearts, was released on April 27, 2012.
Jones has जीती nine Grammy पुरस्कार और थी 60th on Billboard पत्रिका 's artists of the 2000–2009 decade चार्ट.
Throughout her career, जोन्स रै won numerous पुरस्कार and has sold more than 50 million एल्बम worldwide.
Billboard named her the top jazz artist of the 2000–2009 decade.
Not to be confused साथ आयाम of a physical quantity.
For other uses, देखिए Dimension ( disambiguation ).
From left to right, the वर्गाकार, the cube, and the tesseract.
The वर्गाकार is bounded by 1-dimensional lines, the cube by 2-dimensional areas, and the tesseract by 3-dimensional volumes.
a projection of the cube is given since it is viewed on a two-dimensional screen.
The same applies to the tesseract, जिससे additionally can only be shown as a projection भी in three-dimensional space.
A diagram showing the पहला four spatial dimensions.
in physics and mathematics, the आयाम of a स्पेस or object is informally defined as the minimum number of निर्देशांक needed to specify any point within it.
यूँ a line has a dimension of one because तभी one coordinate is needed to specify a पाइंट on it ( लिये example, the point at 5 on a number line ).
A surface ऐसे as a प्लेन or the surface of a cylinder or sphere has a dimension of दो because दो निर्देशांक are needed to specify a point on it ( लिये उदाहरण, to locate a point on the surface of a sphere you need दोनो its latitude and its longitude ).
The inside of a cube, a cylinder or a गोला is three-dimensional because तीन निर्देशांक हैं needed to locate a point within these स्पेसेस.
In physical terms, dimension refers to the constituent ढांचा of सब स्पेस ( आवाज़ ) और its position in समय ( perceived as a scalar dimension along the t-axis ), as well as the spatial constitution of objects within—structures that correlate with both particle और field conceptions, interact according to सापेक्ष properties of द्रव्यमान —and are fundamentally mathematical in description.
These, or other axes, may be referenced to uniquely identify a पाइंट or structure in its रवैया और relationship to other objects और occurrences.
शारीरिक theories कि incorporate समय, such as general relativity, are said to कार्य in 4-dimensional `` spacetime ``, ( पारिभाषित as a Minkowski space ).
आधुनिक theories tend to be `` higher-dimensional '' including quantum फ़ील्ड and string theories.
The state-space of quantum mechanics is an infinite-dimensional function space.
The concept of dimension is नहीं restricted to physical objects.
High-dimensional spaces occur in गणित और the sciences for many reasons, अक्सर as configuration spaces such as in Lagrangian or Hamiltonian mechanics ; these हैं abstract spaces, स्वतंत्र of the physical स्पेस we live in.
fontana ( ) is a city of 200,762 residents in सैन bernardino County, California.
संस्थापित in 1913, it remained essentially rural जबतक World War II, when entrepreneur हेनरी J. Kaiser built a large स्टील मिल in the area.
It is now a regional हब of the trucking industry, साथ Interstate 10 और State Route 210 transecting the city इससे east to west, and Interstate 15 passing diagonally through its northwestern quadrant.
it is home to the largest of the सैन Bernardino काउंटी प्रणाली libraries, a संवर ऐतिहासिक theater, a municipal पार्क, and the स्वचालित Club Speedway on the साईट of the Kaiser स्टील Mill.
fontana also होस्ट the Fontana दिनों Half मैराथन and 5K run.
This race is the fastest half-marathon course in the world.
The U.S. 2012 Census reported that fontana 's population was 200,762 in 2012, making it the दूसरी सबसे populous city in San Bernardino काउंटी काउंटी and 14th in the राज्य.
Cowboys Stadium is a stadium with a retractable roof in Arlington, टेक्सास.
It serves as the home of the National Football लीग 's Dallas Cowboys.
It replaced the partially covered Texas Stadium, which opened in 1971, and served as the Cowboys ' home through the 2008 ऋतु.
it was completed on May 27, 2009.
the स्टेडियम सीटे 85,000, बनाना it the third largest स्टेडियम in the NFL by seating capacity.
The maximum capacity of the stadium, including खड़ा room, is 105,000.
The Party Pass ( open क्षेत्रों ) sections हैं पीछे seats in प्रत्येक end zone and on a series of six elevated platforms connected by stairways.
It has the world 's largest column-free आंतरिक and the fourth largest high definition video screen, जिससे hangs from 20 yard line to 20 yard line.
the facility can भी be used for a variety of other क्रियाएँ outside of its main purpose ( professional फ़ुटबॉल ) such as concerts, बास्केट games, boxing matches, college football and ऊँची school football contests, soccer matches, and motocross races.
कनाडाई historians until the 1980s tended to focus on आर्थिक history, including labour history.
In part this is because Canada रै had दूर fewer political or military conflicts than अन्य societies.
इस थी especially सच्चा in the first half of the बीसवीं century when आर्थिक history was overwhelmingly dominant.
Many of the most prominent अंग्रेज़ी Canadian historians from this period यहूद आर्थिक historians, such as हेरोल्ड Innis, Donald Creighton और Arthur R. M. निम्नतर
विद्वानों of कनाडाई इतिहास were वारिस to the परंपराओं that developed in Europe and the United राज्य, लकिन frameworks कि worked well elsewhere प्रायः विफल in कनाडा.
The heavily मार्क्सवादी बहकावे economic history that dominates यूरोपीय has little relevance to सबसे of कनाडाई इतिहास.
A focus on क्लास, urban areas, and industry fails to address Canada 's rural and संसाधन based economy.
Similarly, the monetarist school that is dominant in the United States also has been difficult to transfer north of the border.
The study of economic इतिहास in कनाडा became अत्यधिक केन्द्रित on economic भूगोल, और लिये अनेक सालो the प्रबल school of thought has been the staples thesis.
इस school of thought bases the पढ़ाई of the Canadian economy on the पढ़ाई of प्राकृतिक संसाधन.
This approach has since also become used outside of Canada in ऑस्ट्रेलिया and in many विकासशील राष्ट्र.
Before the arrival of Europeans, the First Nations of what होता become Canada had a large and हर्षोल्लास व्यापार network.
Furs, tools, decorative items, and other goods यहूद often transported thousands of kilometres, ज़्यादातर by canoe throughout the many rivers and झीलों of the region.
the early European history of the कनाडाई economy is usually studied through the staples thesis जिससे argues the Canadian economy विकसित through the exploitation of a series of स्टेपल्स that होता be exported to Europe.
Carbon-14, 14C, or radiocarbon, is a radioactive isotope of carbon साथ a nucleus containing 6 protons and 8 neutrons.
Its presence in सशुल्क materials is the आधार of the radiocarbon dating method pioneered by willard लिब्बी and colleagues ( 1949 ) to date archaeological, geological and hydrogeological samples.
carbon-14 थी discovered on 27 February 1940, by Martin Kamen और Sam Ruben at the विश्वविद्यालयों of California Radiation Laboratory in Berkeley, although its existence had been सुझाया by Franz Kurie in 1934.
There are तीन naturally occurring isotopes of carbon on Earth : 99 % of the carbon is carbon-12, 1 % is carbon-13, and carbon-14 occurs in trace amounts, i.e., making up about 1 part per खरब ( 0.0000000001 % ) of the कार्बन in the माहौल.
the half-life of carbon-14 is 5,730±40 years.
Carbon-14 decays into nitrogen-14 through बीटा क्षय.
The primary natural source of carbon-14 on धरती is cosmic ray कार्रवाई upon नाइट्रोजन in the atmosphere, and it is therefore a cosmogenic nuclide.
However, open-air नाभिकीय testing between 1955–1980 contributed to this pool.
The different isotopes of कार्बन do नहीं differ appreciably in their chemical गुण.
इस is प्रयुक्त in रासायनिक और biological research, in a technique called carbon labeling : carbon-14 atoms can be used to replace nonradioactive carbon, in अनुक्रम to trace chemical and biochemical reactions involving carbon atoms इससे any given सशुल्क यौगिक.
Lightning is a highly visible form of energy transfer
Lightning strikes are electrical discharges on a विशाल scale between the atmosphere और an earth-bound ऑब्जेक्ट.
They ज़्यादातर originate in thunderclouds और terminate on the मैदान, called बादल to मैदान ( CG ) बिजली.
However, they may also be initiated from a very लम्बा grounded object और reach into the clouds.
हालांकि `` a lightning strike '' is commonly used to describe all lightning, it is बल्कि erroneous and a misnomer, as तभी about 25 % of सब बिजली events worldwide are CG, the large बल्क of बिजली कार्यक्रम are Intracloud ( IC ) or Cloud to Cloud ( cc ), where निर्वहन तभी occurs ऊँची in the atmosphere.
The scientific name लिये the complete process of a single बिजली इवेंट is a and it is a very जटिल, multiple stepped interaction, which is not completely understood.
Most cg flashes तभी `` strike '' one physical location, referred to as a termination.
The प्राथमिक conducting channel, the bright coursing light you may देखिए और call a `` strike '', is तभी about 1 inch in diameter, हालांकि to our eyes it looks much larger.
They are मील long, upwards of tens of miles.
And the संपूर्ण flash, lasts only a few fractions of a second, most of which is not visible to human eyes.
Thunder is always produced by बिजली.
Just जैसे lightning, that deceives our आँखें, usually looking larger or closer than it really is, the धरती 's atmosphere and our brain 's perception of the outside world, ultimately determines whether it is `` heard '' or not.
बिजली can not happen in a वैक्यूम devoid of ions, nor can thunder occur बगैर molecules to हिलना.
Thunder is a physical absolute for प्रत्येक single flash of lightning.
contrary to popular belief, a lightning strike itself is usually not जिम्मेदार for अनेक deaths or injuries from a single इवेंट.
It would be impossible given the natural tendencies of a फ्लैश, जबतक people or animals यहूद stacked on शीर्ष of प्रत्येक other, or they were somehow arranged vertically और part of the flash channel.
When बिजली ignites an available ईंधन source and an explosion occurs, it is the शॉक wave or fire causing the injuries, नहीं the strike itself.
Ground currents, also called कदम potential, of an earth termination is what truly causes most injuries or death to humans और animals.
The near instantaneous rush of सतह charges, induced by the overhead thundercloud itself, race to the strike point from hundreds to thousands of feet away during discharge.
This current, caused दौरान each stroke, takes the path of least resistance, which may be ion rich human or animal legs, over poorly conducting earth.
This is why it is best to crouch, with feet बंद together, if कभी caught in the खोलें during a thunderstorm.
दुर्भाग्यवश, most reports do not draw a distinction between the real cause of injury or death, be it the strike itself, a resulting explosion or fire, or प्रायः responsible step potential.
पीटर F. Kilmartin ( born 1962 ) is the current attorney सामान्य of rhode Island.
Kilmartin is also a retired police captain और a पूर्व सदस्य of the Rhode Island House of Representatives.
A couple following their marriage in the Manti Utah Temple.
Sealing is an अध्यादेश ( ritual ) performed in Latter Day Saints मंदिरों by a व्यक्ति holding the sealing प्राधिकार.
The purpose of this ordinance is to seal familiar relationships, making possible the existence of family relationships throughout शाश्वत.
lds teachings place great importance on the विशिष्ट authority required to perform these sealings.
Church doctrine teaches that this authority, called the Priesthood, corresponds to कि given to संत पीटर in.
Sealings हैं typically performed as marriages or as sealing of children to parents.
They यहूद performed prior to the death of जोसेफ Smith, Jr. ( the main founder of the Latter Day Saint movement ), और हैं फिलहाल performed in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day संतो.
हालांकि some other denominations, ऐसे as the जातियाँ of मसीह, दृश्य sealing as an artifact of Smith 's practice of plural विवाह, कुछ do still perform them.
The 2000s, pronounced `` two thousands '', was a दशक that began on जनवरी 1, 2000, और ended on December 31, 2009.
Globalization, which had accelerated बाद the जल्दी 1990s पतन of साम्यवादी, जारी to be a फ़ोर्स in the 2000s.
The growth of the अंतरजाल was एक of the prime contributors to globalization during the दशक, making it possible for people to interact with other लोगों, express ideas, introduce अन्य to different cultures और backgrounds, उपयोग goods और services, sell और buy online, research and learn about things, along with experiencing the world बगैर having to leave home.
The institutions, linkages and technologies that emerged or were redefined पहले would subsequently in this decade लाभ many countries, in particular चीन and India.
However, in other parts of the world such progress विफल to address ongoing struggles with आधुनिकता, सबसे notably characterized by the rise of al-Qaeda and अन्य Islamist groups.
The सितंबर 11 हमले in 2001 led to the संयुक्त States, United Kingdom, स्पेन, Canada और other राष्ट्र आक्रमणकारी Afghanistan, as well as implementing various anti-terrorist measures at घर और विदेश in what was ज्ञात as the युद्ध on Terror.
The European संघ saw further integration and expansion throughout much of यूरोपीय.
the economic विकास of the 2000s had considerable environmental consequences, raised demand for diminishing उर्जा resources, and थी स्टिल shown to be vulnerable as demonstrated during the Global वित्तीय Crisis of the late 2000s.
the gunfight at the O.K. Corral was a gunfight that took place at परिचय 3:00 p.m. on Wednesday, October 26, 1881, in Tombstone, Arizona territory, और is generally regarded as the most famous gunfight in the history of the American Old West.
The gunfight, believed to have lasted only about thirty seconds, थी लड़ा between the गैरकानूनी cowboys Billy Claiborne, आइक and Billy clanton, and Tom and Frank McLaury, and the opposing town Marshal Virgil Earp और उसके brothers Assistant कस्बा Marshal मॉर्गन और अस्थाई lawman Wyatt, aided by Doc Holliday designated as a temporary मार्शल by Virgil.
Ike clanton और Billy Claiborne भागा from the fight unharmed, but आइक 's brother Billy Clanton was मारे, along with both McLaurys.
lawmen Virgil and Morgan Earp and Doc Holliday were wounded.
तभी Wyatt Earp came through the fight unharmed.
The fight has come to represent a समय in American इतिहास जब the frontier was open दायरा लिये outlaws opposed by law enforcement that was spread thin over विशाल territories, leaving some areas unprotected.
The gunfight थी नहीं खूब ज्ञात to the American public until 1931 when author Stuart Lake published what रै चूंकि been संकल्पित to be a largely fictionalized biography, Wyatt earp : Frontier Marshal, two years बाद Earp 's death.
Lake retold his story in a 1946 book that director John Ford developed into the movie My Darling Clementine.
After the movie Gunfight at the o.k. corral was released in 1957, the shootout came to be known by that नाम.
Since तब, the conflict has been portrayed with varying degrees of accuracy in numerous Western films and books.
Despite its नाम, the gunfight actually occurred in a narrow lot six doors वेस्ट of the rear entrance to the O.K. Corral on Fremont गली, and भी in the गली.
The two opposing पार्टियों were initially only about apart.
About thirty गोलियाँ were fired in thirty सेकेंड.
Ike Clanton दायर हत्या charges against the Earps और दस्तावेज़ हॉलिडे लकिन they यहूद eventually exonerated by a लोकल न्यायधीश बाद a 30-day preliminary सुनना and then again by a local ग्रैंड जूरी.
On दिसम्बर 28, 1881, Virgil earp थी maimed in an हत्या attempt by the गैरकानूनी cowboys, and on March 18, 1882, they assassinated मॉर्गन Earp.
The suspects furnished solid alibis, और newly appointed डिप्टी U.S. Marshal Wyatt Earp took matters into his अपना हैंड्स during the Earp वेंडेट्टा Ride, ironically pursued by काउंटी शेरिफ Johnny Behan with warrants for the Earp 's arrest.
hdmi ( high-definition Multimedia Interface ) is a compact audio/video interface for transferring uncompressed video data और compressed/uncompressed digital audio data from a hdmi-compliant device ( `` the source device '' ) to a compatible computer मॉनिटर, video प्रोजेक्टर, digital टेलीविज़न, or digital ऑडियो device.
HDMI is a डिजिटल बदलना for मौजूदा analog वीडियो standards.
There are a क्रमांक of HDMI-standard cable connectors available, प्रत्येक of which can be used लिये any uncompressed tv or PC video format, including standard, enhanced, high परिभाषा, and 3D video signals ; up to 8 चैनल्स of compressed or uncompressed digital audio ; a CEC ( Consumer Electronics Control ) कनेक्शन ; and an Ethernet data connection.
HDMI implements the EIA/CEA-861 standards, जिससे define video formats and waveforms, transport of compressed, uncompressed, और LPCM audio, auxiliary data, and implementations of the VESA edid.
the cec allows HDMI devices to control प्रत्येक other जब जरुरी and allows the user to operate multiple डिवाइस with एक remote control handset.
Because hdmi is electrically compatible with the cea-861 signals used by digital विज़ुअल interface ( dvi ), no signal conversion is जरुरी, nor is there a loss of video quality जब a dvi-to-hdmi adapter is used.
as an uncompressed CEA-861 connection, HDMI is independent of the various डिजिटल television मानकों used by individual devices, such as atsc and dvb, as these हैं encapsulations of संपीडित MPEG वीडियो streams ( which can be decoded और आउटपुट as an uncompressed video stream on hdmi ).
उत्पादन of उपभोक्ता HDMI products started in late 2003.
in यूरोपीय either dvi-hdcp or HDMI is शामिल in the hd तैयार in-store labeling specification for TV sets for hdtv, formulated by EICTA with ses Astra in 2005.
HDMI began to appear on उपभोक्ता HDTV camcorders और digital still cameras in 2006.
As of January 8, 2013, जिससे is ten सालो बाद the release of the first hdmi specification, over 3 billion HDMI devices have shipped since the launch of the HDMI standard.
Bree वैन de Kamp ( née Mason ; also known in the series as ब्री Hodge and ब्री Weston ) is a fictional character and one of the चार protagonists on the ABC television series हताश Housewives.
वो is निभाई by actress marcia Cross, who has received multiple awards और nominations लिये उसके portrayal, सहित an Emmy Award nomination, three Golden Globe Award nominations, and two स्क्रीन Actors Guild पुरस्कार.
Cross 's portrayal of Bree has been widely praised by आलोचकों and fans.
Cross originally auditioned for the role of Mary Alice Young, but series निर्माता Marc चेरी thought she थी बेहतर suited for the भूमिका of Bree.
Dana Delany, who eventually was cast as कैथरीन Mayfair, was originally चुनी लिये the role लकिन turned it down, saying it was too समान to her भूमिका in Pasadena.
Bree 's main struggle throughout the series has been her attempts to maintain a perfect life despite various obstacles such as widowhood, तलाक, and alcoholism hindering her.
वो रै been married three टाइम्स ; to Rex Van de Kamp ( स्टीवन Culp ), Orson Hodge ( Kyle MacLachlan ) and ट्रिप Weston ( Scott Bakula ).
See also the Town of Algoma in Winnebago काउंटी, Wisconsin.
See also Algoma ( Disambiguation ).
Algoma is a city in kewaunee County in the U.S. राज्य of Wisconsin.
The population was 3,167 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी.
Algoma is भाग of the ग्रीन Bay महानगर Statistical Area.
The hangover Part II is a 2011 अमरीकी comedy film produced by Legendary तस्वीरें and distributed by Warner भाईs. Pictures.
it is the sequel to 2009 's the Hangover और the second film in The Hangover franchise.
Todd phillips निर्देशित the film in addition to co-authoring the script with Craig mazin, और Scot Armstrong.
The film stars Bradley Cooper, Ed helms, Zach galifianakis, Ken Jeong, Jeffrey Tambor, Justin Bartha and पॉल Giamatti.
The Hangover Part II tells the story of Phil, Stu, Alan, और Doug as they सफर to Thailand for Stu 's wedding.
After the स्नातक party in Las वेगास, Stu takes no संभावना and opts for a सुरक्षित, subdued pre-wedding brunch.
However, things do नहीं go as planned, resulting in another bad hangover with no memories of the previous night.
विकास of The hangover Part II began in April 2009, two months before The Hangover थी released.
The प्रिंसिपल actors were डाल in कूच 2010 to reprise their भूमिकाएँ इससे the first film.
उत्पादन began in October 2010, in Ontario, California, पहले चलती on स्थान in Thailand.
the film was released on may 26, 2011 and, despite receiving mostly negative समीक्षाएँ from critics, it became the highest-grossing R-rated comedy during इसके theatrical run.
a third फिल्मी is नियत for on May 24, 2013.
यंग Man Among Roses, portrait miniature by Nicholas Hilliard, 1588, v & A.
Believed to be the Earl of Essex
the ditchley Portrait of Elizabeth i by the foreign Marcus gheeraerts the Younger, c.1592
The English Renaissance was a सांस्कृतिक and कलाकारी गति in England डेटिंग इससे the late 15th और जल्दी 16th centuries to the early 17th सदी.
It is संबद्ध with the pan-european पुनर्जागरण कि is प्रायः regarded as शुरूआत in इटली in the लेट 14th century.
Like most of northern Europe, England saw little of these developments until more than a century बाद.
The beginning of the अंग्रेज़ी Renaissance is often taken, as a convenience, to be 1485, जब the बैटल of Bosworth Field ended the युद्धों of the Roses and inaugurated the Tudor Dynasty.
Renaissance style and ideas, however, were slow in penetrating England, और the Elizabethan era in the second half of the 16th century is प्रायः regarded as the height of the English पुनर्जागरण.
Elizabeth Ann bloomer Warren `` बेट्टी '' घाट ( April 8, 1918 – जुलाई 8, 2011 ), was पहला Lady of the United States from 1974 to 1977 during the प्रेसिडेंसी of her husband Gerald घाट.
As First Lady, she was active in सोशल नीति and created precedents as a नीतियां active अध्यक्षीय wife.
Throughout her husband 's पद in office, she maintained high approval ratings despite opposition from some conservative Republicans who objected to her more moderate और उदार positions on social मुद्दे.
Ford was noted for raising breast cancer जागरूकता following her 1974 mastectomy और थी a passionate supporter of, और activist for, the Equal Rights Amendment ( era ).
Pro-choice on गर्भपात और a leader in the महिलाओं 's Movement, she gained fame as one of the सबसे candid first ladies in history, commenting on every hot-button issue of the time, including feminism, equal अदा, the ERA, sex, drugs, abortion, and gun कंट्रोल.
She also raised awareness of व्यसन जब she announced her long-running बैटल with alcoholism in the 1970s.
Following her White House years, वो continued to लॉबी for the ERA and remained active in the feminist movement.
वो was the founder, and परोसा as the पहला chair of the board of directors, of the बेट्टी घाट Center for पदार्थ abuse और addiction and is a प्राप्तकर्ता of the Congressional Gold Medal ( co-presentation with her husband, Gerald R. Ford, October 21, 1998 ) and the अध्यक्षीय Medal of स्वतंत्रता ( alone, presented 1991, by जार्ज H. W. Bush ).
platelet endothelial कोशिका adhesion molecule ( PECAM-1 ) also known as क्लस्टर of differentiation 31 ( CD31 ) is a protein कि in human is एनकोडेड by the pecam1 जीन मिला on chromosome 17.
pecam-1 plays a key role in removing aged neutrophils from the body.
जेसिका Rafalowski, Miss Florida यूएसए 2008
जेन्ना Edwards, मिस Florida USA 2007
Melissa Witek, Miss Florida यूएसए 2005
क्रिस्टन Berset, Miss Florida USA 2004
The Miss Florida USA competition is the pageant कि selects the representative for the राज्य Florida in the Miss यूएसए pageant.
While Florida has महरूम कामयाब in terms of runners-up, finalists and semi-finalists, the state रै never जीती the Miss USA pageant, हालांकि Cheryl Patton became Miss यूएसए after Sylvia हिचकॉक won Miss Universe.
फ्लोरिडा 's best results were during the mid-1960s to mid-1970s.
Their most recent finalist was lissette Garcia who लगाई in the top 16 in 2011.
Two former मिस फ्लोरिडा टीन USA titleholders have won इस competition, और three titleholders have भी competed at Miss America.
The current titleholder is Michelle aguirre of Hialeah.
anglo-saxon इंग्लैण्ड refers to the period of the history of the भाग of Britain that became known as England, lasting from the end of Roman occupation and स्थापना of anglo-saxon kingdoms in the 5th century until the Norman conquest of इंग्लैण्ड in 1066 by William the Conqueror.
Anglo-Saxon is a general पद referring to the Germanic peoples जो आए to ब्रिटेन during the 5th and 6th centuries, including Angles, Saxons, frisii, and jutes.
The पद also refers to the language spoken at the time in England, which is now called बूढ़ा English, and to the culture of the era, which has long attracted popular and scholarly attention.
Until the 9th century Anglo-Saxon England थी dominated by the Heptarchy, the kingdoms of Northumbria, mercia, ईस्ट Anglia, एसेक्स, केंट, Sussex, और Wessex.
In terms of धर्म the kingdoms followed anglo-saxon paganism during the early period, but converted to christianity during the 7th century.
paganism had a फाइनल stronghold in a काल of Mercian आधिपत्य during the 640s, ending with the death of पेंदा of mercia in 655.
Facing the threat of Viking invasions, the House of Wessex became dominant दौरान the 9th century, under the नियम of Alfred the Great.
During the 10th सदी, the individual kingdoms unified अंतर्गत the rule of Wessex into the Kingdom of England, which stood opposed to the Danelaw, the Viking kingdoms established from the 9th सदी in the उत्तर and east of England.
The Kingdom of इंग्लैण्ड fell in the viking invasion इससे Denmark in 1013 and थी ruled by the House of Denmark जबतक 1042, when the anglo-saxon House of wessex थी restored.
The पिछला Anglo-Saxon king, Harold Godwinson, was killed in 1066 at the Battle of Hastings.
lighting a traditional red brick John Ross Jr kiln
स्मोक्ड salmon is a तैयारी of salmon, typically a fillet that has महरूम cured and hot or cold smoked.
Due to its moderately high दाम, smoked सामन is considered a delicacy.
हालांकि the term lox is sometimes लागू to smoked salmon, they are different products.
View of defibrillator electrode position और placement.
Defibrillation is a common treatment for life-threatening cardiac dysrhythmias, ventricular fibrillation, and pulseless ventricular tachycardia.
Defibrillation consists of delivering a therapeutic dose of electrical energy to the affected दिल with a device पुकारा a defibrillator.
This depolarizes a नाजुक द्रव्यमान of the heart मांसपेशी, terminates the dysrhythmia, and allows normal sinus rhythm to be reestablished by the body 's natural pacemaker, in the sinoatrial node of the heart.
Defibrillators can be external, transvenous, or implanted, depending on the type of device used or needed.
कुछ बाह्य units, known as स्वचालित बाह्य defibrillators ( aeds ), automate the diagnosis of treatable लय, meaning that lay responders or bystanders are able to use them successfully with little, or in some cases no training at all.
gabrielle `` Coco '' bonheur Chanel ( August 19, 1883 – January 10, 1971 ) थी a French fashion designer और founder of the चैनल brand.
She was the तभी fashion designer to appear on Time magazine 's list of the 100 सबसे influential लोगों of the 20th century.
Along साथ Paul Poiret, Chanel was credited with liberating महिलाओं from the constraints of the `` corseted silhouette '' और popularizing the acceptance of a sportive, casual chic as the feminine standard in the post- World War i era.
A prolific fashion निर्माता, चैनल 's influence extended परे couture कपडे.
उसके design aesthetic थी realized in jewelry, हैंडबैग, और महक.
Her signature scent, चैनल No. 5, has become an iconic product.
Chanel was known for her lifelong determination, ambition and energy which she applied to her professional और सोशल life.
She achieved both success as a businesswoman and social prominence धन्यवाद to the connections she made through उसके work.
These included अनेक artists और craftspeople to whom she became a patron.
However, चैनल 's highly competitive, opportunistic personality led her to make questionable life choices which have generated controversy around her reputation, particularly her behaviour दौरान the German occupation of France in World War ii.
Allied Mills flour मिल on the banks of the मैनचेस्टर जलयान Canal
A gristmill ( also : grist मिल, corn mill or आटा mill ) grinds grain into flour.
the पद can refer to both the grinding mechanism और the भवन कि holds it.
Romania ( ; दिनाँक spellings Roumania and Rumania ; ) is a देश स्तिथ at the intersection of सेंट्रल and Southeastern Europe, bordering on the Black Sea.
रोमानिया shares a border with Hungary and Serbia to the वेस्ट, Ukraine और Moldova to the northeast and east, और बुल्गारिया to the south.
at, Romania is the eighth largest देश of the यूरोपीय Union by area, and has the seventh largest population of the European Union साथ more than 19 million people.
इसके capital and biggest city is बुखारेस्ट, the 11th largest city in the EU.
The United Principalities उभरा when the territories of moldavia and wallachia were united under Prince Alexander ioan cuza in 1859.
In 1866 Prince Karl of Hohenzollern-Sigmaringen थी called to the throne as the Ruling Prince of the Romanian Principate and in 1881 he was finally crowned as King Carol I the first monarch of the किंगडम of Romania.
स्वतंत्रता इससे the उस्मानी Empire was घोषित on 9 May 1877, and थी internationally recognized the following year.
At the end of World युद्ध I, Transylvania, Bukovina and bessarabia united with the Kingdom of रोमानिया.
World युद्ध ii gave cause to the rise of a military dictatorship in Romania under fascist सामान्य आयन Antonescu, जो chose to fight on the पक्ष of the Axis शक्तियां from 1941 to 1944.
After his removal, Romania switched पहलू in 1944 and joined the Allies.
By the end of the war, some formerly Romanian northeastern territories were occupied by the Soviet Union, with Red फौज इकाई stationed on Romanian soil.
In 1947 रोमानिया forcibly became a People 's गणतंत्र ( 1947-1965 ) and a सदस्य of the वॉरसॉ Pact.
In 1965 nicolae Ceauşescu became सामान्य सचिव of the रोमानियाई Communist पार्टी, and the harsh austerity measures, political दमन, and cult of व्यक्तित्व he implemented led to the Socialist Republic of Romania ( 1965-1989 ) becoming the most Stalinist police state in the Eastern bloc.
Eventually उसके authoritarian government was toppled in दिसम्बर 1989 during the Romanian Revolution of 1989.
साथ the fall of the Iron Curtain, Romania began its transition towards democracy and a capitalist market economy.
बाद a decade of post-revolution economic problems and living-standards decline, extensive reforms fostered आर्थिक रिकवरी.
As of 2010, Romania is an upper-middle-income देश with a high इंसान विकास index.
रोमानिया joined NATO on 29 March 2004, और the European संघ on 1 जनवरी 2007.
it is also a member of the : Latin Union, Francophonie, OSCE, WTO, bsec, United राष्ट्र, etc.
आज, Romania is a unitary semi-presidential गणतंत्र, in which the executive branch consists of the President and the सरकारी.
`` Ancient '' redirects यहाँ.
लिये other उपयोग, see Antiquity ( disambiguation ).
The टाइम्स before writing belong either to protohistory or to prehistory.
Khafre 's Pyramid ( 4th राजवंश ) और Great sphinx of Giza ( c. 2500 BC or perhaps पहले )
प्राचीन इतिहास is the study of the written past from the beginning of अंकित human इतिहास to the Early Middle Ages.
The स्पैन of अंकित history is roughly 5,000 years, with cuneiform स्क्रिप्ट, the oldest discovered रूप of coherent writing, इससे the protoliterate period around the 30th century BC.
This is the शुरूआत of इतिहास, as opposed to प्रागितिहास, according to the परिभाषा प्रयुक्त by most historians.
The term शास्त्रीय प्राचीनता is often प्रयुक्त to refer to इतिहास in the Old संसार इससे the beginning of recorded Greek history in 776 bc ( First Olympiad ).
This roughly coincides with the traditional तिथि of the founding of रोम in 753 BC, the beginning of the इतिहास of ancient Rome, और the शुरूआत of the Archaic period in प्राचीन यूनानियों.
Although the ending तिथि of प्राचीन history is disputed, some Western scholars उपयोग the पतन of the पश्चिमी रोमन Empire in 476 AD, the closure of the Platonic Academy in 529 AD, the death of the emperor Justinian I, the coming of islam or the rise of शारलेमेन as the end of प्राचीन और Classical European history.
in India, the काल includes the early period of the मध्य Kingdoms, and, in China, the समय up to the qin Dynasty is included.
methylcobalamin ( shown ) is a form of vitamin B12.
Physically it resembles the other forms of vitamin b12, occurring as dark रेड crystals कि freely form cherry-colored transparent solutions in water.
Vitamin B12, विटामिन B12 or vitamin B-12, also called cobalamin, is a water-soluble vitamin with a कुंजी role in the normal functioning of the दिमाग and nervous प्रणाली, and for the formation of blood.
It is one of the eight B vitamins.
It is normally शामिल in the metabolism of प्रत्येक cell of the human body, especially affecting DNA synthesis and regulation, लकिन also वसीय एसिड synthesis और energy production.
Neither fungi, plants, nor पशु are सक्षम of producing vitamin B12.
तभी bacteria और आर्किया have the enzymes जरूरी लिये its synthesis, हालांकि अनेक foods हैं a natural सोर्स of B12 because of bacterial symbiosis.
The विटामिन is the largest and most structurally complicated vitamin और can be produced industrially only through बैक्टीरियल fermentation-synthesis.
Vitamin b12 consists of a class of chemically related compounds ( vitamers ), सब of जिससे have vitamin activity.
It contains the biochemically rare element cobalt.
Biosynthesis of the basic ढांचा of the vitamin is संपन्नता only by जीवाणु ( जिससे usually produce hydroxocobalamin ), but conversion between different फ़ॉर्म of the vitamin can be accomplished in the human body.
A आम semi-synthetic form of the विटामिन, cyanocobalamin, does not occur in प्रकृति, but is produced from bacterial hydroxocobalamin and then used in many pharmaceuticals और supplements, and as a खाना योगात्मक, because of its stability and lower production cost.
in the देह it is converted to the human physiological फ़ॉर्म methylcobalamin and adenosylcobalamin, leaving पीछे the cyanide, albeit in minimal विशेषज्ञता.
अधिक recently, hydroxocobalamin, methylcobalamin, और adenosylcobalamin can be मिला in अधिक expensive pharmacological products and खाना supplements.
The extra utility of these is currently debated.
विटामिन B12 was discovered from its संबंध to the बीमारी pernicious anemia, जिससे is an autoimmune disease in जिससे parietal cells of the पेट responsible for secreting intrinsic फ़ैक्टर are नष्ट.
मूलभूत फ़ैक्टर is crucial लिये the सामान्य अवशोषण of B12, so a lack of intrinsic factor, as seen in घातक रक्ताल्पता, कल्याणकारी a vitamin B12 कमियां.
Many other subtler kinds of विटामिन B12 deficiency and उनके biochemical effects have since been elucidated.
the Roman Empire ( ) was the post- Republican काल of the ancient Roman civilization, characterised by an autocratic form of सरकारी and large territorial holdings around the Mediterranean in Europe, Africa, और Asia.
The 500-year-old Roman गणतंत्र, which preceded it, had been destabilized through a series of civil wars.
Several events marked the transition from Republic to Empire, सहित Julius सीज़र 's appointment as perpetual dictator ( 44 BC ) ; the बैटल of actium ( 31 BC ) ; and the granting of the honorific Augustus to Octavian by the Roman Senate ( 27 BC ).
The first two सदियां of the साम्राज्य were a period of unprecedented stability and prosperity known as the Pax romana ( `` रोमन Peace '' ).
It reached its greatest expanse दौरान the reign of Trajan ( 98–117 AD ).
In the 3rd century, the Empire underwent a crisis that threatened इसके अस्तित्व, लकिन was reunified और stabilized under the emperors Aurelian and diocletian.
Christians rose to power in the 4th century, during जिससे समय a system of डुअल नियम was developed in the लैटिन West and यूनानी East.
बाद the पतन of सेंट्रल सरकारी in the वेस्ट in the 5th century, the eastern हाफ continued as कया होता later be known as the Byzantine साम्राज्य.
Because of the Empire 's विशाल extent and long endurance, the संस्थानों and संस्कृति of Rome had a profound and lasting influence on the development of language, धर्म, architecture, दर्शनशास्त्र, विधि, and forms of government in the territory it governed, particularly Europe, और by अर्थात् of यूरोपीय expansionism throughout the modern world.
Total देह सतह क्षेत्रफल ( tbsa ) is an assessment measure of burns of the skin.
In adults, the `` rule of nines '' is used to determine the total percentage of area burned for each major section of the body.
In some cases, the burns may cover अधिक than one body part, or may not fully cover such a part ; in these cases, burns हैं measured by using the casualty 's palm as a reference पाइंट for 1 % of the body.
For children and infants, the Lund-Browder चार्ट is used to assess the burned body surface क्षेत्रफल.
Different percentages हैं used because the ratio of the combined surface area of the सिर and गर्दन to the surface area of the limbs is typically larger in children than कि of an adult.
ठेठ values for आम groups of humans follow.
( Due to rounding, values may not add to 100 %. )
World infant मृत्यु rates by five years averages in 2008.
This is a list of countries by infant मृत्यु rate.
Jonah किर्स्टन Sorrentino ( born जून 26, 1975 ), better known by his stage name KJ-52, is a Christian rapper इससे Tampa, फ्लोरिडा.
The `` KJ '' part of his नाम refers to उसके old rap alias, `` King J. Mac, '' a name जिससे he later described in एक of his podcasts as `` horribly cheesy. ''
`` 52 '', which is pronounced `` five two '', not `` fifty-two '', is a reference to the Biblical story of यीशु feeding the multitude with पाँच loaves और दो मछली, which is also sung परिचय in उसके song `` Push Up '' from The Yearbook and in the `` KJ Five Two '' on it 's Pronounced 'Five दो.
he थी awarded the Rap/Hip Hop अंकित Song of the साल for `` Never dekh Away '' and Rap/Hip Hop Album of the Year at the GMA Dove Awards of 2007.
On जुलाई 28, 2009, kj-52 released `` End of My Rope '', which is the first single लिये his एल्बम Five-Two Television.
His song `` Dear Slim '' is based on Eminem 's सोंग `` Stan `` and is a sort of personal message इससे KJ-52 to एमिनेम.
The उपाधि symbol ( ° ) is a typographical symbol that is used, among other things, to represent degrees of arc ( e.g. in geographic coordinate systems ), hours ( in the चिकित्सा field ), or degrees of temperature.
the symbol consists of a छोटी उठाया वृत्त, historically a zero glyph.
In Unicode it is encoded at.
This is a सूची of roots, suffixes, and prefixes used in medical terminology, उनके meanings, और their etymology.
वहीँ हैं a few rules जब using medical roots.
Firstly, prefixes and suffixes, primarily in Greek, but also in Latin, have a droppable -o-.
as a general नियम, इस -o- almost always acts as a joint-stem to connect two consonantal roots, e.g. arthr- + -o- + logy = arthrology.
But generally, the -o- is dropped जब connecting to a vowel-stem ; e.g. arthr- + itis = arthritis, बजाय of arthr-o-itis.
secondly, medical roots generally go together according to language : यूनानी prefixes go with Greek प्रत्यय and Latin prefixes with Latin प्रत्यय.
हालांकि international वैज्ञानिक vocabulary is not stringent about segregating combining forms of अलग languages, it is advisable जब coining new words नहीं to मिक्सर different lingual जड़ें.
Stomach cancer, or gastric कर्कट, refers to cancer arising from any भाग of the stomach.
Stomach कर्कट causes about 800,000 मौतों विश्वव्यापी प्रति साल.
Prognosis is poor ( 5-year survival < 5 to 15 % ) because most मरीजों present with advanced disease.
Sara Lynn Evans ( born फ़रवरी 5, 1971 ) is an अमरीकी country सिंगर and songwriter.
For her entire career, वो रै been signed to आरसीए रिकॉर्ड Nashville.
Evans ' debut, Three मदारी and the सच्चाई, did not produce a Top 40 hit on the hot Country गीतों चार्ट.
She followed this up with No प्लेस That Far ( 1998 ), Born to Fly ( 2000 ), Restless ( 2003 ) and Real Fine प्लेस ( 2005 ).
No Place That Far received a gold certification from the Recording Industry Association of America ( RIAA ), while the other तीन albums all were certified platinum.
ये discs शामिल the number 1 singles `` No Place That दूर ``, `` Born to Fly ``, `` suds in the Bucket `` and `` A Real Fine Place to Start ``, प्लस the top 10 हिट्स `` i could Not Ask for More `` ( a कवर of the एडविन McCain song ), `` I Keep Looking ``, `` Perfect `` and `` Cheatin ' ``.
Her 2007 Greatest हिट्स included the top 15 hits `` You 'll Always Be My Baby `` and `` as If ``.
Stronger ( 2011 ) included her पांचवां number 1 hit, `` A Little Bit Stronger ``, which थी co-written by Hillary Scott of महिला Antebellum.
Evans has also won one पुरस्कार प्रत्येक from Billboard, the Academy of देश Music, Country Music Association, Broadcast Music Incorporated ( BMI ) and a dove Award.
The world 's principal religions और spiritual traditions may be वर्गीकृत into a small number of major groups, although इस is by no means a वर्दी practice.
This theory began in the 18th सदी with the goal of recognizing the relative levels of civility in societies.
Berliners watching a C-54 land at tempelhof विमानक्षेत्र ( 1948 )
The बर्लिन नाकेबंदी ( 24 जून 1948 – 12 May 1949 ) was एक of the first major अंतरराष्ट्रीय crises of the ठंडा War.
During the multinational occupation of post–World War II जर्मनी, the Soviet Union अवरोधित the Western Allies ' railway, सड़क, and canal access to the सेक्टर of बर्लिन under अलाइड कंट्रोल.
Their aim थी to force the पश्चिमी powers to allow the Soviet zone to start supplying बर्लिन साथ food and fuel, thereby giving the soviets practical control over the संपूर्ण city.
in response, the Western Allies organized the Berlin airlift to carry supplies to the people in West Berlin.
Aircrews इससे the संयुक्त States Air फ़ोर्स, the British Royal एयर Force, the royal Australian एयर Force, the Royal Canadian एयर Force, the Royal नई जीलैंड एयर Force, और the South African एयर Force flew over 200,000 flights in एक year, providing up to 4700 टन of daily necessities such as fuel और food to the Berliners.
By the spring of 1949, the effort was clearly succeeding और, by April, the airlift थी delivering more cargo than था previously been transported into the नगर by rail.
The success of the बर्लिन Airlift brought embarrassment to the Soviets जो had refused to believe it could make a difference.
The blockade was lifted in may 1949 और resulted in the creation of दो पृथक German states.
the Federal गणतंत्र of Germany ( West Germany ) and the जर्मनी Democratic Republic ( East Germany ) विभाजित up बर्लिन.
In remembrance of the airlift, तीन airports in the former western zones of the नगर परोसा as the प्राथमिक gateways to Germany for another fifty सालो.
the euro चिह्न ; logotype and handwritten.
The euro चिह्न is the करेंसी sign used for the euro, the आधिकारिक currency of the eurozone in the European Union ( EU ).
the design थी presented to the public by the European आयोग on 12 December 1996.
The international three-letter code ( according to ISO standard आईएसओ 4217 ) लिये the euro is EUR.
In युनिकोड it is encoded at.
In English, the चिह्न precedes the मान.
In कुछ styleguides, but not अन्य, the euro sign is unspaced.
Mate (, ; sometimes also spelled maté ), also known as chimarrão ( ) or cimarrón ( ), is a traditional South American infused drink, विशेषकर in Argentina, Uruguay, पैराग्वे and the southern states of Brazil and to a lesser degree in south of Chile, the Bolivian Chaco, Syria and Lebanon.
It is prepared from steeping dried leaves of yerba mate ( llex paraguariensis, known in पुर्तगाली as erva-mate ) in hot जल.
Mate is परोसा साथ a metal स्ट्रॉ from a shared खोखला calabash gourd.
The straw is called a bombilla in some Latin American countries, a bomba in पुर्तगाली, और a bombija or, more generally, a masassa ( type of straw ) in Arabic.
The straw is traditionally बना of silver.
आधुनिक, commercially available straws हैं typically made of निकल silver, called Alpaca ; stainless steel, or hollow-stemmed cane.
The gourd is ज्ञात as a mate or a guampa ; जबकि in Brazil, it has the specific name of cuia, or भी cabaça ( the name लिये Indigenous-influenced calabash gourds in other regions of ब्राज़ील, still used लिये general food और drink in रिमोट regions ).
भी if the water is supplied from a modern thermos, the infusion is traditionally नशे from mates or cuias.
As with other brewed herbs, yerba mate leaves are सूखी, chopped, and ground into a powdery mixture पुकारा yerba.
The bombilla acts as दोनो a straw and a sieve.
the submerged end is flared, with small holes or स्लॉट that allow the brewed द्रव in, लकिन block the chunky matter that makes up much of the मिश्रण.
A modern bombilla डिज़ाइन uses a सीधा tube साथ holes, or spring sleeve to act as a sieve.
`` Tea-bag '' type infusions of mate ( mate cocido ) have been on the market in Argentina, Paraguay and Uruguay for many सालो अंतर्गत such trade names as `` Taragüí Vitality '' in Argentina, `` pajarito '' and `` Kurupí '' in Paraguay, और in ब्राज़ील under the name `` mate Leão ''.
This is considered a completely different पेय.
it is never drunk from cuias or पुकारा chimarrão, nor is it associated with the gaucho/gaúcho culture.
The automotive industry is a term कि covers a wide range of कंपनियाँ and organisations शामिल in the design, development, manufacture, marketing, and selling of motor vehicles, towed vehicles, motorcycles और mopeds.
It is one of the world 's सबसे important economic सेक्टर by आय.
The पद automotive उद्योग usually does not include industries dedicated to the maintenance of ऑटोमोबाइल following डिलीवरी to the end-user, ऐसे as repair दुकानें and motor ईंधन filling stations.
The term automotive was created इससे यूनानी autos ( self ), और Latin motivus ( of motion ) to represent any रूप of self-powered गाडी.
This term was proposed by SAE member Elmer Sperry.
दाउद Michael `` डेव '' bautista, jr. ( born January 18, 1969 ), is an American mixed martial कलाकार, bodybuilder, actor, and पूर्व professional wrestler best known for उसके time in World कुश्ती Entertainment competing अंतर्गत the ring name Batista.
In डब्ल्यूडब्ल्यूई, he became a six-time world champion, winning the World Heavyweight Championship चार times, and the WWE Championship two times.
he is the longest-reigning World Heavyweight Champion in WWE history.
In addition to these championships, बतिस्ता रै won the संसार Tag Team चैंपियनशिप three times ( twice with Ric फ्लेयर and once साथ जॉन Cena ) and the डब्ल्यूडब्ल्यूई Tag Team चैंपियनशिप एकबार ( with Rey मिस्टीरियो ).
Batista थी also the winner of the 2005 royal rumble match and went on to headline WrestleMania 21, one of the शीर्ष पाँच highest-grossing pay-per-view events in pro wrestling history.
After trying out at संसार Championship Wrestling 's Power संयंत्र, बतिस्ता हस्ताक्षरित a contract with the WWF in 2000 and was sent to इसके developmental territory, Ohio घाटी Wrestling ( ovw ), where he won the OVW Heavyweight Championship.
In August 2012, Bautista हस्ताक्षरित a contract साथ क्लासिक Entertainment & Sports to fight in mixed martial arts.
He won उसके mma debut on अक्तूबर 6, 2012, defeating विंस Lucero via tko in the first गोलाकार.
Henry T. Thomas sampson, Jr. ( born in Jackson, Mississippi in 1934 ) is an African-American आविष्कारक.
he graduated from high स्कूल in 1951 इससे Lanier High स्कूल in जैक्सन, Mississippi.
He then attended Morehouse College लिये a couple of सालो पहले transferring to purdue University where he became a member of the Omega Psi Phi fraternity.
he received a Bachelor 's degree in विज्ञान इससे Purdue विश्वविद्यालयों in 1956.
he ग्रैजुएट with an MS degree in अभियान्त्रिकी from the University of California, Los Angeles in 1961.
sampson also received his MS in नाभिकीय Engineering from the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign in 1965, और his PhD in 1967.
He is the पहला African American to earn a Ph.D.in Nuclear Engineering in the United States.
Some of उसके accomplishments शामिल being a member of the United States Navy between the years 1962 and 1964 and earning an परमाणु उर्जा Commission सम्मान between 1964 and 1967.
Later he was awarded the Black चित्र Award from aerospace Corporation in 1982.
he थी awarded the Blacks in Engineering, Applied Science पुरस्कार, and prize for education, by the Los Angeles Council of Black Professional Engineers in 1983.
In June 2007, Sampson थी शादीशुदा to लौरा Howzell Young in st. Thomas, U.S. Virgin Islands.
young-sampson is a प्राध्यापक in the College of Education at California State University San bernardino.
रॉबर्ट Lane Gibbs ( born March 29, 1971 ) is a वरिष्ठ campaign adviser for US अध्यक्ष Barack Obama.
Previously, he थी the 28th White House Press Secretary.
Gibbs थी the communications director लिये then- u.s. सीनेटर Obama and his 2008 presidential अभियान.
Gibbs, who has worked with ओबामा since 2004, was press secretary of John Kerry 's 2004 अध्यक्षीय campaign and has previously specialized in Senate अभियान, having served as communications director for the Democratic senatorial अभियान Committee and for चार individual सीनेट campaigns, including those of Obama in 2004 and Fritz Hollings in 1998.
गिब्स थी also the press secretary of प्रतिनिधि bob Etheridge.
on नवम्बर 22, 2008, Gibbs थी announced as the press secretary of the Obama administration.
He assumed the भूमिका of press सचिव on January 20, 2009, and दिया उसके पहला आधिकारिक briefing on January 22.
On January 5, 2011, गिब्स घोषित कि he would leave the White House to become an outside adviser to the administration.
He left on February 11, 2011.
on February 12, 2013, it was announced that Gibbs had been नियुक्त as a contributor for cable-news channel एमएसएनबीसी.
His first appearance थी on the same night prior to the 2013 State Of The संघ Address.
Armando Pérez ( born January 15, 1981 ), better known by his stage name pitbull, is an अमरीकी rapper, songwriter, and record producer.
उसके first अंकित performance थी from the Lil Jon album किंग्स of crunk in 2002.
in 2004, he released his डेब्यू एल्बम titled M.I.A.M.I. ( short for Money Is A Major समस्या ) अंतर्गत TVT Records.
चूंकि then, he रै released three other albums under the label : El Mariel in 2006, The Boatlift in 2007, and Planet Pit in 2011.
He released Rebelution in 2009, which included singles `` I Know You Want Me ( calle Ocho ) `` and `` krazy ``.
The latter peaked at No. 30 on the hot 100 and No. 11 on the hot Rap Tracks charts जबकि `` I Know You Want Me '' peaked at No. 2 on the Hot 100 and peaked भीतर the top टेन spots of चार्ट in the uk, Canada, Italy, and the Netherlands.
the song पहुँचे No. 1 in France and the European hot 100 on the week ending August 29, 2009 according to Billboard पत्रिका.
He later signed with Polo Grounds Music through सोनी म्यूज़िक and created उसके own लेबल mr. 305 inc.
another single from Rebelution थी `` Hotel रूम सेवा ``, which peaked at no. 8 on the hot 100.
rebelution went on to बेचें over 7.5 million विश्वव्यापी digital singles and एल्बम combined.
Nevertheless, he dropped a smash पुकारा `` दे Me Everything '' जिससे reached # 1 worldwide, and featured artists Ne-yo, nayer, and Afrojack.
He has also performed as a featured कलाकार in the remixes of अनेक other hit songs, like tik Tok, चीख & Shout, Lo hecho Esta Hecho, ख़राब, papi, Diamonds, कैसा Low, tonight ( I 'm Lovin ' You ), Video Phone, over To You अभी and Bumpy Ride.
Pérez is भी the host of his own Spanish-language program on the cable चैनल Mun2 titled la Esquina ( Spanish for The कोने ).
In 2005 pérez and rapper Sean 'diddy ' Combs co-founded Bad Boy Latino, a subsidiary of Combs ' Bad Boy Records label.
It primarily focuses on Latin hip hop, Latin आत्मा, Latin pop and other Tropical music, and has offices in नई York and Miami, फ्लोरिडा.
Along साथ co-founding it, Pérez currently heads the A & r division of the label.
Pérez has become a उत्पाद endorser, representing alongside Drake, रिहाना, and Trey Songz the “so kodak” campaign लिये the Kodak ब्रांड and embarking on a partnership with the soft drink giant Dr Pepper as part of the campaign “ Vida 23 ” for which he अंकित the song specifically featured on his album Armando.
Pitbull also announced he रै become the spokesperson for Voli Vodka, in which he holds a majority इक्विटी हिस्सेदारी, और Budweiser has chosen Pitbull to promote its Bud लाइट लकीर of बियर.
The commercials currently highlight Pitbull dancing and gyrating on स्टेज holding up a bottle of Bud Light.
Pitbull has भी purchased an इक्विटी हिस्सेदारी in Miami Subs Pizza और Grill.
Halloween or Hallowe'en ( a contraction of `` All Hallows ' Evening `` ), भी known as सब Hallows ' संध्या, is a yearly जश्न observed in a number of countries on अक्तूबर 31, the eve of the Western Christian feast of All Hallows ( or All Saints ) and the दिन initiating the triduum of Hallowmas.
According to many scholars, All hallows ' संध्या is a christianised feast originally बहकावे by पश्चिमी European harvest festivals, and festivals of the dead with संभावित pagan roots, particularly the Celtic samhain.
Other विद्वानों maintain that it originated independently of samhain and रै solely Christian roots.
Typical festive Halloween activities include trick-or-treating ( also known as `` guising `` ), उपस्थित वेशभूषा पार्टियों, carving pumpkins into jack-o'-lanterns, lighting bonfires, apple bobbing, visiting haunted आकर्षण, playing pranks, telling scary stories, and watching horror films.
Freedom of speech is the political सही to communicate एक 's opinions और ideas using one 's देह and property to anyone जो is willing to receive them.
The term freedom of expression is sometimes used synonymously, लकिन includes any act of seeking, receiving and imparting information or ideas, regardless of the medium used.
In practice, the सही to freedom of speech is not absolute in any country और the सही is commonly subject to limitations, as with libel, slander, obscenity, sedition ( सहित, लिये उदाहरण inciting जातीय hatred ), copyright उल्लंघन, रहस्योद्घाटन of सूचना that is classified or otherwise.
The right to freedom of expression is पहचाना as a human right under Article 19 of the Universal Declaration of इंसान Rights and पहचाना in international human rights law in the अंतरराष्ट्रीय Covenant on Civil and Political अधिकारों ( ICCPR ).
Article 19 of the ICCPR states that `` [ e ] veryone shall have the right to थाम opinions without हस्तक्षेप '' और `` everyone shall have the सही to freedom of expression ; this right shall include freedom to तलाश, receive and impart information और विचार of all kinds, regardless of frontiers, either orally, in writing or in छपाई, in the form of art, or through कोई other media of उसके choice ''.
आलेख 19 goes on to say that the exercise of these अधिकारों carries `` special duties and responsibilities `` and may `` इसलिए be subject to certain प्रतिबंध '' when necessary `` [ f ] or respect of the rights or प्रतिष्ठा of others '' or `` [ f ] or the protection of national security or of public अनुक्रम ( order public ), or of public health or नैतिकता ''.
स्वतंत्रता of वाक may be legally curtailed in some धार्मिक विधिक systems and in धर्मनिरपेक्ष jurisdictions where it is found to कारण religious offense, ऐसे as the British Racial and Religious द्वेष Act 2006.
सिडनी Harbour from the air, प्रर्दशित the Opera हाउस, the CBD, Circular quay, the Bridge, the parramatta नदी, North Sydney and kirribilli in the foreground
The Sydney Harbour Bridge is a steel through मेहराब सेतु आरपार Sydney harbour that carries rail, vehicular, सायकिल और pedestrian traffic between the Sydney central business district ( सीबीडी ) and the North shore.
The नाटकीय view of the सेतु, the harbour, और the आसपास सिडनी Opera House is an iconic image of सिडनी, नई दक्षिण Wales, और Australia.
The सेतु is nicknamed `` the Coathanger '' क्युकी of इसके arch-based design.
Under the directions of Dr J.J.C. Bradfield of the nsw Department of Public works, the सेतु was designed और built by British कड़ Dorman Long and co Ltd of Middlesbrough and opened in 1932.
the bridge 's डिज़ाइन was बहकावे by the Hell Gate Bridge in New York.
it was the world 's widest long-span bridge, at 48.8 meters ( 160 feet ) चौड़ी, जबतक निर्माण of the new Port Mann सेतु in Vancouver.
It is also the fifth longest spanning-arch bridge in the world, and it is the tallest steel arch bridge, measuring इससे top to जल स्तर.
Until 1967 the Harbour सेतु was Sydney 's tallest structure.
The Hawaii hotspot is a volcanic hotspot located near the namesake Hawaiian आइलैंड्स, in the northern Pacific समंदर.
एक of the most well-known और heavily studied हॉटस्पॉट in the संसार, the Hawaii plume is responsible for the सृष्टि of the Hawaiian – Emperor seamount chain, an over 5,800 किलोमीटर ( 3,600 mi ) long chain of volcanoes, four of which are active, two of जिससे are dormant, और more than 123 of which are extinct, अनेक having since been ground beneath the waves by erosion as seamounts और atolls.
the chain extends इससे south of the island of Hawaii to the edge of the aleutian गर्त, near the eastern edge of Russia.
While सबसे volcanoes हैं created by geological activity at tectonic plate boundaries, the Hawaii हॉटस्पॉट is located far from आसपास plate boundaries ; the classic hotspot theory, first प्रस्तावित in 1963 by जॉन Tuzo Wilson, proposes कि a single, फिक्स्ड mantle plume builds volcanoes कि then, cut बंद from their source by the movement of the प्रशांत Plate, become increasingly inactive and eventually erode below sea level over millions of सालो.
According to this theory, the nearly 60° bend separating the Emperor and Hawaiian खण्ड of the कड़ी थी caused by a sudden shift in the गति of the प्रशांत Plate.
In 2003, भैस investigations of this irregularity led to the प्रस्ताव of a mobile hotspot theory, suggesting कि hotspots are mobile, not फिक्स्ड, और that the 47 million साल old bend was caused by a shift in the हॉटस्पॉट 's motion बल्कि than the plate 's.
प्राचीन Hawaiians were the पहला to recognize the increasing age and weathered state of the volcanoes to the उत्तर as वे progressed on fishing expeditions along the islands.
The volatile राज्य of the हवाई volcanoes and उनके constant बैटल with the sea was a प्रमुख element in Hawaiian mythology, समाविष्ट in Pele, the deity of volcanoes.
बाद the arrival of Europeans on the द्वीप, in 1880-1881 James Dwight Dana directed the first औपचारिक geological study of the hotspot 's volcanics, confirming the relationship long observed by the natives.
1912 marked the founding of the हवाई Volcano Observatory by volcanologist Thomas Jaggar, initiating निरन्तर वैज्ञानिक observation of the आइलैंड्स.
In the 1970s, a mapping प्रोजेक्ट थी initiated to gain अधिक information about the complex geology of Hawaii 's seafloor.
The हॉटस्पॉट रै चूंकि been tomographically imaged, showing it to be wide and up to deep, और ओलीवाइन and garnet -आधारd studies have shown its मैग्मा कक्ष is approximately.
in its at least 85 million years of कार्यकलाप the hotspot has produced an estimated of rock.
the chain 's rate of drift रै slowly increased over time, causing the amount of समय each व्यक्तिगत volcano is active to decrease, from 18 million years लिये the 76 लाख year old Detroit Seamount, to बस under 900,000 for the one million year-old Kohala ; on the अन्य hand, eruptive volume has increased from per year to about.
Overall, this has caused a ट्रेंड towards more क्रियाशील but quickly-silenced, closely spaced volcanoes—whereas ज्वालामुखी on the निकट पक्ष of the hotspot ओवरलैप प्रत्येक other ( forming ऐसे superstructures as Hawaii island and the प्राचीन मावी Nui ), the oldest of the Emperor seamounts are spaced as दूर as apart.
David पामर, निदेशक of the show, announced that the season 4 finale is the series finale because Nickelodeon canceled the show.
Petitions are being signed to लाओ the show for a पांचवां season.
The show airs on Treehouse tv कनाडा and उपनाम jr. ( formerly noggin ).
Eddie and the Cruisers is a 1983 American film निर्देशित by Martin डेविडसन with the screenplay written by the director and Arlene डेविडसन, based on the novel by P. F. kluge.
it was marketed with the टैगलाइन `` Rebel.
Rocker.
Lover.
Idol.
vanished. ''
Osteonecrosis of the जबड़ों ( ONJ ) is a severe bone disease that affects the maxilla and the mandible.
Various forms of onj have महरूम वर्णित over the पिछला 160 सालो, and a क्रमांक of causes have been suggested in the literature.
osteonecrosis of the jaws associated with bisphosphonate therapy, जरूरी by कुछ cancer treatment regimens, has महरूम identified और पारिभाषित as a pathological entity since 2003.
The possible risk from lower oral doses of bisphosphonates, लिया by patients to prevent or treat osteoporosis, remains uncertain.
Various treatment options have महरूम explored, however severe मामले of ONJ स्टिल आवश्यकता surgical removal of the प्रभावित bone.
A thorough history and assessement of pre-existing systemic problems and possible sites of dental infection हैं जरूरी to help prevent the condition, especially if bisphosphonate therapy is माना.
The Boston रेड Sox are a professional baseball टोली based in Boston, मैसाचुसेट्स, and a सदस्य of Major League बेसबॉल 's American League पूर्वी प्रभाग.
संस्थापित in as एक of the American लीग 's आठ charter franchises, the Red Sox 's घर ballpark has महरूम Fenway Park चूंकि.
The `` रेड Sox '' name was chosen by the team owner, जॉन I. Taylor, around, following previous बोस्टन टीमों that had महरूम ज्ञात as the `` Red stockings ``.
वे have played in 11 World Series, winning 7.
Boston was a प्रबल team in the new लीग, defeating the Pittsburgh Pirates in the पहला World Series in और जीतना four अधिक championships by.
however, वे then गई into एक of the longest championship droughts in बेसबॉल history, called by some the `` Curse of the bambino `` after इसके alleged beginning with the Red sox 's बिक्री of Babe Ruth to the प्रतिद्वंद्वी Yankees two years बाद उनके संसार championship in 1918, an 86-year wait पहले the team 's sixth World चैंपियनशिप in.
However, the team 's history दौरान that period was hardly एक of futility, but was rather punctuated with some of the most memorable पल in World Series इतिहास, सहित Enos वध 's `` mad dash `` in, the `` Impossible Dream `` of, Carlton Fisk 's home run in, और विधेयक Buckner 's error in.
Red sox इतिहास has also been marked by the team 's intense rivalry साथ the New यॉर्क यांकीज़, arguably the fiercest और most historic in North American professional sports.
the बोस्टन रेड Sox हैं owned by Fenway खेल Group, who also own Liverpool फ़ुटबॉल Club of the Premier League in इंग्लैण्ड.
the Red Sox हैं consistently one of the शीर्ष MLB teams in औसत सड़क उपस्थिति, while the small capacity of Fenway Park prevents them from leading in overall attendance.
From May 15, 2003 to April 10, 2013, the रेड sox sold out प्रत्येक home game-a कुल of 820 games ( 794 regular ऋतु ) for a major professional sports record that lasted लगभग a decade.
Mince pie भर with mincemeat
Mincemeat is a मिश्रण of chopped dried fruit, distilled आत्माओं and मसाले, and sometimes beef suet, beef, or venison.
Originally, mincemeat always contained meat.
Many आधुनिक व्यंजनों contain beef suet, though vegetable shortening is sometimes used in its place.
Variants of mincemeat are found in Australia, Brittany, Canada, northern Europe, Ireland, South Africa, the United किंगडम और the United States.
in some देशों the term mincemeat refers to minced or ground meat.
Diana, राजकुमारी of Wales ( डायना frances ; née Spencer ; 1 July 1961 – 31 अगस्त 1997 ) थी the first wife of Charles, Prince of वेल्स, the eldest son and heir apparent of महारानी एलिज़ाबेथ II.
वो थी well ज्ञात for her fund-raising कार्य लिये अंतरराष्ट्रीय धर्मार्थ और as an प्रतिष्ठित हस्ती of the लेट 20th सदी.
Her wedding to the Prince of Wales on 29 जुलाई 1981 was held at St Paul 's गिरजाघर and seen by a global टेलीविज़न audience of over 750 लाख.
जबकि शादीशुदा she bore the titles Princess of Wales, Duchess of Cornwall, Duchess of Rothesay, Countess of चेस्टर and Baroness of Renfrew.
the marriage produced two बेटे, the princes William and हैरी, जो became second and third in लकीर to the अंग्रेजों throne.
Diana was born into an वैभवशाली English परिवार with royal ancestry.
वो was the चौथी child of John स्पेंसर, 8th Earl Spencer and his बीवी Frances, बेटी of Maurice Roche, 4th Baron Fermoy.
वो became a public फिगर साथ the announcement of her engagement.
She भी received recognition for उसके charity work और for her support of the International Campaign to बैन landmines.
From 1989, she was the अध्यक्ष of the ग्रेट Ormond गली Hospital for children, in addition to dozens of other charities.
Diana remained the object of worldwide media scrutiny during and after उसके विवाह, जिससे ended in तलाक on 28 अगस्त 1996.
Media attention और पब्लिक शोक were considerable following her death in a car क्रैश in Paris on 31 August 1997.
Argentina, officially the अर्जेंटाइन गणतंत्र ( ), is the second largest देश in दोनो South America and the Latin America region.
the country is a federation of 23 प्रांतों and the autonomous city of Buenos आयर्स, its पूंजी and largest नगर.
It is the eighth -largest country in the संसार by land area and the largest among spanish-speaking nations by geographical area of 2,780,400 km2 and is the fourth by population, with over 41 million people.
अर्जेंटीना is a founding member of the United Nations, Mercosur, the Union of South American राष्ट्र, the Organization of Ibero-American राज्य, the World Bank Group and the World Trade संगठन, and is एक of the G-15 and g-20 major economies.
Argentina is located in South America, bordered by Chile to the west and दक्षिण, Bolivia and Paraguay to the north and ब्राज़ील and Uruguay to the northeast.
अर्जेंटीना claims sovereignty over part of अंटार्कटिक, the फ़ॉकलैंड Islands ( ) और South जॉर्जिया और the South सैंडविच Islands.
अर्जेंटीना is the successor state of the Viceroyalty of the Río de la प्लाटा, an overseas colony of the स्पेनी Empire.
अर्जेंटीना declared independence during the अर्जेंटाइन War of Independence, which थी followed by the अर्जेंटाइन सिविल Wars during most of the 19th सदी.
The country faced several military coups and political instability दौरान the 20th सदी, along साथ periodic economic crisis कि continue to this day.
A recognized Southern Cone शक्ति, and मध्य शक्ति, Argentina is Latin America 's third-largest economy, with a `` बहुत ऊँची '' rating on the इंसान विकास index.
Within Latin America, अर्जेंटीना has the पांचवां उच्चतम नाममात्र GDP per capita and the उच्चतम in खरीदना power terms.
The Legatum Institute have argued that the country रै a `` foundation for future विकास due to इसके market size, स्तर of foreign सीधा investment, and percentage of high-tech exports as share of total manufactured goods '', और it is classed by निवेशकों as मध्य उभरते economy.
Argentina is the Latin American country साथ the सबसे Nobel Prizes, for a total of five, all प्राप्त during the second हाफ of the twentieth century.
The country has three Nobel prizes in विज्ञान और दो of सलाम.
The most important aspects of science and प्रौद्योगिकी in अर्जेंटीना are चिंतित with medicine, nuclear physics, biotechnology, nanotechnology, space और rocket प्रौद्योगिकी and several fields related to the देश 's Main Economic Activities.
The country also has the mega exhibition center of science, technology, industry and art that are Latin अमेरिका 's largest.
Hickory is a city in Catawba County, with parts also in बुर्के County and काल्डवेल काउंटी.
the city 's 2010 अनुमानित population is 40,010.
Hickory is the principal city in the Hickory-Lenoir-Morganton MSA, in which the population at the 2010 Census was 365,497.
Polyethylene terephthalate ( sometimes written poly ( ethylene terephthalate ) ), commonly abbreviated PET, पीट, or the obsolete petp or PET-P, is a thermoplastic polymer resin of the polyester परिवार और is used in सिंथेटिक fibers ; beverage, food और अन्य liquid containers ; thermoforming applications ; and अभियान्त्रिकी resins often in combination साथ glass fiber.
the पद polyethylene terephthalate is a source of confusion क्युकी इस पदार्थ, PET, does not contain polyethylene.
Thus, the alternate form, poly ( एथिलीन terephthalate ), is often used in scholarly journals for the sake of accuracy and clarity.
depending on इसके processing and thermal इतिहास, polyethylene terephthalate may exist both as an amorphous ( पारदर्शी ) और as a semi-crystalline पॉलिमर.
The semicrystalline सामग्री might appear पारदर्शी ( कण आकार < 500 nm ) or opaque and white ( particle आकार up to a few microns ) depending on its क्रिस्टल ढांचा और particle आकार.
Its मोनोमर ( bis-β-hydroxyterephthalate ) can be synthesized by the esterification reaction between terephthalic acid और एथिलीन glycol साथ water as a byproduct, or by transesterification reaction between ethylene glycol and dimethyl terephthalate with methanol as a byproduct.
Polymerization is through a polycondensation reaction of the monomers ( done तत्काल after esterification/transesterification ) with water as the byproduct.
The majority of the world 's PET उत्पादन is for synthetic fibers ( in excess of 60 % ), with बोतल उत्पादन accounting for around 30 % of वैश्विक demand.
In the context of textile applications, PET is referred to by its common name, `` पॉलिएस्टर, '' whereas the acronym `` PET '' is generally प्रयुक्त in relation to पैकेजिंग.
Polyester makes up about 18 % of world polymer production and is the third-most-produced polymer ; polyethylene ( PE ) and polypropylene ( PP ) are पहला और second, respectively.
PET consists of polymerized units of the मोनोमर ethylene terephthalate, with repeating C10H8O4 units.
PET is commonly recycled, और has the number `` 1 '' as इसके recycling symbol.
Louisiana was admitted to the Union on April 30, 1812, and elects senators to वर्ग 2 and Class 3.
Its current senators are डेमोक्रेट Mary Landrieu and Republican David Vitter.
Black pudding, blood pudding or रक्त सॉसेज is a type of sausage बना by cooking blood or सूखी blood with a फिलर until it is मोटा enough to congeal when cooled.
The dish exists in various संस्कृतियों इससे Asia to Europe and the Americas.
Pig, cattle, शीप, duck, और बकरी रक्त can be used depending on different देशों.
In Europe and the Americas, typical fillers शामिल meat, fat, suet, bread, cornmeal, sweet potato, onion, chestnuts, जौ, and oatmeal.
In स्पेन, Portugal and Asia, potato is often replaced by rice.
शेयरधारक may refer to:
Stakeholder ( कॉरपोरेट ), a person, group, संगठन, member or system who affects or can be affected by an संगठन 's actions
Stakeholder, an एंटिटी कि can be प्रभावित by the परिणाम of कि in which they are said to be stakeholders, i.e., that in which they have a stake.
Project stakeholder, a person, group or organization साथ an interest in a project
शेयरधारक theory, a theory that identifies and models the groups which are हितधारकों of a corporation or project
Stakeholder analysis, the process of identifying those affected by a project or event
Stakeholder ( law ), a third party who temporarily holds धन or property while इसके owner is still being determined
Jack Smight ( March 9, 1925 - सितंबर 1, 2003 ) was an अमरीकी थिएटर and film director.
Smight was born in मिनियापोलिस, Minnesota and went to school with future actor Peter Graves.
उसके film क्रेडिट शामिल The Traveling जल्लाद, खरगोश, Run, मीत युगल, मिडवे, Harper, विमानक्षेत्र 1975, फटकार alley और the एमी पुरस्कार -winning Eddie, as खूब as अनेक episodes of television series such as The Twilight मण्डल and The अल्फ्रेड Hitchcock Hour.
He also निर्देशित the 1960 Broadway play The 49th cousin and composed the music for the film adaption of Roll of Thunder Hear My Cry.
Smight died from cancer in लॉस Angeles, California.
Dmitri ivanovich mendeleev ( ; 8 February 1834 – 2 February 1907 o.s. 27 जनवरी 1834 – 20 जनवरी 1907 ) was a Russian chemist and आविष्कारक.
He formulated the Periodic विधि, created उसके अपना संस्करण of the periodic table of elements, and used it to correct the properties of some already discovered elements and also to predict the properties of तत्व yet to be discovered !
Modesto ( Spanish for `` modest '' ), officially the City of modesto, is the county सीट and largest नगर of Stanislaus County, California, संयुक्त States.
With a population of लगभग 201,165 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी, Modesto ranks as the 18th largest city in the state of California.
The Modesto Census County Division, जिससे शामिल the cities of Ceres and Riverbank, has a population of 312,842 as of 2010.
modesto is located in the central valley area of उत्तरी कैलिफ़ोर्निया, 90 miles north of Fresno, 92 miles ईस्ट of सैन फ्रांसिस्को, 68 miles south of the state capital of Sacramento, 66 miles वेस्ट of yosemite National पार्क, and 24 मील south of Stockton.
Modesto, a 29-time Tree नगर USA honoree, is surrounded by rich farmland, lending to a ranking लिये the county as 6th among all कैलिफ़ोर्निया counties in farm production.
Led by milk, almonds, chickens, walnuts, and corn silage, the county grossed nearly $ 3.1 अरब in agricultural उत्पादन in 2011.
modesto was immortalized in the 1973 जार्ज Lucas film अमरीकी Graffiti.
The पुरस्कार winning film captured the spirit of `` cruising '' and friendship on 10th and 11th Streets in 1962 and led to the revival of 1950 's nostalgia that included the tv दिखाएँ Happy दिनों and the other spin-offs.
Ron Howard, Harrison Ford and Richard Dreyfuss स्ट्रक्चर in the film.
The soundtrack was a विशाल कामयाबी.
निदेशक George Lucas is a native of Modesto, graduating from downey ऊँची स्कूल in 1962.
The Gallup-Healthways Well-Being Index for 2011, which interviews 1,000 participants रोज़ और asks individuals to assess their jobs, finances, physical health, emotional state of दिमाग और communities, क्रमित Modesto 126 out of the 190 cities surveyed.
in दिसम्बर 2009, Forbes ranked Modesto 48th out of 100 among `` Best Bang-for-the-Buck Cities ''.
In this ranking, Modesto ranked 8th in housing affordability और travel time but also ranked 86th in job forecast growth and 99th in foreclosures.
Independence Day, commonly ज्ञात as the Fourth of July, is a federal holiday in the United States commemorating the adoption of the Declaration of Independence on July 4, 1776, declaring independence from the किंगडम of Great ब्रिटेन.
Independence Day is commonly associated with fireworks, parades, barbecues, carnivals, fairs, picnics, concerts, बेसबॉल खेल, family reunions, and political speeches and ceremonies, in जोड to विभिन्न other पब्लिक and निजी events celebrating the history, सरकारी, and traditions of the United States.
स्वतंत्रता Day is the national day of the United States.
a gender प्रतीक denotes the sex of an organism or characterizes an agent by gender.
The two standard gender symbols denoting male ♂ and female ♀ हैं निकला from astrological symbols, denoting the शास्त्रीय planets मंगल and शुक्र, respectively.
These प्रतीकों have been in use चूंकि the पुनर्जागरण भी denoting तत्व in alchemy, specifically the धातुओं आयरन and copper.
वे यहूद first used to denote the effective gender of पौधे ( i.e. sex of व्यक्तिगत in a given crossbreed, since most plants are hermaphroditic ) by Carolus Linnaeus in 1751.
A leasehold estate is an ownership of a अस्थाई सही to hold land or property in which a lessee or a tenant holds rights of रियल property by कुछ रूप of title from a lessor or landlord.
हालांकि a किरायेदार does थाम rights to real प्रॉपर्टी, a leasehold estate is typically माना personal प्रॉपर्टी.
Leasehold is a रूप of land tenure or property tenure जहाँ एक पार्टी buys the right to occupy land or a भवन for a given length of time.
as lease is a legal estate, leasehold estate can be bought और sold on the open market.
A leasehold thus differs from a freehold or fee simple where the ownership of a property is purchased outright और thereafter held for an अनिर्धार्य लंबाई of समय, and also differs from a tenancy where a property is let ( rented ) on a periodic आधार such as साप्ताहिक or मासिक.
जबतक the end of the lease period ( often measured in decades or centuries ; a 99 year lease is quite common ) the leaseholder रै the right to remain in occupation as an assured किरायेदार paying an agreed किराया to the owner.
Terms of the अनुबंध are contained in a पट्टे, जिससे has elements of contract और प्रॉपर्टी law intertwined.
The पद estate for years may occasionally be used.
This refers to a leasehold estate for कोई specific period of समय ( the शब्द `` सालो '' is misleading ).
An estate for years is not automatically renewed.
colloquially, `` lease '' and `` पट्टे `` are often a formalization of a longer, specific period as compared साथ a `` rental '' कि created a tenancy at will, terminable or renewable at the समाप्त of a short period.
ओलिविया ( also ज्ञात as Welcome to the World of the Pig ओलिविया ) is a British-American children 's animated television series produced by media कम्पनी Chorion and based on इयान Falconer 's books.
It is seen on Nick jr. in the us, Milkshake !
, Nick jr. in the UK and Ireland, और डिज़्नी Junior in लैटिन अमेरिका and Brazil, Treehouse TV in Canada.
The show has जीती a silver Parents ' Choice Award for its positive स्टोरी lines and characters.
Location of Panama between Pacific ( नीचे ) and Caribbean ( top ), with कनाल at शीर्ष center
The पनामा Canal ( ) is a ship canal in Panama कि connects the Atlantic समंदर ( via the Caribbean समुद्र ) to the प्रशांत Ocean.
the canal cuts आरपार the isthmus of Panama and is a key conduit लिये international मेरीटाइम trade.
There are locks at each end to लिफ्ट ships up to gatun Lake ( ऊपर sea-level ).
Gatun Lake थी created to reduce the राशि of work required for the कनाल.
The current locks are चौड़ी.
a तीसरा, wider lane of locks is being built.
France began कार्य on the कनाल in 1881, लकिन had to रोकें क्युकी of engineering समस्याएं and high mortality due to disease.
The United States ( US ) later took over the project and took a decade to पूरा the canal in 1914, enabling जहाजों to avoid the lengthy Cape Horn route around the southernmost tip of South America ( via the Drake ड्योढ़ी ) or to navigate the जलसन्धि of magellan.
One of the largest and most difficult engineering projects कभी undertaken, the पनामा कनाल shortcut made it possible लिये जहाजों to travel between the अटलांटिक and Pacific महासागर in हाफ the समय previously required.
the shorter, faster, safer route to the us वेस्ट Coast and to राष्ट्र in और along the Pacific समंदर allowed those places to become more integrated with the world अर्थव्यवस्था.
During this time, ownership of the territory कि is अभी the Panama Canal was first कोलम्बियाई, then French, and then American ; the United राज्य समाप्त the construction.
The canal was taken over in 1999 by the Panamanian सरकारी, as long planned.
सालाना traffic has risen इससे about 1,000 जहाजों when the canal opened in 1914, to 14,702 vessels in 2008, the latter measuring a कुल of 309.6 million Panama Canal/Universal Measurement System ( pc/ums ) टन.
by 2008, more than 815,000 vessels had passed through the कनाल, many of them much larger than the असली planners could have envisioned ; the largest ships that can पारगमन the कनाल today are called Panamax.
The अमरीकी Society of Civil Engineers has named the पनामा कनाल एक of the seven wonders of the आधुनिक world.
बेंजामिन फ्रैंकलिन ( April 17, 1790 ) was one of the Founding Fathers of the United States.
A विख्यात polymath, Franklin थी a अग्रणी लेखक, मुद्रक, political theorist, politician, postmaster, scientist, संगीतकार, inventor, satirist, civic activist, statesman, और diplomat.
As a scientist, he थी a major फिगर in the American आत्मज्ञान और the इतिहास of physics लिये his discoveries and theories regarding विद्युत.
He invented the lightning rod, bifocals, the Franklin stove, a carriage odometer, and the glass 'armonica '.
He facilitated many civic संगठन, सहित a fire department and a university.
Franklin अर्जित the title of `` the First अमरीकी '' for his early and indefatigable campaigning for औपनिवेशिक एकता ; as an author and spokesman in London for several colonies, तब as the first United States दूत to France, he exemplified the emerging अमरीकी nation.
Franklin was foundational in defining the American ethos as a marriage of the व्यावहारिक values of thrift, hard work, education, community स्पिरिट, self-governing institutions, and opposition to authoritarianism both political and religious, with the scientific and tolerant values of the आत्मज्ञान.
In the शब्द of इतिहासकार Henry Steele Commager, `` In a Franklin could be merged the virtues of Puritanism बगैर its defects, the illumination of the Enlightenment without its ऊष्मा. ''
To Walter Isaacson, इस makes Franklin `` the most accomplished American of his age and the most influential in inventing the प्रकार of society America would become. ''
Franklin, always proud of his working class roots, became a successful newspaper editor and printer in Philadelphia, the leading city in the colonies.
He was also partners with विलियम Goddard and Joseph Galloway the three of जिसको published the पेन्सिलवेनिया Chronicle, a newspaper that was known for its revolutionary sentiments और criticisms of the British monarchy in the American colonies.
he became wealthy publishing Poor Richard 's Almanack and the पेन्सिलवेनिया Gazette.
Franklin gained international renown as a scientist for his famous experiments in electricity और for his many inventions, especially the बिजली rod.
he निभाई a प्रमुख role in establishing the University of Pennsylvania और was elected the first president of the American Philosophical Society.
फ्रैंकलिन became a नेशनल hero in America जब he spearheaded the effort to have Parliament repeal the unpopular स्टैम्प Act.
An accomplished diplomat, he was widely admired among the French as American minister to Paris और थी a प्रमुख figure in the विकास of positive Franco-American relations.
For many years he was the British postmaster for the colonies, which सक्रिय उसे to नियत up the first नेशनल संचार network.
He was active in community अफेयर्स, colonial और state politics, as खूब as नेशनल and अंतरराष्ट्रीय affairs.
इससे 1785 to 1788, he served as governor of पेन्सिलवेनिया.
Toward the end of his life, he freed his slaves and became एक of the most prominent abolitionists.
His colorful life and legacy of scientific and political achievement, and status as one of अमेरिका 's most influential Founding Fathers, have seen Franklin honored on coinage और money ; warships ; the names of many towns, काउंटी, शैक्षणिक institutions, namesakes, और companies ; and more than two centuries बाद his death, countless सांस्कृतिक सन्दर्भ.
Criminal Minds is an American police प्रक्रियात्मक television program that premiered September 22, 2005, on सीबीएस.
The series follows a team of profilers from the FBI 's Behavioral विश्लेषण ईकाई ( BAU ) based in Quantico, वर्जिनिया.
The bau is part of the FBI National बीच लिये the विश्लेषण of हिंसक Crime.
the show differs from many procedural dramas by focusing on profiling the दण्ड, rather than the crime itself.
the दिखाएँ is उत्पादित by The Mark Gordon कम्पनी in association with CBS Television Studios ( originally Paramount संजाल Television then CBS Paramount Network टेलीविज़न ) and ABC studios ( originally Touchstone Television ).
CBS घोषित in October 2009 कि विरासत Interactive would develop a video game आधारित on the show.
The game would आवश्यकता players to जाँचें अपराधों scenes for clues to सहायता solve हत्या mysteries.
The interactive पहेली खेल was released in 2012, but did not feature any of the voices of the show 's cast, nor was the cast involved साथ the प्रोजेक्ट.
On March 14, 2012, CBS renewed Criminal Minds for an eighth ऋतु, which premiered on September 26, 2012.
`` Heart-Shaped Box '' is a song by the अमरीकी grunge band निर्वाण, written by vocalist and guitarist Kurt Cobain.
the song was released as the first सिंगल from the group 's third and फाइनल studio album, In utero, in 1993.
It थी one of दो songs from the एल्बम mixed by Scott Litt in अनुक्रम to augment the original production by producer Steve albini.
जबकि Nirvana 's label DGC Records did not रिलीज a शारीरिक single for बिक्री in the United States, `` heart-shaped बक्सा '' received much अमरीकी रेडियो airplay, reaching क्रमांक एक on the बिलबोर्ड Modern चट्टान ट्रैक्स चार्ट.
The international रिलीज of the single reached number five on the uk Singles Chart.
The song 's music वीडियो, directed by एंटोन Corbijn, garnered critical plaudits.
the कक्षीय speed of a body, generally a planet, a natural satellite, an artificial उपग्रह, or a multiple star, is the speed at which it orbits around the barycenter of a system, usually around a more विशाल body.
it can be प्रयुक्त to refer to either the mean orbital गति, the average गति as it completes an orbit, or instantaneous orbital गति, the गति at a particular पाइंट in its कक्षा.
The orbital speed at any position in the orbit can be computed इससे the distance to the central देह at कि position, and the specific कक्षीय energy, which is independent of स्थिति : the kinetic energy is the total उर्जा minus the potential energy.
Brown Palace Interior and Atrium
Brown राजमहल Hotel is the second-oldest ऑपरेटिंग होटल in Denver, Colorado and is one of the first atrium-style hotel ever built.
It is now operated by कोरम Hotels और रिसॉर्ट.
It was built in 1892, one year later than the Oxford Hotel.
It was named for इसके original owner, Henry C. Brown, और was designed साथ इसके विषम triangular shape by architect फ़्रैंक Edbrooke.
The होटल is स्तिथ at 321 17th St, डेनवर, CO between 17th Street, Broadway और Tremont Street/Pl in शहर Denver behind the Republic Plaza.
the main entrance door is on Tremont Street.
DVD-Video is a उपभोक्ता video format used to स्टोर डिजिटल video on DVD discs, and is फिलहाल the प्रबल उपभोक्ता video format in एशिया, उत्तर America, यूरोपीय, and ऑस्ट्रेलिया.
Discs using the DVD-Video specification require a dvd ड्राइव and an H.262/MPEG-2 Part 2 decoder ( e.g., a DVD खिलाड़ी, or a computer DVD ड्राइव साथ a तन्त्र dvd player ).
Commercial dvd movies are एनकोडेड using a combination of h.262/mpeg-2 भाग 2 संपीडित video और ऑडियो of varying formats ( often multi-channel formats as described below ).
Typically, the data rate लिये DVD movies सीमाएँ from 3 Mbit/s to 9.5 Mbit/s, और the बिट rate is usually adaptive.
It was first available लिये retail around 1997.
the dvd-video specification was निर्मित by DVD Forum and can be प्राप्त from dvd Format/Logo Licensing Corporation लिये a fee of $ 5,000.
the specification is not सरेआम available, because every subscriber must sign a non-disclosure agreement.
Certain सूचना in the DVD Book is मालिकाना and confidential.
The nautical मील ( प्रतीक M, NM or nmi ) is a unit of length कि is परिचय one मिनट of चाप of latitude measured साथ any meridian, or about एक मिनट of arc of longitude at the equator.
By international अनुबंध it has been नियत at 1,852 मीटर exactly ( परिचय 6,076 feet ).
It is a non- SI unit ( although accepted for उपयोग in the अंतरराष्ट्रीय प्रणाली of इकाई by the bipm ) used especially by navigators in the शिपिंग and विमानन industries, और also in ध्रुवीय खोजी.
it is commonly used in international law and treaties, especially regarding the limits of territorial waters.
It developed from the sea mile and the सम्बन्धित geographical mile.
The nautical mile remains in use by sea and air navigators worldwide क्युकी of इसके convenience जब working साथ charts.
Most nautical चार्ट उपयोग the मर्केटर projection जिनकी स्केल varies by about a factor of six from the equator to 80° अक्षांश, so चार्ट covering large areas can not उपयोग a सिंगल linear स्केल.
the nautical मील is nearly equal to a minute of अक्षांश on a चार्ट, so a अलहदा measured साथ a chart divider can be roughly परिवर्तित to nautical miles using the चार्ट 's latitude scale.
shippensburg is a borough in Cumberland and Franklin counties in the u.S. state of Pennsylvania.
settled in 1730, shippensburg झूठ in the Cumberland Valley, 41 मील ( 66 km ) west-southwest of harrisburg, and is part of the Harrisburg– carlisle Metropolitan Statistical Area.
In 1900, 3,228 people lived वहीँ ; in 1910, 3,457 ; और in 1940, 5,244 people जिया there.
the population थी 5,492 at the 2010 census.
Shippensburg was incorporated as a borough on January 21, 1819.
In the past, there यहूद फर्नीचर factories, engine and pump works, and other industrial works located within the town.
Shippensburg is भी the home of The Beistle Company, the oldest and largest manufacturer of सजावट and party goods, which sells इसके distinctive मधुकोश पेपर decorations विश्वव्यापी.
It is also the स्थान of Pague and fegan, the oldest continuously operated hardware स्टोर in Pennsylvania.
In may 2012, Volvo निर्माण उपकरण began a $ 100 लाख expansion project to bring its American headquarters to shippensburg.
Shippensburg is also home to Shippensburg University of पेन्सिलवेनिया, one of 14 universities of the Pennsylvania State System of उच्चतर Education.
Yearly the last full सप्ताह of जुलाई, the Shippensburg Community Fair is held.
Begun in 1958, the मेला bills itself as Pennsylvania 's largest bi-county fair.
The fair includes agricultural exhibits, a craft show, खाना vendors, and कार्निवल यात्राएँ amongst other things.
प्रत्येक summer on the last शनिवार of August, shippensburg holds the मकई Festival, an event कि brings regional artisans and vendors to operate stands downtown.
The downtown is closed to ट्रैफ़िक लिये at least 5 ब्लॉक लिये most of the day.
औसत उपस्थिति at the festival is estimated at 60,000 - 70,000 प्रत्येक year.
ब्लैक बालदार tongue ( BHT, also termed lingua villosa nigra ) refers to a कंडीशन of the tongue where the filiform papillae elongate साथ ब्लैक or भूरा discoloration, giving a black और hairy appearance.
The appearance may be alarming, but it is a harmless condition.
Predisposing कारकों include smoking, xerostomia ( शुष्क mouth ), soft आहार, poor oral hygiene और certain medications.
Management is by improving मौखिक hygiene, विशेषकर scraping or brushing the tongue.
the IEEE 1394 इंटरफ़ेस is a serial bus इंटरफ़ेस मानक for high-speed communications and isochronous real-time data ट्रांसफ़र.
it was विकसित in the लेट 1980s और early 1990s by Apple, जो called it FireWire.
The 1394 interface is comparable to usb, और प्रायः those दो technologies हैं माना साथ, though usb has more मार्केट share.
Apple first शामिल firewire in some of इसके 1999 मॉडल, and सबसे ठहराना computers since the year 2000 have included firewire पोर्ट, though, as of 2013, nothing परे the 800 version ( IEEE-1394b ).
The interface is भी ज्ञात by the brand i.link ( Sony ), and लिंक्स ( Texas Instruments ).
IEEE 1394 replaced parallel SCSI in many applications, because of निम्नतर implementation लागत और a simplified, more adaptable cabling system.
the 1394 standard also defines a backplane इंटरफ़ेस, though this is not as widely प्रयुक्त.
IEEE 1394 is the high-definition Audio-Video संजाल Alliance ( HANA ) standard connection interface for A/V ( audio/visual ) घटक communication and control.
FireWire is also available in wireless, fiber optic, and समाक्षीय संस्करण using the isochronous protocols.
Stephen `` स्टीवी '' Ray Vaughan ( अक्तूबर 3, 1954 – अगस्त 27, 1990 ) was an American guitarist, singer-songwriter, and record producer.
Often referred to by his initials SRV, Vaughan is बेहतरीन known as a founding सदस्य and leader of दोगुना Trouble.
Together with drummer Chris layton and bassist Tommy Shannon, they ignited the ब्लूज़ revival of the 1980s.
With a career spanning seven years, Vaughan and Double Trouble consistently sold out concerts while their albums frequently went सुनहरा.
he was born and raised in Dallas, टेक्सास, and for a short period of time lived in Graham, टेक्सास.
As the younger bhai of Jimmie Vaughan, vaughan started playing the guitar at age seven and formed several bands that occasionally performed in local nightclubs.
at आयु 17, he dropped out of high school and moved to Austin to further pursue his musical career, joining समूह such as Krackerjack, the Nightcrawlers, and the cobras.
In 1977, he formed Triple Threat Revue, a बैंड that eventually evolved into दोगुना Trouble and regularly performed around Austin.
In 1982, Vaughan and दोगुना Trouble performed at the montreux Jazz Festival in Switzerland, catching the attention of musicians David Bowie and Jackson browne.
बोवी asked Vaughan to play on his upcoming studio album Let 's Dance, जबकि Browne offered the बैंड फ़्री use of उसके personal studio in Los Angeles to record an album.
In March 1983, Vaughan and Double ट्रबल were signed to एपिक Records by दिग्गज record producer John हैमंड Sr. and released their डेब्यू album, Texas Flood in जून of that साल.
After successful touring, the समूह released the albums, could n't स्टैंड the मौसम ( 1984 ) and आत्मा to Soul ( 1985 ), the latter of which प्रदर्शित new keyboardist Reese Wynans.
हालांकि his career था progressed successfully, Vaughan checked into a rehabilitation हॉस्पिटल in Atlanta, जॉर्जिया to give up a cocaine and alcohol habit और returned to touring with the band.
In June 1989, in कदम was released and अर्जित them a ग्रैमी पुरस्कार for Best Contemporary ब्लूज़ प्रदर्शन.
On अगस्त 27, 1990, Vaughan was killed in a helicopter क्रैश following a प्रदर्शन in ईस्ट Troy, Wisconsin.
Vaughan 's uniquely eclectic yet intense style थी निकला from a किस्में of musical जाति.
He was influenced by blues musicians including अल्बर्ट King, Freddie King, Otis Rush, और Muddy Waters, and rock guitarists ऐसे as जिमि Hendrix और Lonnie mack.
His guitar playing reflected the classic blues और pentatonic scales.
He has received wide critical recognition for his गिटार playing, ranking at # 6 on Rolling Stones list of `` 100 Greatest guitarists '' in 2011.
He was मरणोपरांत inducted into the Blues Hall of Fame in 2000 and a memorial statue was erected in Austin 's Auditorium Shores park.
Stevie रे vaughan is widely considered to be one of the greatest musicians to come इससे the state of Texas.
GigE redirects here.
For the कैमरा protocol, देखिए gige दृष्टि.
In कंप्यूटर networking, gigabit Ethernet ( gbe or 1 GigE ) is a term describing various technologies for transmitting ईथरनेट frames at a rate of a gigabit per दूसरी ( 1,000,000,000 बिट्स per दूसरी ), as पारिभाषित by the आईईईई 802.3-2008 standard.
It came into उपयोग beginning in 1999, gradually supplanting Fast ईथरनेट in तार लोकल networks, where it performed considerably faster.
the केबल and equipment are very समान to previous standards and were very common and economical by 2010.
Half-duplex gigabit links कनेक्ट through hubs हैं allowed by the specification, लकिन full-duplex usage with switches is much more common.
इंटेल PRO/1000 GT PCI संजाल interface card
The main components of a stamp:
1. Image
2. Perforations
3. Denomination
4. Country name
A postage stamp is a small piece of पेपर कि is purchased and displayed on an item of mail as evidence of payment of postage.
Typically, stamps हैं made from special paper, with a नेशनल नामांकन and denomination ( दाम ) on the face, and a gum adhesive on the reverse side.
postage stamps are खरीदा इससे a डाक administration or other प्राधिकृत vendor and are प्रयुक्त to pay लिये the costs involved in moving mail as well as अन्य business necessities ऐसे as insurance and पंजीकरण.
The stamp’s आकार is प्रायः that of a small rectangle of varying proportions, though triangles or अन्य आकार are occasionally used.
the स्टैम्प is affixed to an envelope or अन्य postal कवर ( i.e., packet, box, mailing cylinder ) that the customer wishes to send.
The मद is तब processed by the postal प्रणाली, where a postmark, sometimes known as a cancellation mark, is usually applied over the stamp और cover ; this कार्यविधि marks the stamp as used, which prevents its reuse.
The postmark indicates the date और point of origin of the mailing.
The mailed मद is then delivered to the address कि the customer रै applied to the envelope or cover.
Postage stamps have facilitated the delivery of mail since the 1840s.
Before this time, ink और hand-stamps ( hence the शब्द 'stamp ' ), usually made इससे wood or कॉर्क, were often used to frank the mail and confirm the भुगतान of postage.
The पहला adhesive postage स्टैम्प, commonly referred to as the Penny Black, थी issued in the United Kingdom in 1840.
the आविष्कार of the stamp was a part of the attempt to reform and improve the postal system in the United Kingdom of ग्रेट Britain और Ireland, which in the early 19th century was in disarray और rife with corruption.
There are varying खाते of the आविष्कारक or inventors of the stamp.
पहले the परिचय of postage stamps, mail in the UK was सशुल्क for by the recipient, a system that was संबद्ध with an irresolvable problem : the लागत of delivering mail were not recoverable by the postal service when recipients were असमर्थ or unwilling to pay for वितरित वस्तुएं, and senders had no incentive to restrict the number, size, or weight of वस्तुएं भेजा, whether or not they would ultimately be paid for.
The postage stamp resolved इस समस्या in a simple and elegant manner, with the अतिरिक्त benefit of room लिये an element of beauty to be introduced.
Later related inventions include डाक stationery such as prepaid-postage envelopes, post cards, lettercards, aerogrammes and wrappers, postage meters, और, more recently, specialty boxes and envelopes provided free to the customer by the u.S. postal सेवा for प्रधानता or express mailing.
The postage stamp afforded convenience लिये दोनो the मेलर and postal officials, अधिक efficiently recovered costs for the postal service, और ultimately resulted in a better, faster postal system.
With the conveniences stamps offered, their use resulted in greatly increased mailings during the 19th and 20th centuries.
Postage stamps during this era were the most popular रास्ता of paying for mail, लकिन by the समाप्त of the 20th century were rapidly being eclipsed by the उपयोग of metered postage and बल्क mailing by व्यवसायों. )
the वही परिणाम with आदर to communications by निजी parties occurred over the last decade of the 20th century and the first दशक of the 21st due to declining cost of long distance telephone संचार and the विकास and explosive spread of electronic mailing ( `` e-mail '' via the Internet ) और bill paying प्रणालियों था.
As postage stamps with their engraved imagery began to appear on a widespread basis, historians and collectors began to take सूचना.
The study of postage stamps and their use is referred to as philately.
Stamp collecting can be दोनो a शौक and a form of historical study and reference, as government-issued postage stamps and their mailing प्रणालियों have always महरूम शामिल with the history of राष्ट्र.
The University of Alabama at Birmingham ( UAB ) is a public विश्वविद्यालयों in Birmingham in the U.S. राज्य of अलबामा.
Developing from an extension center established in 1936, the institution became an autonomous institution in 1969 and is today one of तीन institutions in the University of Alabama System.
UAB offers over 140 programs of पढ़ाई in 12 academic divisions leading to bachelor 's, master 's, डॉक्टरेट, and पेशेवर डिग्री in the social and behavioral sciences, the liberal arts, business, शिक्षा, engineering, and health-related fields such as medicine, dentistry, optometry, नर्सिंग, and public स्वास्थ्य.
The school is highly प्रसिद्ध लिये its medical research and natural sciences programs.
The uab स्वास्थ्य System, one of the largest academic चिकित्सा centers in the संयुक्त States, is संबद्ध with the university.
UAB हॉस्पिटल sponsors residency कार्यक्रम in various चिकित्सा specialties, including आतंरिक आयुर्विज्ञान, neurology, surgery, radiology, and anesthesiology.
UAB Hospital is the only acs verified Level I trauma center in Alabama, as rated by the American College of Surgeons Trauma Program.
UAB is the state 's largest employer, साथ अधिक than 18,000 faculty and staff and over 53,000 कार्य at the university और in the health प्रणाली.
An अनुमानित 10 percent of the jobs in the Birmingham-Hoover Metropolitan क्षेत्रफल and 1 in 33 jobs in the राज्य of अलबामा are सीधे or indirectly related to UAB.
The university 's overall annual economic प्रभाव was estimated to be $ 4.6 billion in 2010.
In the fall of 2012, the University of Alabama at बर्मिंघम नामांकित 17,999 विद्यार्थी from more than 110 countries, including 1,605 freshmen.
वहीँ are योजनाएँ to commence with an `` aggressive '' विकास in नामांकन at UAB.
The current uab President is Dr. Ray L. Watts.
Tofu, भी called सेम curd, is a food बना by coagulating soy juice and तब pressing the resulting curds into नरम white blocks.
it is a component in अनेक East Asian and Southeast Asian cuisines.
There हैं many different varieties of टोफू, including भैस tofu and tofu कि has been processed in some रास्ता.
Tofu रै a subtle स्वाद and can be used in savory और sweet बर्तन.
It is often seasoned or marinated to suit the dish.
टोफू originated in ancient China some 2,000 सालो पहले.
Chinese legend ascribes its invention to prince Liu An ( Chinese : 劉安 Liú Ān, 179–122 BC ).
Tofu and इसके production technique were introduced into Korea and then Japan दौरान the nara period.
It spread into other parts of East Asia as well.
This स्प्रेड likely coincided साथ the स्प्रेड of Buddhism because it is an important source of protein in the vegetarian diet of East Asian Buddhism.
li Shizhen in the Ming Dynasty described a विधि of making tofu in Bencao Gangmu.
Tofu has a कम कैलोरी count, अपेक्षाकृत विशाल amounts of protein, and छोटी मोटे.
It is high in आयरन और depending on the coagulant used in manufacturing, may also be ऊँची in calcium and/or मैग्नीशियम.
Bubbles ( born 1983 ) is a common चिंपैंजी, known लिये being the one-time pet of American recording कलाकार माइकल Jackson, जो bought the primate इससे a Texas research सुविधा in the early 1980s.
The animal was a frequent travel साथी to the सिंगर, जिनकी attachment to the animal led to media mockery and, among अन्य factors, to a public perception of Jackson as an eccentric.
During the Bad संसार Tour, for उदाहरण, Jackson brought बुलबुले with him to Japan, जहाँ they both drank चाय with the mayor of Osaka.
Bubbles was initially kept at the Jackson family 's घर in encino, लॉस एंजिल्स, लकिन थी moved to Neverland ranch in 1988.
There, he slept in a crib in जैक्सन 's bedroom, प्रयुक्त the singer 's toilet, and ate candy in the Neverland movie थिएटर.
In 2003 the public learned कि, जैसे all captive chimpanzees, Bubbles था matured into a large and आक्रामक adult chimp unsuitable as a साथी एनिमल.
he was भेजा to a कैलिफ़ोर्निया animal प्रशिक्षक, where he was reported to have attempted suicide.
When the trainer shut bas his operation in 2004, Bubbles was moved to the Center for ग्रेट Apes, a sanctuary in Wauchula, Florida, जहाँ he रै जिया since 2005.
Muse are an अंग्रेज़ी चट्टान band from teignmouth, देवों, which formed in 1994.
The band consists of स्कूल friends Matthew bellamy ( सीसे vocals, lead guitar, piano, keyboards, keytar ), क्रिस्टोफर Wolstenholme ( bass, vocals, keyboards, rhythm guitar, harmonica ) and डोमिनिक हावर्ड ( ड्रम, percussion, synthesisers, sampling ).
Since the release of their 2006 album Black Holes and खुलासे, keyboardist and percussionist Morgan Nicholls has performed live साथ the बैंड.
Muse are ज्ञात for उनके energetic and extravagant live प्रदर्शन और their fusion of many music genres, सहित space rock, progressive rock, alternative rock, heavy metal, शास्त्रीय music and electronica.
चिंतन have released six स्टुडियो एल्बम : showbiz ( 1999 ), उत्पत्ति of Symmetry ( 2001 ), Absolution ( 2003 ), Black Holes and Revelations ( 2006 ), The Resistance ( 2009 ) and The 2nd विधि ( 2012 ).
They have also issued तीन सजीव एल्बम, Hullabaloo Soundtrack ( 2002 ), जिससे is also a संकलन of b-sides, Absolution Tour ( 2005 ), and HAARP ( 2008 ), which documents the band 's performances at Wembley स्टेडियम in 2007.
ब्लैक छेद and Revelations earned the band a Mercury Prize नामांकन और a third place finish in the NME Albums of the Year सूची for 2006.
चिंतन have also जीती a collection of music awards throughout their history, including five MTV Europe Music Awards, छह q Awards, eight NME Awards, two Brit Awards —winning `` Best British सजीव अधिनियम '' twice, an MTV Video म्यूज़िक Award, four Kerrang !
Awards and an American म्यूज़िक Award.
वे यहूद also nominated लिये five Grammy Awards, of which they जीती Best चट्टान Album, for उनके fifth स्टुडियो album The Resistance ( 2009 ).
Muse have sold over 15 million albums worldwide.
bloemfontein (, ; Dutch लिये `` fountain of पुष्प '' ) is the capital नगर of the Free State Province of दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी ; and, as the judicial capital of the स्वदेश, one of South Africa 's three national राजधानी – the other two being Cape Town, the legislative capital, and Pretoria, the administrative capital.
Bloemfontein is popularly और poetically known as `` the नगर of गुलाब ``, owing to the abundance of these पुष्प और the annual rose festival held वहीँ.
The city 's Sesotho name is mangaung, meaning `` place of cheetahs `` and it has been included in the Mangaung Local Municipality since 2000.
Bloemfontein is situated on dry घासभूमि at, at an altitude of above sea स्तर.
The नगर is home to 369,568 residents, जबकि the mangaung लोकल Municipality has a जनसांख्यिकी of 645,455.
Where Do we Come From ?
What हैं We ?
Where Are We Going ?
One of Post-Impressionist Paul Gauguin 's most famous paintings.
The अर्थ of life is a philosophical सवाल concerning the significance of life or existence in सामान्य.
It can also be expressed in अलग forms, ऐसे as `` क्यों हैं we यहाँ ? ``, `` कया is life सब about ? ``, and `` What is the purpose of existence ? ''
it has been the subject of much philosophical, scientific, and theological अटकलें throughout इतिहास.
There have been a विशाल number of proposed answers to these सवाल from अनेक different सांस्कृतिक और ideological पृष्ठभूमि.
The meaning of जीवन is in the philosophical and religious conceptions of existence, social ties, consciousness, and happiness, and borders on अनेक other issues, such as symbolic अर्थ, ontology, value, purpose, ethics, शुभ और दुष्ट, free will, the existence of one or multiple देवताओं, conceptions of God, the आत्मा, and the afterlife.
Scientific contributions फ़ोकस primarily on describing related अनुभवजन्य facts परिचय the ब्रह्मांड, exploring the context and parameters concerning the 'how ' of जीवन.
Science also studies and can provide सुझाव for the pursuit of well-being and a related conception of morality.
An alternative, humanistic approach poses the question `` What is the अर्थ of my life ? ''
The value of the सवाल pertaining to the purpose of life may coincide with the achievement of ultimate वास्तविकता, or a अहसास of oneness, or even a feeling of sacredness.
Family Guy creator सेठ macfarlane भी provides the आवाज़ें of Peter Griffin, Stewie Griffin, Brian Griffin, और ग्लेन Quagmire.
Family Guy is an American animated sitcom that features पाँच main voice actors, and numerous regular cast और recurring guest सितारों.
the प्रिंसिपल आवाज़ डाल consists of show creator सेठ macfarlane, Alex Borstein, Seth Green, Mila kunis ( जो replaced Lacey chabert after the first ऋतु ) और Mike हेनरी and now, the नई actor Beau Osborne.
पुनरावर्ती voice actors include Patrick Warburton, आदम West, John G. ब्रेनन, Nicole Sullivan और Jennifer Tilly, और repeat guest सितारों include Phyllis Diller, चार्ल्स Durning, Rush Limbaugh, and Phil LaMarr.
Many cast सदस्यों provide आवाज़ें for multiple वर्ण.
the voice actors, in portraying the विभिन्न character personalities on the show, draw inspiration from celebrities and pop culture.
Family Guy characters have been played by more than one actor, after members of the show बाएँ the series or had conflicting obligations.
kunis थी nominated लिये an एनी Award लिये voicing Meg griffin in the season 5 episode `` मुश्किल Legal `` और MacFarlane has also जीती an Emmy Award for Outstanding voice-over प्रदर्शन and an Annie पुरस्कार for बेहतरीन Voice Acting in an एनिमेटेड Television उत्पादन, हालांकि no other डाल member has won an award for their work on the series.
1911 Illustration by Edmund Dulac
`` The Princess and the Pea '' ( ; शाब्दिक translation : `` the Princess on the मटर '' ) is a साहित्यिक fairy tale by hans Christian Andersen about a young woman जिनकी royal identity is established by a test of her physical sensitivity.
the टेल थी first published with तीन अन्य by Andersen in an inexpensive booklet on 8 May 1835 in Copenhagen by c.a. Reitzel.
andersen had heard the story as a child, और it likely रै इसके source in folk material, संभवतः originating from Sweden as it is अनजान in the Danish oral परंपरा.
Neither `` the Princess and the मटर '' nor Andersen 's other किस्से of 1835 were खूब received by डैनिश critics, who disliked उनके कैज़ुअल, chatty style, and their lack of morals.
In 1959 `` The Princess और the Pea '' was adapted to the musical stage in a production called Once Upon a Mattress अभिनीत Carol Burnett.
German Americans ( ) are नागरिकों of the संयुक्त States who were either born in जर्मनी or हैं of German ancestry.
They comprise about 50 million people, बनाना उन्हें the largest ancestry group ahead of Irish Americans, अफ़्रीकी अमेरिकी और अंग्रेज़ी Americans.
They comprise about 1/3 of the German diaspora सब over the संसार.
None of the जर्मनी states had New World colonies.
Not जबतक the 1670s did the first significant groups of German immigrants arrive in the British colonies, settling primarily in New यॉर्क and Pennsylvania.
Immigration continued in very large numbers during the 19th century, with कुछ eight लाख arrivals इससे Germany.
They were pulled by the attractions of land and religious freedom, and pushed out of Europe by shortages of जमीन and religious or political oppression.
Many arrived seeking धार्मिक or political स्वतंत्रता, others लिये economic opportunities वृहद than those in यूरोपीय, and others simply लिये the chance to प्रारंभ भैस in the New World.
The आमद before 1850 were ज़्यादातर किसानो जो sought आउट the most productive जमीन, जहाँ their intensive farming तकनीकों would अदा off.
After 1840, many came to cities, where `` germania '' —german-speaking districts—soon emerged.
German Americans established the पहला kindergartens in the United राज्य, introduced the Christmas tree tradition, और originated popular American foods ऐसे as hot कुत्तो और hamburgers.
जर्मनी अमरीकी celebrations हैं held throughout the country, one of the सबसे well-known being the german-american Steuben Parade in नई यॉर्क नगर, held प्रत्येक तीसरा शनिवार in September.
There are also major annual events in Chicago, Cincinnati, मिल्वौकी, Pittsburgh, St. Louis and other cities.
Like many अन्य immigrants that came to the United States, an overwhelming क्रमांक of लोगों of German or आंशिक जर्मनी descent have essentially become Americanized.
The Preamble to the United राज्य Constitution is a ब्रैड introductory बयान of the संविधान 's आधारभूत purposes and guiding principles.
It states in सामान्य terms, and courts have referred to it as reliable evidence of, the Founding Fathers ' intentions regarding the Constitution 's meaning and what they hoped the Constitution होता achieve as it pertains to all of the people of the United राज्य.
As the phrase, `` we the people '' suggests that the new government originates from the people of the United States and it sets into motion a सवाल as it pertains to that विशाल जनसांख्यिकी concerning the व्यक्तिगत rights and समता among सब लोगों ; this can be seen most broadly in the divide between republicanism and social लोकतंत्र.
The इतिहास of the Internet began with the विकास of electronic computers in the 1950s.
The public was first introduced to the concepts कि would lead to the Internet when a संदेश was भेजा over the arpanet from computer science Professor Leonard kleinrock 's laboratory at विश्वविद्यालयों of California, लॉस Angeles ( UCLA ), after the second piece of संजाल equipment was installed at Stanford Research संस्थान ( SRI ).
Packet switched networks such as ARPANET, Mark I at npl in the UK, CYCLADES, मेरिट Network, Tymnet, and Telenet, were developed in the लेट 1960s और early 1970s using a variety of प्रोटोकॉल.
The ARPANET in particular led to the development of protocols लिये internetworking, in which multiple separate networks could be joined साथ into a network of संजाल.
In 1982, the Internet protocol सुइट ( TCP/IP ) was मानकीकृत, और consequently, the अवधारणा of a world-wide network of interconnected TCP/IP संजाल, called the अंतरजाल, was introduced.
अभिगम to the ARPANET थी विस्तारित in 1981 when the National Science Foundation ( nsf ) विकसित the Computer विज्ञान संजाल ( csnet ) and again in 1986 when nsfnet provided access to supercomputer साइट in the United राज्य इससे शोध and शिक्षा organizations.
Commercial अंतरजाल service providers ( ISPs ) began to emerge in the late 1980s and early 1990s.
The ARPANET थी decommissioned in 1990.
the Internet was commercialized in 1995 when nsfnet was decommissioned, removing the last restrictions on the use of the Internet to carry commercial traffic.
Since the mid-1990s, the अंतरजाल रै had a revolutionary प्रभाव on culture and commerce, सहित the rise of near-instant communication by electronic mail, instant messaging, Voice over Internet Protocol ( VoIP ) `` फोन calls '', two-way interactive video calls, and the World चौड़ी Web with इसके चर्चा forums, ब्लॉग, social networking, और online खरीदारी sites.
The research and शिक्षा community continues to develop and use advanced संजाल such as NSF 's बहुत ऊँची speed Backbone Network सेवा ( vBNS ), Internet2, and National LambdaRail.
Increasing amounts of आंकड़ा are transmitted at higher and higher speeds over रेशा optic networks ऑपरेटिंग at 1-gbit/s, 10-gbit/s, or more.
the Internet 's takeover over the global communication landscape was लगभग तत्काल in historical terms : it only communicated 1 % of the information flowing through two-way telecommunications networks in the year 1993, already 51 % by 2000, and अधिक than 97 % of the telecommunicated information by 2007.
आज the Internet continues to grow, driven by कभी greater amounts of online information, कॉमर्स, entertainment, and सोशल नेटवर्किंग.
Southwest एयरलाइंस co. ( ) is a major U.S. airline and the world 's largest low-cost carrier, headquartered in Dallas, टेक्सास.
It was established in 1967 और अपनाया its वर्तमान name in 1971.
the airline has more than 46,000 कर्मचारी and operates more than 3,400 flights per दिन.
as of जून 5, 2011, it carries the most domestic passengers of कोई U.S. airline.
As of अप्रैल 2013, Southwest Airlines has scheduled service to 84 destinations in 41 states और Puerto रीको.
Southwest एयरलाइंस has solely संचालित Boeing 737s, मगर for a few years in the 1970s और 1980s, when it operated Boeing 727s.
As of August 2012, Southwest is the largest ऑपरेटर of the 737 worldwide साथ over 550 in service, each ऑपरेटिंग an average of six flights per day.
in May 2011, the airline acquired airtran एयरवेज़, with integration of the carriers expected to be complete by 2014.
On March 1, 2012, the company was issued a सिंगल operating प्रमाणपत्र, technically बनने one airline.
Rolling Rock is a 4.6 % abv pale lager शुभारम्भ in 1939 by the Latrobe brewing Company.
Although संस्थापित as a local बियर in Western Pennsylvania, it was marketed aggressively और eventually became a national उत्पाद.
The brand थी sold to Anheuser-Busch of St. Louis, Missouri, in mid 2006, which transferred brewing परिचालन to New जर्सी.
बेनेडिक्ट XVI (,, ; born Joseph Aloisius ratzinger on 16 April 1927 ) is Pope emeritus of the Catholic Church.
He परोसा as Pope from 2005 to 2013.
In that position, he was both the leader of the Catholic गिरिजाघर and sovereign of the वेटिकन City State.
बेनेडिक्ट was elected on 19 April 2005 in a papal conclave, celebrated his Papal Inauguration Mass on 24 April 2005, and took कब्ज़ा of his cathedral, the archbasilica of St. John Lateran, on 7 may 2005.
ordained as a priest in 1951 in his native Bavaria, Ratzinger established himself as a highly regarded विश्वविद्यालयों theologian by the late 1950s और was appointed a full professor in 1958.
बाद a long career as an academic, serving as a professor of धर्मशास्त्र at अनेक German universities—the last being the University of Regensburg, where he served as वाइस President of the university in 1976 and 1977—he थी नियुक्त archbishop of Munich and Freising and कार्डिनल by Pope पॉल VI in 1977, an unusual promotion लिये किसी साथ छोटी लुभावने experience.
In 1981, he settled in Rome जब he became Prefect of the Congregation for the doctrine of the Faith, एक of the most important dicasteries of the Roman Curia.
From 2002 until his election as pope, he थी also डीन of the कॉलेज of Cardinals, and as ऐसे, the primus inter pares among the कार्डिनल्स.
prior to becoming pope, he थी `` a प्रमुख फिगर on the वेटिकन stage for a quarter of a century '' as `` एक of the most respected, influential और controversial members of the College of Cardinals '' ; he had an influence `` second to none when it आए to setting church priorities and directions '' as one of पोप John Paul II 's closest confidants.
He was originally a liberal theologian, लकिन अपनाया conservative views after 1968.
उसके prolific writings defend traditional Catholic doctrine and values.
दौरान his papacy, Benedict XVI advocated a return to आधारभूत Christian values to counter the increased secularisation of many Western देशों.
he views relativism 's denial of objective truth, and the denial of moral सच्चाई in particular, as the central problem of the 21st सदी.
He taught the importance of both the Catholic Church and an understanding of परमेश्वर 's redemptive प्रेम.
Pope बेनेडिक्ट भी revived a number of परंपराओं including elevating the Tridentine द्रव्यमान to a more prominent स्थिति.
he renewed the संबंध between the Catholic Church and आर्ट, viewing the use of beauty as a path to the sacred, promoted the use of Latin, and reintroduced traditional papal garments, लिये जिससे reason he was पुकारा `` the pope of aesthetics ''.
he has महरूम described as `` the main intellectual force in the गिरिजाघर '' since the mid-1980s.
Several of Pope Benedict 's students इससे his अकादमिक करियर are also prominent churchmen today and confidantes of him, notably Christoph schönborn.
on 11 फ़रवरी 2013, Pope Benedict announced उसके इस्तीफा in a speech in लैटिन before the कार्डिनल्स, citing a `` lack of strength of mind और body '' due to उसके advanced age.
उसके resignation became प्रभावी on 28 February 2013.
he is the पहला pope to इस्तीफा चूंकि Pope ग्रेगरी बारहवीं in 1415, and the पहला to do so on his own initiative since पोप Celestine V in 1294.
As pope emeritus, Benedict retains the style of His पवित्रता, और the title of Pope, and will continue to dress in the papal colour of श्वेत.
He was succeeded by Pope Francis on 13 March 2013, and he moved into the newly संवर मेटर Ecclesiae मठ for his retirement on 2 may 2013..
जेब stereoscope with असली test image.
Used by military to examine stereoscopic pairs of aerial छायाचित्र.
View of Boston, c. 1860 ; an early stereoscopic card for viewing a scene from nature
Kaiser-Panorama consisted of a multi-station viewing apparatus and sets of stereo स्लाइड.
Patented by A. fuhrmann around 1890.
Company of ladies watching stereoscopic photographs, पेंटिंग by Jacob Spoel, पहले 1868.
A very early depiction of people using a stereoscope.
stereoscopy ( also called stereoscopics or 3D imaging ) is a technique for बनाना or enhancing the illusion of गहराई in an image by means of stereopsis for binocular vision.
the word stereoscopy derives इससे the यूनानी `` στερεός '' ( stereos ), `` firm, solid '' + `` σκοπέω '' ( skopeō ), `` to dekh '', `` to देखिए ''.
Most stereoscopic विधि present दो offset images separately to the बाएँ and right eye of the दर्शक.
These two-dimensional images हैं then combined in the दिमाग to दे the perception of 3D गहराई.
This technique is distinguished from 3D displays that प्रदर्शक an चित्र in three पूरा dimensions, allowing the observer to increase सूचना about the 3-dimensional objects होने displayed by head और नजर आंदोलनों.
John Adams ( अक्तूबर 30, 1735 ( o.s. October 19, 1735 ) – July 4, 1826 ) was the second president of the United राज्य ( 1797–1801 ), having earlier परोसा as the पहला vice president of the United राज्य.
An American Founding पिता, he was a statesman, राजनयिक, and a leading advocate of American independence from Great Britain.
खूब educated, he was an Enlightenment political theorist जो प्रचारित republicanism and wrote prolifically परिचय his often seminal ideas, both in प्रकाशित works और in अक्षर to his बीवी and कुंजी adviser अबीगैल as well as to अन्य Founding Fathers.
एडम्स came to prominence in the जल्दी चरण of the American क्रान्ति.
A lawyer and public figure in बोस्टन, as a प्रतिनिधि इससे मैसाचुसेट्स to the महाद्वीपीय Congress, he played a leading भूमिका in persuading Congress to declare independence.
he assisted Thomas Jefferson in drafting the Declaration of स्वतंत्रता in 1776, and थी इसके primary advocate in the कॉंग्रेस.
Later, as a diplomat in Europe, he helped negotiate the eventual peace सन्धि with ग्रेट Britain, and was responsible लिये obtaining vital governmental लोन इससे Amsterdam बैंकर्स.
A राजनैतिक theorist और historian, Adams largely wrote the Massachusetts Constitution in 1780, which together with उसके earlier Thoughts on Government, बहकावे American political विचार.
One of उसके greatest roles was as a judge of character : in 1775, he nominated जार्ज Washington to be commander-in-chief, and 25 years later मनोनीत John मार्शल to be Chief Justice of the संयुक्त राज्य.
एडम्स ' revolutionary श्रेय secured him दो terms as George Washington 's वाइस president and उसके own election in 1796 as the second अध्यक्ष.
During his एक term, he encountered ferocious attacks by the Jeffersonian Republicans, as well as the dominant faction in उसके अपना federalist Party led by his bitter दुश्मन Alexander हैमिल्टन.
एडम्स हस्ताक्षरित the controversial Alien and राजद्रोह Acts, and built up the army और नेवी विशेषकर in the face of an undeclared naval war ( called the `` Quasi-War `` ) with फ़्रांस, 1798–1800.
the major accomplishment of उसके presidency was उसके शांतिपूर्ण resolution of the conflict in the face of हैमिल्टन 's opposition.
in 1800, Adams was defeated लिये re-election by Thomas Jefferson and रिटायर्ड to Massachusetts.
He later resumed his friendship साथ Jefferson.
He and his wife, Abigail एडम्स, founded an संपन्नता family line of politicians, diplomats, and इतिहासकारों now referred to as the Adams राजनैतिक family.
Adams was the father of John Quincy Adams, the sixth President of the संयुक्त States.
His उपलब्धियाँ have received वृहद recognition in आधुनिक टाइम्स, though his contributions यहूद नहीं initially as celebrated as those of other Founders.
एडम्स was the first u.S. अध्यक्ष to reside in the भवन कि eventually became known as the White हाउस.
The United States ten-dollar विधेयक ( $ 10 ) is a denomination of United States करेंसी.
the पहला u.S. सचिव of the राजकोष ( 1789–95 ), सिकंदर हैमिल्टन, is currently featured on the obverse of the bill, while the U.S. Treasury Building is featured on the reverse.
( हैमिल्टन is one of two non-presidents featured on फिलहाल issued U.S. bills.
The other is Benjamin फ्रैंकलिन, on the $ 100 bill.
हैमिल्टन is one of तभी चार people प्रदर्शित on U.S. paper करेंसी ( 1861 to the present ) who was not born in the महाद्वीपीय United States, as he थी इससे the West Indies.
the others are : Albert gallatin, Switzerland ( $ 500 1862/63 Legal Tender ) ; George Meade, Spain ( $ 1,000 1890/91 राजकोष Note ) ; और Robert मॉरिस, England ( $ 1,000 1862/63 Legal Tender ; $ 10 1878/80 चांदी Certificate ).
In जोड, kamehameha i, appears on the 2008 हवाई state क्वार्टर. )
All $ 10 bills जारी today हैं संघीय Reserve Notes.
the Bureau of Engraving and Printing says the average life of a $ 10 विधेयक in परिसंचरण is 18 महीने पहले it is replaced due to wear.
Approximately 6 % of सब US banknotes printed in 2009 were $ 10 bills.
टेन dollar बिल्स हैं delivered by संघीय Reserve Banks in पीला straps.
The source of the फेस on the $ 10 bill is John Trumbull ’s 1805 portrait of हैमिल्टन that belongs to the portrait collection of नई York City हॉल.
the $ 10 विधेयक is the only U.S. paper currency in परिसंचरण in which the portrait चेहरों to the left ( the $ 100,000 विधेयक प्रदर्शित a portrait of Woodrow विल्सन facing to the left, but थी प्रयुक्त only for intra-government ट्रांजेक्शन ).
A सवार on a Yamaha waverunner XL performing a high-speed turn.
A jetboat is a boat propelled by a जेट of water ejected इससे the back of the craft.
नापसंद a powerboat or motorboat that uses a propeller in the water below or पीछे the नाव, a jetboat draws the water from अंतर्गत the boat into a pump inside the boat, then expels it through a nozzle at the stern.
Jetboats यहूद originally designed by Sir विलियम Hamilton ( who developed a waterjet in 1954 ) for आपरेशन in the fast-flowing और shallow rivers of नई Zealand, specifically to overcome the problem of propellers striking rocks in ऐसे waters.
Previous attempts at waterjet propulsion had बहुत short lifetimes, generally due to the inefficient डिज़ाइन of the units और the फैक्ट कि they offered few advantages over conventional propellers.
Unlike ये पिछला waterjet developments, ऐसे as campini 's और the Hanley Hydrojet, Hamilton had a specific need लिये a propulsion system to operate in very-shallow water, और the waterjet proved to be the ideal solution.
From इस, the popularity of the jet unit and jetboat increased rapidly.
Through further developments, it was मिला the waterjet offered several other advantages over propellers for a चौड़ी range of vessel types, और as such, waterjets are प्रयुक्त widely आज for अनेक high-speed vessels, including यात्री ferries, rescue craft, patrol नौकाएँ and offshore supply vessels.
Jetboats हैं highly maneuverable, और अनेक can, from full speed, be reversed and brought to a stop within little more than their अपना length, in a maneuver known as a `` क्रैश stop ''.
The well known Hamilton फेरे or `` जेट spin '' is a high-speed maneuvre जहाँ the boat 's engine throttle is cut, the steering is turned sharply and the throttle opened again, causing the boat to स्पिन जल्दी around with a विशाल spray of जल.
वहीँ is no engineering limit to the आकार of jetboats, though the validity of उनके उपयोग depends a lot on the type of application.
Classic prop-drives are generally more efficient and economical at low speeds, up to about, but as boat गति increases beyond this, the extra hull resistance generated by struts, rudders, shafts ( इत्यादि. ) means waterjets are more efficient in the 20-50 knot range ( up to ).
भी, in situations with very large propellers turning at slow speeds ( ऐसे as tug boats ), the equivalent size waterjet would be too big to be practical.
लिये these reasons, the विशाल majority of waterjet units are installed in high-speed vessels and in particular situations जहाँ shallow draught, maneuverability, and load लचीलापन are main concerns.
The biggest jet-driven vessels are found in military use or the high-speed passenger/car ferry industry.
South Africa 's s ( approximately long ) are the biggest jet-propelled vessels so far.
भी these German-built vessels हैं सक्षम of performing `` क्रैश stops ''.
uveitis is broadly defined as inflammation of the uvea.
The uvea consists of the middle, pigmented, vascular structures of the eye and includes the iris, ciliary body, and choroid.
Uveitis requires an urgent referral and thorough examination by an ophthalmologist or optometrist साथ with urgent उपचार to control the inflammation.
Eric `` E. ''
Murphy is a fictional character on the comedy-drama television series अनुगामी.
He is played by Kevin Connolly.
The Shining is a 1980 मनोवैज्ञानिक horror फिल्मी produced and निर्देशित by Stanley kubrick, co-written साथ उपन्यासकार Diane Johnson, और starring Jack निकोल्सन, शेली duvall, Scatman Crothers, and Danny Lloyd.
the फिल्मी is based on the Stephen King novel The Shining.
A writer, Jack Torrance, takes a जॉब as an off-season caretaker at an isolated hotel.
His young बेटे possesses psychic abilities और is able to देखिए बाते from the past and future, such as the ghosts who inhabit the hotel.
जल्द after settling in, the family is trapped in the hotel by a snowstorm, and जोकर gradually becomes बहकावे by a supernatural उपस्थिति ; he descends into madness and attempts to murder उसके wife and बेटे.
नापसंद previous Kubrick films, which developed an दर्शक धीरे by building on word-of-mouth, The जगमगाता was released as a mass-market film, खोलने at first in बस two शहरों on Memorial दिन, then देशभर a माह later.
Although initial जवाब to the film थी मिश्रित, later critical मूल्यांकन थी more अनुकूल and it is now viewed as a classic of the horror genre.
Film director Martin Scorsese, लिखने in The Daily जानवर, क्रमित it as one of the 11 scariest हॉरर फिल्मों of all समय.
Film critics, film विद्यार्थी, और kubrick 's निर्माता, Jan Harlan, have remarked on the विशाल influence the film रै था on popular culture.
the आरंभिक European release of the Shining थी 25 minutes shorter than the American version, achieved by removing most of the scenes taking place बाहर the environs of the hotel.
आँगन Cola Bottle
आँगन आहार Cola was a brand of diet soda introduced by पेप्सी in 1963.
it was created in response to Diet Rite Cola, which was the first आहार cola on the market.
Fitness promoter Debbie Drake was आँगन आहार Cola 's spokesperson.
In 1964, आँगन released orange, grape, and root beer जायका.
This स्वाद line was नहीं meant to compete साथ ब्रांड्स जैसे Orange crush, but rather भरण out the line.
Patio sodas यहूद available in the cold-bottle market : grocery और mom-and-pop स्टोर्स.
विज्ञापन for आँगन was comparatively scarce ; at the समय, bottlers were regionally franchised, और related विज्ञापन was necessarily local.
In 1964, Patio diet कोला became Diet Pepsi.
The newly branded diet soda was advertised alongside पेप्सी with the टैगलाइन `` Pepsi either रास्ता '', which replaced the स्लोगन `` Dances साथ flavor ''.
The short जीवन span of Patio Diet cola makes it a great addition लिये bottle collectors.
Most of the remaining Patio line of flavors यहूद phased आउट by the जल्दी 1970s, जबकि a few बच जबतक the mid 70s
Infrastructure is मौलिक शारीरिक and organizational structures needed लिये the आपरेशन of a society or enterprise, or the services and facilities necessary for an economy to function.
It can be generally defined as the set of interconnected structural elements that provide framework supporting an entire ढांचा of development.
It is an important पद for judging a country or region 's विकास.
The term typically refers to the technical structures that support a समाज, such as roads, bridges, water supply, sewers, electrical grids, telecommunications, and so forth, और can be defined as `` the physical components of interrelated systems providing commodities and सेवाएं essential to enable, sustain, or enhance societal living शर्तें. ''
Viewed functionally, infrastructure facilitates the production of goods and services, and also the distribution of समाप्त products to बाज़ार, as खूब as basic सोशल सेवाएं such as schools और अस्पताल ; for example, roads enable the transport of raw सामग्री to a factory.
in military parlance, the पद refers to the buildings and permanent संस्थापना necessary for the support, redeployment, and operation of सैन्य forces.
To make it सरल, infrastructure is anything कि is needed रोज, an everyday item.
a graphical प्रतिनिधित्व of the ideal human karyotype
Mitochondrial DNA.
Human genetic variation is the genetic differences दोनो within और among populations.
वहीँ may be multiple विसंगतियाँ of any दिए gene in the human population ( जीनों ), leading to बहुरूपता.
Many genes are नहीं polymorphic, अर्थ that तभी a सिंगल allele is present in the population : the जीन is then said to be fixed.
No two humans are genetically एकसमान.
Even monozygotic twins, जो develop from एक zygote, have infrequent जेनेटिक मतभेद due to mutations occurring during विकास and gene copy number variation.
Differences between individuals, even closely related individuals, are the key to techniques such as जेनेटिक fingerprinting.
Alleles occur at different बारंबारता in different human populations, with populations that are more geographically और ancestrally remote tending to differ more.
Causes of मतभेद between individuals include the एक्सचेंज of जीनों during meiosis और विभिन्न mutational events.
There are at तनिक two reasons why genetic variation exists between populations.
प्राकृतिक selection may confer an अनुकूली advantage to individuals in a विशिष्ट environment if an allele provides a competitive advantage.
alleles under चयन हैं संभावित to occur तभी in those geographic regions जहाँ they confer an advantage.
The second प्रमुख cause of genetic विभिन्नता is due to the ऊँची उपाधि of neutrality of सबसे mutations.
Most mutations do नहीं appear to have कोई selective effect एक way or the other on the organism.
The प्रमुख कारण is genetic बहाव, this is the effect of random changes in the gene pool.
in humans, founder effect and पास्ट छोटी population आकार ( increasing the likelihood of genetic drift ) may have था an महत्वपूर्ण influence in neutral मतभेद between populations.
the theory that इंसानो recently migrated out of अफ़्रीकी supports this.
the study of human जेनेटिक variation has दोनो विकासवादी significance and medical अनुप्रयोग.
it can help वैज्ञानिकों understand ancient human population migrations as well as how different इंसान groups हैं biologically सम्बन्धित to one another.
For medicine, पढ़ाई of human genetic variation may be महत्वपूर्ण because some disease-causing alleles occur more प्रायः in people from specific geographic regions.
नई findings show that each human has on average 60 new mutations compared to their parents.
Apart from mutations, many genes that may have aided humans in ancient times प्लेग humans today.
For example, it is suspected that genes कि allow humans to अधिक efficiently प्रक्रम food हैं those कि make लोगों susceptible to obesity and मधुमेह today.
Tea Party protesters on the West Lawn of the U.S. Capitol और the नेशनल Mall at the करदाताओं कूच on वॉशिंगटन on September 12, 2009.
the Tea Party गति is an American political movement that advocates strict adherence to the संयुक्त राज्य Constitution, reducing U.S. सरकारी बिता and taxes, and कटौती of the U.S. national debt and federal budget deficit.
The गति रै महरूम called partly रूढ़िवादी, partly libertarian, and partly populist.
The गति has sponsored protests and supported political उम्मीदवार since 2009.
The name of the movement is derived from the Boston चाय Party of 1773, an iconic event in American history.
Anti-tax protesters in the United राज्य have often referred to the असली Boston Tea Party लिये inspiration.
References to the बोस्टन Tea Party यहूद भाग of Tax दिन विरोध आयोजित throughout the 1990s and पहले.
By 2001, a custom था developed among some conservative activists of mailing tea bags to legislators and अन्य officials as a सांकेतिक act.
The मुद्राएँ of प्यूर्टो Rico closely follow the historic development of Puerto Rico.
As a colony of स्पेन और the United States, प्यूर्टो Rico was granted the use of both foreign and provincial currencies.
following the Spanish colonization in 1502, Puerto Rico became an important बंदरगाहों, with इसके own supply of gold.
However, as the mineral reserves ran empty within the century, the द्वीपसमूह 's economy suffered.
The Spanish क्राउन जारी the Situado Mexicano, जिससे meant that a semi-regular shipment of सुनहरा इससे the viceroyalty of नई Spain होता be sent to the island, as a way to provide economic support.
Between 1636 और 1637, Philip iv of Spain imposed a tax which had to be paid using a revenue stamp.
प्रेरित by this, प्यूर्टो Rico began producing banknotes in 1766, becoming the first उपनिवेश to print 8- रियल banknotes in the स्पेनी Empire and which in the Spanish सरकारी 's approval of subsequent issues.
The situado was discontinued during the 19th century, creating an आर्थिक संकट, as a result of Mexico gaining इसके independence from Spain.
साल्वाडोर Meléndez Bruna, the colonial governor in office, ordered the issue of provincial banknotes, बनाना the Puerto Rican peso.
However, printing of these banknotes ceased after 1815.
दौरान the following decades, foreign coins became the फैली currency.
In the 1860s and 1870s, banknotes reemerged.
On February 1, 1890, the Banco Español de Puerto रीको was inaugurated और began issuing banknotes.
the bank designed four series and placed three in परिसंचरण अंतर्गत स्पेनी rule.
in 1895, a Royal डिक्री ordered the production of provincial peso सिक्के.
On August 13, 1898, the Spanish-American War ended with स्पेन ceding Puerto Rico to the United राज्य.
The banco Español de Puerto रीको थी renamed Bank of Porto Rico and issued bills समतुल्य to the संयुक्त राज्य dollar, creating the Puerto Rican dollar.
in 1902, the पहला National Bank of Porto Rico जारी banknotes in a समानांतर manner.
Two अधिक श्रेणी were issued until 1913.
After Puerto Rico 's economy and monetary system थी fully integrated into the United राज्य ' economic and मौद्रिक system, the Puerto rican डॉलर यहूद redeemed for those जारी by the संयुक्त States राजकोष.
The पेसो और डालर have महरूम followed by अन्य समकालीन issues, including commemorative banknotes, निजी currency, and a quarter सिक्का designed with Fort सैन Felipe del Morro in the face.
पेप्सी ( stylized in lowercase as pepsi, formerly stylized in uppercase as PEPSI ) is a carbonated soft drink कि is उत्पादित and manufactured by PepsiCo.
Created और developed in 1893 and introduced as Brad 's Drink, it was renamed as pepsi-cola on August 28, 1898, then to पेप्सी in 1961.
The किताब of ezekiel is the तीसरा of the latter नबियों in the यहूदी Bible, following the किताबे of Isaiah and यिर्मयाह and preceding the किताब of the Twelve.
( The order is somewhat different in the Christian Old Testament ).
it derives its name from, and records the visions of, the 6th सदी bc priest and prophet Ezekiel.
according to the book, the नबी, exiled in Babylon, experienced a series of सात visions during the 22 years इससे 593 to 571 BC, a काल which spans the final विनाश of Jerusalem in 586.
the visions, और the किताब, are structured around three themes : ( 1 ) judgment on इसराईल ( chapters 1-24 ) ; ( 2 ) judgment on the nations ( chapters 25-32 ) ; and future blessings for Israel ( chapters 33-48 ).
New ऑरलियन्स ( or, locally or ; ) is a major United States port and the largest नगर और metropolitan area in the राज्य of Louisiana.
the population of the नगर was 343,829 as of the 2010 U.S. Census.
The New Orleans महानगर area ( New Orleans–Metairie–Kenner Metropolitan Statistical Area ) था a जनसांख्यिकी of 1,167,764 in 2010 and was the 46th largest in the United States.
The नई Orleans–Metairie–Bogalusa Combined सांख्यिकीय क्षेत्रफल, a larger trading area, had a 2010 population of 1,214,932.
the नगर is named after Orléans, a city स्तिथ on the Loire River in Centre, फ़्रांस, और is खूब known for its distinct French क्रियोल architecture, as well as its cross-cultural and multilingual heritage.
New ऑरलियन्स is भी famous for its cuisine, म्यूज़िक ( particularly as the जन्मस्थान of जैज़ ), और its annual जश्न and festivals, most notably Mardi Gras.
The city is often referred to as the `` most unique '' in America.
New Orleans is स्तिथ in southeastern Louisiana, straddling the Mississippi River.
The नगर and Orleans Parish ( ) are.
The नगर and मोहल्ला are bounded by the parishes of St. tammany to the north, St. बर्नार्ड to the east, Plaquemines to the south and जेफरसन to the south and west.
Lake pontchartrain, part of which is included in the city limits, झूठ to the north और Lake Borgne lies to the east.
The National जनम कंट्रोल League was a birth कंट्रोल organization in the संयुक्त States.
It थी founded in कूच 1915 by Mary Dennett, क्लारा Gruening Stillman और जेसी Ashley.
Its main purpose थी to overturn the laws which banned contraceptives इससे the U.S. mails.
Campaigns were mounted in New York, but in 1919 the लीग was disbanded और reformed into the Voluntary parenthood League.
Cancer, ज्ञात medically as a malignant neoplasm, is a broad group of various रोगों, all involving unregulated कोशिका growth.
In कर्कट, cells divide and grow uncontrollably, forming malignant tumors, and invade nearby भाग of the body.
the कर्कट may also spread to more distant parts of the body through the lymphatic system or bloodstream.
नहीं सब tumors are cancerous.
Benign tumors do नहीं grow uncontrollably, do नहीं invade neighboring tissues, and do not spread throughout the body.
There हैं over 200 different known cancers that afflict इंसानो.
Determining what causes cancer is जटिल.
अनेक things हैं ज्ञात to बढ़ाएँ the risk of cancer, including तम्बाकू उपयोग, certain infections, radiation, lack of physical activity, obesity, and पर्यावरणीय pollutants.
ये can directly damage genes or combine with existing जेनेटिक faults within कोशिकाएं to कारण the बीमारी.
लगभग five to ten प्रतिशत of cancers are entirely खानदानी.
Cancer can be detected in a number of तरीके, including the उपस्थिति of certain signs and symptoms, स्क्रीनिंग tests, or medical imaging.
Once a possible cancer is detected it is diagnosed by microscopic परिक्षा of a tissue sample.
Cancer is usually treated साथ कीमोथेरेपी, विकिरण therapy and surgery.
The chances of surviving the disease vary greatly by the type and location of the cancer और the extent of disease at the प्रारंभ of treatment.
While cancer can affect people of all आयु, and a few types of कर्कट are अधिक आम in children, the risk of developing cancer generally increases with age.
In 2007, cancer caused about 13 % of all human deaths worldwide ( 7.9 million ).
Rates हैं rising as more people सजीव to an old age and as mass जीवनशैली changes occur in the developing world.
वसन्त स्की touring on Hardangervidda, नार्वे
Skiing is a recreational activity and competitive sport in which the participant attaches long धावक or skis to boots or shoes on the feet and उपयोग them to travel on top of snow.
Aside from recreation and competition, skiing रै been used for military purposes and even travelling in areas कि अनुभव भारी snowfall.
Many types of competitive skiing events हैं recognized by the अंतरराष्ट्रीय ओलम्पिक कमेटी, and the International Ski Federation.
John मेनार्ड Keynes, 1st Baron keynes, cb, fba ( ; 5 June 1883 – 21 अप्रैल 1946 ) थी a British अर्थशास्त्री whose ideas have fundamentally प्रभावित the theory और practice of आधुनिक macroeconomics, and informed the आर्थिक policies of सरकारें.
He built on and greatly refined earlier कार्य on the causes of business cycles, and is widely माना to be one of the founders of modern macroeconomics और the most influential अर्थशास्त्री of the 20th century.
His ideas हैं the आधार लिये the स्कूल of thought ज्ञात as keynesian अर्थशास्त्र, as well as इसके various offshoots.
In many तरीके, subsequent developments in 20th सदी economics can be viewed as either building on keynes ' ideas or reacting against them.
In the 1930s, Keynes पथप्रदर्शन a revolution in economic thinking, overturning the older विचार of neoclassical economics that आयोजित कि free बाज़ार would, in the छोटी to मीडियम term, automatically provide full employment, as long as मजदूर were flexible in their wage demands.
keynes instead argued that aggregate माँग संकल्पित the overall level of आर्थिक activity, और that inadequate aggregate demand could सीसे to prolonged periods of high बेरोजगारी.
He advocated the उपयोग of फिस्कल and monetary measures to mitigate the प्रतिकूल effects of आर्थिक recessions and depressions.
Following the outbreak of the Second संसार युद्ध, Keynes 's विचार concerning आर्थिक policy were adopted by अग्रणी पश्चिमी economies.
In 1942, Keynes was awarded a hereditary peerage as Baron Keynes of tilton in the County of ससेक्स.
Keynes died in 1946, but during the 1950s and 1960s the कामयाबी of Keynesian economics resulted in almost all पूंजीवादी सरकारें adopting its policy recommendations.
Keynes 's influence waned in the 1970s, partly as a परिणाम of समस्याएं that began to afflict the Anglo-American economies from the start of the decade, and partly क्युकी of critiques from मिल्टन फ्राइडमैन and अन्य economists जो were pessimistic about the ability of governments to विनियमित the business cycle साथ fiscal policy.
however, the advent of the global वित्तीय crisis in 2007 caused a resurgence in Keynesian thought.
Keynesian economics provided the theoretical underpinning for आर्थिक policies undertaken in response to the crisis by राष्ट्रपतियों जार्ज W. बुश and Barack Obama of the United राज्य, Prime मंत्री गॉर्डन Brown of the United Kingdom, and अन्य heads of governments.
In 1999, Time पत्रिका included Keynes in उनके सूची of the 100 सबसे important and influential people of the 20th century, commenting that : `` His कट्टरपंथी विचार that governments should spend money वे do n't have may have saved capitalism. ''
in जोड to being an economist, keynes was भी a civil servant, a director of the British Eugenics Society, a director of the Bank of इंग्लैण्ड, a संरक्षक of the arts and an art कलेक्टर, a part of the Bloomsbury Group of intellectuals, an advisor to several charitable trusts, a writer, a philosopher, a private investor, और a किसान.
This 1768 parchment ( 612×502 mm ) by Jekuthiel sofer emulated the 1675 Ten Commandments at the Amsterdam Esnoga synagogue.
The टेन Commandments, also ज्ञात as the decalogue, are a नियत of biblical laws relating to ethics and worship, which play a fundamental role in Judaism, islam और Christianity.
They include instructions to worship तभी God, to keep the sabbath holy और prohibitions विरूद्ध idolatry, blasphemy, murder, theft, deception and व्यभिचार.
Different groups follow थोड़ा different traditions लिये interpreting और numbering them.
The Ten Commandments appear twice in the यहूदी Bible, in the books of Exodus और deuteronomy.
According to the story in Exodus, God inscribed them on two स्टोन टैबलेट, जिससे he gave to मूसा on Mount Sinai.
आधुनिक स्कॉलरशिप has found संभावित influences in Hittite और Mesopotamian कानून and treaties, but is divided over exactly when the Ten Commandments were लिखा और who wrote them.
The discography of the अंग्रेज़ी वैकल्पिक rock band the Smiths consists of चार स्टुडियो एल्बम, एक extended play ( EP ), one live album, ten compilation albums, बीस singles, one video album और चौदह music वीडियो on the Rough Trade, sire and WEA record labels.
The band थी formed in 1982 in Manchester by vocalist Morrissey, guitarist Johnny marr, बास खिलाड़ी Andy Rourke and drummer माइक Joyce.
Despite being championed by बीबीसी Radio 1 disc jockey जॉन Peel, the बैंड 's debut सिंगल, `` Hand in Glove `` ( may 1983 ), failed to चार्ट.
इसके follow-up, `` इस आकर्षक Man `` ( October 1983 ), met साथ critical acclaim और पहुँचे number twenty-five on the uk singles Chart.
The smiths ' cult status was followed by mainstream कामयाबी in 1984, as they पहुँचे क्रमांक twelve in the uk with the `` What Difference Does It मेक ? `` सिंगल and reached number two on the uk Albums Chart साथ their debut album, The Smiths ( 1984 ).
Their next तीन singles सब reached the top twenty of the charts in the UK, helping to consolidate their पिछला चार्ट कामयाबी.
the next स्टुडियो album, Meat Is Murder ( 1985 ), reached the शीर्ष of the British चार्ट ; however, the only single to be released from the एल्बम, `` That चुटकुला is n't Funny Anymore `` ( 1985 ), failed to break the UK Top 40.
returning to form, The smiths ' next छह singles all पहुँचे the उच्चतर than क्रमांक thirty in the UK and their third album, The Queen Is मुर्दे ( 1986 ), reached number दो in the uk.
Despite the band 's चार्ट success, Marr left the समूह in August 1987 due to a strained relationship with Morrissey.
failing to find a replacement, The Smiths disbanded by the समय their final studio album, Strangeways, Here We Come, was released in सितंबर that year.
strangeways, यहाँ We आइये reached क्रमांक दो in the uk and became the बैंड 's highest-charting रिलीज in the United राज्य जब it reached number fifty-five on the Billboard 200.
In जल्दी 1992, wea acquired the entire back catalogue of The Smiths और उत्पादित two compilations – बेहतरीन... I and... Best ii – the first of जिससे reached the top of the UK Albums Chart.
WEA released two further singles compilations in 1995 and 2001, with a further compilation, the Sound of The Smiths, released in November 2008.
गए with the हवा is a अनोखा लिखा by Margaret Mitchell, first प्रकाशित in 1936.
It is often placed in the साहित्यिक sub-genre of the historical romance अनोखा.
However, it रै been argued the novel is a `` near miss '' and does नहीं contain all of the elements of the romance genre, making it simply a historical अनोखा.
The story is set in क्लेटन County, Georgia, and Atlanta during the American सिविल War and पुनर्निर्माण.
It depicts the अनुभवों of Scarlett O'Hara, the spoiled बेटी of a well-to-do वृक्षारोपण मालिक, जो must use every means at her disposal to come out of the गरीबी she पाता herself in after शरमन 's `` March to the Sea ''.
Margaret Mitchell began writing Gone साथ the Wind in 1926 to pass the time while recovering from an auto-crash चोट कि refused to चंगा.
In April 1935, हेरोल्ड लैथम of Macmillan, an editor who was looking for नई fiction, read what she had written and saw that it could be a best-seller.
After लैथम agreed to publish the किताब, Mitchell worked for another छह months checking the historical references, and rewrote the खोलने chapter several times.
Mitchell and her husband John Marsh, a copy editor by trade, edited the final version of the novel.
मिशेल wrote the book 's final पल पहला, and then wrote the events कि led up to it.
As to कया became of her lovers, Rhett and Scarlett, after the novel ended, मिशेल did not जान, and said, `` लिये all I जान, रहेट may have found someone else जो थी less difficult. ''
Mitchell प्राप्त the Pulitzer Prize for Fiction for the book in 1937.
The book was adapted into a 1939 American फिल्मी.
Gone with the हवा is the only अनोखा by Mitchell published during उसके आजीवन.
endodontics ( from the यूनानी endo `` inside '' ; and odons `` tooth '' ) is एक of the dental specialties recognized by the American Dental Association, Royal College of Dentists of Canada, and Royal Australasian College of Dental Surgeons, and deals with the tooth pulp and the ऊतकों surrounding the root of a दाँत.
Endodontists perform a किस्में of procedures including endodontic therapy ( commonly ज्ञात as `` रूट canal therapy '' ), endodontic retreatment, surgery, treating cracked teeth, and treating dental trauma.
Root canal therapy is one of the सबसे common procedures.
If the गूदा ( containing nerves, arterioles, venules, lymphatic tissue, and fibrous tissue ) becomes diseased or घायल, endodontic treatment is जरूरी to सहेजें the tooth.
सीरियल Attached SCSI ( SAS ) is a point-to-point serial protocol that moves आंकड़ा to and इससे computer भंडार devices ऐसे as मुश्किल ड्राइव and tape ड्राइव.
sas replaces the पुरानी Parallel scsi ( pronounced `` scuzzy '' ) bus technology that first appeared in the mid-1980s.
SAS, like its predecessor, uses the मानक SCSI command set.
sas offers backward compatibility with second-generation SATA ड्राइव.
SATA 3 Gbit/s ड्राइव may be connected to SAS backplanes, लकिन SAS ड्राइव can नहीं connect to SATA backplanes.
the T10 technical committee of the International Committee for Information प्रौद्योगिकी Standards ( INCITS ) develops और maintains the SAS protocol ; the SCSI Trade संघ ( SCSITA ) promotes the technology.
भाग of the constitutional provision as it appeared in 1787
Status as a natural-born citizen of the United States is एक of the eligibility requirements established in the संयुक्त States संविधान for election to the दफ्तर of President or Vice President.
इस requirement was intended to protect the स्वदेश from foreign influence.
the संविधान करता not define the phrase natural-born citizen, और various opinions have been offered over time regarding its precise meaning.
a 2011 congressional Research सेवा report stated
The natural-born-citizen clause रै महरूम mentioned in passing in अनेक decisions of the संयुक्त States Supreme अदालत और निम्नतर courts dealing साथ the सवाल of eligibility for citizenship by birth, but the Supreme अदालत has never directly addressed the सवाल of a specific presidential or vice-presidential candidate 's eligibility as a natural-born citizen.
Kurtis Eugene `` Kurt '' Warner ( born June 22, 1971 ) is a former American football खिलाड़ी.
he played क्वार्टरबैक for three National Football League ( एनएफएल ) teams : the St. Louis Rams, the नई York Giants, और the एरिज़ोना कार्डिनल्स.
he थी originally हस्ताक्षरित by the Green Bay Packers as an undrafted फ़्री agent in 1994 after playing college football at उत्तरी Iowa.
Warner would go on to be माना the best undrafted player of all time, following a 12-year करियर regarded as एक of the महानतम stories in NFL history.
warner first attained stardom जबकि playing for the st. Louis मेढ़ों from 1998 to 2003, जहाँ he won two NFL MVP awards in 1999 और 2001 as well as the Super Bowl MVP पुरस्कार in Super कटोरी xxxiv.
he led the 2008 Arizona Cardinals to Super Bowl xliii ( the franchise 's first सुपर Bowl berth ), and owns the three उच्चतम single-game passing yardage totals in Super कटोरी history.
warner currently holds the seventh-highest career passer rating of all-time ( 93.7 ), and the third-highest करियर पूर्णता percentage in NFL इतिहास with 65.5 %.
In 13 करियर playoff खेल, warner बाँधने first all-time in completion percentage ( 66.5 % ), yards per attempt ( 8.55 ), and दूसरी in passer rating ( 102.8 ).
he also holds the highest completion percentage for a single game during the नियमित ऋतु, at 92.3 percent ( 24/26 ), on September 20, 2009, against the Jacksonville Jaguars.
he घोषित his retirement on January 29, 2010. < ref name='CNN 2010-01-29 ' >
Janet काय Ruthven hagan ( ; born may 26, 1953 ) is the junior संयुक्त राज्य Senator इससे North कैरोलिना, in office since January 2009.
Previously she served in the उत्तर कैरोलिना सीनेट from 1999 to 2009.
वो is a सदस्य of the Democratic पार्टी and is viewed as a moderate सदस्य of her party.
जब Hagan defeated Republican incumbent Elizabeth Dole in the 2008 United States सीनेट चुनाव, she became the first woman to शिकस्त an incumbent woman in a Senate election.
The Heisman Memorial Trophy Award ( usually ज्ञात colloquially as the Heisman Trophy or the Heisman ), is awarded annually to the player deemed the most outstanding player in collegiate फ़ुटबॉल.
It was created in 1935 as the Downtown Athletic Club trophy और renamed in 1936 following the death of the Club 's एथलेटिक director, जॉन Heisman ( former भूरा University and विश्वविद्यालयों of Pennsylvania player ; सिर फ़ुटबॉल coach at Oberlin कॉलेज, Auburn विश्वविद्यालयों, clemson University, Rice University, and the University of पेन्सिलवेनिया ; and football, बास्केट, and बेसबॉल head coach और athletic निदेशक at जॉर्जिया Tech ).
the award is प्रस्तुत by the Heisman Trophy विश्वास in early December before the postseason bowl games.
It is the oldest of several overall awards in college football, including the Maxwell Award, Walter Camp Award, और the AP Player of the Year.
The heisman और the ap खिलाड़ी of the Year हैं the तभी awards to honor the most outstanding खिलाड़ी, जबकि the मैक्सवेल Award and Walter शिविर पुरस्कार recognize the बेहतरीन खिलाड़ी, and the Archie griffin Award recognizes the most valuable खिलाड़ी.
the संयुक्त राष्ट्र कमांड ( unc ) is the unified command structure लिये the multinational military forces supporting the गणतंत्र of Korea ( South कोरियाई or rok ) during and after the Korean War.
After troops of the लोकतांत्रिक लोगों 's Republic of Korea ( उत्तर Korea or DPRK ) invaded South कोरियाई on June 25, 1950, the United Nations सुरक्षा Council adopted रेज़ोल्यूशन 82 calling on उत्तर कोरियाई to cease hostilities और withdraw to the 38th समानांतर.
On June 27, 1950, it adopted रेज़ोल्यूशन 83, recommending कि members of the United Nations provide assistance to the Republic of Korea `` to repel the हथियारबंद attack and to restore international सलाम and security to the area ''.
Security परिषद Resolution 84, adopted on July 7, 1950, recommended that members providing military शक्तियां and अन्य assistance to दक्षिण कोरियाई `` मेक ऐसे forces and अन्य assistance available to a unified command under the United राज्य of America ''.
Although the resolutions suggested the forces under the UNC were `` United Nations शक्तियां '', and United Nations itself could be माना a belligerent, in practice the United Nations exercised no control over the कॉम्बैट forces, which यहूद controlled by the United States.
Most observers concluded that the शक्तियां under the unc were नहीं in law United राष्ट्र सैनिकों, और the अधिनियमों of the UNC were not the acts of the संयुक्त Nations.
The UNC can be regarded as an गठबंधन of national armies, ऑपरेटिंग under the collective सही of self-defense.
On August 29, 1950, the अंग्रेजों Commonwealth 's 27th Infantry Brigade arrived at बुसान to join the UNC, which जबतक तब शामिल तभी ROK और U.S. forces.
the 27th ब्रिगेड moved into the Naktong River लकीर वेस्ट of Daegu.
Troop units from अन्य countries of the UN followed in rapid succession ; Australia, belgian United Nations कमांड, Canada, Colombia, Ethiopia, France, Greece, ध्वज, the Netherlands, New जीलैंड, the फिलीपीन, थाईलैंड और Turkey.
the Union of दक्षिण Africa provided air units which fought alongside the air forces of other सदस्य nations.
डेनमार्क, India, Norway, and Sweden provided medical इकाई.
Italy provided a hospital, even हालांकि it was not a un member.
The संयुक्त Nations Command and the Chinese-North Korean कमांड हस्ताक्षरित the कोरियाई Armistice अनुबंध on 27 July 1953, समाप्ति the भारी लड़.
The armistice agreement स्थापित the Military Armistice Commission ( MAC ), consisting of representatives of the two signatories, to supervise the implementation of the armistice terms.
the North Korean-Chinese MAC has been replaced by panmumjon प्रतिनिधि अंतर्गत exclusive उत्तर Korean प्रबन्धन.
Regular meetings have महरूम stopped, हालांकि duty officers of Joint सुरक्षा क्षेत्रफल, commonly known as the Truce गाँव of Panmunjom, from प्रत्येक side meet regularly.
Lincoln Heights is an American family नाटक television series about Eddie Sutton, a Mission Vista police officer who moves his family back to उसके old neighborhood, Lincoln Heights, to प्रारंभ a new life and to help आउट उसके old पड़ोस.
It is a dangerous place to raise a परिवार, और through the many trials the परिवार goes through, they soon learn that settling in is नहीं as आसान as it seems.
While Officer Sutton struggles to cope with every दिन life as a street cop in Los Angeles, उसके kids कोशिश to fit in at their new स्कूलों and साथ their new neighbors.
The show premiered January 8, 2007 on the ABC Family network साथ 13 एपीसोड ordered for the first season.
it थी approved for a दूसरी season, which premiered September 4, 2007.
Vanessa Hudgens ' सोंग, कह OK था been used in a commercial to promote the second ऋतु.
To प्रचार the तीसरा season, they showed clips of cassie and चार्ल्स 's संबंध to the song, Crush by the अमरीकी आइडल 's सातवाँ season runner-up, David Archuleta.
To promote season 4, they 're using the song, Avalanche by Marie Digby.
the दिखाएँ 's theme सोंग was written and performed by bassist Stanley क्लार्क and singer-songwriter Blaire Reinhard.
On January 29, 2010, एबीसी Family announced the cancellation of the series after four seasons.
A Christian denomination is an identifiable धार्मिक body अंतर्गत a common name, structure, and doctrine within christianity.
In the Orthodox tradition, churches are divided often along ethnic and linguistic lines, into separate churches and परंपराओं.
Technically, divisions between एक group and another are defined by doctrine और church प्राधिकार.
मुद्दे such as the प्रकृति of यीशु, the authority of apostolic उत्तराधिकार, eschatology, and papal primacy separate one denomination इससे another.
the रोमन Catholic गिरिजाघर is the largest denomination साथ over 1.1 billion members, over half of all Christians worldwide, making it the largest denomination for कोई religion विश्वव्यापी ( although the church करता not view itself as a denomination, but as the original pre-denominational गिरिजाघर ).
Protestant denominations comprise roughly 38–39 % of ईसाइयों worldwide, and together the catholics, protestants, Anglicans, and अन्य closely सम्बन्धित denominations comprise Western christianity.
The पूर्वी Orthodox Church, Oriental Orthodox Churches and the assyrian Church of the East are considered Eastern Christian denominations.
Western Christian denominations जीतना in Western Europe and its former colonies.
Eastern ईसाई denominations हैं represented mostly in Eastern यूरोपीय, the Middle East and North Africa.
ईसाइयों have विभिन्न doctrines about the Church, the देह of faithful कि they मानना was established by यीशु Christ, and how the divine church corresponds to Christian denominations.
Both the Catholics and the Eastern Orthodox consider each of themselves solely to faithfully represent the एक Holy कैथोलिक और Apostolic गिरिजाघर to the exclusion of the other.
protestants अलग from the Catholic Church because of theologies और practices that they considered to be in violation of their interpretation.
Generally, सदस्यों of the विभिन्न denominations acknowledge each other as Christians, at least to the extent that they have mutually recognized baptisms and acknowledge historically orthodox views including the Divinity of Jesus and doctrines of sin and salvation, even though doctrinal and ecclesiological obstacles hinder full communion between churches.
चूंकि the reforms surrounding Vatican II, the कैथोलिक Church has referred to प्रोटोस्टेंट communities as `` denominations '', while reserving the पद `` church '' for apostolic churches, including the पूर्वी Orthodox ( see subsistit in and शाखा theory ).
वहीँ are however some non-denominational Christians जो do not follow any particular branch.
the panda ( Ailuropoda melanoleuca, lit.
`` black and white cat-foot '' ), also known as the giant panda to फर्क it इससे the unrelated red panda, is a bear देशी to central-western और south western China.
It is easily recognized by the large, distinctive ब्लैक patches around इसके आँखें, over the कानों, और across its round body.
हालांकि it belongs to the order Carnivora, the panda 's diet is 99 % बाँसुरी.
Pandas in the wild will occasionally खा other grasses, wild tubers, or even meat in the रूप of birds, rodents or carrion.
in captivity, they may प्राप्त honey, eggs, मछली, yams, shrub पत्ते, oranges, or bananas साथ साथ specially prepared food.
The giant panda lives in a few पहाड़ ranges in central चीन, mainly in Sichuan province, but also in the Shaanxi and Gansu प्रांतों.
As a result of farming, deforestation and other development, the panda has been driven out of the lowland क्षेत्रों where it once जिया.
The panda is a conservation reliant endangered प्रजाति.
A 2007 रपट shows 239 pandas living in captivity अंदर China and another 27 outside the country.
Wild population estimates vary ; one estimate shows कि वहीँ are about 1,590 individuals living in the wild, while a 2006 पढ़ाई via DNA analysis estimated that this फिगर could be as high as 2,000 to 3,000.
कुछ reports also show that the number of pandas in the जंगली is on the rise.
However, the IUCN does नहीं मानना वहीँ is पर्याप्त certainty yet to reclassify the species इससे Endangered to Vulnerable.
While the dragon has प्रायः served as China 's national emblem, internationally the panda appears at least as commonly.
As such, it is बनने widely used within China in अंतरराष्ट्रीय contexts, for उदाहरण the पाँच fuwa mascots of the Beijing Olympics.
The Kite Runner is a 2007 अमरीकी drama film निर्देशित by मार्क Forster based on the novel of the same नाम by खालिद Hosseini.
it tells the story of Amir, a well-to-do boy इससे the Wazir Akbar खान district of काबुल, who is tormented by the guilt of abandoning his dost Hassan, the son of his father 's hazara servant.
The story is set against a backdrop of tumultuous कार्यक्रम, इससे the पतन of the साम्राज्य in अफगानिस्तान through the Soviet military intervention, the द्रव्यमान exodus of Afghan refugees to Pakistan और the United States, and the Taliban शासन.
Though most of the फिल्मी is नियत in Afghanistan, these parts were mostly shot in काश्गर, चीन, due to the dangers of filming in Afghanistan at the time.
the majority of the फिल्मी 's dialogue is in Dari, with the remainder बोला in English.
The child अभिनेताओं are native speakers, लकिन several adult अभिनेताओं had to learn Dari.
Filming लपेटा up on December 21, 2006, and the film was expected to be released on नवम्बर 2, 2007.
However, after concern for the safety of the young actors in the film due to fears of violent reprisals to the यौन प्रकृति of some scenes in which they appear, its release date थी pushed वापस six सप्ताह to December 14, 2007.
The पतंग Runner was released on DVD on कूच 25, 2008.
A HD DVD release was घोषित for the same date, लकिन was canceled following the स्वरूप 's demise.
The film was nominated लिये the सुनहरी ग्लोब पुरस्कार for Best Foreign भाषा Film in 2007.
The film 's score by Alberto Iglesias थी nominated लिये Best Original Score at the Golden Globes and the Academy Awards.
the legality of cannabis varies इससे country to country.
Possession of cannabis is illegal in most countries and has been since the शुरूआत of widespread कैनबिस prohibition in the late 1930s.
However, many देशों have decriminalized the कब्ज़ा of छोटी quantities of cannabis, विशेषकर in North America, दक्षिण अमेरिका and Europe.
Furthermore, possession is विधिक or effectively legal in the Netherlands, North Korea and would be in the u.S. states of Colorado and Washington if it were not लिये federal law, which governs persons in all राज्य.
The medicinal use of cannabis is legal in a क्रमांक of countries, including Canada, the Czech गणतंत्र और Israel.
While संघीय law in the United States bans all बिक्री and possession of कैनबिस, enforcement varies widely at the राज्य level और some राज्य have established medicinal मारिजुआना programs in कि contradict संघीय law ; two states ( Colorado and Washington ) have repealed their कानून prohibiting the recreational use of cannabis and replaced उन्हें with a नियामक regime, also contrary to संघीय statute.
Some देशों have कानून that हैं not as vigorously prosecuted as others but, apart from the countries कि प्रस्ताव अभिगम to medical marijuana, सबसे देशों have विभिन्न penalties ranging from lenient to very severe.
कुछ infractions are taken more seriously in some countries than अन्य in regard to the cultivation, use, कब्ज़ा or transfer of cannabis for recreational use.
A few jurisdictions have lessened penalties लिये possession of छोटी quantities of cannabis, making it punishable by confiscation और a fine, rather than imprisonment.
कुछ jurisdictions/ drug courts उपयोग अनिवार्य treatment programs लिये young or बारंबार users, with स्वतंत्रता from narcotic दवाएँ as the goal and a few jurisdictions परमिट cannabis use लिये औषधीय उद्देश्य.
There are also परिवर्तन in a अधिक restrictive दिशा as in Canada.
Drug tests to detect cannabis हैं increasingly common in अनेक countries and have resulted in jail sentences and लोगों खोने उनके jobs.
However, सरल possession can carry long jail वाक्य in some countries, particularly in parts of East Asia and Southeast Asia where the बिक्री of cannabis may सीसे to a sentence of जीवन in prison or even execution.
loxahatchee is a community स्तिथ in Palm Beach County, Florida, संयुक्त States.
It is located in the areas उत्तर of वेलिंगटन and west and northwest of Royal Palm बीच, फ्लोरिडा and approximately west of West Palm Beach.
Loxahatchee is भी the नाम of the Post दफ्तर कि serves this area, जिससे is under the zip code of 33470.
The name Loxahatchee अर्थात् `` कछुआ river. ''
Loxahatchee is located within the भारतीय trails Improvement District और the loxahatchee groves Water कंट्रोल District.
शेर देश Safari, a drive-through safari पार्क, is located in loxahatchee.
in 2006, the state of Florida स्वीकृत incorporation of part of Loxahatchee as the Town of loxahatchee Groves to become the 38th नगरपालिका in Palm Beach काउंटी.
The main reason for incorporating थी to better protect the क्षेत्रफल from बुवाई growth और to बचाना the rural character of the neighborhood.
Perhaps the सबसे rural area भीतर a close निकटता to West Palm बीच, with lot sizes range from 1-20 एकड़.
Along with The acreage, it is notable for loose जमीन प्रतिबंध और the देशी and exotic animal presence is quite notable.
Seminole लकीरें High स्कूल serves the क्षेत्रफल.
The Canadian नागरिकता Test is a test, administered by Citizenship and आव्रजन कनाडा ( CIC ), that is required for सब applicants for Canadian citizenship who are aged between 18 and 54 और who meet the basic requirements for citizenship.
The test is available in दोनो French and English, the official languages of Canada.
Renaissance Cruises, originally founded in 1989 स्वामित्व by Fearnley & Eger Rederi in Oslo - Norway, later purchased by Edward Rudner ( founder of alamo Car Rental ) as the company faltered during the Gulf युद्ध.
They operated year-round cruise itineraries to the Mediterranean, the Greek Isles, Tahiti and the South Pacific, Northern Europe and scandinavia.
The company ceased operations on 25 सितंबर 2001 and accommodated up to 220,000 अतिथि in 2000.
While the कम्पनी had महरूम in poor financial health लिये quite some time, the economic decline resulting from the सितंबर 11th terrorist attacks हैं credited साथ the demise of this क्रूज line.
The बेड़े is listed under List of cruise ships.
It was headquartered in Fort lauderdale, Florida.
Epithelium is one of the four मौलिक प्रकार of एनिमल ऊतक, along with संयोजी tissue, muscle tissue and बेचैन tissue.
Epithelial tissues line the cavities and surfaces of structures throughout the body, और also form many glands.
Functions of epithelial cells include secretion, चयनात्मक absorption, protection, transcellular transport और detection of sensation.
In यूनानी `` ἐπί '' ( `` epi '' ) means `` on '' or `` upon '', and `` θηλή '' ( `` thēlē '' ) means `` nipple ''.
Epithelial layers are avascular, so they जरूर receive nourishment via diffusion of substances from the underlying संयोजी tissue, through the तहखाने झिल्ली.
Epithelia can also be organized into clusters of cells that फलन as exocrine and endocrine ग्रंथियों.
केंट E. Hovind ( born January 15, 1953 ) is an American यंग धरती creationist.
Hovind has spoken on creation science and has aimed to convince listeners to reject theories of evolution, भूभौतिकी, and cosmology in favor of his interpretation of the Genesis creation narrative from the Bible.
Hovind 's views are contradicted by scientific evidence and कुछ of his ideas have also been criticized by young Earth creationist संगठन such as Answers in Genesis.
hovind established the Creation Science Evangelism in 1991, and frequently spoke on यंग Earth creationism at seminars at private schools और churches, debates, और on रेडियो and television प्रसारण.
Since जनवरी 2007, Hovind has महरूम serving a ten-year थाना sentence after being convicted of 58 संघीय counts, सहित 12 tax offenses, एक count of obstructing संघीय agents, and 45 counts of structuring नकदी transactions.
He is incarcerated at the Federal Correctional Institution at बर्लिन, नई Hampshire.
Bride with Bindi decorated माथे
A bindi (, from Sanskrit bindu, meaning `` a drop, छोटी particle, बिन्दु '' ), or a pottu/bottu ( in तमिल, Telugu, and Malayalam ) is a forehead decoration worn in South Asia ( विशेषकर India, Bangladesh, Nepal, श्री लंका and Mauritius ) and Southeast एशिया.
traditionally it is a bright बिन्दु of red रंग लागू in the center of the forehead बंद to the eyebrows, but it can भी consist of a sign or piece of jewelry worn at this location.
the New York gubernatorial election of 2010 was held on मंगलवार, November 2, 2010, to elect the Governor of New York, to serve a four-year term that began in January 2011.
लाज़िम Democratic Governor David paterson, elected as लेफ्टिनेंट Governor in 2006 as the running mate of former Governor Eliot Spitzer, chose नहीं to चलाएं लिये a full-term.
On November 2, New York Attorney General and Democrat Andrew cuomo defeated रिपब्लिकन Carl Paladino.
Green पार्टी प्रत्याशी Howie Hawkins received over 57,000 votes, allowing the नई York Green Party to be listed on the ballot for the next 4 years.
the main डाल of Dragon Ball at the end of the manga.
The Dragon Ball manga and anime series features an extensive cast of characters created by Akira Toriyama.
The series takes प्लेस in a fictional universe, the same as Toriyama 's previous series dr. Slump, and follows the adventures of martial कलाकार बेटे Goku from childhood to adulthood as he खोज लिये the seven spheres known as the Dragon Balls, used to summon a wish-granting ड्रैगन.
During the course of the story, he मुठभेड़ों allies such as Bulma, Yamcha, Kuririn और Trunks, rivals ऐसे as tenshinhan, Piccolo and Vegeta, और दुश्मनों such as Freeza और Cell.
While many of the characters हैं humans with superhuman strength and/or supernatural abilities, the डाल भी includes anthropomorphic पशु and later, extraterrestrial lifeforms.
the series भी शामिल depictions of the आफ्टरलाइफ, with several characters being gods that govern the universe.
250px
The Comanche are a मैदान Indian tribe whose ऐतिहासिक territory, known as Comancheria, consisted of present day eastern नई Mexico, southern Colorado, northeastern एरिज़ोना, southern Kansas, all of ओक्लाहोमा, और सबसे of northwest Texas.
The comanche people हैं enrolled in the federally recognized Comanche Nation, in ओक्लाहोमा.
Historically, the Comanches were hunter-gatherers साथ a horse culture.
There may have been as many as 45,000 Comanches in the लेट 18th सदी.
आज, the Comanche Nation Comanche tribal enrollment numbers 15,191 साथ approximately 7,763 members residing in the Lawton – फोर्ट Sill and surrounding areas of Southwest ओक्लाहोमा.
the comanche स्वदेश Homecoming Powwow is आयोजित annually in walters, Oklahoma in mid-July.
The Comanche spoke the comanche language, a numic language of the uto-aztecan परिवार, sometimes classified as a Shoshone dialect ; however, तभी about 1 % of Comanches speak it आज.
Ethan Frome is a अनोखा published in 1911 by the Pulitzer पुरस्कार -winning American author Edith व्हार्टन.
It is set in the fictitious कस्बा of Starkfield, Massachusetts.
The novel was adapted into a film, Ethan frome, in 1993.
Times वर्गाकार Studios ( TSS ) is an American television studio located in the टाइम्स Square neighborhood of the मैनहटन borough of New York नगर, नई यॉर्क.
The studio is बेहतरीन known as the production home of ABC News ' Good Morning America ( GMA ), a morning news and talk program और खण्ड for जीएमए on एबीसी News Now.
The लास Vegas Strip World of Coca-Cola museum in 2003
Coca-Cola is a कार्बोनेटेड नरम drink बेची in stores, restaurants, and vending मशीने in every देश मगर क्यूबा और North Korea.
It is उत्पादित by The Coca-Cola कम्पनी of Atlanta, Georgia, और is often referred to simply as कोक ( a registered trademark of The coca-cola कम्पनी in the United States चूंकि March 27, 1944 ).
Originally intended as a patent medicine when it थी invented in the late 19th century by जॉन Pemberton, Coca-Cola थी खरीदा आउट by businessman Asa Griggs Candler, whose marketing tactics led कोक to its dominance of the world soft-drink मार्केट throughout the 20th century.
The company produces concentrate, which is then बेची to licensed Coca-Cola bottlers throughout the world.
The bottlers, who hold territorially exclusive अनुबंध साथ the company, उपज समाप्त product in cans and bottles from the concentrate in combination with filtered water और sweeteners.
The bottlers then sell, distribute and merchandise Coca-Cola to retail स्टोर्स और vending machines.
ऐसे bottlers include coca-cola Enterprises, which is the largest single Coca-Cola bottler in North America और पश्चिमी यूरोपीय.
the Coca-Cola Company also sells concentrate for soda fountains to major restaurants and food service वितरकों.
the Coca-Cola कम्पनी has, on occasion, introduced other cola drinks under the Coke ब्रांड name.
the most common of these is Diet Coke, with अन्य including Caffeine-Free coca-cola, Diet Coke Caffeine-Free, Coca-Cola चेरी, Coca-Cola शून्य, coca-cola Vanilla, and special versions साथ lemon, लाइम or coffee.
Based on Interbrand 's best global brand 2011, Coca-Cola was the world 's most मूल्यवान brand.
Types of bar-lines
In musical notation, a bar ( or माप ) is a खण्ड of समय पारिभाषित by a given number of beats, प्रत्येक of which are assigned a particular नोट value.
dividing music into बार provides regular reference अंक to pin पाइंट locations within a टुकड़ा of music.
It also makes written म्यूज़िक easier to follow, since each bar of स्टाफ प्रतीकों can be read and निभाई as a बैच.
Typically, a piece consists of several बार of the वही length, and in modern musical notation the number of beats in प्रत्येक बार is specified at the शुरूआत of the score by the top number of a time हस्ताक्षर ( such as 3/4 ), while the bottom number indicates the note मान of the beat ( the beat रै a quarter नोट value in the 3/4 example ).
the शब्द bar is more common in British अंग्रेज़ी, and the word measure is more common in American अंग्रेज़ी, although संगीतकारों generally समझे both usages.
in American English, although the words bar and measure are प्रायः प्रयुक्त interchangeably the correct use of the शब्द 'bar ' refers only to the लंबवत line itself, while the शब्द 'measure ' refers to the beats contained between बार.
In international उपयोग, it is equally सही to speak of bar numbers and measure संख्याएँ, e.g. ‘bars 9–16’ or ‘mm. 9–16’.
साथ the same lines, it is wise to reserve the abbreviated form ‘bb.
3–4’ इत्यादि. लिये beats only ; बार चाहिए be referred to by name in full.
the first metrically complete measure भीतर a piece of music is called ‘bar 1’ or ‘m. 1’.
When the piece begins with an anacrusis ( an incomplete माप at the head of a piece of music ), ‘bar 1’ or ‘m. 1’ is the following measure.
the 19.9 MW Gemasolar solar plant in Spain सुविधाएँ 15 घंटों of भंडार and can supply शक्ति 24 hours a दिन.
Solar energy, radiant light और heat from the सूर्य, रै been harnessed by humans since प्राचीन times using a range of ever-evolving technologies.
Solar energy technologies include सौर heating, solar photovoltaics, solar थर्मल विद्युत, solar architecture और artificial photosynthesis, जिससे can make considerable contributions to solving some of the most urgent उर्जा problems the world now faces.
सौर technologies are broadly characterized as either passive सौर or क्रियाशील solar depending on the way they capture, बदलें and वितरित solar energy.
Active solar techniques include the उपयोग of photovoltaic panels and solar थर्मल collectors to harness the energy.
passive solar techniques include orienting a building to the Sun, selecting materials साथ favorable thermal द्रव्यमान or लाइट dispersing properties, and designing spaces that naturally circulate एयर.
In 2011, the अंतरराष्ट्रीय उर्जा Agency said that `` the विकास of सस्ती, inexhaustible and साफ solar energy technologies will have huge longer-term benefits.
It will बढ़ाएँ countries’ उर्जा security through रिलायंस on an स्वदेशी, inexhaustible और mostly import-independent संसाधन, बढ़ाएँ स्थिरता, reduce pollution, lower the costs of mitigating जलवायु बदलें, and keep चट्टान ईंधन prices lower than otherwise.
These लाभ are global.
Hence the additional लागत of the incentives for जल्दी deployment चाहिए be माना सीखना investments ; वे जरूर be wisely spent and need to be widely shared ''.
Primary care may be provided in community health centres.
Primary care is the health care given by a स्वास्थ्य care provider.
Typically this provider acts as the प्रिंसिपल पाइंट of consultation for मरीजों भीतर a health care प्रणाली और coordinates other specialists that the patient may need.
ऐसे a पेशेवर can be a primary care चिकित्सक, such as a सामान्य practitioner or family physician, or depending on the locality, health system organization, and patient 's discretion, वे may देखिए a फार्मासिस्ट, a physician सहायक, a nurse practitioner, a नर्स ( such as in the United किंगडम ), a clinical officer ( such as in भाग of अफ़्रीकी ), or an Ayurvedic or अन्य traditional आयुर्विज्ञान professional ( ऐसे as in parts of Asia ).
Depending on the nature of the health condition, patients may then be referred लिये secondary or tertiary care.
`` Ocean Avenue '' is a song recorded by American pop पंक group Yellowcard.
it was released in फ़रवरी 2004 as the second सिंगल from Ocean Avenue और the third track.
It is known लिये bringing उन्हें into the mainstream, as it received numerous spins on MTV and increasing रेडियो airplay.
Ocean Avenue is a street in jacksonville, Florida, the band 's stomping grounds near उनके ऊँची school, डगलस Anderson School of the Arts, and another street mentioned in the song, Cherry Street.
The name of समंदर Avenue in jacksonville is actually बीच boulevard.
वे left their original आधार behind जब वे स्थानांतरित to Los Angeles.
The सोंग थी featured on the much Music compilation album Big चमकदार Tunes 9.
A psychiatrist is a physician who specializes in psychiatry.
a मनोचिकित्सक specializes in the उपचार of mental disorders.
psychiatrists are authorized to prescribe medicine, conduct physical examinations, अनुक्रम and interpret laboratory tests, use मनोचिकित्सा और may अनुक्रम brain इमेजिंग अध्ययन ऐसे as computed टोमोग्राफी ( ct/cat स्कैन ), चुम्बकीय resonance imaging ( mri ), and positron emission टोमोग्राफी ( PET ) scanning.
Within the framework of the World Health संगठन 's ( जो ) definition of health as a state of complete शारीरिक, दिमागी और social well-being, और नहीं merely the अनुपस्थिति of disease or infirmity, reproductive health, or sexual health/hygiene, addresses the reproductive processes, functions and system at all stages of जीवन.
Reproductive स्वास्थ्य, इसलिए, implies that people are समर्थ to have a responsible, satisfying and safer sex जीवन and that वे have the capability to reproduce and the freedom to decide if, जब and कैसा often to do so.
One interpretation of this implies कि मेन और महिलाओं ought to be सूचित of and to have access to safe, effective, affordable and acceptable विधि of birth कंट्रोल ; भी अभिगम to appropriate health care services of sexual, reproductive medicine and implementation of health education programs to stress the महत्व of women to go safely through pregnancy और childbirth could provide युगल with the best chance of having a healthy infant.
On the other हाथ individuals do face inequalities in reproductive health services.
Inequalities vary based on socioeconomic औकात, शिक्षा स्तर, age, नस्ल, धर्म, और संसाधन available in their environment.
It is possible for example, कि कम income individuals कमी the resources लिये appropriate health services और the knowledge to know what is उचित for maintaining reproductive health.
According to the जो, `` Reproductive and sexual ill-health accounts for 20 % of the global burden of ill-health for महिलाओं, and 14 % लिये मेन. ''
Reproductive health is a भाग of Sexual and reproductive health and अधिकारों.
This is a सूची of episodes लिये the डिज़्नी Channel original series the Suite Life on Deck, which aired लिये three seasons on Disney Channel from September 26, 2008 to May 6, 2011.
Core 2 is a brand encompassing a range of Intel 's उपभोक्ता 64-bit x86-64 single-, dual-, and quad-core microprocessors based on the Core microarchitecture.
The single- and dual-core models हैं single- die, whereas the quad-core मॉडल comprise two dies, each containing two cores, packaged in a multi-chip module.
The introduction of कोर 2 relegated the Pentium brand to the mid-range market, and reunified laptop and डेस्कटॉप CPU lines, which previously had been विभाजित into the Pentium 4, Pentium D, और Pentium m brands.
The कोर 2 brand was introduced on 27 July 2006, comprising the Solo ( single-core ), Duo ( dual-core ), Quad ( quad-core ), और in 2007, the Extreme ( dual- or quad-core CPUs लिये enthusiasts ) subbrands.
इंटेल कोर 2 processors साथ vPro technology ( designed for व्यवसायों ) शामिल the dual-core and quad-core branches.
the Super Bowl is the annual championship game of the नेशनल Football League ( एनएफएल ), the highest level of professional American फ़ुटबॉल in the संयुक्त States, culminating a season that begins in the late summer of the previous calendar year.
The Super Bowl uses Roman numerals to पहचानो each game, बल्कि than the साल in which it is आयोजित.
For example, Super Bowl I थी निभाई on January 15, 1967, following the 1966 regular ऋतु, while Super Bowl xlvii was निभाई on February 3, 2013, following the 2012 ऋतु.
The game थी निर्मित as part of a merger अनुबंध between the NFL and इसके then-rival league, the American Football League ( AFL ).
it was agreed that the दो leagues ' champion teams would play in an afl–nfl World Championship Game until the विलय थी to officially begin in 1970.
After the merger, each league थी redesignated as a `` सम्मेलन ``, and the game was तब played between the conference champions.
Currently, the National फ़ुटबॉल Conference ( NFC ) leads the series with 25 विन्स to 22 wins for the American Football सम्मेलन ( afc ).
the day on which the Super Bowl is played, now considered by some a de facto American national holiday, is called `` Super कटोरी Sunday ``.
It is the second-largest दिन लिये U.S. खाना consumption, after Thanksgiving Day.
in addition, the Super Bowl has frequently been the most watched अमरीकी television ब्रॉडकास्ट of the year.
Super कटोरी XLV, निभाई in 2011, became the most-watched American television program in history, आरेखण an औसत audience of 111 लाख दर्शक और लेने over the स्पॉट आयोजित by the पिछला year 's सुपर Bowl, which itself had taken over the # 1 spot held for twenty-eight years by the final episode of m*a*s*h.
the Super Bowl is भी among the most watched sporting कार्यक्रम in the world, almost all being North American audiences, and is दूसरी to association football ’s यूईएफए Champions League final as the most watched annual sporting इवेंट worldwide.
Because of its high viewership, commercial airtime during the Super Bowl broadcast is the सबसे महंगी of the year.
Due to the high cost of investing in advertising on the Super Bowl, companies regularly develop their most expensive विज्ञापन for this broadcast.
As a परिणाम, watching और discussing the ब्रॉडकास्ट 's commercials रै become a significant aspect of the event.
In addition, अनेक popular singers and musicians have performed दौरान the event 's pre-game and halftime ceremonies because of the exposure.
फिओना is a feminine given name.
the नाम Fiona थी invented, और पहला used, by the स्कॉटिश poet James Macpherson ( 1736–96 ), author of the ossian poems, which he claimed यहूद अनुवाद from ancient Gaelic sources ( स्त्रोत, when challenged, he never उत्पादित ).
the name was subsequently प्रयुक्त as a pseudonym by William Sharp ( 1855–1905 ), who authored several romantic works अंतर्गत the name `` फिओना macleod ''.
The name has since become लोकप्रिय in इंग्लैण्ड, Scotland and आयरलैंड.
The नाम is considered to be a Latinised form of the Gaelic word fionn, अर्थ `` श्वेत '', `` fair ''.
The name फिओना is भी sometimes used as an anglicisation of the Irish-language name Fíona, although these names are otherwise unrelated ( as Fíona is derived from an element meaning `` vine '' ).
वहीँ is also a आधुनिक tendency to equate the authentic Scottish Gaelic feminine name fionnghal साथ फिओना.
The name Fiona is rising in popularity particularly in German -speaking countries.
Fiona was the 49th सबसे popular name for baby लड़कियों born in 2008 in Germany.
फिओना was tied for तीसरा place in the ranking of most popular names for baby लड़कियों born in the tiny principality of liechtenstein in 2008.
The नाम was the 347th सबसे popular name for girls born in the संयुक्त राज्य in 2008, where it has ranked among the top 1,000 सबसे popular names for लड़कियों since 1990 and among the top 500 since 1999.
The name Fiona has been particularly popular for लड़कियों of Asian or प्रशांत Islander descent in नई York City, where Fiona क्रमित as the नवीं सबसे popular नाम for girls from those समूह in 2007.
Many languages are used, or historically have been used in the United States.
The सबसे commonly used language is अंग्रेज़ी.
There are also many भाषाएं स्वदेशी to North अमेरिका or to U.S. states or holdings in the Pacific region.
भाषाएं brought to the country by colonists or आप्रवासियों from यूरोपीय, Asia, or other parts of the world मेक up a विशाल portion of the भाषाएं फिलहाल प्रयुक्त ; अनेक languages, सहित creoles and चिह्न languages, have भी विकसित in the United States.
Approximately 337 भाषाएं हैं spoken or signed by the population, of जिससे 176 हैं स्वदेशी to the area.
Fifty-two languages formerly spoken in the country 's territory are now विलुप्त.
the किस्में of अंग्रेज़ी spoken in the संयुक्त राज्य is known as American अंग्रेज़ी.
अंग्रेज़ी is the de facto national language of the संयुक्त States, with 80 % of the population claiming it as a mother जीभ, और कुछ 95 % claiming to speak it `` well '' or `` very खूब ''.
However, no official language exists at the संघीय level.
There have been several proposals to make अंग्रेज़ी the national language in amendments to immigration reform bills, but none of ये bills has become law साथ the amendment intact.
The situation is quite varied at the state and territorial levels, with कुछ राज्य mirroring the federal policy of adopting no official language in a de jure capacity, others adopting अंग्रेज़ी alone, others officially adopting English as well as local languages, और still others adopting a नीति of de facto bilingualism.
Spanish is the second सबसे आम language in the country, and is spoken by over 12 % of the जनसांख्यिकी.
The संयुक्त States holds the संसार 's पांचवां largest spanish-speaking population, outnumbered only by मैक्सिको, स्पेन, कोलंबिया, और अर्जेंटीना.
Throughout the southwestern United राज्य, long-established Spanish-speaking समुदायों coexist with विशाल numbers of अधिक recent hispanophone आप्रवासियों.
Although many नई Latin American immigrants are less than धाराप्रवाह in English, nearly all second-generation Hispanic अमेरिकी बोलो अंग्रेज़ी fluently, while only about half स्टिल speak Spanish.
according to the 2000 US जनसांख्यिकी, people of जर्मनी ancestry make up the largest सिंगल ethnic समूह in the संयुक्त राज्य, और the German भाषा ranks fifth.
इतालवी, Polish, and French are स्टिल widely spoken among populations descending इससे immigrants इससे those countries in the early 20th century, but the use of ये भाषाएं is dwindling as the older पीढियां die.
Russian is भी spoken by अप्रवासी populations.
Tagalog and Vietnamese have over one million speakers each in the संयुक्त States, almost entirely within recent immigrant populations.
Both languages, along साथ the किस्में of the Chinese language, जापानी, and Korean, are now प्रयुक्त in elections in अलास्का, California, हवाई, Illinois, New York, टेक्सास, and Washington.
देशी American भाषाएं हैं spoken in smaller pockets of the country, but ये populations are अवरोहण, और the भाषाएं are almost never widely used outside of reservations.
Hawaiian, although having few native speakers, is an official language along साथ अंग्रेज़ी at the state level in Hawaii.
The state सरकारी of louisiana offers services और दस्तावेज़ in फ्रेंच, as does नई Mexico in Spanish.
Besides अंग्रेज़ी, स्पेनी, French, German, Navajo and other Native American भाषाएं, all other languages हैं usually learned from अप्रवासी ancestors that came after the समय of independence or learned through कुछ form of education.
1990 's Pontiac Grand am सेडान fender and क्वार्टर फलक
on an automobile, a क्वार्टर फलक ( or rear wing as it is ज्ञात in British English ) is usually considered the देह panel which goes between the rear द्वार और the ट्रंक and typically wraps around the wheel well ; however, the समान front section फेंडर ( गाडी ), between the door and the hood, is sometimes incorrectly referred to as a क्वार्टर panel.
The quarter panel is typically made of चादर मेटल, but is sometimes made of fiberglass or fiber-reinforced plastic ; although, this varies with different makes and models.
A quarter फलक is typically a welded on component of the uni-body structure or monocoque.
Replacement of a sheet metal quarter फलक typically requires it to be cut off the vehicle and a replacement part to be welded ( or sometimes bonded ) to the Vehicle.
Due to this high amount of specialized labor, a क्वार्टर panel may often be repaired बल्कि than replaced by hammering out the damage, and a body filler sometimes referred to as bondo to be applied to finalize the असली surface.
Shropshire ( or ; alternatively Salop ; abbreviated, in print तभी, Shrops ) is a काउंटी in the West मिडलैंड्स region of England.
it borders Wales to the वेस्ट, Cheshire to the north, Staffordshire to the east, Worcestershire to the south-east and Herefordshire to the south.
A एकात्मक authority ( shropshire Council ) was निर्मित on 1 April 2009, taking over इससे the previous county council and 5 district councils, और covers सबसे of the county.
The borough of telford and Wrekin has been a separate unitary प्राधिकार चूंकि 1998 but continues to be included in the ceremonial काउंटी.
the county 's population and अर्थव्यवस्था is centred on five towns : the काउंटी कस्बा of shrewsbury, which is culturally और historically महत्वपूर्ण और is located in the centre of the काउंटी ; Telford, a नई town in the east which was constructed around a number of older कस्बों, most notably Wellington, Dawley and madeley, which is today the most populous ; and Oswestry in the north-west, bridgnorth बस to the दक्षिण of Telford, और Ludlow in the दक्षिण.
The काउंटी has many further मार्केट towns, सहित Whitchurch in the उत्तर, न्यूपोर्ट बस to the north-east of telford, और Market Drayton in the north-east of the काउंटी.
the Ironbridge Gorge क्षेत्रफल is a UNESCO World विरासत Site, covering Ironbridge, coalbrookdale and a part of Madeley.
वहीँ are, additionally, other notable historic industrial sites स्तिथ around the काउंटी, such as at shrewsbury, broseley, Snailbeach and Highley as well as the shropshire Union Canal.
The Shropshire पहाड़ियाँ क्षेत्रफल of Outstanding Natural Beauty covers about a क्वार्टर of the county, मुख्यतः in the south.
shropshire is one of England 's most rural and sparsely populated counties, with the population घनत्व of the shropshire Council area being बस 91/km2 ( 337/sq mi ).
The wrekin is one of the most famous natural लैंडमार्क in the county, हालांकि the highest पहाड़ियाँ are the clee पहाड़ियाँ, Stiperstones and the Long Mynd.
Wenlock Edge is another significant भौगोलिक and geological landmark.
in the low-lying northwest of the county ( and overlapping the border with Wales ) is the Fenn 's, whixall and Bettisfield Mosses National Nature Reserve, one of the most important and best preserved bogs in ब्रिटेन.
the River Severn, ग्रेट Britain 's longest नदी, runs through the county, exiting into Worcestershire via the severn Valley.
Shropshire is landlocked, और with an area of, is England 's largest inland county.
The county पुष्प is the round-leaved sundew.
For Eurostat purposes, the county ( कम the एकात्मक ज़िला of Telford and Wrekin ) is a NUTS 3 region ( कोड ukg22 ).
The two Shropshire unitary क्षेत्रों ( covering all of the ceremonial county ), together with the अधिकारियों covering the ceremonial काउंटी of staffordshire, comprise the `` shropshire and Staffordshire '' nuts 2 region.
The Big Bang Theory cast at Comic कॉन 2009, from बाएँ : Kunal Nayyar, Simon Helberg, Kaley cuoco, जिम Parsons, and Johnny Galecki
the अमरीकी sitcom The Big बंग सिद्धान्त, created और executive उत्पादित by चक lorre and Bill prady, premiered on CBS on September 24, 2007.
the show centers on five characters : roommates शेल्डन Cooper and Leonard hofstadter, दो Caltech physicists ; Penny, a waitress and aspiring actress who lives across the hall ; and Leonard and Sheldon 's friends and co-workers aerospace engineer Howard wolowitz, और astrophysicist राजेश koothrappali.
over समय, अनेक supporting characters have been promoted to starring roles : Leslie winkle ( ऋतु 1 recurring ; season 2 regular ; season 3 guest ), a physicist colleague, and, at अलग times, a lover of both लियोनार्ड and Howard ; Bernadette Rostenkowski-Wolowitz ( season 3 पुनरावर्ती ; ऋतु 4-present नियमित ), a microbiologist, हावर्ड 's fiancée और subsequent बीवी, और पूर्व part-time वेट्रेस alongside Penny ; neuroscientist Amy Farrah Fowler ( season 3 guest ; season 4 recurring ; season 4-present regular ), who joins the group after being matched to Sheldon on a dating जालस्थल ; and कॉमिक book store-owner, स्टुअर्ट खिलते ( seasons 2–5 recurring ; ऋतु 6-present regular ), who replaces Howard as Raj 's best dost when हावर्ड is in स्पेस.
The show also सुविधाएँ numerous supporting characters, each of whom plays a prominent role in a small समूह of episodes.
The A-Team is an American action-adventure television श्रेणी, running from 1983 to 1987, परिचय a fictional group of ex– United राज्य Army Special Forces personnel जो work as soldiers of fortune, while on the run from the Army बाद being branded as war अपराधियों लिये a `` crime they did n't commit ``.
A विशेषता film based on the series थी released by 20th Century Fox on जून 11, 2010.
A comic book श्रेणी, A-Team : Shotgun Wedding, began March 9, 2010.
Diana Prince is a fictional character appearing regularly in कहानियां प्रकाशित by DC Comics.
She debuted in Sensation Comics # 1 ( जनवरी 1942 ) और serves as the civilian और secret identity of the सुपरहीरो Wonder स्त्री.
The character was created by Charles Moulton and Harry G. Peter.
Wat Phra Kaew, बैंकॉक, Thailand
वहीँ is no आधिकारिक राज्य religion in the Thai constitution, जिससे guarantees religious स्वतंत्रता लिये all Thai नागरिकों, though the king is जरूरी by law to be बौद्ध.
According to the पिछला जनसांख्यिकी ( 2000 ) 94.6 % of Thais are Buddhists of the थेरवाद परंपरा.
मुसलमान are the second largest religious समूह in Thailand at 4.6 %.
थाईलैंड 's southernmost provinces - pattani, Yala, narathiwat and भाग of Songkhla Chumphon have dominant Muslim populations, consisting of both ethnic Thai and मलय.
The southern tip of Thailand is mostly ethnic Malays.
ईसाइयों, मुख्यतः catholics, represent 0.7 % of the population.
A small but influential community of Sikhs in थाईलैंड and some हिन्दुओं also live in the country 's cities, and are heavily सगाई in retail commerce.
वहीँ is भी a small Jewish community in थाईलैंड, dating back to the 17th सदी.
चूंकि 2001, Muslim activists, generally described by the Thai government as terrorists or separatists, have rallied विरूद्ध the central government because of alleged corruption और ethnic पूर्वाग्रह on the part of officials.
थाईलैंड 's Department of Religion, currently under the Ministry of Culture, is formally responsible for the registration of religious groups in Thailand url_http जिससे hold properties through legally established foundations.
It रै oversight, along with the Immigration Police, over the work permits of प्रचारकों who are `` expatriate religious workers '' of all धर्मों.
A value added tax ( VAT ) is a form of consumption tax.
From the perspective of the buyer, it is a कर on the खरीदें price.
From कि of the seller, it is a tax only on the value added to a उत्पाद, material, or service, इससे an accounting point of दृश्य, by इस stage of its manufacture or distribution.
The निर्माता remits to the government the difference between these two amounts, and retains the बाकी for themselves to offset the कर they had previously सशुल्क on the inputs.
The value added to a उत्पाद by or with a कारोबार is the sale price चार्ज to इसके customer, minus the cost of materials और other taxable inputs.
a vat is like a sales कर in that ultimately only the समाप्त consumer is taxed.
It differs from the बिक्री कर in that, साथ the latter, the tax is एकत्रित and remitted to the government तभी once, at the point of खरीदें by the समाप्त consumer.
साथ the VAT, collections, remittances to the government, and credits लिये taxes already paid occur each time a business in the supply chain purchases products.
A रेफरी calling a high-sticking penaltyHigh
-sticking is the नाम of दो infractions in the sport of ice हॉकी that may occur when a खिलाड़ी intentionally or inadvertently plays with his or her stick above the ऊँचाई of the shoulders or above the cross बार of a हॉकी goal.
This can result in a stoppage of खेल or in a penalty.
in the rules of the नेशनल हॉकी League, high-sticking is पारिभाषित as a penalty in नियम 60 and as a non-penalty बेईमानी in Rule 80.
A stoppage in खेल परिणाम if a high स्टिक comes in contact साथ the puck and the team जो touched it regains control of the puck.
However, खेल usually continues if a player touches the puck with a high stick और the opposing team gains कंट्रोल of the puck.
if the पक goes into the opposing जाल बाद coming into सम्पर्क with a high stick, the goal is प्रतिबंधित.
The स्तर at जिससे a स्टिक is considered too high for a goal is the crossbar of the जाल.
However, if a खिलाड़ी knocks the पक into his अपना net with a high स्टिक, the goal is allowed.
A penalty is assessed if a player हमलों another player with a high स्टिक.
The खिलाड़ी is given a minor penalty unless his high stick caused an चोट, in which case the referee has the option to assess a double-minor, major or match दंड.
It is the referee 's discretion जिससे penalty to assess : the rule calls लिये a double minor for an आकस्मिक injury, or a match penalty for a deliberate attempt to injure ( whether the opposition player was actually injured ).
चोट is प्रायः decided by the high stick causing bleeding, लकिन the presence of रक्त does not automatically औसत an extra penalty is awarded.
Some referees have been known to पुरस्कार an extra penalty without the उपस्थिति of blood if the referee determines that the injury sustained was sufficient to warrant a double-minor penalty.
ठेठ modern memory कार्ड रीडर, संगत with many common स्वरुप
A मेमोरी card reader is a device, typically having a USB interface, for accessing the data on a मेमोरी card such as a CompactFlash ( CF ), Secure डिजिटल ( sd ) or MultiMediaCard ( mmc ).
Most card readers भी offer write capability, और together with the कार्ड, this can function as a pen ड्राइव.
कुछ printers and निजी computers have a built-in card reader.
A multi card रीडर is प्रयुक्त for संचार साथ more than एक प्रकार of flash मेमोरी card.
मल्टी कार्ड readers do नहीं have built-in memory capacity, but are able to accept multiple प्रकार and शैलियाँ of memory cards.
The क्रमांक of compatible memory cards varies from reader to reader and can include अधिक than 20 different प्रकार.
The क्रमांक of different memory cards कि a मल्टी card reader can accept is expressed as x-in-1, साथ x being a फिगर of मेरिट indicating the क्रमांक of memory cards स्वीकृत, ऐसे as 35-in-1.
There are तीन श्रेणी of card readers sorted by the type और quantity of the card स्लॉट : single कार्ड रीडर ( e.g. 1x sd-only ), मल्टी कार्ड रीडर ( e.g. 9-in-1 ) and series card reader ( e.g. 4x sd only ).
कुछ kinds of memory ताश with उनके own USB कृत्यों do not need the card रीडर, such as the Intelligent Stick मेमोरी कार्ड, which can plug directly into a USB स्लॉट.
the USB device class used is 0x08.
धमकाना is detrimental to students ' well-being and development.
Bullying is the use of force or coercion to गाली or intimidate others.
The बर्ताव can be habitual and involve an असंतुलन of social or physical power.
it can include मौखिक harassment or threat, physical assault or coercion and may be निर्देशित repeatedly towards particular victims, perhaps on grounds of रेस, religion, लिंग, कामुकता, or क्षमता.
If bullying is done by a group, it is called mobbing.
The शिकार of bullying is sometimes referred to as a `` target ''.
Bullying can be defined in many different ways.
The uk currently रै no legal definition of धमकाना, जबकि some U.S. states have laws विरूद्ध it.
Bullying consists of three मौलिक प्रकार of abuse – emotional, verbal, and physical.
It typically involves subtle विधि of coercion such as intimidation.
Bullying ranges from simple one-on-one bullying to अधिक complex धमकाना in which the bully may have one or अधिक `` lieutenants '' who may seem to be willing to assist the primary बुली in his or उसके bullying activities.
धमकाना in school और the कार्यस्थल is also referred to as peer abuse.
Robert W. Fuller has analyzed bullying in the कॉन्टेक्स्ट of rankism.
a धमकाना संस्कृति can develop in कोई context in which इंसान beings interact with each अन्य.
इस includes school, church, परिवार, the workplace, घर, and neighborhoods.
Happy slapping in the Instituto क्षेत्रीय federico Errázuriz, Santa Cruz, चिली
लौरा बुश और Rae leigh Bradbury ( formerly missing ) on April 4, 2007, in Austin, टेक्सास, बाद the 8-year-old introduced mrs. Bush during announcement of the future opening of the Texas Regional Office of the नेशनल Center for लापता and Exploited Children.
Rae leigh थी the first child in the U.S. to be recovered as a परिणाम of an AMBER चेतावनी जब she थी 8 weeks old in November 1998.
An एम्बर Alert or a चाइल्ड Abduction Emergency ( वही code : CAE ) is a child abduction चेतावनी प्रणाली originating in 1996, now employed in 9 countries.
AMBER is officially a backronym for America 's Missing : प्रसारण Emergency Response, named for एम्बर hagerman, a 9-year-old abducted and murdered in Arlington, Texas in 1996.
Alternate क्षेत्रीय alert names यहूद once used ; in Georgia, `` लेवी 's Call '' ( नामित बाद Levi Frady ) ; in Hawaii, `` maile Amber Alert '' ( after Maile Gilbert ) ; और Arkansas, `` Morgan Nick Amber Alert '' ( in memory of Morgan Chauntel Nick ).
एम्बर Alerts are distributed via commercial radio स्टेशन, Internet रेडियो, satellite radio, television stations, and cable TV by the Emergency चेतावनी System and noaa Weather Radio ( where they are termed `` Child Abduction आपात '' or `` Amber चेतावनियाँ '' ).
The चेतावनियाँ are also issued via e-mail, इलेक्ट्रॉनिक traffic-condition signs, the led billboards which are located बाहर of newer Walgreens locations, along with the LED/LCD लक्षण of billboard कंपनियाँ such as Clear Channel Outdoor, CBS बाहरी और Lamar, or through wireless यंत्र sms text messages.
AMBER चेतावनी has also teamed up with Google और फेसबुक to रिले सूचना regarding an एम्बर Alert to an ever growing जनसांख्यिकी.
Those interested in subscribing to receive AMBER Alerts in उनके area via SMS messages can visit बेतार एम्बर Alerts, जिससे हैं offered by law as free संदेश.
In some states, the display scrollboards in front of लॉटरी terminals are also used.
The decision to घोषित an AMBER Alert is made by each पुलिस organization ( in many cases, the state पुलिस or highway पैट्रोल ) which investigates प्रत्येक of the abductions.
पब्लिक information in an AMBER Alert usually consists of the name और description of the abductee, a description of the suspected abductor, and a वर्णन and license plate number of the abductor 's vehicle, if available.
Monica Samille Lewinsky ( born July 23, 1973 ) is an American woman with whom United राज्य President Bill Clinton admitted to having had an `` improper संबंध '' जबकि she worked at the White House in 1995 और 1996.
The affair and इसके repercussions ( which शामिल क्लिंटन 's महाभियोग ) became ज्ञात as the lewinsky कांड.
House of Night is a series of पिशाच -थीमd fantasy novels by American author P. C. डाल and उसके daughter kristin Cast.
It follows the adventures of Zoey Redbird, a sixteen-year-old girl who has just become a `` fledgling vampyre '' और is required to attend the हाउस of Night boarding school in तुलसा, Oklahoma.
the series has been on the New York Times बेहतरीन Seller सूची for 63 weeks and there are over सात million copies in छपाई in North अमेरिका अलोन.
The sixth novel, Tempted, which went on sale on October 27, 2009 with a पहला printing of a million नक़ल, entered the USA आज bestseller list that week at # 1.
in जनवरी, 2010, Gezeichnet, a German अनुवाद of चिह्नित, reached the # 1 स्पॉट on the Der Spiegel बेस्टसेलर सूची.
The श्रेणी has so far sold more than ten million books in 39 countries.
burned थी released on April 27, 2010, और like इम्तिहान, it डाला the USA आज bestseller सूची that सप्ताह at # 1.
Awakened, released in January, 2011, भी entered the list at # 1.
The series, जिससे is published by St Martin 's Press is planned to include twelve books.
In 2008, plans for a फिल्मी adaptation were भी घोषित.
The tenth किताब in the श्रेणी, छुपा, was released on October 16, 2012.
The second book in the novellas ( which give backgrounds on supporting characters ), Lenobia 's Vow, थी released जनवरी 31, 2012.
किताब eleven is currently पुकारा नाज़िल, और the Casts have घोषित that two more novellas, Neferet’s Curse, planned to be released February 19, 2013, and a prequel novel about Kalona, are to be released to coincide with the eleventh और twelfth books.
In Greek mythology, the Trojan युद्ध थी waged against the city of Troy by the Achaeans ( Greeks ) after Paris of Troy took Helen from उसके husband Menelaus king of Sparta.
The war is one of the most important events in Greek mythology and has been narrated through अनेक works of यूनानी literature, सबसे notably through होमर 's Iliad और the Odyssey.
the Iliad relates a part of the पिछला year of the घेरा of Troy ; the Odyssey describes Odysseus 's journey home.
Other parts of the war are contained in a cycle of epic कविताएं, which have बच through fragments.
एपीसोड इससे the war provided material लिये Greek त्रासदी and other works of यूनानी literature, and for रोमन कवियों सहित Virgil and Ovid.
the war originated from a quarrel between the goddesses Athena, Hera, and Aphrodite, बाद Eris, the देवी of संघर्ष और अनबन, दिया them a golden apple, sometimes known as the Apple of अनबन, चिह्नित `` for the fairest ''.
Zeus sent the देवियाँ to Paris, who judged कि Aphrodite, as the `` fairest '', should प्राप्त the ठहराना.
In एक्सचेंज, Aphrodite बना हेलेन, the most खूबसूरत of all women and wife of Menelaus, पतन in love with Paris, who took her to Troy.
Agamemnon, किंग of Mycenae और the brother of हेलेन 's husband Menelaus, led an expedition of achaean सैनिकों to Troy and besieged the नगर for ten years because of Paris ' insult.
After the deaths of many नायक, सहित the Achaeans achilles and अजाक्स, and the Trojans Hector and Paris, the नगर गिरी to the ruse of the Trojan घोड़ा.
The achaeans slaughtered the ट्रोजन्स ( except for कुछ of the women और children whom they रखा or sold as slaves ) and desecrated the मंदिरों, thus कमाई the देवताओं ' wrath.
few of the achaeans returned सकुशल to their घरों and many founded colonies in दूर shores.
The romans later traced their उत्पत्ति to aeneas, एक of the ट्रोजन्स, who थी said to have led the surviving Trojans to modern-day Italy.
The प्राचीन Greeks विचार that the Trojan War थी a historical event that था taken place in the 13th or 12th century BC, and believed that Troy was स्तिथ in modern-day तुर्कों near the Dardanelles.
By modern times, दोनो the युद्ध and the city were widely believed to be non-historical.
In 1868, however, the जर्मनी archaeologist heinrich schliemann met फ़्रैंक Calvert, who convinced Schliemann कि Troy was at hissarlik और schliemann took over Calvert 's excavations on property belonging to Calvert ; this अर्जी is now accepted by most scholars.
Whether वहीँ is कोई historical reality behind the Trojan War is an open question.
Many scholars believe that there is a historical core to the tale, though this may बस mean कि the homeric stories are a संलयन of विभिन्न tales of sieges and expeditions by Mycenaean Greeks during the कांस्य आयु.
Those who believe that the stories of the Trojan War are निकला इससे a specific historical विरोध usually date it to the 12th or 11th centuries bc, प्रायः preferring the dates given by Eratosthenes, 1194–1184 BC, which roughly corresponds with पुरातत्व evidence of a catastrophic burning of Troy viia.
Anarchists have employed certain प्रतीकों for their cause, including most prominently the circle-A and the black flag, although anarchists have historically largely अस्वीकृत the महत्व of प्रतीकों to political गति.
Since the revival of अराजकतावाद around the start of the 21st-century संयुक्त with the rise of the anti-globalization गति, anarchist cultural प्रतीकों are widely present.
The greater palatine canal ( or pterygopalatine canal ) is a passage in the skull that transmits the greater palatine artery, vein, and तंत्रिका between the pterygopalatine fossa and the oral cavity.
सतह temperature of अंटार्कटिक in शीत और summer from the European केन्द्र for Medium-Range Weather forecasts
The climate of Antarctica is the coldest on the पूरे of धरती.
Antarctica रै the lowest naturally occurring temperature कभी recorded on the मैदान on Earth : −89.2 °c ( −128.6 °F ) at Vostok स्टेशन.
It is भी अत्यधिक dry ( technically a desert ), averaging 166 mm ( 6.5 in ) of वर्षण प्रति year.
Even so, on most parts of the continent the हिम rarely melts और is eventually संपीडित to become the glacial ice that makes up the ice sheet.
Weather fronts rarely घुस दूर into the continent.
Most of Antarctica रै an बर्फ cap जलवायु ( köppen EF ) with बहुत ठंडा, generally अत्यधिक dry मौसम throughout the साल and no month averaging ऊपर 0 °C ( 32 °f ).
कुछ fringe coastal areas have a tundra जलवायु ( Köppen ET ) साथ a short summer averaging above जमने, and much higher वर्षण.
वर्तमान head coach Mike Tomlin, दौरान the 2007 season
The Pittsburgh Steelers franchise रै had 16 सिर coaches throughout its history.
Founded as the Pittsburgh Pirates in, the नाम was बदला to the Steelers prior to the season to celebrate the city 's heritage of producing steel.
Joe बच served two separate terms as head कोच and वॉल्ट Kiesling served three पृथक terms.
During the और seasons, due to the amount of players जो fought in World War II, the Steelers combined their टोली with फिलाडेल्फिया और Chicago, respectively.
During these seasons, Steelers ' coach Walt Kiesling shared coaching duties with चिकनी Neale and फिल हैंडलर, who have नहीं been included within this सूची.
Struggling for much of the franchise 's early years, the team 's first ऋतु with more wins than नुकसान was coached by Jock Sutherland in.
in, अंतर्गत Sutherland, the Steelers निभाई their first playoff खेल विरूद्ध the Philadelphia Eagles.
Ten of the 16 सिर coaches spent उनके entire पेशेवर coaching careers with the मताधिकार, including John McNally, Walt Kiesling and Chuck Noll, who have also been voted into the प्रो फ़ुटबॉल Hall of कीर्ति.
One of तभी चार मेन to कोच the वही team for 23 years, चक Noll retired in.
noll is also the only कोच in National Football League history to जीत four सुपर Bowls.
विधेयक Cowher, Noll 's बदलना, coached the Steelers to उनके fifth सुपर कटोरी विजय, in 2005.
The Steelers sixth Super Bowl win came in Super Bowl XLIII, while head coached by Mike Tomlin, the team 's वर्तमान head coach.
in criminal law, fraud is intentional deception made for personal gain or to क्षति another व्यक्तिगत ; the सम्बन्धित adjective is बेईमान, and verb is defraud.
Fraud is a crime और a civil law violation, though the specific criminal विधि definition varies by legal क्षेत्राधिकार.
Defrauding people or entities of धन or valuables is a common purpose of fraud.
A hoax also involves deception, लकिन without the intention of gain or of damaging or depriving the victim.
Fraud is a defense in a civil कार्रवाई for breach of contract or specific प्रदर्शन of a अनुबंध.
धोखाधड़ी is a basis for equitable क्षेत्राधिकार.
Passover, or Pesach ( इससे : in Hebrew, Yiddish ), tiberian :, आधुनिक Hebrew : /ˈpesaχ/ pesah, Pesakh, यहूदी : Peysekh, Paysakh, Paysokh ) is an महत्वपूर्ण Biblically -derived Jewish पर्व.
Historically, साथ with Shavuot ( `` पेंटेकोस्ट '' ) and Sukkot ( `` Tabernacles '' ), Passover is one of the तीन pilgrimage festivals ( Shalosh Regalim ) during which the entire जनसांख्यिकी of the किंगडम of यहूदा made a pilgrimage to the टेम्पल in जेरूसलम.
Samaritans still make this pilgrimage to Mount Gerizim, लकिन तभी men participate in public worship.
passover commences on the 15th of the Hebrew माह of Nisan और lasts for either सात days ( in Israel ) or आठ दिनों ( in the diaspora ).
in Judaism, a day commences at dusk and lasts जबतक the following संध्या, thus the first day of Passover तभी begins बाद संध्या of the 14th of nisan और ends at dusk of the 15th day of the month of nisan.
the संस्कार unique to the Passover celebrations commence with the passover seder when the 15th of Nisan रै begun.
In the Northern Hemisphere passover takes प्लेस in spring as the तोरा prescribes it : `` in the month of [ the ] spring '' ( בחדש האביב ).
it is एक of the सबसे widely observed Jewish holidays.
the Jewish लोगों celebrate Passover as a commemoration of उनके liberation over 3,300 years पहले by God from गुलामी in ancient मिश्र that was ruled by the pharaohs, and their birth as a nation अंतर्गत the leadership of मूसा.
It commemorates the स्टोरी of the Exodus as described in the यहूदी Bible विशेषकर in the किताब of Exodus, in which the Israelites यहूद freed from slavery in Egypt.
In the narrative of the exodus, the बाइबल tells that परमेश्वर helped the Children of Israel escape from their slavery in Egypt by inflicting ten plagues upon the प्राचीन उन्होंने पहले the pharaoh would रिलीज उसके Israelite slaves ; the tenth and worst of the plagues was the death of the मिश्र first-born.
The Israelites यहूद instructed to mark the doorposts of their homes साथ the रक्त of a slaughtered spring मेमने and, upon seeing this, the स्पिरिट of the Lord knew to pass over the first-born in these homes, hence the नाम of the holiday.
There is कुछ debate over where the पद is actually derived from.
जब the Pharaoh freed the israelites, it is said that वे left in such a hurry कि वे could not इंतजार for ब्रैड आटा to वृद्धि ( leaven ).
In commemoration, for the duration of passover no leavened bread is eaten, for which कारण it is पुकारा `` The Festival of the unleavened Bread ''.
Thus Matzo ( flat unleavened bread ) is खाया during Passover and it is a प्रतीक of the holiday.
Halley 's Comet or Comet Halley ( or ), officially designated 1p/halley, is the best-known of the short-period comets and is visible from Earth every 75–76 years.
Halley is the only short-period comet that is clearly दृश्य to the नग्न नजर from Earth, and thus the तभी naked-eye comet कि might appear twice in a human lifetime.
अन्य naked-eye धूमकेतुओं may be उज्जवल and more spectacular, लकिन will appear only once in thousands of years.
Halley 's रिटर्न to the inner सौर System have been observed and recorded by astronomers चूंकि at least 240 BCE.
Clear records of the comet 's appearances were made by Chinese, Babylonian, and मध्यकालीन European chroniclers, लकिन were not recognized as reappearances of the same ऑब्जेक्ट at the time.
the comet 's periodicity was first determined in 1705 by अंग्रेज़ी astronomer Edmond Halley, after whom it is अभी नामित.
Halley 's धूमकेतु पिछला appeared in the inner सौर प्रणाली in 1986 and होगा अगला appear in mid-2061.
During its 1986 apparition, Halley became the first comet to be observed in detail by spacecraft, providing the first observational data on the ढांचा of a comet nucleus and the mechanism of coma and tail गठन.
ये observations supported a number of longstanding hypotheses about comet construction, विशेषकर फ्रेड whipple 's `` dirty स्नोबॉल '' model, which correctly predicted that Halley होता be composed of a mixture of volatile ices – such as water, कार्बन डाइऑक्साइड and अमोनिया – and dust.
the missions भी provided data which substantially reformed and reconfigured these ideas ; लिये instance it is now समझा that हैली 's surface is largely composed of dusty, non-volatile सामग्री, and कि only a small portion of it is icy.
anti-communism is opposition to communism.
व्यवस्थित anti-communism विकसित in प्रतिक्रिया to the वृद्धि of communism, especially after the 1917 October Revolution in Russia and reaching global dimensions दौरान the Cold War.
Most anti-communists reject the concept of ऐतिहासिक materialism, which is a central idea in Marxism.
Anti-communists reject the Marxist belief that पूंजीवाद will be followed by socialism और communism, बस as सामंतवाद was followed by capitalism.
Anti-communists सवाल the validity of the Marxist अर्जी that the socialist state will `` wither away '' when it becomes unnecessary in a true communist society.
anti-communists argue कि the repression in the early सालो of bolshevik rule, while not as चरम as that during जोसेफ Stalin 's rule, was still कठोर by reasonable मानकों, citing examples ऐसे as Felix dzerzhinsky 's secret police, which eliminated numerous political opponents by extrajudicial executions, और the brutal crushing of the Kronstadt rebellion and tambov rebellion.
Some anti-communists refer to both साम्यवादी and fascism as totalitarianism, देखकर समानता between the क्रियाएँ of कम्युनिस्ट and फासिस्ट governments.
Historian रॉबर्ट conquest रै argued कि Communism was responsible for tens of millions of मौतों दौरान the 20th century.
Opponents argue that Communist पार्टियों that have आइये to power have tended to be rigidly intolerant of राजनैतिक विपक्ष.
These opponents claim that most Communist countries have दिखाया no signs of advancing from Marx 's socialist स्टेज of economy to an ideal communist stage.
Rather, Communist सरकारें have been accused of creating a नई ruling क्लास ( a Nomenklatura ), with powers और privileges greater than those previously enjoyed by the upper वर्ग in the non- कम्युनिस्ट regimes.
Gil बगुला ( 9 April 1922 – 27 November 2008 ) was a Jamaican professional footballer.
He थी the first black player to खेल for Scottish club सेल्टिक, and थी the father of poet और संगीतकार gil Scott-Heron.
He died in Detroit of a दिल attack on 27 नवम्बर 2008.
The soybean ( US ) or soya bean ( UK ) ( glycine max ) is a प्रजाति of legume देशी to ईस्ट एशिया, widely grown लिये its edible bean which has numerous uses.
The plant is classed as an oilseed rather than a पल्स by the UN खाना and Agricultural Organization ( FAO ).
Fat-free ( defatted ) soybean meal is a significant and cheap source of प्रोटीन for animal फ़ीड्स and अनेक prepackaged meals ; soy vegetable oil is another product of प्रसंस्करण the soybean crop.
For उदाहरण, soybean products such as textured vegetable protein ( TVP ) are ingredients in many मांस and दुग्ध analogues.
Soybeans produce significantly more protein per एकड़ than most other उपयोग of जमीन.
Traditional nonfermented food uses of soybeans शामिल सोया milk, and from the latter tofu and tofu स्किन.
Fermented foods include सोया sauce, fermented सेम paste, natto, and tempeh, among अन्य.
The आयल is प्रयुक्त in many industrial अनुप्रयोग.
The main producers of soy हैं the United States ( 35 % ), ब्राज़ील ( 27 % ), Argentina ( 19 % ), China ( 6 % ) and India ( 4 % ).
The सेम contain significant amounts of phytic acid, alpha-linolenic acid, and isoflavones.
Harrison Ford ( born July 13, 1942 ) is an American फिल्मी actor और producer.
He is famous for his performances as Han सोलो in the असली Star युद्धों trilogy and the title character of the इंडियाना जोन्स film श्रेणी.
Ford is also known लिये his roles as Rick Deckard in ब्लेड Runner, John Book in Witness और Jack Ryan in Patriot खेल and साफ and Present Danger.
उसके करियर रै spanned six decades और शामिल roles in several हॉलीवुड blockbusters, सहित Presumed निर्दोष, the Fugitive, एयर Force One, and What Lies Beneath.
at one point, चार of the top छह box-office hits of सब time included one of his भूमिकाएँ.
Five of his films have been inducted into the National Film Registry.
in 1997, Ford was ranked No. 1 in Empire `` The Top 100 फिल्म Stars of All Time '' list.
, the United राज्य domestic बक्सा office grosses of Ford 's films कुल over US $ 3.5 billion, with worldwide grosses surpassing $ 6 billion, making Ford the तीसरा उच्चतम grossing U.S. domestic box-office स्टार.
Ford is the husband of actress calista Flockhart.
a tube of chapstick
ChapStick is a ब्रांड name for lip balm manufactured by फाइजर उपभोक्ता Healthcare and used in many countries worldwide.
it is intended to help दावत and prevent chapped lips ; hence the name.
Many varieties भी include सनस्क्रीन in अनुक्रम to prevent sunburn.
Due to its popularity, the पद has become a genericized ट्रेडमार्क.
It popularly refers to कोई lip balm contained in a lipstick-style ट्यूब और applied in the वही manner as lipstick.
However, the term is still a registered ट्रेडमार्क, with rights exclusively स्वामित्व by Pfizer.
In Sweden और in the संयुक्त Kingdom, the product 's main competitor is lypsyl, बना by novartis Consumer Health, which is वितरित in similar packaging to ChapStick.
George Berkeley ( ; 12 March 168514 January 1753 ), भी known as Bishop Berkeley ( Bishop of Cloyne ), was an Anglo-Irish philosopher जिनकी primary उपलब्धि was the advancement of a theory he called `` immaterialism '' ( later referred to as `` subjective idealism `` by others ).
This theory denies the existence of सामग्री substance और instead contends that familiar objects जैसे टेबल and chairs are तभी ideas in the minds of perceivers, and as a result can not exist without होने आभास.
Thus, as बर्कली famously put it, लिये शारीरिक objects `` esse est percipi '' ( `` to be is to be perceived `` ).
Berkeley is also ज्ञात for उसके critique of abstraction, an महत्वपूर्ण premise in his argument for immaterialism.
In 1709, Berkeley published his first major work,, in जिससे he discussed the सीमाएं of human vision and उन्नत the theory that the proper objects of sight are not material objects, but light और रंग.
इस foreshadowed his chief philosophical कार्य A Treatise concerning the Principles of Human Knowledge in 1710 जिससे, after its ग़रीब reception, he rewrote in dialogue form और प्रकाशित under the title Three संवाद between Hylas and philonous in 1713.
In इस book, बर्कली 's views were represented by Philonous ( Greek : 'lover of दिमाग ' ), while Hylas ( यूनानी : 'matter ' ) embodies the Irish thinker’s opponents, in particular John Locke.
Berkeley argued विरूद्ध सर Isaac Newton 's doctrine of निरपेक्ष space, time and motion in De Motu ( on Motion ), published 1721.
His वितर्क were a precursor to the दृश्य of Mach and Einstein.
In 1732, he published alciphron, a Christian क्षमाप्रार्थी विरूद्ध the free-thinkers, और in 1734, he published The Analyst, an empiricist critique of the foundations of infinitesimal कलन, which थी influential in the development of गणित.
His पिछला प्रमुख philosophical work, Siris ( 1744 ), begins by advocating the medicinal use of tar water, और then continues to discuss a wide range of topics including विज्ञान, दर्शनशास्त्र, and धर्मशास्त्र.
Interest in बर्कली 's कार्य increased after संसार युद्ध ii, because he tackled many of the मुद्दे of paramount interest to philosophy in the 20th century such as the समस्याएं of perception, the difference between प्राथमिक and secondary qualities, and the importance of भाषा.
Qingdao ( ), historically known as Tsingtao, is a major नगर in eastern Shandong province, Eastern China, with a population of over 8.715 million ( 2010 census ).
Its built up area, made of 6 urban districts and 4 county-level शहरों, is home to about 4,896,000 inhabitants in 2010.
It सीमायें yantai to the northeast, Weifang to the west और Rizhao to the southwest.
Qīng ( ) in Chinese means `` ग्रीन '' or `` lush '', जबकि dǎo ( ) means `` island ''.
Qingdao is administered at the sub-provincial level.
Lying across the Shandong प्रायद्वीप जबकि looking आउट to the Yellow Sea, चिंगदाओ is a प्रमुख seaport, naval आधार, and औद्योगिक centre.
it is also the site of the Tsingtao ब्रेवरी.
The world 's longest समुद्र bridge, the Qingdao Haiwan Bridge, links the main urban क्षेत्रफल of Qingdao with Huangdao district, straddling the Jiaozhou Bay sea क्षेत्रों.
चिंगदाओ is named China 's सबसे livable city.
mimivirus is a वाइरल genus containing a सिंगल identified species नामित Acanthamoeba polyphaga mimivirus ( APMV ), or is a समूह of phylogenetically related large viruses ( designated प्रायः MimiN ).
in colloquial speech, APMV is more commonly referred to as बस `` mimivirus ''.
Until October 2011, when a larger वायरस Megavirus chilensis was described, it had the largest capsid diameter of all known viruses.
Mimivirus has a large और complex genome compared with सबसे other viruses.
mimivirus, short for `` mimicking microbe '', is so called to reflect its large आकार और apparent Gram-staining गुण.
The मैक्सिकन War of Independence ( 1810–1821 ) थी an armed विरोध between the people of Mexico और the Spanish colonial authorities which started on September 16, 1810.
The गति, which became known as the Mexican War of Independence, थी led by Mexican-born Spaniards, mestizos और amerindians who sought स्वतंत्रता from Spain.
It started as an idealistic peasants ' rebellion against their colonial मास्टर्स, but ended as an unlikely alliance between मैक्सिकन ex-royalists and Mexican guerrilla insurgents.
crohn 's disease, also known as Crohn syndrome और regional enteritis, is a type of inflammatory bowel बीमारी that may affect any part of the gastrointestinal tract इससे मुँह to गुदा, causing a wide variety of लक्षण.
It primarily causes abdominal पीड़ा, अतिसार ( which may be bloody if inflammation is at its worst ), vomiting ( can be निरन्तर ), or weight loss, but may भी cause complications outside the gastrointestinal tract such as स्किन rashes, arthritis, inflammation of the नजर, tiredness, और lack of concentration.
Crohn 's disease is caused by interactions between environmental, immunological और bacterial कारकों in genetically susceptible individuals.
इस results in a दीर्घकालिक inflammatory disorder, in which the body 's immune system attacks the gastrointestinal ट्रैक्ट possibly directed at microbial antigens.
crohn 's disease has wrongly महरूम described as an autoimmune disease in the past ; हाल investigators have described it as an immune deficiency state.
There is a genetic संघ साथ crohn 's disease, primarily with variations of the NOD2 gene and its protein, जिससे होश बैक्टीरियल cell दीवारें.
Siblings of प्रभावित individuals are at higher risk.
Males और females are बराबर affected.
Smokers are दो times more likely to develop Crohn 's disease than nonsmokers.
crohn 's disease affects between 400,000 और 600,000 people in North America.
Prevalence estimates for उत्तरी यूरोपीय have ranged इससे 27–48 प्रति 100,000.
crohn 's बीमारी tends to present initially in the teens and twenties, with another peak incidence in the fifties to seventies, हालांकि the disease can occur at कोई आयु.
There is no ज्ञात pharmaceutical or surgical cure लिये crohn 's बीमारी.
Treatment options are restricted to controlling symptoms, maintaining remission, और preventing relapse.
The बीमारी थी named बाद gastroenterologist Burrill Bernard crohn, who, in 1932, together with two other सहयोगियों at माउंट Sinai Hospital in नई York, described a series of patients साथ inflammation of the टर्मिनल ileum, the area most commonly प्रभावित by the illness.
This is an incomplete list of the tallest इमारतें and structures by country.
The सूची directly शामिल the tallest buildings and structures for each country, and जहाँ उचित, it also points to more विस्तृत country-specific सूचियाँ.
अशिष्ट और Ready is a census-designated place in नेवाडा County, California, United राज्य.
it is located west of Grass Valley, कैलिफ़ोर्निया, approximately 62 मील ( 100 km ) इससे sacramento.
the जनसांख्यिकी was 963 at the 2010 census.
youtube is a video-sharing website, निर्मित by three former PayPal employees in February 2005, on जिससे उपयोक्ता can upload, view और share videos.
The company is आधारित in सैन ब्रूनो, California, and uses Adobe Flash Video and HTML5 technology to प्रदर्शक a wide variety of user-generated video content, including फिल्म clips, TV clips, and music वीडियो, as well as amateur content ऐसे as video blogging, short original वीडियो, and educational वीडियो.
Most of the content on youtube has महरूम uploaded by individuals, although media corporations including CBS, the BBC, Vevo, hulu, और अन्य organizations offer some of their material via the site, as part of the youtube partnership कार्यक्रम.
Unregistered उपयोक्ता can watch videos, while registered users can upload an unlimited number of वीडियो.
Videos considered to contain potentially offensive content हैं available तभी to registered users at least 18 years old.
in November 2006, youtube, LLC was bought by Google लिये us $ 1.65 billion, and operates as a subsidiary of Google.
सिस्टर Act is a musical written by Cheri steinkellner और Bill Steinkellner with additional किताब सामग्री by Douglas Carter Beane, साथ lyrics by Glenn Slater and music by Alan menken.
It is आधारित on the hit 1992 फिल्मी comedy of the वही name.
the 2009 वेस्ट End production was produced by Stage Entertainment, whoopi गोल्डबर्ग, and Michael Reno लिये सिस Acts llc.
Goldberg is also a निर्माता of the 2011 Broadway adaptation.
Microsoft DirectX is a संग्रहण of application प्रोग्रामिंग interfaces ( APIs ) for handling कार्य related to मल्टीमीडिया, विशेषकर game programming and video, on Microsoft platforms.
originally, the names of these APIs सब began with Direct, ऐसे as Direct3D, DirectDraw, DirectMusic, directplay, DirectSound, and so forth.
the name DirectX थी coined as shorthand पद for all of ये APIs ( the X standing in for the particular API names ) and जल्द became the name of the collection.
जब Microsoft later नियत out to develop a gaming console, the x थी used as the basis of the नाम Xbox to indicate कि the कंसोल थी based on डाइरेक्टएक्स technology.
The X initial रै been carried forward in the naming of APIs designed लिये the एक्सबॉक्स such as XInput and the Cross-platform Audio सृष्टि Tool ( xact ), जबकि the डाइरेक्टएक्स pattern has been continued for खिड़कियाँ APIs such as direct2d and directwrite.
Direct3D ( the 3D graphics api within डाइरेक्टएक्स ) is widely used in the विकास of video खेल लिये microsoft Windows, microsoft Xbox, Microsoft Xbox 360 और some Sega Dreamcast games.
Direct3D is also used by other software अनुप्रयोग for कल्पना and graphics tasks ऐसे as CAD/CAM engineering.
As Direct3D is the सबसे widely publicized component of डाइरेक्टएक्स, it is common to see the names `` DirectX '' and `` Direct3D '' used interchangeably.
the DirectX तन्त्र development kit ( SDK ) consists of runtime libraries in redistributable binary form, along with accompanying documentation और headers for उपयोग in कोडिंग.
Originally, the runtimes were only संस्थापित by games or explicitly by the user.
Windows 95 did not launch साथ DirectX, but DirectX was included साथ Windows 95 OEM Service Release 2.
Windows 98 and Windows nt 4.0 both shipped with DirectX, as has every version of खिड़कियाँ released since.
The SDK is उपलब्धियाँ as a free download.
While the runtimes are मालिकाना, closed-source तन्त्र, सोर्स code is provided for most of the SDK नमूने.
Starting साथ the release of Windows 8 Developer Preview, DirectX SDK has महरूम integrated into Windows sdk.
Direct3D 9Ex, Direct3D 10, and Direct3D 11 are तभी available for Windows Vista and newer because प्रत्येक of these new versions was built to depend upon the new Windows प्रदर्शक Driver Model that थी introduced for Windows Vista.
The new Vista/WDDM graphics architecture शामिल a new video memory manager supporting virtualization of graphics hardware लिये various applications and सेवाएं like the Desktop Window Manager.
Quetzaltenango, भी commonly known by its indigenous नाम, Xelajú, or अधिक commonly, xela, is the second largest नगर of ग्वाटेमाला.
It is both the capital of Quetzaltenango Department and the नगरपालिका seat of quetzaltenango municipality.
It रै an estimated जनसांख्यिकी of 224,703.
the जनसांख्यिकी is about 61 % indigenous or amerindian, 34 % Mestizo or ladino and 5 % European.
quetzaltenango is located in a mountain valley at an elevation of 2,330 meters ( 7,655 ft ) ऊपर समुद्र स्तर at its lowest part.
It may पहुँचें above 2,400 मीटर within the city.
the नगरपालिका of quetzaltenango consists of an area of.
Municipalities abutting the municipality of Quetzaltenango include : salcajá, Cantel, Almolonga, zunil, El Palmar, Concepción Chiquirichapa, San Mateo, La esperanza, Olintepeque, and San Andrés Xecul.
All these municipalities हैं भाग of the Department of quetzaltenango, मगर San आन्द्रेस Xecul जिससे is a part of the विभाग of totonicapán.
the Epic of Gilgamesh, an epic poem from Mesopotamia, is amongst the earliest surviving works of literature.
the literary history of Gilgamesh begins with five independent Sumerian poems परिचय 'Bilgamesh ' ( Sumerian लिये gilgamesh ), किंग of Uruk.
Four of these were used as source material for a combined एपिक in अक्कादी.
This first combined epic, known as the `` Old babylonian '' version, dates to the 18th सदी BC और is titled after इसके incipit, Shūtur एली sharrī ( `` surpassing सब अन्य Kings '' ).
Only a few fragments of it have बच.
The later `` Standard Babylonian '' version dates from the 13th to the 10th सदियां BC और bears the incipit Sha naqba īmuru ( `` He who देखी the गहन '' ).
Fragments of approximately two thirds of this longer, twelve-tablet version have been recovered.
Some of the best copies were खोजा in the पुस्तकालयों ruins of the 7th-century bc assyrian किंग Ashurbanipal.
the story centers on a friendship between Gilgamesh और Enkidu.
Enkidu is a wild man created by the gods as Gilgamesh 's equal to distract him from oppressing the लोगों of Uruk.
Together, वे यात्रा to the देवदार Mountain to defeat Humbaba, इसके monstrous guardian.
Later वे kill the Bull of Heaven, which the goddess Ishtar sends to punish Gilgamesh for spurning her अग्रिम.
As a punishment for ये actions, the gods sentence enkidu to death.
The second हाफ of the epic focuses on Gilgamesh 's distress at Enkidu 's death, and his quest for immortality.
in order to learn the रहस्य of eternal life, Gilgamesh undertakes a long and perilous यात्रा.
He learns that `` The जीवन कि तुम are seeking you होगा never find.
When the देवताओं created man they allotted to him death, लकिन जीवन वे retained in their अपना keeping. ''
This उद्धरण was originally attributed to siduri in the Old babylonian version of the एपिक, and then attributed to the immortal flood hero Utnapishtim in the Akkadian संस्करण of the epic.
Nevertheless, Gilgamesh 's fame lived on after उसके मौत, because of उसके great भवन प्रोजेक्ट, and his account of what utnapishtim बताई him happened during the flood.
The story has महरूम translated into अनेक different languages, and gilgamesh has since become adapted in works of popular fiction.
वहीँ हैं numerous debates over who निर्मित the first वीडियो game, साथ the answer depending largely on how video खेल हैं defined.
The एवोल्यूशन of video खेल represents a tangled web of अनेक different industries, सहित वैज्ञानिक, computer, arcade, and consumer इलेक्ट्रॉनिक्स.
The `` video '' in `` video game `` traditionally refers to a raster display device.
साथ the popular कैच phrase उपयोग of the term `` video खेल '', the term now implies all display types, formats, और platforms.
इतिहासकारों have also sought to बायपास the issue by बजाय using the more विशिष्ट `` डिजिटल games '' वर्णनात्मक.
This term leaves आउट the पहले analog-based कंप्यूटर games.
This is a सूची of best-selling वीडियो खेल franchises कि have बेची or shipped at least 5 million copies.
जबतक वरना stated, संख्याएँ indicate worldwide इकाई sold, ordered alphabetically whenever two or more list the same amount.
The एक्सेप्शन are the ones specifying shipments, which have निम्नतर पूर्वता than others listing बिक्री.
Franchise बिक्री include expansion packs even हालांकि they are not considered full video खेल.
For best-selling व्यक्तिगत video games, see List of best-selling video games.
The sales आंकड़े given नीचे do नहीं शामिल arcade game sales, which can be found at सूची of highest-grossing arcade video games.
– इस color indicates a sub-series of a larger video खेल मताधिकार.
This does not necessarily लागू for series कि are not video game-based.
डोरोथी Ann Willis Richards ( सितंबर 1, 1933 – September 13, 2006 ) थी an अमरीकी politician and the 45th राज्यपाल of Texas.
She पहला आए to national attention as the state कोषाध्यक्ष of Texas, when she delivered the keynote पता at the 1988 Democratic National Convention.
Richards served as the 45th Governor of Texas from 1991 to 1995 और was पराजित लिये re-election in 1994 by George W. बुश.
ऐन Richards थी the second female governor of टेक्सास.
आंकड़ा Execution रोकथाम ( DEP ) is a security विशेषता included in आधुनिक operating systems.
it is known to be available in Linux, Mac OS x, आईओएस, microsoft Windows and Android operating systems and is intended to prevent an application or service from executing कोड इससे a non-executable मेमोरी प्रदेश.
This helps prevent certain exploits कि स्टोर code via a buffer overflow, for उदाहरण.
DEP runs in two modes : hardware-enforced DEP लिये cpu that can mark memory पृष्ठों as nonexecutable, and software-enforced DEP with limited सुरक्षा लिये CPUs that do not have हार्डवेयर support.
software-enforced DEP करता not protect against निष्पादन of कोड in data पृष्ठों, but बजाय counters SEH overwrite, another प्रकार of आक्रमण.
DEP was introduced on Linux in 2004 ( kernel 2.6.8 ), on खिड़कियाँ in 2004 with Windows XP सेवा Pack 2, while Apple introduced DEP जब they moved to x86 in 2006.
उदाहरण उदाहरण of two common futanari विसंगतियाँ
, is the Japanese word लिये hermaphroditism, which is also प्रयुक्त in a broader भाव for androgyny.
Beyond Japan the term is used to describe a commonly pornographic genre of computer games, comics and animations, which शामिल characters that show both प्राथमिक sexual विशेषताएँ.
But in today 's language it refers almost exclusively for characters who have an overall feminine appearance.
in कि case the पद is also often abbreviated as futa ( s ), जिससे is occasionally भी used as term for the works itself.
जल्दी CAPTCHAs such as these, उत्पन्न by the ez-gimpy कार्यक्रम, were used on याहू !
A modern CAPTCHA, rather than attempting to create a distorted background और high levels of warping on the टेक्स्ट, might focus on बनाना segmentation मुश्किल by adding an angled लकीर.
another way to make segmentation difficult is to crowd symbols together, as in Yahoo ! 's वर्तमान CAPTCHA format.
कुछ CAPTCHAs try to utilize the ability of people to देखिए three-dimensional objects.
on this image, symbols are drawn साथ लाइनों of different मोटाई to मेक an effect of extrusion.
a CAPTCHA ( ) is a प्रकार of challenge-response परीक्षण used in computing as an attempt to ensure that the response is उत्पन्न by a इंसान being.
The प्रक्रम usually involves a computer पूछे a user to complete a simple परीक्षण which the कंप्यूटर is able to ग्रेड.
These tests are designed to be easy for a computer to generate but मुश्किल for a computer to solve, but again easy लिये a इंसान.
If a correct solution is received, it can be presumed to have महरूम entered by a human.
A आम type of CAPTCHA requires the user to type अक्षर and/or digits इससे a distorted image कि appears on the स्क्रीन.
ऐसे परीक्षण are commonly used to prevent unwanted internet bots from accessing वेबसाइटों, चूंकि a normal human can easily पढ़ा a CAPTCHA, while the bot can नहीं प्रक्रम the image अक्षर and इसलिए, can not answer properly, or at all.
Although most CAPTCHAs हैं अक्षर pictures randomly उत्पन्न, many of them have become मुश्किल even for a इंसान to read, so picture CAPTCHAs were created in which a human is shown a simple test to दिखाएँ a चित्र of a certain एनिमल ( given few animal pictures ), which is सरल for a इंसान होने to process, and therefore easy to pick, while a bot can not process and solve the सवाल क्युकी although it can analyze the picture, it can not easily guess the animal.
The term `` captcha '' was coined in 2000 by Luis वोन ahn, Manuel Blum, Nicholas J. Hopper, and John langford ( all of कार्नेगी Mellon विश्वविद्यालयों ).
It is an acronym आधारित on the शब्द `` कैप्चर '' and खड़ा for `` completely Automated पब्लिक turing test to tell Computers and इंसानो Apart ''.
Carnegie Mellon University attempted to trademark the term on 15 October 2004, लकिन the trademark application was abandoned on 21 April 2008.
A CAPTCHA is sometimes वर्णित as a reverse turing test, because it is administered by a machine and targeted at a इंसान, in contrast to the standard Turing test that is typically administered by a human and targeted at a machine.
jacques-yves Cousteau ( ; commonly known in अंग्रेज़ी as Jacques Cousteau ; 11 June 1910 – 25 June 1997 ) was a फ्रेंच नवल officer, एक्सप्लोरर, conservationist, filmmaker, innovator, scientist, photographer, author और researcher जो studied the sea and all फ़ॉर्म of life in water.
He co-developed the Aqua-Lung, pioneered marine conservation and was a member of the académie française.
KFC ( Kentucky Fried मुर्गा ) is a तेज़ food रेस्तरां chain headquartered in Louisville, Kentucky, संयुक्त राज्य, which specializes in fried chicken.
an `` American icon '', it is the संसार 's second largest restaurant chain overall ( as measured by sales ) after McDonald 's, साथ over 18,000 आउटलेट in 120 देशों और territories.
The company is a subsidiary of यम !
Brands, a रेस्तरां कम्पनी which also owns Pizza Hut और टैको घंटी.
केएफसी थी संस्थापित by Harland सैंडर्स, जो began selling fried chicken इससे उसके roadside रेस्तरां in Corbin, केंटकी during the Great Depression.
Sanders थी एक of the first people to देखिए the potential of the restaurant franchising concept, साथ the first `` केंटकी Fried Chicken '' मताधिकार opening in Utah in 1952.
The franchise popularized chicken in the तेज़ food industry, thereby diversifying the मार्केट and challenging the दबदबा of the हैमबर्गर.
विपणन himself as `` कर्नल Sanders '', he became a legendary figure of American cultural history, and his image is still prominently प्रयुक्त in KFC branding.
the company 's rapid expansion देखी it grow too large लिये Sanders to manage, and in 1964 he sold the company to a समूह of investors led by John Y. Brown, jr. and Jack Massey.
KFC was एक of the पहला fast खाना जंजीरों to विस्तार internationally, opening outlets in इंग्लैण्ड, Mexico and Puerto Rico by the mid-1960s.
Throughout the 1970s and 1980s, KFC experienced mixed सौभाग्य domestically, as it went through a series of corporate owners who था little or no experience in the restaurant business.
In the early 1970s, KFC थी बेची to the spirits firm Heublein, who यहूद लिया over by the R.J. रेनॉल्ड्स खाना and तम्बाकू conglomerate, जो sold the कड़ी to PepsiCo.
the chain जारी to विस्तार overseas however, and in 1987 KFC became the first Western restaurant chain to open in China.
The chain रै since विस्तारित rapidly in China, और the country is now the company 's most profitable मार्केट.
पेप्सिको spun off its restaurants division as Tricon Global Restaurants, जिससे बाद changed इसके नाम to Yum !
ब्रांड्स.
केएफसी primarily sells fried chicken टुकड़े और variations such as chicken sandwiches और wraps, salads and side dishes such as French fries and coleslaw, desserts and soft drinks, often supplied by पेप्सिको.
इसके most प्रसिद्ध product is दबाव fried मुर्गा pieces, seasoned with Sanders ' `` Original Recipe '' of 11 herbs and मसाले.
the exact प्रकृति of these ingredients is unknown, and represents a notable trade secret.
Larger portions of fried मुर्गा हैं परोसा in a distinctive गत्ता `` bucket '', which has become a हस्ताक्षर of the chain since being introduced by franchisee पीट Harman.
KFC is प्रसिद्ध for the स्लोगन `` finger lickin ' good '', जिससे has since been replaced by `` Nobody करता chicken जैसे KFC '' and `` So good ''.
Cnidaria ( with a मूक c ) or Coelenterata is a phylum containing over 10,000 प्रजाति of animals मिला exclusively in जलीय और mostly समुद्री environments.
उनके distinguishing feature is cnidocytes, specialized cells that they use mainly for capturing prey.
उनके bodies consist of mesoglea, a non-living jelly-like substance, sandwiched between दो layers of epithelium that are mostly one कोशिका thick.
They have two basic body forms : swimming medusae and स्थानबद्ध polyps, both of which हैं radially symmetrical with mouths surrounded by tentacles that bear cnidocytes.
Both forms have a single orifice and body cavity कि हैं used for पाचन and respiration.
Many cnidarian species उपज colonies कि are single organisms composed of medusa-like or polyp-like zooids, or दोनो.
Cnidarians ' activities are coordinated by a विकेन्द्रित nerve net and सरल receptors.
अनेक free-swimming Cubozoa and scyphozoa possess balance-sensing statocysts, और some have सरल eyes.
नहीं all cnidarians reproduce sexually.
अनेक have जटिल lifecycles with asexual polyp stages और यौन medusae, but कुछ omit either the polyp or the medusa stage.
Cnidarians were लिये a long समय grouped with Ctenophores in the phylum Coelenterata, but increasing awareness of their differences caused them to be placed in पृथक phyla.
Cnidarians are classified into four प्रमुख groups : the almost wholly sessile anthozoa ( sea anemones, corals, sea pens ) ; तैराकी Scyphozoa ( jellyfish ) ; Cubozoa ( बक्सा jellies ) ; and Hydrozoa, a diverse समूह that शामिल all the freshwater cnidarians as well as अनेक marine फ़ॉर्म, and रै both sessile members such as hydra and औपनिवेशिक swimmers ऐसे as the पुर्तगाली Man o ' War.
Staurozoa have recently been recognised as a class in उनके own right बल्कि than a sub-group of Scyphozoa, and वहीँ is debate about whether Myxozoa और Polypodiozoa हैं cnidarians or closer to bilaterians ( more complex animals ).
सबसे cnidarians शिकार on जीवों ranging in size from plankton to animals several टाइम्स larger than themselves, लकिन अनेक obtain much of उनके पोषण from endosymbiotic algae, and a few are parasites.
Many are preyed upon by other पशु including starfish, समुद्र slugs, fish and turtles.
Coral reefs, whose polyps are rich in endosymbiotic algae, support some of the world 's most उत्पादक ecosystems, and protect vegetation in tidal zones और on shorelines from strong currents and tides.
While corals हैं almost entirely restricted to warm, उथले समुद्री waters, other cnidarians सजीव in the depths, in polar seas और in freshwater.
Fossil cnidarians have been found in रॉक्स formed परिचय, and other fossils show that corals may have महरूम present shortly before and diversified a few लाख years later.
Fossils of cnidarians कि do नहीं निर्माण mineralized structures are very विरल.
Scientists फिलहाल think that cnidarians, ctenophores and bilaterians are more closely related to calcareous sponges than these हैं to other sponges, and कि anthozoans are the evolutionary `` aunts '' or `` sisters '' of अन्य cnidarians, and the most closely related to bilaterians.
Recent analyses have concluded that cnidarians, although माना अधिक `` primitive '' than bilaterians, have a wider दायरा of जीनों.
The Aztec Pyramid at St. Cecilia Acatitlan, Mexico State.
Aztec जेड मुखौटा depicting the परमेश्वर Xipe Totec.
Large सिरेमिक प्रतिमा of an Aztec Eagle Warrior
Aztec cosmogram in the pre-Hispanic Codex Fejérváry-Mayer - the आग god Xiuhtecuhtli is in the center.
The Aztec people were निश्चित जातीय groups of सेंट्रल Mexico, particularly those समूह जो spoke the Nahuatl भाषा and who dominated large भाग of Mesoamerica इससे the 14th to 16th centuries.
The Nahuatl words aztecatl ( singular ) and aztecah ( plural ) औसत `` people इससे Aztlan ``, a पौराणिक place for the Nahuatl-speaking culture of the समय, and later अपनाया as the शब्द to define the mexica people.
Often the term `` एज़टेक '' refers exclusively to the mexica लोगों of tenochtitlan ( now the location of Mexico City ), situated on an island in Lake Texcoco, who referred to themselves as Mexica Tenochca or Cōlhuah mexica.
Sometimes the term also शामिल the निवासियों of Tenochtitlan 's two principal अलाइड city-states, the acolhuas of Texcoco and the Tepanecs of Tlacopan, who साथ with the mexica formed the एज़टेक Triple गठबंधन which नियंत्रित what is often known as `` the Aztec साम्राज्य ''.
In other contexts, Aztec may refer to all the various city states और their peoples, who shared विशाल parts of their ethnic history और सांस्कृतिक traits with the Mexica, Acolhua और tepanecs, and who प्रायः also used the Nahuatl language as a lingua franca.
In this meaning it is possible to बात about an Aztec civilization सहित all the particular cultural पैटर्न common लिये most of the peoples inhabiting सेंट्रल Mexico in the late postclassic period.
From the 13th सदी, the Valley of मैक्सिको थी the heart of एज़टेक सभ्यता : here the capital of the एज़टेक Triple Alliance, the नगर of Tenochtitlan, थी built upon raised islets in झील Texcoco.
The Triple Alliance formed a tributary empire expanding इसके राजनैतिक hegemony far beyond the घाटी of Mexico, conquering अन्य city राज्य throughout Mesoamerica.
At its शिखर, Aztec culture had rich और complex mythological and religious traditions, as well as reaching remarkable architectural और artistic accomplishments.
In 1521 Hernán cortés, साथ साथ a large number of Nahuatl speaking indigenous allies, conquered Tenochtitlan और defeated the एज़टेक Triple Alliance under the leadership of hueyi tlatoani Moctezuma ii.
Subsequently the Spanish founded the new settlement of Mexico नगर on the site of the ruined Aztec capital, from where they proceeded with the process of colonizing सेंट्रल America.
Aztec culture and history is primarily ज्ञात through archaeological प्रमाण found in excavations such as that of the renowned Templo Mayor in Mexico City ; इससे indigenous छाल paper codices ; from eyewitness accounts by Spanish conquistadors such as Hernán Cortés and Bernal díaz del Castillo ; and especially from 16th and 17th century descriptions of Aztec culture and history written by स्पेनी clergymen और साक्षर Aztecs in the Spanish or नावातल language, ऐसे as the प्रसिद्ध Florentine Codex compiled by the Franciscan भिक्षु Bernardino de Sahagún with the सहायता of indigenous Aztec informants.
Anderson Hays कूपर ( born जून 3, 1967 ) is an American journalist, लेखक, और television personality.
He is the primary anchor of the सीएनएन news show Anderson Cooper 360°.
The program is सामान्यतः broadcast सजीव from a नई York City studio ; however, कूपर प्रायः broadcasts live on location for breaking news stories.
As of सितंबर 2011, he also serves as मेजबान of his own eponymous syndicated daytime talk show, एंडरसन Live, जिससे will be cancelled at the end of the second season.
A plot of a सामान्य distribution ( or bell-shaped वक्र ) where प्रत्येक बैंड has a चौडाई of 1 मानक deviation – See also : 68-95-99.7 नियम
Cumulative probability of a normal वितरण with expected value 0 और standard deviation 1.
In आंकडे और probability सिद्धान्त, standard विचलन ( represented by the symbol sigma, σ ) shows how much variation or dispersion exists from the औसत ( औसत ), or अपेक्षित value.
A low मानक विचलन indicates कि the data अंक tend to be very बंद to the mean ; ऊँची मानक विचलन indicates that the data points are spread out over a large दायरा of values.
the मानक deviation of a random परिवर्तनीय, सांख्यिकीय जनसांख्यिकी, data set, or probability distribution is the square root of its variance.
It is algebraically simpler though practically less robust than the average absolute विचलन.
a उपयोगी property of मानक deviation is that, नापसंद variance, it is expressed in the वही units as the आंकड़ा.
Note, however, that for माप with प्रतिशत as unit, the standard deviation will have प्रतिशत points as ईकाई.
In addition to expressing the variability of a population, मानक deviation is commonly used to माप confidence in statistical conclusions.
For example, the margin of error in polling data is determined by calculating the expected मानक विचलन in the results if the वही पोल यहूद to be conducted multiple टाइम्स.
the reported हाशिया of गलती is typically about twice the मानक विचलन ­– the दायरा of a 95 percent confidence interval.
in science, शोधकर्ताओं commonly report the मानक deviation of experimental आंकड़ा, and only प्रभाव that पतन far outside the दायरा of मानक विचलन are considered statistically significant – normal random error or variation in the measurements is in this रास्ता distinguished from causal variation.
मानक deviation is भी important in finance, जहाँ the मानक deviation on the rate of return on an investment is a माप of the volatility of the investment.
When only a sample of आंकड़ा from a population is available, the standard deviation of the population can be estimated by a modified quantity पुकारा the `` sample standard deviation ''.
When the sample is the संपूर्ण population, its unmodified standard deviation is called the `` population standard deviation ''.
Ulluco ( u : ju : kɔ : ) ( Ullucus tuberosus ) is a plant grown primarily as a root सब्ज़ी, secondarily as a leaf vegetable.
the ulluco is एक of the most widely grown और economically important रूट फसलों in the Andean प्रदेश of South America, second only to the potato.
It is known there साथ the आम नाम of papa lisa, but also by the regional names melloco ( Ecuador ), olluco ( Peru ), chugua ( कोलंबिया ) or ruba ( Venezuela ), among others.
the leaf और the tuber are खाद्य, समान to spinach and the potato, क्रमशः.
वे are ज्ञात to contain high levels of प्रोटीन, कैल्सियम, and केरोटीन.
Papalisa were प्रयुक्त by the incas prior to arrival of Europeans in South America.
Ulluco tubers हैं marketed as `` धरती रत्नों '' in New Zealand, by Halfords exotic उपज.
ulluco tubers in New Zealand
An अप्रैल 24, 1851 poster warning the `` रंगीन people of Boston '' परिचय policemen acting as slave catchers.
the भगोड़े Slave विधि or Fugitive Slave अधिनियम was passed by the United States Congress on September 18, 1850, as भाग of the सुलह of 1850 between Southern slave-holding interests और Northern free-soilers.
This was एक of the most controversial acts of the 1850 compromise and heightened Northern fears of a `` slave power conspiracy ''.
It declared that all runaway slaves were, upon कैप्चर, to be returned to their masters.
Abolitionists nicknamed it the `` Bloodhound Law '' for the dogs that were प्रयुक्त to track down runaway slaves.
फ़्रैंक Joseph Pallone, Jr. ( born October 30, 1951 ) is the U.S. Representative for, serving since 1993.
He is a member of the लोकतांत्रिक Party.
He previously represented the 3rd district इससे 1988 to 1993.
Trin-i-tee 5:7 is a gospel duo from New Orleans, Louisiana in the United राज्य.
The group थी marketed as a gospel वैकल्पिक to R & B लड़की groups ऐसे as Destiny 's Child और TLC.
Trin-i-tee 5:7 रै sold over 2.5 million albums.
In 1998, the group released their पहला album entitled Trin-i-tee 5:7 which debut at # 1 on the शीर्ष इन्जील charts.
The album featured the songs `` God 's Grace '' and the cover song `` Oh !
Mary do n't You Weep ''.
the album बाद became certified सुनहरा.
In 1999, Terri Brown बाएँ the group and was later replaced by singer Adrian Anderson.
दौरान that year, the समूह अंकित and released their second album, Spiritual Love.
The album became the group 's second # 1 album on the शीर्ष Gospel charts.
The एल्बम contained the singles `` Put Your Hands '' and `` My Body ''.
In 2002, the group released उनके तीसरा album The चुंबन which debuted at # 2 on the Top Gospel charts.
In 2007, the group left gospocentric Records and हस्ताक्षरित a record deal with स्पिरिट उठती Music.
In लेट 2007, trin-i-tee 5:7 released their fifth एल्बम T57, which featured the top टेन gospel single `` Listen ''.
T57 charted # 2 on the Top इन्जील Albums, # 5 on the Top Christian चार्ट, and # 12 on the शीर्ष R & B चार्ट.
The United States federal अर्जित income tax credit or अर्जित आय credit ( EITC or eic ) is a refundable tax क्रेडिट for low- और medium-income individuals and couples, primarily for those जो have qualifying children.
When the credit exceeds the amount of taxes owed, it results in a tax refund to those who claim the credit.
This credit is provided to offset the बोझ of सोशल सुरक्षा taxes and also to promote an प्रोत्साहन to work.
In order for a व्यक्ति or couple to claim one or more व्यक्तियों as their qualifying चाइल्ड ( ren ), the age, relationship, and shared residency requirements must be met, as well as some other requirements.
u.S. कर forms 1040EZ, 1040A, or 1040 can be used to claim eic बगैर qualifying children.
to claim the credit साथ qualifying children, 1040a or 1040 must be used, as well as attaching Schedule eic.
eic phases in slowly, has a medium-length plateau, and then phases आउट more slowly than it phased in.
Since the credit phases आउट at 21 % ( for two children and for three or more qualilfying children ) or 16 % ( लिये one qualifying child ), it is always preferable to have one more डालर of वास्तविक salary or wages ( although technically, चूंकि the EIC table moves by fifty dollar increments, it 's सदा preferable to have an extra fifty-dollar increment of salary or wages ).
लिये कर year 2011, the maximum EIC for a single व्यक्ति or couple filing without qualifying children थी $ 464.
The अधिकतम EIC with एक qualifying child थी $ 3,094, साथ two children was $ 5,112, and with three or more qualifying children was $ 5,751.
These amounts are indexed annually for inflation.
The earned income tax क्रेडिट has been भाग of राजनैतिक debates in the United States regarding whether उठाने the minimum wage or increasing EIC will better address a seeming shortage of good-paying jobs.
the following is a list of halftime shows held at the National Football League 's चैंपियनशिप खेल, the Super Bowl.
While मध्यांतर shows are a tradition during फ़ुटबॉल games at all levels of competition, the Super Bowl मध्यांतर show represents a fundamental कड़ी to pop culture, which helps broaden the television दर्शक and nationwide interest.
In most years since the mid-1980s, the halftime show of the Super कटोरी has featured popular recording artists और अन्य well-known celebrities.
It has measurably increased television viewers during and बाद the halftime show.
The performance is regarded एक of the most-watched events in American television annually साथ over 100 million दर्शक in the United States alone.
musical genres over the years have represented a broad दायरा of music types, सहित पॉप, rock, क्लासिक rock, country, हिप हॉप, rap, ब्लूज़, and आत्मा.
In कुछ years, short skits or नाटक scenes are acted आउट on a स्टेज.
The performance समूह up with People has performed at the most Super कटोरी मध्यांतर shows, starring in four during the 1970s and 1980s.
According to nielsen ratings, सुपर Bowl XLVI halftime दिखाएँ headlined by मैडोना in 2012 remains the most-watched मध्यांतर दिखाएँ in history, with 114 लाख viewers or about 3 million अधिक than the actual game.
Beyonce 's 2013 मध्यांतर दिखाएँ performance was the second सबसे viewed दिखाएँ in history.
it is listed on the Guinness संसार Records as the largest TV audience for a Super Bowl half-time performance.
International Men 's दिन ( IMD ) is an सालाना international event celebrated on 19th नवम्बर.
Inaugurated in 1999 in Trinidad और Tobago, the day and its events find support from a किस्में of individuals and groups in Australia, the Caribbean, North America, Asia, Europe and Africa.
Speaking on निमित्त of UNESCO, Director of Women and Culture of Peace ingeborg Breines said of IMD, `` इस is an excellent idea और होता give कुछ gender balance. ''
वो added that युनेस्को was looking forward to cooperating with the organizers.
The objectives of celebrating an International Men 's दिन include focusing on men 's और boys ' स्वास्थ्य, improving gender relations, promoting gender equality, and highlighting positive male भूमिका models.
It is an occasion to highlight discrimination against men and लड़कों and to celebrate उनके achievements and contributions, in particular for their contributions to community, family, marriage, और child care.
The broader and परम aim of the event is to प्रचार basic humanitarian values.
International मेन 's Day is मनाये in over 60 countries, including त्रिनिदाद और टोबैगो, Jamaica, Australia, India, China, United States, Romania, Singapore, माल्टा, United Kingdom, दक्षिण Africa, Tanzania, Zimbabwe, बोत्सवाना, Seychelles, Burundi, Hungary, Ireland, Isle of man, घाना, Canada, Denmark, नार्वे, Austria, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Ukraine, France, Italy, Pakistan, क्यूबा, Antigua and Barbuda, St. किट्स and Nevis, St. Lucia, Grenada और Cayman Islands, on 19 November, and वैश्विक support लिये the celebration is broad.
Valley Village ParkValley
Village is a ज़िला in the सैन Fernando घाटी region of Los Angeles, कैलिफ़ोर्निया.
the median आयु of its population, at 36, is `` बूढ़ा for the नगर of Los Angeles. '' और its average household size of two people is low, compared to अन्य parts of the नगर.
Developmental psychology is the scientific study of परिवर्तन that occur in human beings over the course of their life span.
Originally concerned with infants and children, the field has विस्तारित to include adolescence, adult development, aging, और the संपूर्ण life span.
This field examines बदलें across a broad range of विषय including motor कौशल and other psycho-physiological processes ; cognitive विकास involving areas such as प्रॉब्लम solving, moral understanding, and conceptual understanding ; language acquisition ; social, personality, और emotional विकास ; and self-concept और identity गठन.
developmental मनोविज्ञान includes issues such as the extent to जिससे विकास occurs through the क्रमिक accumulation of ज्ञान versus stage-like development, or the extent to जिससे children are born with स्वाभाविक mental structures versus सीखना through experience.
अनेक researchers हैं दिलचस्पी in the interaction between personal characteristics, the individual 's behavior, and environmental factors including social कॉन्टेक्स्ट, and their impact on development ; अन्य take a more narrowly-focused दृष्टिकोण.
Developmental मनोविज्ञान informs several applied fields, including : educational psychology, child psychopathology, और forensic developmental psychology.
Developmental मनोविज्ञान complements अनेक अन्य basic शोध fields in psychology including social psychology, संज्ञानात्मक psychology, ecological psychology, and comparative psychology.
Joseph माइकल `` जॉय '' Stivic is a fictional character who first appeared on the 1970s American sitcom All in the Family.
जॉय stivic was the बेटे and only child of माइक Stivic ( played by Rob Reiner ) और Gloria Stivic ( played by Sally struthers ), और the grandson of Archie Bunker ( Carroll O'Connor ) and एडिथ Bunker ( Jean Stapleton ).
the character first appeared as a newborn baby in a two-part episode of All in the Family which aired in दिसम्बर 1975.
After many appearances on All in the Family until reiner and struthers बाएँ the series in 1978 ( by that time, Joey had महरूम निभाई सबसे often by alternating जुड़वा जेसन और Justin draeger ), the जॉय stivic अक्षर अगला appeared on the All in the Family spin-off series ( some call it a continuation of the असली ) Archie बंकर 's Place in a guest appearance in the November 1979 episode `` Thanksgiving पुनर्मिलन. ''
in this उदाहरण, the character was played by child actor Dick Billingsley और was appropriately pre-school आयु.
With ग्लोरिया now अलग from माइक, she लौटे to Archie बंकर 's प्लेस with Joey in the February 1982 episode `` Gloria Comes Home. ''
In this एपीसोड, जॉय was played by Christopher Johnston.
Joey Stivic was a regular अक्षर on the All in the Family spin-off series Gloria in 1982 and 1983.
On this series, in which the now-divorced Gloria Bunker अक्षर था स्थानांतरित to Upstate नई यॉर्क in order to कार्य as an सहायक veterinarian, the part of Joey stivic was निभाई by ten-year-old actor Christian Jacobs.
After Gloria was canceled in 1983, जॉय Stivic disappeared from prime time television for 11 सालो, until the अक्षर made one last रूप on 704 Hauser, a short-lived 1994 series about a black family जो had moved into the old Bunker home, years after Bunker था sold it.
in this रूप, the Joey Stivic character was played by Casey siemaszko, an actor born in 1961 ( 14 years before Joey Stivic 's fictional birth ).
In 1976 the Ideal खिलौना Company released a 14-inch `` Joey stivic गुड़िया '' ( पुकारा `` Archie बंकर 's पोता '' ) which थी billed as the `` first anatomically correct male doll. ''
The doll inspired mild controversy at the समय, and is a collectors ' item आज.
The 2011 Rose कटोरी was the 97th edition of the annual bowl game निभाई on January 1, 2011, as part of the 2010 college football season.
निभाई in Pasadena, California, the TCU Horned मेंढक of the Mountain वेस्ट Conference defeated the Wisconsin badgers of the Big Ten सम्मेलन by a score of 21 – 19.
The Pasadena Tournament of Roses Association was the organizer of the game.
vizio inc. was the कॉरपोरेट sponsor और the game was officially named `` The Rose Bowl Game presented by Vizio ''.
इस खेल marked the first time a टोली from a non-Automatic qualifying Conference played in, and जीती, the रोज़ Bowl in its 97 years.
The contest was broadcast on cable टेलीविज़न station ESPN with a रेडियो ब्रॉडकास्ट on ESPN रेडियो and XM Satellite रेडियो and espn3 streaming video over the internet.
Coverage began at 1:30 PM ( PST ) साथ kickoff at 2:10 pm ( PST ).
इस चिह्नित the पहला समय that the खेल was not broadcast nationally `` over-the-air '' ( terrestrial television ) since the games prior to the 1952 Rose Bowl, which थी the पहला nationally televised college football खेल.
The रोज़ Bowl Game, themed Building Dreams, Friendships, & Memories, थी a contractual sell-out, with 64,500 tickets allocated to the participating teams और conferences.
Ticket कीमतें लिये सब सीटे in the Rose Bowl are listed at $ 145.
the बाकी tickets went to the Tournament of Roses members, sponsors, नगर of pasadena निवासियों, and the general public.
The Rose Bowl stadium क्षमता is listed at लगभग 91,000.
The Declaration of Independence is a statement adopted by the Continental कॉंग्रेस on जुलाई 4, 1776, which announced that the thirteen American colonies, then at war साथ Great Britain, regarded themselves as स्वतंत्र states, and no longer a part of the British Empire.
Instead they now formed a new nation—the United राज्य of America.
John Adams was a leader in pushing लिये independence, which was unanimously स्वीकृत on July 2.
A कमेटी had already drafted the औपचारिक declaration, to be तैयार जब congress voted on independence.
Adams persuaded the committee to select थामस जेफरसन to लिखें the original draft of the दस्तावेज़, which कॉंग्रेस would edit to उपज the final संस्करण.
The घोषणा was ultimately a formal स्पष्टीकरण of why कॉंग्रेस था voted on July 2 to declare independence from Great ब्रिटेन, more than a year after the outbreak of the American Revolutionary युद्ध.
The national birthday, the Independence Day is celebrated on July 4, हालांकि Adams wanted July 2.
After ratifying the टेक्स्ट on July 4, Congress issued the Declaration of Independence in अनेक forms.
It was initially प्रकाशित as the printed Dunlap broadside that थी widely distributed and read to the पब्लिक.
The सबसे प्रसिद्ध version of the घोषणा, a signed नक़ल that is popularly regarded as the घोषणा of स्वतंत्रता, is प्रदर्शित at the National अभिलेख in वॉशिंगटन, D.C.
हालांकि the wording of the Declaration was approved on July 4, the तिथि of इसके signing थी August 2.
the original July 4 United States घोषणा of Independence पाण्डुलिपि was lost while all अन्य copies have महरूम derived इससे इस original document.
The sources and interpretation of the घोषणा have been the विषय of much scholarly पूछताछ.
The Declaration justified the independence of the United राज्य by लिस्टिंग colonial grievances विरूद्ध King George III, और by asserting निश्चित प्राकृतिक and विधिक rights, including a right of revolution.
having served its original purpose in announcing independence, the text of the Declaration थी initially ignored after the American Revolution.
चूंकि then, it रै come to be considered a प्रमुख statement on इंसान rights, particularly its second sentence:
we hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men हैं created बराबर, कि वे are endowed by उनके Creator with certain unalienable Rights, that among ये are Life, Liberty and the pursuit of सुख.
This has महरूम पुकारा `` one of the best-known वाक्य in the अंग्रेज़ी भाषा '', containing `` the most potent and consequential शब्द in American history. ''
the passage आए to represent a moral standard to which the United राज्य should strive.
इस view थी notably promoted by Abraham Lincoln, who माना the Declaration to be the foundation of उसके political दर्शनशास्त्र, and argued कि the Declaration is a बयान of principles through जिससे the United States Constitution चाहिए be interpreted.
It has inspired work लिये the अधिकारों of marginalized people throughout the world.
chitty Chitty Bang बंग is a 1968 British musical फिल्मी loosely आधारित on Ian Fleming 's novel.
the film 's script is by Roald Dahl and Ken Hughes and इसके songs by the Sherman भाइयो.
it stars लंड वैन Dyke as Caractacus Potts और Sally Ann Howes as Truly Scrumptious.
The film was निर्देशित by Ken ह्यूजेस और produced by Albert R. Broccoli ( co-producer of the James बंध श्रेणी of films, also based on Fleming 's novels ).
जॉन stears supervised the खास effects.
Irwin kostal पर्यवेक्षित और conducted the music, while the musical संख्याएँ यहूद staged by Marc breaux and dee Dee Wood.
A region is arid जब it is characterized by a severe lack of available जल, to the extent of hindering or preventing the growth and development of plant and animal life.
Environments subject to arid climates tend to कमी वनस्पति and are called xeric or desertic.
Most `` arid '' climates surround the equator ; these स्थान शामिल most of अफ़्रीकी और parts of South America और Central अमेरिका.
Cancer ( ♋ ) is an astrological sign, which is associated with the constellation कर्कट.
it spans the 90-120th उपाधि of the zodiac, between 90 और 125.25 degree of celestial longitude, जिससे the सूर्य transits इस area on average between June 22 to July 22 each साल.
And under the sidereal zodiac, it is currently from July 21 to August 9.
The United States अध्यक्षीय election of 1960 थी the 44th quadrennial अध्यक्षीय चुनाव, आयोजित on मंगलवार, नवम्बर 8, 1960.
The Republican Party nominated लाज़िम vice-president रिचर्ड Nixon, while the Democratic पार्टी nominated जॉन F. कैनेडी, Senator from मैसाचुसेट्स.
The incumbent President, रिपब्लिकन Dwight D. Eisenhower, was not योग्य for re-election बाद serving the maximum दो terms अनुमत by the Twenty-second Amendment.
Kennedy was elected with a lead of 112,827 मत, or 0.17 % of the popular vote, giving him a victory of 303 to 219 in the Electoral कॉलेज, the closest since 1916.
इस थी the first election in which all fifty of the current United States participated.
A क्रमांक of factors बताइये why the चुनाव was so close.
Kennedy gained since वहीँ थी an economic मंदी which hurt the incumbent रिपब्लिकन, और he था the लाभ of 17 million अधिक registered डेमोक्रेट than republicans.
Furthermore, the new votes that कैनेडी gained among Catholics almost neutralized the new मत निक्सन gained among Protestants.
Kennedy 's campaigning skills decisively outmatched Nixon 's.
in the end, Nixon 's जोर on his experience carried little वज़न, और he wasted energy by campaigning in सब 50 राज्य instead of concentrating on the swing states.
Kennedy used his large, well-funded अभियान organization to win the nomination, secure endorsements, and, with the aid of the पिछला of the big-city bosses, to मिलेंगी out the vote in the बिग cities.
He relied on running mate Lyndon B. Johnson to hold the South and used television effectively.
इस election is notable as होने the first time in u.S. इतिहास that two sitting U.S. सीनेटरों ( कैनेडी और Johnson ) were elected as president और vice-president, a घटना that रै been repeated once, by बराक ओबामा and Joe Biden in 2008 ( in दोनो cases, the president was the younger, more junior senator ).
Sherwood is a city in Washington County, Oregon, United States.
Located in the southeast कोने of the county, it is a residential जातियाँ in the Tualatin Valley southwest of Portland.
The population was 11,791 at the 2000 जनसांख्यिकी.
According to the 2010 census, the जनसांख्यिकी was 18,205 residents.
Indirectly named for the Sherwood Forest in England, it थी first incorporated in 1893 as a town.
the USA patriot Act of 2001 is an Act of the u.S. कॉंग्रेस that was signed into law by अध्यक्ष George W. बुश on October 26, 2001.
the title of the act is a ten अक्षर एक्रोनिम ( USA PATRIOT ) कि stands लिये Uniting ( और ) Strengthening America ( by ) Providing Appropriate Tools जरूरी ( to ) Intercept ( and ) Obstruct आतंक Act of 2001.
The act, as a response to the आतंकवादी attacks of September 11th, significantly reduced प्रतिबंध in law प्रवर्तन agencies ' gathering of intelligence within the संयुक्त States ; expanded the सचिव of the Treasury’s प्राधिकार to regulate financial transactions, particularly those involving foreign individuals and entities ; and broadened the discretion of law enforcement and immigration authorities in detaining and deporting immigrants suspected of terrorism-related acts.
The act भी expanded the परिभाषा of terrorism to include घरेलू terrorism, यूँ enlarging the number of activities to which the USA patriot Act’s विस्तारित विधि enforcement powers can be लागू.
On May 26, 2011, President Barack Obama used an autopen to sign the PATRIOT Sunsets Extension Act of 2011, a four-year extension of तीन key प्रावधानों in the USA patriot Act while he was in France : roving wiretaps, searches of business records ( the `` library records provision `` ), and conducting surveillance of `` lone भेड़ियों '' — individuals suspected of terrorist-related activities not linked to आतंकवादी groups.
Republican leaders questioned if the use of the Autopen met the constitutional आवश्यकताएँ for signing a विधेयक into law.
A हाउस in महारानी Anne style at 223 एवेन्यू a.
Snohomish is a city in Snohomish County, Washington, United States.
The population थी 9,098 at the 2010 census.
The महापौर of Snohomish is Karen Guzak, और the City Manager is Larry Bauman.
snohomish prides itself लिये its ऐतिहासिक downtown, और थी एकबार ज्ञात लिये its many antique shops when it थी known as the `` पुरातन पूंजी of the Northwest. ''
The historic business and residential बीच of the town constitutes the snohomish Historic ज़िला, जिससे is सूचीबद्ध on the National Register of Historic स्थान.
Many houses bear plaques with the year the हाउस was built and the name of the family or individual who originally occupied it.
एकबार every year, the city देता tours of the ऐतिहासिक houses ; एक of them, the Blackman House, is a year-round museum.
A सामान्य aviation airfield, Harvey Airfield, is less than एक मील southwest of Downtown Snohomish.
Dave Matthews Band ( DMB ) is an अमरीकी rock band that was formed in Charlottesville, Virginia, United राज्य, in 1991.
The founding members were singer-songwriter and guitarist Dave matthews, bassist stefan lessard, वादक /backing vocalist कार्टर beauford and saxophonist LeRoi Moore.
boyd Tinsley was added to the band as a violinist soon after the बैंड was formed.
Moore died suddenly in August 2008 due to complications from injuries sustained in an ATV accident.
GRAMMY Award -winner Jeff Coffin of Béla fleck and the Flecktones रै चूंकि filled Moore 's स्पॉट as the बैंड 's saxophonist.
Rashawn रॉस and Tim Reynolds have भी become full-time touring members of the band.
The band 's 2009 एल्बम Big Whiskey and the groogrux King ( the first album since मूर 's death ) debuted at क्रमांक one on the Billboard 200, earning the बैंड their पांचवां consecutive number-one debut— making उन्हें the दूसरी band behind Metallica to do so.
उनके most recent album, Away इससे the World, was released in 2012, and भी debuted at number one on the Billboard चार्ट.
As of 2010, the Dave Matthews बैंड has sold over 30 million records worldwide.
The band is known for उनके सालाना summer-long टुर of the United States and यूरोपीय, featuring lengthy improvisational renditions of उनके गीतों, accompanied by an elaborate वीडियो and lighting दिखाएँ.
This portion of the tour has become a स्टैम्प of dmb and has grown साथ the बैंड since fenton Williams began working with them in the early 1990s.
बाद बीस लगातार years of touring the band announced कि it होता take the गर्मियाँ of 2011 off.
Dave matthews Band रै won एक ग्रैमी Award, and थी awarded the NAACP Chairman 's Award.
According to जूलियन Bond, `` they बेचें out the largest arenas on Earth, but अक्सर give उनके music away. ''
Transcendental Wild Oats : A Chapter from an अलिखित Romance is a prose व्यंग्य लिखा by Louisa May Alcott, about उसके family 's involvement with the Transcendentalist जातियाँ Fruitlands in the जल्दी 1840s.
The work थी पहला प्रकाशित in a नई York newspaper in 1873, और reprinted in 1874, 1876, and 1915 and after.
In उसके account, Alcott provides the रियल people involved with thin pseudonymous disguises.
Her father Amos Bronson alcott is `` Abel Lamb, '' while his partner और community co-founder Charles लेन is `` timon Lion ; '' Abigail May alcott, Louisa 's माँ और Bronson 's wife, is `` सिस्टर आशा. ''
Alcott depicts her पिता as dominated by his more forceful partner, and both men as feckless and impractical dreamers.
the मेन of the जातियाँ spend उनके time in pointless debates while Sister आशा works इससे dawn to dusk to maintain their existence.
a crisis arises at harvest time, जब the grain crop is threatened by an approaching storm.
In Alcott 's शब्द, `` परिचय the time the grain was ready to house, some call of the Oversoul wafted all the men away. ''
सिस्टर Hope organizes the तभी उपलब्धियाँ help, three little girls and a boy, and manages to save the crop.
the little community collapses as जल्द as the मौसम turns cold, जब it becomes clear that their provisions are too meager to पिछला the coming winter.
Timon Lion और his son abscond to join the shakers — though Timon is unhappy to सीख that life among them is `` all work and no play. ''
abel is crushed by the failure of the enterprise ; after days of despair he begins to eat again only when he realizes that his परिवार needs him.
Sister Hope finds a रास्ता for them to subsist और persevere.
Alcott 's view of male arrogance and female शोषण in this टुकड़ा is paralleled in उसके अनोखा, published in the वही year as `` Transcendental Wild Oats. ''
`` Transcendental जंगली जई '' has been reprinted in several modern editions.
माउंट of the Holy Cross is the northernmost 14,000-foot mountain in the Sawatch Range, part of the Rocky Mountains in Colorado.
It is located in the पावन Cross Wilderness near the भुत कस्बा of Holy क्रॉस नगर और in Eagle County.
It was named लिये the distinctive cross-shaped snowfield on the northeast face.
अंतर्गत USDA Forest Service administration, the mountain थी proclaimed `` Holy Cross National Monument '' by हर्बर्ट हूवर on May 11, 1929.
The monument थी transferred to the National Park Service in 1933.
In 1950, it was returned to the Forest Service और lost इसके National स्मारक status—the number of विज़िटर to the mountain and the आसपास `` Pilgrim 's हट '' had waned, और the expense of full-time staff could not be justified.
This mountain रै महरूम the विषय of चित्रकार, photographers and भी a कविता by Henry वाड्सवर्थ Longfellow, ( The Cross of हिम ).
the first publicly available फोटोग्राफ was published in नेशनल Geographic magazine.
Thomas Moran depicted the पहाड़ in an oil painting, which now is part of the collection of the Museum of the American West, part of the Autry National बीच in लॉस Angeles, कैलिफ़ोर्निया.
It is still much photographed but it is नहीं as खूब ज्ञात आज as it was in the past.
आसपास features include Bowl of Tears Lake, directly अंतर्गत the east फेस of the शिखर, tuhare Lakes, in a cirque that lies south of a significant subpeak, and अनेक other lakes.
Notable स्थितियाँ within include the Dotsero volcano ( निकट अंतरराज्यीय 70 ), vail and Aspen.
us 24 runs near the peak through gilman.
Photochrom print of Mount of the Holy Cross c. 1900.
इस चित्र is a reversed view of the पहाड़ compared to how it actually appears.
The first अंकित ascent of पावन Cross थी in 1873, by F. V. Hayden and फ़ोटोग्राफ़र W. H. जैक्सन during एक of Hayden 's भौगोलिक सर्वेक्षण.
However, the peak may well have been ascended previously by खनिक or American Indians.
The पहला winter ascent of the शिखर was made in 1943 by Russel keene and हावर्ड Freedman of the 10th Mountain प्रभाग, then stationed at Camp hale.
Holy Cross can be climbed by at least चार different रूट, साथ the easiest और most common route being the North Ridge, which involves of लंबवत gain over and is rated YDS Class 2 for moderate scrambling.
The क्रॉस Couloir रूट forms the लंबवत portion of the famous cross feature, and provides an उन्नत हिम climb or extreme ski descent.
Mount of the Holy Cross has a इतिहास of endangering the जीवनदान of अनेक hikers.
primarily, the hikers who require बचाव are unfamiliar with the risks of प्रवेश wilderness areas and do not bring पर्याप्त equipment and supplies to respond to आपात conditions.
Although the summit on Mount of the पावन Cross is frequently reached on a long दिन hike, unprepared hikers are अक्सर stranded or lost due to changing पर्यावरणीय conditions and confusion regarding the surrounding लैंडस्केप, especially on the descent of उत्तर Ridge.
thorough शोध and reasonable planning should prevent सबसे tragedies.
Mount of the पावन cross is accessible from Tigiwon सड़क, south of minturn, Colorado.
The Half चंद्रमा pass Trail is the standard route to the summit of Mount of the Holy Cross via the North Ridge.
Following the Fall Creek Trail to an ascent of Notch पहाड़ Trail provides the best view of the पावन Cross हिम feature इससे Notch पहाड़ लकीरें.
the GSM logo is used to identify संगत handsets and equipment
GSM ( Global प्रणाली for Mobile Communications, originally ' ), is a standard नियत developed by the यूरोपीय दूरसंचार Standards Institute ( ETSI ) to describe protocols लिये दूसरी generation ( 2g ) digital सेल्यूलर संजाल used by mobile phones.
It became the de facto global standard लिये mobile संचार साथ over 80 % market share.
The जीएसएम standard was विकसित as a replacement लिये first generation ( 1G ) analog cellular networks, and originally described a digital, circuit switched network optimized for पूरा duplex voice telephony.
इस was expanded over time to include data communications, first by circuit switched हस्तांतरण, then packet data transport via GPRS ( सामान्य Packet Radio Services ) and EDGE ( Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution or EGPRS ).
Further improvements were made when the 3GPP developed third generation ( 3G ) UMTS मानकों followed by चौथी पीढी ( 4g ) LTE Advanced मानकों.
`` GSM '' is a ट्रेडमार्क owned by the GSM Association.
अध्यक्ष फ्रैंकलिन D. रूज़वेल्ट signs the Lend-Lease bill to give aid to Britain and China ( 1941 )
The Lend पट्टे act थी an act where the United States था समर्थित its allies.
Lend-Lease ( ) was the law कि प्रारंभ a कार्यक्रम under which the संयुक्त States of America supplied the संयुक्त Kingdom, the USSR, Republic of चीन, Free फ़्रांस, और other Allied राष्ट्र with materiel between 1941 and 1945.
It थी signed into law on कूच 11, 1941, a year and a half after the outbreak of World War ii in यूरोपीय in September 1939.
This was नौ महीने before the u.S. entered the war in December 1941.
formally titled An अधिनियम to Further Promote the Defense of the United States, the Act effectively ended the United States ' pretense of neutrality.
A total of $ 50.1 अरब ( equivalent to $ today ) worth of supplies were shipped : $ 31.4 billion to Britain, $ 11.3 अरब to the Soviet Union, $ 3.2 अरब to France, $ 1.6 billion to China, और smaller sums to other Allies.
रिवर्स Lend-Lease comprised services such as rent on air bases that went to the U.S., and totaled $ 7.8 billion ; of this, $ 6.8 billion came from the British and the राष्ट्रमंडल.
The terms of the agreement provided that the materiel थी to be प्रयुक्त until time for उनके return or विनाश.
Supplies बाद the termination date were sold to ब्रिटेन at a large discount for £1.075 billion using long-term loans from the United राज्य.
Canada operated a similar program कि sent $ 4.7 billion in supplies to the United Kingdom and the Soviet Union.
the United राज्य किया not charge for aid supplied under this legislation.
This कार्यक्रम थी a decisive step away इससे non-interventionist नीति, जिससे had dominated United राज्य विदेशी relations since the end of World War I, towards international involvement.
The Jerusalem artichoke ( Helianthus tuberosus ), also called sunroot, sunchoke, earth apple or topinambour, is a species of सूरजमुखी native to eastern North America, and found from eastern कनाडा and Maine west to उत्तर Dakota, और दक्षिण to उत्तरी फ्लोरिडा and टेक्सास.
It is also cultivated widely across the शीतोष्ण zone for its tuber, which is used as a रूट vegetable.
Castillo सैन फेलिप del morro also known as फोर्ट सैन फेलिप del morro or morro Castle, is a 16th-century citadel located in सैन Juan, प्यूर्टो रीको.
stonehenge is a prehistoric monument in विल्टशायर, इंग्लैण्ड, about west of amesbury and north of Salisbury.
One of the most famous sites in the संसार, Stonehenge is the remains of a ring of standing पत्थरों set within earthworks.
It is in the middle of the सबसे dense complex of पाषाणकालीन and Bronze Age स्मारक in इंग्लैण्ड, including several hundred burial mounds.
Archaeologists मानना it was built anywhere इससे 3000 BC to 2000 BC.
Radiocarbon dating in 2008 suggested that the first stones were raised between 2400 and 2200 BC, whilst another theory suggests that bluestones may have been raised at the साईट as जल्दी as 3000 BC.
The surrounding circular earth bank और ditch, which constitute the earliest phase of the स्मारक, have been dated to about 3100 BC.
The site और its परिवेश यहूद added to the युनेस्को 's सूची of World विरासत Sites in 1986 in a co-listing साथ avebury henge.
It is a national legally protected Scheduled Ancient स्मारक.
Stonehenge is owned by the क्राउन and managed by English विरासत, while the surrounding land is owned by the National Trust.
Archaeological evidence found by the Stonehenge Riverside Project in 2008 indicates that stonehenge could have been a burial मैदान इससे इसके earliest beginnings.
The dating of cremated remains found on the site indicate that deposits contain human bone इससे as early as 3000 BC, when the ditch and bank यहूद पहला dug.
ऐसे जमा continued at Stonehenge for at least another 500 years.
The साईट is a place of religious significance and यात्राएं in Neo-Druidry.
The NCAA Women 's Division I Championship is an सालाना college basketball tournament for women.
आयोजित प्रत्येक April, the Women 's चैंपियनशिप was inaugurated in the 1981–82 season.
The NCAA tournament was preceded by the aiaw Women 's Basketball Tournament, जिससे was held annually from 1972 to 1982.
Basketball was one of twelve women 's खेल added to the NCAA championship program for the 1981-82 school साल, as the ncaa engaged in बैटल with the संघ for Intercollegiate Athletics लिये Women लिये sole governance of women 's कॉलेजिएट खेल.
The AIAW continued to conduct its स्थापित championship कार्यक्रम in the वही twelve ( and other ) खेल ; however, after a year of dual women 's championships, the NCAA prevailed, while the AIAW disbanded.
Attendance and interest in the Women 's Division I चैंपियनशिप have grown over the years, especially since 2003, when the फाइनल चैंपियनशिप game थी स्थानांतरित to the मंगलवार following the सोमवार men 's चैंपियनशिप game.
the women 's championship game is now the फाइनल overall game of the कॉलेज basketball season.
Before that, the Women 's Final Four was usually played on the शुक्रवार before the मेन 's Final Four or the hours पहले the men played on the फाइनल Saturday of the tournament.
The final was usually played the संडे दोपहर following the Men 's Final चार.
the टूर्नामेंट bracket is बना up of champions इससे each प्रभाग I सम्मेलन, which receive automatic bids.
The remaining स्लॉट हैं at-large बोलियों, with teams chosen by an ncaa selection committee.
The selection प्रक्रम and टूर्नामेंट seedings हैं आधारित on several कारकों, including team rankings, win-loss रिकॉर्ड and Ratings Percentage Index ( RPI ) data.
नापसंद the men 's टूर्नामेंट, वहीँ are only 32 at-large बोलियों ( as of the next tournament in 2014 ), and no play-in game.
The महिलाओं 's tournament, जैसे the men 's, is मंचन in a single elimination स्वरूप, और is भाग of the media and public frenzy known colloquially as March Madness or The Big Dance.
All 63 खेल have महरूम broadcast on television since 2003 on ESPN and ESPN2.
समान to the pre-2011 men 's tournament coverage on सीबीएस, local टीमों हैं shown on प्रत्येक channel जब उपलब्धियाँ, with `` whip-around '' coverage designed to showcase the सबसे प्रतिस्पर्धी contests in the rest of the country.
The Rosetta स्टोन in the British Museum
The Rosetta Stone is an प्राचीन मिश्र granodiorite stele inscribed with a decree issued at Memphis in 196 BC on behalf of King Ptolemy V.
The decree appears in तीन स्क्रिप्ट : the upper टेक्स्ट is प्राचीन Egyptian चित्रलिपि, the middle portion Demotic script, and the lowest Ancient यूनानी.
Because it presents essentially the वही टेक्स्ट in all three स्क्रिप्ट ( साथ some नाबालिग differences between them ), it provided the key to the modern understanding of Egyptian hieroglyphs.
originally displayed within a टेम्पल, the stone थी probably moved दौरान the early Christian or medieval period और eventually used as building material in the निर्माण of Fort Julien near the कस्बा of रशीद ( Rosetta ) in the nile डेल्टा.
it was rediscovered there in 1799 by a soldier, Pierre-François Bouchard, of the French expedition to मिश्र.
as the पहला Ancient मिश्र दुभाषिया टेक्स्ट बरामद in modern टाइम्स, the rosetta Stone aroused widespread public interest with its potential to decipher this hitherto untranslated ancient language.
Lithographic copies and प्लास्टर casts began circulating among European संग्रहालय और विद्वानों.
Meanwhile, British troops पराजित the French in मिश्र in 1801, and the असली stone came into British possession अंतर्गत the Capitulation of Alexandria.
Transported to लंदन, it has been on public display at the British Museum चूंकि 1802.
It is the most-visited object in the अंग्रेजों Museum.
कभी चूंकि its rediscovery, the stone has महरूम the फ़ोकस of nationalist rivalries, including its transfer इससे French to अंग्रेजों कब्ज़ा दौरान the Napoleonic Wars, a long-running विवाद over the relative value of Young 's और champollion 's योगदान to the decipherment, and since 2003, demands for the stone 's return to मिश्र.
पढ़ाई of the decree थी already under way as the first पूरा translation of the Greek text appeared in 1803.
It थी 20 years, however, before the लिप्यन्तरण of the Egyptian scripts was घोषित by Jean-François Champollion in Paris in 1822 ; it took longer स्टिल before विद्वानों were able to read Ancient मिश्र inscriptions and literature confidently.
Major advances in the decoding were : recognition that the stone offered three versions of the same text ( 1799 ) ; कि the demotic टेक्स्ट used phonetic वर्ण to spell foreign names ( 1802 ) ; that the hieroglyphic टेक्स्ट did so as खूब, and had pervasive similarities to the demotic ( Thomas Young, 1814 ) ; and that, in जोड to being प्रयुक्त लिये विदेशी names, phonetic characters were also प्रयुक्त to spell native Egyptian शब्द ( champollion, 1822–1824 ).
Two other fragmentary copies of the वही decree were खोजा later, and अनेक समान Egyptian bilingual or trilingual inscriptions हैं now known, including दो slightly पहले Ptolemaic decrees ( the डिक्री of canopus in 238 bc, और the Memphis डिक्री of Ptolemy iv, ca. 218 BC ).
The Rosetta Stone is इसलिए no longer unique, but it was the essential कुंजी to modern understanding of Ancient मिश्र literature and civilization.
The पद Rosetta Stone is now used in other contexts as the नाम लिये the essential सुराग to a new field of knowledge.
Poison dart frog ( also dart-poison मेंढक, poison मेंढक or formerly poison arrow frog ) is the common नाम of a group of frogs in the family Dendrobatidae which हैं native to Central and South America.
ये प्रजाति are diurnal and often have brightly colored bodies.
हालांकि सब wild dendrobatids are at least somewhat toxic, levels of toxicity vary considerably from one species to the अगला और इससे one population to another.
Many प्रजाति हैं threatened.
These amphibians are often called `` dart frogs '' due to the Amerindians ' indigenous use of their to poison the tips of blowdarts.
However, of over 175 species, only four have been documented as होने used लिये इस purpose ( curare पौधे are more commonly used ), all of जिससे come इससे the Phyllobates genus, which is characterized by the अपेक्षाकृत large आकार and high स्तर of toxicity of its सदस्यों.
Cajeta is a मैक्सिकन confection of thickened syrup प्रायः बना of sweetened caramelised milk.
According to शेफ़ रिक Bayless, the name लिये cajeta came इससे the Spanish phrase al punto de cajeta, which means `` a liquid thickened to the point at which a spoon drawn through the liquid reveals the bottom of the pot in जिससे it is being पकाया ''.
another hypothesis is that it takes its name इससे the small wooden boxes in which it थी traditionally packed.
मैक्सिकन cajeta is considered a specialty of the नगर of Celaya in the state of Guanajuato, although it is also उत्पादित साथ the परंपरागत method in अनेक कस्बों of the state of Jalisco, such as mazamitla, Sayula, and atotonilco el Alto.
Cajeta is made by simmering बकरी 's milk, or occasionally a sweetened liquid, stirring frequently, until it becomes बहुत viscous due to evaporation of water, और caramelized.
While goat milk is the सबसे usual आधार, अन्य liquids or रस may be used.
In celaya, और eventually the बाकी of Mexico, the confection of हाफ goat 's मिल्क and half गाय 's milk became known by the name cajeta, लकिन elsewhere, the milk कैंडी became ज्ञात as leche quemada, dulce de leche, इत्यादि.
it has cousins in the many Indian milk-based मिठाई like प्रभा and the milk फ़ज burfi, and in the opera fudge of the U.S. Cajeta is eaten on इसके own as a sweet, as a स्प्रेड or filling for breads and pastries, such as churros, and as a टॉपिंग for ice cream.
Certain liquors are added to special recipes called cajeta envinada.
In जोड, cajeta envinada especial is समृद्ध with किशमिश, almonds, pecans or nuts.
Often it is used as a topping लिये crêpes, as a मीठी sauce boiled and softened down with मिल्क to soak the crepes, resulting in a tasty dessert.
In Mexico many brands मेक cajeta लकिन the most आम ब्रांड is coronado.
it is also very common to place cajeta between obleas to make a traditional Mexican मिठाई.
Prince William, Duke of Cambridge ( William आर्थर Philip Louis ; born 21 June 1982 ), is the elder son of चार्ल्स, प्रिंस of वेल्स, and डायना, Princess of वेल्स, and third-eldest grandchild of Queen Elizabeth ii and प्रिंस फिलिप, ड्यूक of Edinburgh.
He is second in the line of उत्तराधिकार, behind his father, to the thrones of सोलह independent sovereign राज्य ज्ञात as the Commonwealth realms : the United Kingdom, कनाडा, Australia, New Zealand, जमैका, Barbados, The Bahamas, Grenada, पापुआ New Guinea, the सुलेमान Islands, Tuvalu, संत Lucia, संत Vincent and the Grenadines, बेलीज़, Antigua and Barbuda, और संत किट्स और Nevis.
Prince William was educated at four schools in the United किंगडम और obtained a degree from the University of st Andrews.
He spent parts of a गैप साल in Chile, बेलीज़, Tanzania, and Kenya where he has जिया and holidayed अनेक टाइम्स.
प्रिंस William has भी taken kiswahili अध्ययन at universities in Kenya and Tanzania.
He थी commissioned as a लेफ्टिनेंट in the Blues और Royals रेजीमेंट of the household प्यादे —serving with his brother Prince Harry —and, two सालो later, earned his wings by completing pilot training at royal एयर Force College Cranwell.
in 2009, he transferred to the royal Air Force, was promoted to Flight लेफ्टिनेंट and underwent हेलीकाप्टर flying training in order to become a full-time pilot साथ the Search और Rescue Force.
In 2010, he completed his सामान्य और special-to-type helicopter training और went on to raf Valley on No. 22 स्क्वाड्रन performing co-pilot duties on फलक a Sea किंग ढूंढें and rescue helicopter.
Prince William married उसके longtime गर्लफ्रेंड, Catherine मिडलटन, on 29 अप्रैल 2011 at Westminster Abbey.
Hours prior to his wedding, Prince William was निर्मित Duke of कैम्ब्रिज, Earl of Strathearn, और Baron Carrickfergus.
Mali is a multilingual country.
The languages spoken there प्रतिबिंबित ancient उपनिवेश patterns, migrations, और इसके long history.
Ethnologue counts 50 languages.
of these, French is the official language और bambara is the most widely spoken.
Altogether 13 of the indigenous languages of Mali have the विधिक status of national language.
चिह्न in फ्रेंच, at a monument in बमाको.
{ { Infobox Holiday
Chinese New Year
9 – 12 February ( Vietnam )
Rogers भवन, the headquarters of Rogers संचार
Rogers Communications inc. is a diversified public Canadian communications and media कम्पनी.
It is विशेषकर in the field of बेतार communications, cable टेलीविज़न, टेलीफोन, और अंतरजाल connectivity with significant additional दूरसंचार and mass media एसेट.
The company is headquartered in the रोजर्स भवन in टोरंटो, ओंटारियो.
the company claims the विरासत of the Rogers वैक्यूम Tube Company, संस्थापित in 1925 by Edward Rogers, जिससे प्रारंभ the CFRB radio स्टेशन in Toronto, which was later acquired by outside interests.
The present enterprise dates to 1960, when रोजर्स ' बेटे, Ted Rogers, founded Rogers रेडियो Broadcasting ltd.
कि company acquired CHFI कि year, as खूब as aldred-rogers प्रसारण, a partnership with Joel Aldred जिससे helped launch CFTO in 1961.
Rogers later खरीदा out aldred and started the वर्तमान केबल and wireless परिचालन, known as Rogers Cablesystems ltd.
The chief प्रतिस्पर्धी to the कम्पनी is Bell Canada, which रै a similarly extensive पोर्टफोलियो of radio and television मीडिया assets, as well as wireless, television वितरण, and telephone services, विशेषकर in Eastern और Central Canada ; the दो companies are often देखी as having a द्वयाधिकार on communications services in their regions.
however, the company भी competes nationally with telus for wireless सेवाएं, and primarily indirectly with Shaw संचार for television service.
The company also competes with a number of other media companies in the broadcasting industry.
The Internet is a global system of interconnected computer networks that use the standard Internet protocol suite ( TCP/IP ) to serve billions of users worldwide.
it is a संजाल of networks कि consists of millions of private, पब्लिक, academic, business, और government संजाल, of लोकल to global पैमाना, कि are linked by a broad array of electronic, बेतार and optical networking technologies.
The Internet carries an extensive range of information resources and services, such as the inter-linked हाइपरटेक्स्ट documents of the संसार Wide वेब ( WWW ) and the अवसंरचना to support email.
सबसे परंपरागत संचार media including telephone, music, film, and television are being reshaped or redefined by the Internet, giving birth to new services such as voice over Internet Protocol ( voip ) और अंतरजाल प्रोटोकॉल television ( IPTV ).
Newspaper, book and other छपाई प्रकाशन are adapting to Web site technology, or हैं reshaped into blogging and web feeds.
The Internet has enabled and त्वरित new forms of इंसान interactions through instant messaging, अंतरजाल forums, and social networking.
Online shopping has boomed दोनो for प्रमुख खुदरा outlets and small artisans और traders.
Business-to-business और financial services on the Internet affect सप्लाई chains across entire उद्योग.
The origins of the अंतरजाल reach back to research commissioned by the United States सरकारी in the 1960s to निर्माण robust, fault-tolerant communication via computer networks.
The funding of a नई U.S. backbone by the National Science Foundation in the 1980s, as well as private funding for other commercial backbones, led to विश्वव्यापी भागीदारी in the development of नई networking technologies, and the merger of अनेक networks.
The व्यावसायीकरण of what थी by the 1990s an अंतरराष्ट्रीय संजाल resulted in its popularization और incorporation into वस्तुतः प्रत्येक aspect of modern human जीवन.
, अधिक than 2.4 billion people—over a तीसरा of the world 's human population —have used the services of the अंतरजाल ; approximately 100 times अधिक people than were using it in 1995, when it was mostly used by tech-savvy middle and अपर class लोगों in the United राज्य and अनेक अन्य देशों.
The Internet has no centralized governance in either technological implementation or policies for अभिगम and usage ; each constituent संजाल sets its अपना policies.
Only the overreaching definitions of the two principal name स्पेसेस in the Internet, the Internet Protocol address स्पेस and the डोमेन Name प्रणाली, हैं directed by a maintainer organization, the Internet Corporation for Assigned names and Numbers ( icann ).
the तकनीकी underpinning and मानकीकरण of the कोर प्रोटोकॉल ( IPv4 and IPv6 ) is an activity of the अंतरजाल Engineering Task Force ( IETF ), a non-profit संगठन of loosely affiliated international भागीदार कि anyone may संबद्ध साथ by contributing technical expertise.
The 2006 Winter Olympics, officially ज्ञात as the XX Olympic Winter खेल, थी a winter multi-sport इवेंट which थी मनाये in Turin, Italy from February 10, 2006, through February 26, 2006.
This marked the second time Italy hosted the Olympic Winter खेल, the first being the सात ओलम्पिक Winter Games in cortina d'ampezzo in 1956.
Italy also hosted the Games of the XVII Olympiad in Rome in 1960.
टोरीनो was selected as the host city for the 2006 खेल in 1999.
the official logo प्रदर्शित the name `` Torino '', the Italian name of the city ; the नगर is ज्ञात as `` Turin '' in both English और the local traditional language, Piedmontese.
the ओलम्पिक mascots of Torino 2006 यहूद Neve ( `` हिम '' in Italian ), a female snowball, and gliz, a पुरूष ice cube.
the official motto of the XX Olympic Winter Games थी `` Passion lives यहाँ ''.
`` Help ! '' is a सोंग by the Beatles कि served as the title song for दोनो the 1965 film and इसके soundtrack album.
It थी also released as a सिंगल, and थी number one लिये three weeks in दोनो the United राज्य and the United Kingdom.
`` Help ! '' was written primarily by John Lennon, but credited to lennon–mccartney.
दौरान an इंटरव्यू with प्लेबॉय in 1984, Paul McCartney stated that the title was `` out of desperation ''.
पोस्टर लिये the 2005 प्रदर्शनी
siegfried bing ( 26 फ़रवरी 1838 – 6 September 1905 ), who usually gave उसके नाम as S. Bing, और थी thus often संदर्भित erroneously as `` Samuel Bing '' ( सैमुएल Otto bing, 1850–1905, was उसके bhai ) थी a German art dealer who जिया in Paris as an adult, and who helped introduce Japanese आर्ट और artworks to the वेस्ट and थी a factor in the development of the आर्ट Nouveau स्टाइल दौरान the late nineteenth सदी.
तुलना of male and मादा life expectancy at birth लिये countries and territories as पारिभाषित in the 2011 सीआईए Factbook, साथ selected bubbles labelled.
The dotted line corresponds to equal female and male life expectancy.
The apparent 3D volumes of the bubbles are linearly आंशिक to उनके जनसांख्यिकी.
This is a list of देशों by life expectancy at जनम.
Kennewick is a नगर in Benton County in the southeastern part of the U.S. state of Washington, निकट the hanford nuclear site.
It is the most populous of the three शहरों collectively referred to as the Tri-Cities ( the others होने Pasco and Richland ).
Kennewick is स्तिथ साथ the दक्षिणपश्चिम बैंको of the कोलंबिया River, विपरीत Pasco and just south of the confluence of the Columbia and Yakima rivers.
The population थी 73,917 at the 2010 census.
April 1, 2012 estimates from the वॉशिंगटन राज्य Office of वित्तीय Management put the city 's population at 75,160.
The nearest वाणिज्यिक विमानक्षेत्र is the Tri-Cities Airport in Pasco, a regional commercial and private विमानक्षेत्र.
Forbes magazine named kennewick the # 2 area in the United States for job growth, while आसपास Yakima थी named # 1.
The article cites the number of scientists employed by the Pacific उत्तरपश्चिम National Laboratory and area farmland for this आउटलुक.
The prothrombin time ( PT ) और इसके derived measures of prothrombin ratio ( PR ) and international normalized ratio ( inr ) हैं उपायों of the extrinsic pathway of जामन.
This test is भी called `` ProTime inr '' and `` PT/INR ''.
They are प्रयुक्त to determine the clotting tendency of blood, in the measure of warfarin dosage, liver damage, और vitamin K औकात.
pt उपायों कारकों I ( fibrinogen ), II ( prothrombin ), V, VII, and x.
it is प्रयुक्त in conjunction साथ the activated partial thromboplastin time ( aptt ) which measures the intrinsic pathway.
`` i 'm in the Mood for Love '' is a लोकप्रिय song.
the म्यूज़िक was written by Jimmy mchugh, the गीत by Dorothy Fields.
the song was प्रकाशित in 1935.
it was introduced by frances Langford in the फिल्म Every Night at आठ released that year.
The सोंग थी featured in the 1936 Our Gang ( छोटी Rascals ) short, the Pinch Singer, सुंग by Carl `` अल्फाल्फा '' Switzer, and in the 1936 film Palm स्रोतों.
It is often known to be switzer 's हस्ताक्षर सोंग.
James Moody 's saxophone सोलो on a 1952 recording of this song inspired the song `` Moody 's मनोदशा for Love ``.
हिप हॉप artist Prince Paul sampled the सोंग as the आधार for the track `` Mood for Love '' on his album a प्रिंस Among Thieves ( 1999 ), with Don Newkirk गायन its असली lyrics.
The सोंग 's शीर्षक inspired the English शीर्षक of Wong kar Wai 's movie in the Mood लिये Love.
cross-cultural psychology is the वैज्ञानिक पढ़ाई of human बर्ताव and mental processes, including दोनो their variability और invariance, under विविध cultural conditions.
through expanding research methodologies to recognize cultural variance in बर्ताव, language, और अर्थ it seeks to extend and develop मनोविज्ञान.
Since psychology as an अकादमिक discipline थी विकसित largely in North America, some psychologists became concerned that constructs स्वीकृत as universal यहूद not as invariant as previously assumed, विशेषकर since many attempts to replicate notable experiments in other संस्कृतियों had varying कामयाबी.
Since वहीँ are questions as to whether theories dealing with central themes, ऐसे as affect, cognition, conceptions of the self, और मुद्दे such as psychopathology, anxiety, और depression, may lack बाह्य validity when `` exported '' to other सांस्कृतिक contexts, cross-cultural मनोविज्ञान re-examines them using methodologies designed to factor in cultural मतभेद so as to खाता for cultural variance.
Although कुछ आलोचकों have pointed to methodological flaws in cross-cultural मनोवैज्ञानिक research और अर्जी that serious shortcomings in the सैद्धांतिक and methodological bases used impede बल्कि than सहायता the वैज्ञानिक search for सार्वभौमिक principles in psychology, cross-cultural psychologists are turning more to the पढ़ाई of how differences ( variance ) occur, rather than searching for universals in the style of physics or chemistry.
in 1972 the International Association of Cross-Cultural Psychology ( iaccp ) थी established.
This branch of psychology has continued to expand as there has महरूम an increasing लोकप्रियता of incorporating culture and diversity into अध्ययन.
cross-cultural psychology is differentiated from Cultural psychology.
the latter is the branch of psychology that holds कि human behavior is significantly बहकावे by cultural differences, meaning कि psychological phenomena can तभी be compared साथ each other across संस्कृतियों to a very limited extent.
in contrast, cross-cultural psychology शामिल a search for possible universals in behavior and mental processes.
Walter J. Lonner, लिखने लिये Eye on Psi ची, has stated कि `` cross-cultural psychology can be thought of as a type research methodology, rather than an entirely separate फ़ील्ड भीतर psychology ( 2000 ). ''
`` Judas '' is a song by American recording artist Lady Gaga, from her second studio album born This रास्ता ( 2011 ).
It was released by Interscope Records on अप्रैल 15, 2011, four days ahead of इसके अनुसूचित release.
Written and produced by Lady Gaga and redone, `` यहूदा '' is a dance and electro house सोंग about a woman in love साथ a man who betrayed her.
It embodies the incidents कि have haunted Gaga in the पास्ट, और इसके core अर्थ refers to the negative भाग of her life that वो ca n't escape.
Gaga has further explained that the song was also परिचय honoring एक 's inner अंधेरा in order to लाओ oneself into the light.
The artwork for the single was designed by गागा in Microsoft Word.
in spite of a polarizing प्रभाव on several धार्मिक groups, the song was generally well received by आलोचकों, who likened the song to `` Bad Romance `` with some noting it चाहिए have been the album 's lead single.
the song has a similar sound to Gaga 's previous RedOne-produced tracks, including `` Poker फेस ``, `` LoveGame ``, `` Bad Romance '', and `` alejandro ``.
It contains तीन distinct hooks और a house -influenced ब्रेक down.
गागा समझाया कि the लाइनों spoken दौरान the breakdown बात परिचय her as beyond redemption, regarding the traditional views of कया a woman should be.
`` Judas '' initially had a दमदार sales opening, but was less successful commercially in तुलना to Gaga 's पिछला singles.
the सोंग पहुँचे the top ten of the charts in most प्रमुख music markets, and भी पहुँचे the top of the charts in South Korea.
a music video for the song was filmed in April 2011, co-directed by गागा and Laurieann Gibson and co-starring नॉर्मन Reedus.
It has a Biblical storyline जहाँ Reedus played Judas Iscariot and गागा निभाई Mary magdalene.
the video portrays them as modern day missionaries going to Jerusalem.
It शामिल the Biblical स्टोरी of Judas betraying Jesus, और ended with Gaga as magdalene getting stoned to death.
Before इसके release, the कैथोलिक लीग condemned गागा लिये the alleged use of धार्मिक imagery and her role in the video.
however, critics generally praised the वीडियो, not ढूंढना कोई offensive सामग्री.
The वीडियो was मनोनीत for दो awards at the 2011 एमटीवी Video Music Awards.
Gaga has performed `` Judas '' on a क्रमांक of television shows, including The Graham नॉर्टन Show, Saturday Night सजीव, Good Morning Americas `` Summer Concert Series '', the French X Factor as well as on The Ellen DeGeneres Show.
h.264/mpeg-4 Part 10 or avc ( Advanced Video Coding ) is a standard for video compression, and is currently एक of the सबसे commonly प्रयुक्त स्वरुप for the recording, compression, and वितरण of ऊँची definition वीडियो.
the फाइनल drafting work on the first version of the standard was completed in May 2003.
H.264/MPEG-4 AVC is a block-oriented motion-compensation -based codec standard विकसित by the ITU-T Video Coding Experts समूह ( VCEG ) साथ with the iso/iec JTC1 Moving Picture Experts Group ( MPEG ).
The प्रोजेक्ट partnership effort is ज्ञात as the संयुक्त Video Team ( JVT ).
The itu-t H.264 मानक and the iso/iec mpeg-4 AVC standard ( formally, iso/iec 14496-10 – MPEG-4 भाग 10, Advanced वीडियो Coding ) are jointly कायम so that वे have identical technical सामग्री.
h.264 is शायद best known as being one of the कोडेक standards लिये blu-ray Discs ; all Blu-ray Disc players जरूर be समर्थ to डिकोड H.264.
It is also widely used by स्ट्रीमिंग internet स्त्रोत, such as videos इससे Vimeo, YouTube, and the iTunes स्टोर, web software such as the adobe Flash Player and Microsoft Silverlight, और भी various HDTV प्रसारण over terrestrial ( ATSC, isdb-t, dvb-t or dvb-t2 ), केबल ( DVB-C ) and satellite ( DVB-S and DVB-S2 ).
non-binding arbitration is a type of arbitration in which the arbitrator makes a determination of the अधिकारों of the parties to the dispute, लकिन this determination is not बाइंडिंग upon them, और no enforceable arbitration award is issued.
The `` award '' is in effect an advisory opinion of the arbitrator 's view of the respective merits of the parties मामले.
Non-binding arbitration is प्रयुक्त in connection with कोशिशें to reach a negotiated settlement.
The role of an arbitrator in non-binding मध्यस्थता is, on the surface, समान to that of a mediator in a mediation.
However, the प्रिंसिपल भेद is कि whereas a mediator will try to सहायता the parties find a middle मैदान to compromise at, the arbitrator remains totally removed from the settlement process and होगा तभी give a determination of liability and, if appropriate, an indication of the quantum of damages payable.
Subsequent to a non-binding arbitration, the parties remain फ़्री to pursue their दावा either through the courts, or by way of a binding arbitration, although in practice a उपनिवेश is the most आम outcome.
The award and reasoning in a non-binding मध्यस्थता is लगभग invariably inadmissible in any subsequent कार्रवाई in the courts or in another arbitration tribunal.
Non-binding arbitration is utilised mostly in the United States and कनाडा.
it is largely unknown in Europe, हालांकि in the संयुक्त Kingdom वहीँ is a practice of parties who are seeking a उपनिवेश to jointly instruct a महारानी 's Counsel for an opinion on the merits और संभावित quantum of a claim, and then to negotiate on the आधार of the views expressed in that opinion.
Augustine Volcano is a Lava गुम्बद जटिल on Augustine Island in southwestern कुक Inlet in the Kenai Peninsula Borough of southcentral coastal अलास्का, दक्षिणपश्चिम of Anchorage.
The Alaska Volcano वेधशाला currently rates माउंट अगस्टाइन as स्तर of चिंता Color कोड ग्रीन for aviation and the ज्वालामुखी चेतावनी Level is at सामान्य.
Augustine Island रै a जमीन area of, जबकि वेस्ट Island, just बंद Augustine 's western shores, has.
the द्वीप is made up mainly of past eruption deposits.
वैज्ञानिकों have been able to discern that past dome collapse has resulted in विशाल avalanches.
A map of बेलीज़.
The देश of Belize has roughly 386 km of coastline, and रै many coral reefs, cays, and islands in the Caribbean Sea.
Most of these form the Belize Barrier रीफ, the longest in the western गोलार्ध stemming लगभग.
The reef और its islands have been a UNESCO World Heritage साईट since 1996.
The following is a list of oceanic islands of Belize, arranged according to region but सब of which are in the Caribbean Sea.
सबसे of the आइलैंड्स variate in spelling between `` cay '' और `` caye '', and भी उपयोग the Spanish `` cayo ''.
नदी islands have not महरूम listed.
Drive अक्षर Access ( dla ) is a discontinued commercial पैकेट writing application for the Microsoft Windows operating system that allows optical disc आंकड़ा storage devices to be used in a manner similar to फ्लॉपी disks.
dla is a packet लिखने technology for CD and DVD media that उपयोग the udf संचिका system.
DLA is not compatible with खिड़कियाँ विस्टा and newer, हालांकि a patch exists to fix this issue under Windows Vista.
Roxio Burn was introduced on April 30, 2009.
As a बदलना for DLA, it remedies compatibility issues Internet Explorer 8.
Alpha Rex Emmanuel humbard ( August 13, 1919 – सितंबर 21, 2007 ) was a well-known American television evangelist whose Cathedral of कल show was shown on over 600 स्टेशन at the peak of इसके popularity.
Limitless is a 2011 American thriller film directed by Neil Burger and starring ब्राडली Cooper, Abbie Cornish, and रॉबर्ट De Niro.
It is based on the 2001 novel The अंधेरा Fields by एलन Glynn with the screenplay by Leslie डिक्सन.
अलास्का ( ) is a state in the संयुक्त राज्य, situated in the northwest extremity of the उत्तर अमरीकी continent, with the अंतरराष्ट्रीय boundary with कनाडा to the east, the Arctic Ocean to the north, and the प्रशांत Ocean to the वेस्ट and south, साथ Russia further west across the Bering Strait.
Alaska is the largest राज्य in the United States by area, the 4th तनिक populous and the तनिक densely populated of the 50 United States.
Approximately half of Alaska 's 731,449 निवासियों live within the Anchorage metropolitan area.
Alaska 's अर्थव्यवस्था is dominated by the oil, प्राकृतिक गैस, और फ़िशिंग industries ; it has these resources in प्रचुरता.
Alaska was purchased from Russia on March 30, 1867, लिये $ 7.2 million ( $ adjusted for inflation ) at लगभग दो सेंट per acre ( $ 4.74/km2 ).
the land गई through several administrative changes पहले becoming an व्यवस्थित ( or incorporated ) territory on May 11, 1912, और the 49th राज्य of the U.S. on January 3, 1959.
The name `` Alaska '' ( аляска ) was already introduced in the Russian colonial period, when it थी used only for the peninsula and is derived from the Aleut alaxsxaq, meaning `` the मेनलैंड '' or, अधिक वस्तुतः, `` the object towards जिससे the action of the समुद्र is directed ''.
it is भी ज्ञात as Alyeska, the `` ग्रेट जमीन '', an aleut शब्द derived from the same root.
नेल्सन Mandela महानगर University ( nmmu ) is a दक्षिण African tertiary education institution with इसके main प्रशासन in the coastal city of बंदरगाहों एलिज़ाबेथ.
A विलय of three institutions founded nmmu in January 2005 but its इतिहास dates back to 1882 with the न्यास of Port Elizabeth Art School.
The विश्वविद्यालयों draws international students इससे all over the संसार.
There हैं over 3000 international विद्यार्थी and include students from the United States, France, China, जर्मनी, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, United Kingdom and अनेक other countries.
NMMU is a व्यापक university offering professional and vocational training.
the विश्वविद्यालयों has छह campuses - पाँच in Port एलिज़ाबेथ और एक in जार्ज.
The main campus is the दक्षिण Campus.
विद्यार्थी at NMMU can study towards diplomas and डिग्री up to और including doctoral level योग्यता.
A number of पाठ्यक्रम include workplace experience as भाग of the curriculum.
CoverGirl is an अमरीकी cosmetics ब्रांड founded in मेरीलैंड, by the Noxzema Chemical Company ( बाद पुकारा Noxell ) and acquired by Procter & Gamble in 1989.
The Noxell Company advertised इस cosmetics line by allowing `` कवर girls '', fashion मॉडल who appear on the front cover of women 's magazines, to पहनें its products.
covergirl makes up लिये lack of सीधा व्यक्तिगत customer service by providing a wide variety of cosmetics available at reasonable कीमतें.
on the Origin of Species, published on 24 November 1859, is a work of scientific literature by Charles Darwin which is considered to be the foundation of evolutionary biology.
Its full शीर्षक was on the Origin of Species by Means of Natural Selection, or the संरक्षण of favoured Races in the Struggle लिये Life.
For the छठे edition of 1872, the short title was बदला to The Origin of प्रजाति.
Darwin 's किताब introduced the scientific theory कि populations evolve over the course of generations through a process of प्राकृतिक चयन.
it presented a body of evidence that the विविधता of जीवन arose by common descent through a branching पैटर्न of evolution.
Darwin included प्रमाण that he had gathered on the Beagle expedition in the 1830s and उसके subsequent findings इससे research, correspondence, और experimentation.
Various evolutionary ideas था already महरूम proposed to explain नई findings in biology.
There was growing support लिये ऐसे ideas among dissident anatomists और the सामान्य public, लकिन दौरान the पहला half of the 19th century the English scientific establishment थी closely tied to the Church of England, जबकि science थी part of प्राकृतिक theology.
Ideas about the transmutation of species were controversial as they conflicted with the beliefs that species were unchanging parts of a designed hierarchy and that humans were unique, unrelated to other animals.
The political and theological implications यहूद intensely debated, but transmutation was not accepted by the scientific mainstream.
the किताब was लिखा for non-specialist पाठक and attracted widespread ब्याज upon its publication.
As Darwin थी an eminent scientist, उसके निष्कर्षों were लिया seriously and the evidence he प्रस्तुत generated scientific, philosophical, और धार्मिक discussion.
The debate over the book contributed to the अभियान by T.H. Huxley and उसके fellow members of the x Club to secularise science by promoting scientific naturalism.
Within two decades वहीँ थी widespread scientific अनुबंध कि evolution, with a branching pattern of आम descent, had occurred, but वैज्ञानिकों were slow to give natural selection the significance that Darwin thought appropriate.
दौरान the `` eclipse of Darwinism `` from the 1880s to the 1930s, various other mechanisms of evolution were given अधिक credit.
साथ the development of the modern evolutionary संश्लेषण in the 1930s and 1940s, Darwin 's अवधारणा of evolutionary अनुकूलन through natural selection became सेंट्रल to modern evolutionary theory, now the unifying concept of the life sciences.
Charles डिलन `` Casey '' Stengel ( ; July 30, 1890 – सितंबर 29, 1975 ), nicknamed `` The Old Perfessor '', was an American Major League Baseball outfielder and manager.
He थी elected to the Baseball Hall of Fame in.
स्टेंगल थी born in Kansas नगर, Missouri, and originally nicknamed `` Dutch '', a आम उपनाम at that time for अमेरिकी of जर्मनी ancestry.
After his major league career began, he acquired the उपनाम `` Casey '', which originally आए from the initials of his गृहनगर ( `` K. C. '' ), जिससे evolved into `` Casey '', बहकावे by the wide popularity of the poem Casey at the चमगादड़.
in the 1950s, sportswriters dubbed उसे with yet another nickname, `` the Old प्राध्यापक '' ( or `` perfessor '' ), for his sharp wit and his क्षमता to talk at लंबाई on anything baseball -सुनानाd.
हालांकि his baseball career spanned a number of teams and cities, he is primarily संबद्ध साथ clubs in नई York City.
Between playing and मैनेजिंग, he is the only man to have worn four of नई यॉर्क 's major league clubs ' वर्दी.
He was the first of four men ( through the season ) to मैनेज both the New York यांकीज़ और New York Mets ; Yogi Berra, Dallas Green, और Joe Torre are the अन्य.
Like टोरेस, he also managed the Braves and the Dodgers.
He ended his baseball करियर as the beloved manager for the then expansion New यॉर्क Mets, which won over the hearts of नई York partly due to the unique अक्षर of उनके veteran leader.
June ( ) is the sixth month of the year in the जूलियन और gregorian पंचांग and एक of the four months साथ a लंबाई of 30 दिनों.
Ovid provides दो etymologies for June 's नाम in his poem concerning the months entitled the fasti.
The first is कि the month is named after the रोमन देवी Juno, wife of Jupiter और equivalent to the Greek goddess hera ; the second is कि the नाम comes इससे the Latin word iuniores, meaning `` younger ones, '' as opposed to maiores ( `` elders '' ) for which the preceding month May may be नामित ( Fasti VI.1–88 ).
See : महीने in विभिन्न calendars also called the season of the June is the माह with the longest daylight hours of the साल in the Northern Hemisphere and the shortest daylight घंटों of the year in the दक्षिणी Hemisphere.
June in the Northern Hemisphere is the seasonal equivalent to December in the दक्षिणी गोलार्ध and vice versa.
In the Northern गोलार्ध, the beginning of the meteorological गर्मियाँ is 1 June.
in the Southern hemisphere, the beginning of the meteorological winter is 1 जून.
At the प्रारंभ of जून, the sun rises in the constellation of Taurus ; at the end of June, the sun उदय in the constellation of मिथुन.
However, due to the precession of the equinoxes, June begins with the sun in the astrological sign of Gemini, और ends with the सूर्य in the astrological sign of कर्कट.
जून is known for the large क्रमांक of विवाह that occur over the course of the month.
According to one etymology, June is named बाद Juno ( Hera ).
Juno was the goddess of marriage and a married couple 's household, so कुछ consider it good लक to be married in इस month.
According to another etymology provided by the Roman कवि Ovid, जून is नामित for the iuniores, latin for `` young people '' ( Fasti VI.88 ) and that the माह of May is named लिये the maiores, Latin for `` elders ''.
In Iceland, folklore says कि if तुम bathe naked in the morning dew on the morning of June 24, you are supposed to keep aging at bay for longer.
a संविधान is a set of fundamental principles or स्थापित precedents according to जिससे a state or other organization is governed.
These नियम साथ मेक up, i.e. constitute, what the एंटिटी is.
When these principles हैं written bas into a सिंगल document or नियत of विधिक documents, those दस्तावेज़ may be said to embody a written संविधान ; if they हैं लिखा down in a single comprehensive document, it is said to embody a संहिताबद्ध constitution.
Constitutions concern अलग स्तर of organizations, from sovereign राज्य to companies and unincorporated associations.
a सन्धि जिससे establishes an अंतरराष्ट्रीय organization is also its संविधान, in that it would define कैसा कि संगठन is constituted.
Within राज्य, whether sovereign or federated, a constitution defines the principles upon which the state is based, the कार्यविधि in which कानून हैं made and by whom.
Some constitutions, especially codified constitutions, also अधिनियम as limiters of state power, by establishing लाइनों जिससे a राज्य 's शासकों can not क्रॉस, such as fundamental rights.
जार्ज Washington at संवैधानिक Convention of 1787, signing of u.S. Constitution.
The Constitution of India is the longest लिखा संविधान of any sovereign country in the world, containing 448 articles, 12 schedules and 100 amendments, with 117,369 शब्द in its English language version, while the United States Constitution is the shortest written constitution, at 7 आलेख and 27 amendments.
Ron Diftler ( left ), NASA Robonaut manager assisting in a robonaut familiarization प्रशिक्षण सत्र in the स्पेस Environment सिमुलेशन प्रयोगशाला at नासा 's जॉनसन Space Center.
Engineering management is a specialized form of management that is चिंतित साथ the application of engineering principles to business अभ्यास.
Engineering management is a career that brings together the technological problem-solving savvy of अभियान्त्रिकी and the organizational, administrative, and नियोजन abilities of प्रबन्धन in order to oversee complex उद्यमों इससे conception to completion.
Example क्षेत्रों of engineering are product development, manufacturing, construction, design अभियान्त्रिकी, industrial engineering, technology, production, or कोई other field कि employs personnel who perform an engineering function.
Successful engineering managers typically require training and experience in business and अभियान्त्रिकी.
Technically inept managers tend to be deprived of support by their तकनीकी टोली, and non-commercial managers tend to lack commercial acumen to deliver in a market अर्थव्यवस्था.
Largely, engineering managers मैनेज engineers जो are चलित by non-entrepreneurial thinking, thus आवश्यकता the necessary people skills to coach, mentor and motivate technical professionals.
Engineering पेशेवर joining manufacturing companies sometimes become engineering प्रबंधक by default after a काल of time.
वे are required to सीख how to manage once वे are on the job, though this is usually an ineffective way to develop managerial abilities.
In an insurance policy, the deductible is the amount of expenses that must be paid आउट of pocket before an insurer will pay any expenses.
In general usage, the पद deductible may be प्रयुक्त to describe एक of अनेक types of clauses ( see below ) that हैं used by insurance कंपनियाँ as a threshold लिये policy payments.
Deductibles are typically प्रयुक्त to deter the विशाल number of trivial claims that a consumer can be reasonably expected to bear the cost of.
By restricting its coverage to events that are significant पर्याप्त to incur विशाल लागत, the बीमे firm expects to pay out थोड़ा smaller amounts much less frequently, incurring much higher बचत.
As a result, insurance premiums हैं typically cheaper when वे involve higher deductibles.
Deductibles हैं normally provided as clauses in an बीमे policy कि dictate how much of an insurance-covered expense is borne by the policyholder.
They are सामान्यतः quoted as a fixed quantity and is a part of सबसे policies covering नुकसान to the नीति holder.
the insurer then becomes liable for claimable expenses कि exceed इस amount ( subject to the maximum योग claimable indicated in the contract ).
Depending on the policy, the deductible may apply प्रति covered incident, or per year.
For policies where incidences हैं not easy to delimit ( लिये example health insurance ), the deductible is typically लागू per year.
Several deductibles can be set by the insurer based on the कारण of the claim.
लिये example, a single housing insurance policy may contain अनेक deductible amounts लिये घाटा or damage arising from चोरी, fire, प्राकृतिक calamities, evacuation etc.
There are also deductible reimbursement programs that reimburse a deductible in the इवेंट of an auto, home, boat/yacht or health insurance अर्जी.
An invoice or bill is a वाणिज्यिक दस्तावेज़ issued by a seller to a खरीदार, indicating the products, quantities, and agreed prices for products or services the seller रै provided the buyer.
an invoice indicates the बिक्री transaction only.
भुगतान शर्तें are independent of the चालान and हैं negotiated by the buyer and the seller.
Payment शर्तें हैं usually शामिल on the invoice.
The खरीदार could have already paid for the products or services सूचीबद्ध on the invoice.
Buyer can also have a अधिकतम number of दिनों in which to अदा for ये goods and is sometimes offered a छूट if paid पहले the due date.
in the rental उद्योग, an चालान जरूर include a विशिष्ट सन्दर्भ to the duration of the समय होने billed, so in addition to quantity, price and discount the invoicing amount is also based on duration.
generally each line of a rental invoice होगा refer to the वास्तविक hours, days, weeks, months, etc., being billed.
From the point of view of a seller, an invoice is a sales चालान.
From the point of दृश्य of a buyer, an invoice is a purchase चालान.
The document indicates the buyer and seller, but the term चालान indicates धन is owed or owing.
In English, the कॉन्टेक्स्ट of the term चालान is usually used to clarify its meaning, ऐसे as `` We sent उन्हें an invoice '' ( they owe us money ) or `` We received an invoice from them '' ( we owe them money ).
The सही प्रमुख bronchus ( or right primary bronchus, or right principal bronchus ) is a bronchus of the respiratory system.
It is wider, shorter, and more vertical in direction than the बाएँ.
it is परिचय 2.5 cm long, and enters the right lung nearly opposite the fifth thoracic vertebra.
The azygos vein arches over it from behind ; and the सही pulmonary artery झूठ at पहला below and then in सामने of it.
About 2 cm इससे its शुरुआत it gives off a branch to the upper पालि of the सही lung.
इस is termed the eparterial branch of the bronchus, because it arises above the right pulmonary artery.
The bronchus now passes नीचे the धमनी, और is known as the hyparterial branch ; it divides into two शाखाओं लिये the मध्य and lower निर्मोक.
if a विदेशी देह in the airway गुजरता through the trachea, it will most likely enter the सही main bronchus बजाय of the बाएँ, due to the straighter alignment of the right bronchus to the trachea.
स्क्वैश is a racquet खेल निभाई by दो ( singles ) or four खिलाड़ी ( doubles ) in a four-walled court with a small, hollow rubber ball.
The players must वैकल्पिक in striking the ball with their racquet and hit the बॉल onto the playable सतहों of the four walls of the अदालत.
The खेल was formerly called squash racquets, a सन्दर्भ to the `` squashable '' soft ball used in the game ( compared with the fatter ball प्रयुक्त in its parent game racquets or rackets ).
स्क्वैश is पहचाना by the IOC और supporters are lobbying for इसके incorporation in a भविष्य ओलम्पिक program.
In 2003, फोर्ब्स रेटेड squash as the क्रमांक one healthiest sport to खेल.
Residual आयल is oil मिला in low एकाग्रता naturally or in exhausted oil fields.
Often mixed साथ जल, it can not be recovered by conventional techniques.
However, it can be बरामद using carbon dioxide-enhanced oil recovery ( CO2 EOR ) जिससे involves injecting carbon dioxide into the खूब reducing श्यानता and enhancing flow of the oil.
The technique is not new लकिन has not महरूम used extensively on अवशेष आयल zones, low-grade deposits of petroleum such as the 38 square मील in the Permian Basin of Texas leased by elliott रूज़वेल्ट jr.
The technique is limited by availability of carbon डाइऑक्साइड.
it करता नहीं परिणाम in sequestration of the carbon डाइऑक्साइड but the गैस is recycled as much as possible.
संयुक्त States reserves of residual आयल are estimated to be 100 billion barrels.
Artist 's rendering of the आग, by John R. chapin, originally printed in Harper 's Weekly ; the दृश्य faces northeast across the Randolph Street Bridge.
The ग्रेट शिकागो Fire थी a conflagration that burned from Sunday, अक्तूबर 8, to early मंगलवार, अक्तूबर 10, 1871, killing hundreds and destroying परिचय in Chicago, Illinois.
Though the fire was एक of the largest u.S. आपदाओं of the 19th सदी, the rebuilding that began helped develop Chicago as one of the सबसे populous and economically important American cities.
Henry viii ( 28 June 1491 – 28 January 1547 ) was किंग of England इससे 21 April 1509 until his death.
He was lord, and बाद king, of Ireland, as well as continuing the nominal claim by the English monarchs to the Kingdom of France.
Henry was the दूसरी monarch of the Tudor dynasty, succeeding उसके father, Henry VII.
besides उसके six विवाह, Henry viii is known लिये उसके भूमिका in the separation of the गिरिजाघर of England इससे the Roman Catholic Church.
Henry 's struggles with Rome led to the separation of the Church of इंग्लैण्ड from papal प्राधिकार, the Dissolution of the Monasteries, and उसके own स्थापना as the Supreme Head of the गिरिजाघर of England.
Yet he remained a believer in core Catholic theological शिक्षाओं, भी after his excommunication from the रोमन Catholic Church.
हेनरी oversaw the legal union of इंग्लैण्ड and वेल्स with the Laws in वेल्स अधिनियमों 1535 and 1542.
In 1513, the new किंग allied with the पावन Roman Emperor, Maximillian I, and invaded France in 1513 साथ a large, well-equipped army, but achieved छोटी at a considerable financial लागत.
Maximillian, for उसके भाग, प्रयुक्त the English आक्रमण to उसके own ends, and this prejudiced इंग्लैण्ड 's क्षमता to defeat the फ्रेंच.
This foray would prove the start of an obsession लिये हेनरी, जो invaded again in 1544.
This time, Henry 's forces captured the important city of Boulogne, लकिन again the Holy रोमन सम्राट, Charles V, supported Henry only as long as he needed to और England, strained by the enormous cost of the युद्ध, ransomed the city वापस for peace.
His contemporaries माना Henry in उसके prime to be an attractive, educated और accomplished king, and he रै been described as `` एक of the most charismatic शासकों to sit on the English throne ''.
Besides ruling साथ absolute शक्ति, he also सगाई himself as an author and composer.
उसके desire to provide England with a पुरूष heir – which stemmed partly from personal vanity and partly because he believed a daughter would be असमर्थ to consolidate the Tudor dynasty और the fragile सलाम that existed following the Wars of the गुलाब – led to the two बाते लिये which Henry is most remembered : his छह marriages and the अंग्रेज़ी Reformation.
हेनरी became रुग्ण obese और his health suffered, contributing to his मौत in 1547.
He is अक्सर characterised in उसके later life as a lustful, egotistical, harsh, and insecure king.
La Reina डेल Sur ( the महारानी of the दक्षिण ) is a spanish-language telenovela produced by the United States टेलीविज़न network telemundo, in conjunction with the Antena 3 network and RTI Producciones.
Based on a novel of the वही name by Spanish author Arturo Pérez-Reverte, the नाटक depicts the वृद्धि of Teresa Mendoza ( Kate डेल Castillo ), a यंग woman from Mexico who becomes the सबसे powerful ड्रग trafficker in दक्षिणी स्पेन.
Patricio wills, the president of Telemundo टेलीविज़न Studios, थी the executive producer.
Though La Reina डेल Sur was मनोनीत for Novela of the Year, Favorite Lead Actress, and बेहतरीन ख़राब Luck Video, it won no awards.
साथ a $ 10 million बजट, La Reina डेल Sur was the most महंगी telenovela ever produced by Telemundo.
The कार्यक्रम 's premiere on February 28, 2011, थी the network 's उच्चतम rated प्रीमियर लिये a telenovela to date.
The कार्यक्रम frequently वर्चस्व its time स्लॉट, even over English language प्रोग्रामिंग on other major U.S. networks.
La reina del Sur completed its 63 एपीसोड run on Telemundo and इसके 13 एपीसोड run on Antena 3 simultaneously on May 30, 2011.
The फाइनल एपीसोड was the highest रेटेड broadcast in telemundo 's 19-year इतिहास ( 4.2 million viewers ), and ताल all of the अंग्रेज़ी भाषा U.S. television networks to earn the number one slot in the 18-49 adult demographic.
the program 's success spurred telemundo to लॉन्च its first campaign to gain the series an Emmy Award nomination.
A one-night खास featuring several cast सदस्यों aired on May 31, 2011, and चिह्नित the telemundo debut of noted Latina television personality क्रिस्टीना saralegui.
la reina del Sur is broadcast in अनेक other बाज़ार, including सर्बिया, Colombia, Chile, Cyprus, निकारागुआ, कोस्टा Rica, Mexico, Albania, Hungary, स्लोवेनियाई, क्रोएशिया, Romania, ( among अन्य ).
An example of रैक mounted सर्वर
A web hosting service is a type of Internet hosting service that allows individuals and organizations to make their website accessible via the World Wide वेब.
Web hosts are companies that provide space on a server owned or leased लिये उपयोग by clients, as well as providing Internet connectivity, typically in a data बीच.
वेब hosts can also provide data बीच स्पेस and connectivity to the Internet for other servers located in their आंकड़ा बीच, called colocation, also ज्ञात as Housing in लैटिन America or फ़्रांस.
the scope of web hosting services varies greatly.
The most basic is web page and small-scale संचिका होस्टिंग, where files can be uploaded via संचिका ट्रांसफ़र प्रोटोकॉल ( एफटीपी ) or a Web interface.
the फाइलें are usually delivered to the Web `` as is '' or with minimal processing.
Many अंतरजाल service providers ( ISPs ) प्रस्ताव this service free to subscribers.
Individuals and organizations may also obtain Web पेज होस्टिंग from alternative service providers.
Personal web site होस्टिंग is typically free, advertisement-sponsored, or inexpensive.
Business वेब साईट hosting often रै a higher expense depending upon the size and type of the website.
सिंगल page होस्टिंग is generally sufficient for निजी वेब pages.
a complex site काल्स for a more व्यापक package that provides डेटाबेस support and application development platforms ( e.g. PHP, Java, Ruby on rails, ColdFusion, or asp.net ).
These सुविधाएं allow ग्राहक to write or install scripts लिये अनुप्रयोग like forums और content management.
Also, सुरक्षित sockets Layer ( SSL ) is typically प्रयुक्त for e-commerce.
The मेजबान may also provide an इंटरफ़ेस or कंट्रोल panel लिये managing the Web सर्वर and installing scripts, as well as अन्य modules and service अनुप्रयोग जैसे e-mail.
कुछ hosts specialize in निश्चित software or services ( e.g. e-commerce ), जिससे are commonly used by larger companies that outsource network अवसंरचना.
Madden एनएफएल ( ज्ञात as John मैडेन Football before 1993 ) is an American football वीडियो खेल श्रेणी developed by Electronic कला tiburon लिये ea Sports.
The game series is named after Pro Football हॉल of famer जॉन Madden, a well-known पूर्व Super Bowl –winning कोच of the ओकलैंड Raiders and color commentator.
The series is the best selling EA खेल series.
the खेल have consistently been a best seller, और रै भी spawned TV shows where खिलाड़ी compete.
Among the game 's realistic features include sophisticated playbooks and player statistics, and voice commentary कि allows players to सुन the game as if it were a real TV ब्रॉडकास्ट.
The Madden NFL श्रेणी रै been nicknamed the NFL 's 33rd मताधिकार.
The श्रेणी थी originally conceived by Electronic Arts founder ट्रिप Hawkins, who तब approached Madden in 1984 for उसके endorsement and expertise.
Due to मैडेन 's insistence that the game be as realistic as possible, the first version of John Madden फ़ुटबॉल was not released जबतक 1988.
The second version of the game थी released in 1990, साथ annual versions since then.
The series ' नाम was changed to Madden एनएफएल in 1993 after EA acquired the rights to उपयोग NFL teams and खिलाड़ी.
Despite मैडेन 's retirement as a प्रसारणकर्ता in 2009, he continues to lend उसके name and provide expertise for the game.
सिंडी Lee मिलर sheehan ( born July 10, 1957 ) is an American antiwar activist जिनकी son, U.S. Army विशेषज्ञ Casey Sheehan, was मारे by enemy कार्रवाई during the Iraq War.
वो attracted national and international media ध्यान in अगस्त 2005 for her extended antiwar protest at a makeshift camp outside President George W. Bush 's Texas ranch —a स्टैंड कि drew both passionate support और angry criticism.
Sheehan ran unsuccessfully for Congress in 2008.
She is a vocal critic of President Barack Obama 's foreign policy.
Her memoir, Peace Mom : a Mother 's Journey through Heartache to Activism, was published in 2006.
sheehan was the 2012 vice-presidential nominee of the सलाम and Freedom पार्टी.
wyclef jeanelle Jean ( ; ; born October 17, 1969 ) wyclef Dumped From Haiti 's Presidential Ballot – TIME, Aug 21, 2010.
`` पहले he announced on August 5 कि he was running लिये अध्यक्ष of हैती, Wyclef Jean थी still listing his age as only 37 years old.
But after declaring himself a presidential candidate, the Haitian-American-Irish hip-hop star also decided to come clean and confirm that he was really 40. '' is a three-time ग्रैमी पुरस्कार -winning Haitian-American rapper, singer-songwriter, musician, record producer, and राजनेता.
At आयु नौ, Jean moved to the संयुक्त States with उसके परिवार और has spent much of his जीवन in the country.
He first received fame as a सदस्य of the acclaimed New जर्सी hip hop group the Fugees.
on August 5, 2010, Jean filed for candidacy in the 2010 Haitian presidential election, although the Electoral आयोग subsequently ruled उसे अयोग्य to stand as he था नहीं met the requirement to have been resident in Haiti लिये five सालो.
Wyclef Jean to appeal विरूद्ध Haiti election ruling – BBC News, Aug 22, 2010.
Haiti 's electoral commission said कि Mr जां थी ineligible to स्टैंड as the Haitian constitution requires उम्मीदवार to have lived in the country लिये five years prior to an election.
the 40-year-old singer lives in the US.
Jean 's efforts at earthquake relief, अत्यधिक publicized in 2010 throughout Haiti and the United States, यहूद channeled through his charitable organization, Yéle Haiti.
The दान, which performed a किस्में of charitable works in Haiti between 2005 and 2010, effectively बंद in 2012.
In law, a set-off is a statutory defense to the whole or to a portion of a plaintiff 's अर्जी.
It था no existence अंतर्गत the अंग्रेज़ी आम law, होने created by 2 Geo. II c. 22 for the राहत of insolvent debtors, although set-off थी recognized in equity.
Such a defense could be pleaded only in respect of mutual debts of a definite अक्षर, and did नहीं लागू to मामले in which damages यहूद claimed, nor to निष्पक्ष claims or demands.
By the rules of the परम् Court ( O. xix. r. 3 ) a defendant in an कार्रवाई may नियत बंद or set up any right or claim by रास्ता of counterclaim against the claims of a plaintiff, and such set-off or counterclaim has the वही प्रभाव as a statement of claim in a cross-action.
