a partly submerged himani gupha on Perito Moreno Glacier.
The barf mukhagra is lagbhag 60 m high
Ice formations in the titlis glacier cave
A glacier cave is a gupha formed bheetar the barf of a glacier.
Glacier gufaaen hai praayah pukaara barf gufaaen, lakin is pad is properly prayukt to describe bedrock caves that contain year-round ice.
In bhautikee, golakaar gati is a gati of an object along the circumference of a circle or rotation along a circular path.
It can be uniform, with constant angular rate of roteshan ( or nirantar gati ), or non-uniform saath a badalanaa rate of rotation.
The rotation around a phixd aksh of a three-dimensional deh involves golakaar motion of its parts.
The equations of motion describe the gati of the bich of dravyaman of a deh.
Examples of circular gati shaamil : an kritrim upgrah orbiting the dharti at nirantar oonchaai, a stone jisase is tied to a rassi or is hone swung in vrutt, a car turning through a vakr in a res track, an electron moving perpendicular to a uniform magnetic field, and a gear turning inside a mechanism.
Since the object 's velocity vector is constantly badalanaa disha, the chalati object is undergoing twaran by a abhikendriya force in the direction of the center of rotation.
Without this acceleration, the object hota move in a sidhaa lakeer, according to newton 's kanoon of motion.
Apollo Creed is a fictional character from the Rocky films, initially portrayed as the undisputed heviveet Champion of the World.
He was nibhaai by karl weathers.
panth tha anek nicknames, sahit the nipun of vipatti, the king of sting, the naachna Destroyer, The Prince of Punch, The One and Only and The Count of Monte Fisto.
Urban legend rajya ki apollo panth 's naam is a wordplay on the rasulon ' panth, a bayaan of belief used in Christian churches.
All of Apollo 's championships jhagade yahood anusuchit for the 15 round distance.
Championship jhagade kiya nahin badalen isse 15 rounds to 12 rounds jabatak 1987.
Rocky Balboa is often wrongly credited saath popularizing the red, shwet, or blue trunks ; panth thi the pehla man to pahanen unhen ( latterly worn by rocky balboa in the 3rd or 4th installments and finally by Tommy `` The Machine '' Gunn ( Tommy Morrison ) in the 5th installment ) although normally he wore red and white, as seen in Rocky II.
Balboa 's signature colors were black and gold—colors he prayukt in the naveenatam film.
In the United States, the title of federal judge usually means a judge appointed by the President of the United States and confirmed by the sanyukt rajya seenet pursuant to the niyukti clause in aalekh ii of the sanyukt States Constitution.
In addition to the Supreme Court of the United States, whose existence and some aspects of whose kshetradhikaar hai pare the sanvaidhanik shakti of congress to alter, adhiniyamon of congress have sthapit 13 nyaayalayon of appeals ( bhi pukaara `` circuit nyaayalayon '' ) saath appellate kshetradhikaar over alag regions of the United States, and 94 United States district courts.
Every judge appointed to such a adaalat may be categorized as a sangheey nyaayadhish ; aise sthitiyaan shaamil the mukhya insaaf or sambhddha justices of the param adaalat, Circuit Judges of the courts of appeals, and district judges of the United States district courts.
All of these judges described yun dur hai referred to sometimes as `` aalekh iii nyaayadhishon '' kuki ve kasarat the nyaayik shakti vested in the nyaayik branch of the federal government by Article III of the U.S. Constitution.
In addition, judges of the Court of antarrashtriya vyapaar kasarat nyaayik shakti pursuant to Article III.
Other judges serving in the sangheey nyaayalayon, sahit magistrate nyaayadhishon or diwaliyapan nyaayadhishon, hai bhi sometimes referred to as `` sangheey nyaayadhishon '' ; however, ve hai neither niyukt by the President nor confirmed by the Senate, and their power derives from Article I instead.
dekhie aalekh i or aalekh III tribunals.
The beretta 21a bobacat is a choti pocket-sized semi-automatic pistol designed by Beretta in Italy.
Production began in late 1984, solely in the beretta U.S.A. facility in Accokeek, Maryland.
it is a further vikaas of the beretta model 20, whose production ended in 1985.
Variable saarvbhaumik jivan bime ( praayah shortened to vul ) is a prakaar of jivan bime ki builds a cash value.
In a VUL, the nakadi maan can be invested in a chaudee kismein of pruthak khate, samaan to paraspar funds, and the choice of which of the available separate accounts to use is entirely up to the contract owner.
The 'variable ' component in the name refers to is kshamta to invest in pruthak khate jinaki maan vary—they vary because they are invested in stock and/or bond markets.
The 'universal ' ghatak in the naam refers to the lacheelaapan the maalik rai in bananaa premium payments.
The premiums can vary from nothing in a given month up to maximums paribhaashit by the aatanrik aay code liye jivan insurance.
This flexibility is in contrast to whole jivan bime ki rai phixd premium bhugtan ki typically can nahin be chhuti bagaiyr lapsing the niti ( haalanki ek may kasarat an swachaalit premium rin visheshta, or surrender dividends to pay a Whole Life premium ).
Variable universal life is a type of permanent life insurance, because the maut laabh hoga be sashulk if the insured marataa koi samay as long as vahin is sufficient nakadi maan to adaa the laagat of insurance in the policy.
With most if not all VULs, naapsand puure jivan, vahin is no endowment aayu ( the aayu at jisase the nakadi maan barabari the maut laabh amount, which for whole life is typically 100 ).
This is yet another kunjee laabh of vul over Whole Life.
With a typical whole life niti, the maut laabh is simit to the phase raashi nirdisht in the policy, and at endowment age, the face amount is all that is paid out.
yun saath either maut or endowment, the bime company keeps any cash value built up over the years.
However, some participating whole life policies offer riders which specify that any dividends paid on the niti be prayukt to khariden `` sashulk up parivardhan '' to the niti jisase badhayen dono the nakadi maan or the maut laabh over time.
If investments made in the separate accounts out-perform the saamaanya khaataa of the bime company, a ucchtar rate-of-return can occur than the fixed rates-of-return typical for whole life.
The combination over the years of no endowment age, continually increasing maut laabh, or if a unchi rate-of-return is arjeet in the pruthak khate of a vul niti, is could parinaam in ucchtar maan to the maalik or beneficiary than that of a whole life policy with the same amounts of money paid in as premiums.
The outdoor wood boiler is a variant of the clasik lakdi stove adapted liye set-up bahari jabaki still transferring the ooshmaa to interior buildings.
A mound of ladki scout cookies.
This mound contains 74 baks of cookies
Girl Scout Cookies are cookies sold by ladki scout of the uese ( gsusa ) as ek of iske pramukh fundraisers liye local scout units.
Members of the GSUSA have been selling kukies chunki 1917 to raise funds.
ladakiyon jo participate can earn puraskaar for their efforts.
There are bhi ikai protsaahan if the ikai as a whole does well.
As of 2007, bikri yahood anumaanit at parichay 200 million boxes per year.
vishvavidhyalayon Hall
Purdue University, stith in west lafayette, indiana, is the flagship vishvavidhyalayon of the six-campus Purdue University system.
Purdue was founded on May 6, 1869, as a land-grant university when the Indiana General sabha, lene laabh of the morrill adhinium, sweekrut a daan of jameen or dhan isse lafayette bijnesaman jon purdue to sthapit a college of vigyaan, praudyogiki, and agriculture in his name.
The first classes were held on September 16, 1874, saath chah instructors or 39 vidhyaarthee.
Today, Purdue is a member of the Big ten sammelan, or is a khub gyaat world-class research institution.
Purdue enrolls the second largest student body of any university in indiana as khub as the chauthi largest antarrashtriya chaatr janasankhyikee of koi vishvavidhyalayon in the sanyukt States.
Purdue offers both undergraduate and graduate programs in over 211 pramukh kshetron of padhai, or is khub gyaat liye iske pratispardhi abhiyantriki curricula.
The university has also been atyadhik influential in america 's itihaas of vimaanan, having sthapit the pehla college credit offered in udaan training, the first four-year bachelor 's degree in aviation, and the first university airport ( Purdue University Airport ).
Purdue 's aviation technology kaarykram remains ek of the sabase pratispardhi aviation-specific programs in the world.
In the mid-20th sadi, purdue 's vimaanan kaarykram vistaarit to encompass unnat spaceflight praudyogiki giving vruddhi to purdue 's nickname, Cradle of Astronauts.
twenty-three purdue graduates have gaye on to become astronauts, sahit gas grissom ( ek of the asli paara saat astronauts ), neil armastrang ( the first person to walk on the moon ), and Eugene Cernan ( the most recent person to walk on the moon ).
A sebaceous cyst ( ) is a term ki loosely refers to either epidermoid cysts ( bhi gyaat as epidermal cysts ; l72.0 ) or pillar cysts ( also known as trichilemmal cysts ; L72.1 ).
kuki an epidermoid gaanth originates in the epidermis or a pillar gaanth originates isse bal follicles, by paribhaasha, neither type of cyst is strictly a sebaceous cyst.
The name is regarded as a misnomer as the fatty, shwet, semi-solid saamagree in dono of ye gaanth entities is nahin sebum, lakin keratin.
Furthermore, antargat the sookshmdarshi neither antity contains vasamay glands.
In practice, however, the sharten hai praayah prayukt interchangeably.
`` True '' sebaceous cysts are apekshaakrit viral or hai gyaat as steatocystomas or, if anek, as steatocystoma multiplex.
aadhunik pointe juute.
The edge of the toe pad, jisase is inserted between the pair or to baksaa for cushioning, can be seen on the right foot.
A pointe juuta is a prakaar of juuta worn by baile nartak jab performing pointe work.
Pointe shoes developed from the desire for dancers to appear weightless or sylph -like or have viksit to enable nartak to nrity en pointe ( on the nuskhe of unke toes ) liye vistaarit avadhi of time.
They are normally worn by female dancers, though male nartak may pahanen unhen liye aparamparaagat bhoomikaaye aise as the bhadda stepsisters in sindrella, neeche in a midsummer raatri 's sapana, or main performing as mahilaon in dance companies such as Les Ballets Trockadero and Grandiva.
ve hai manufactured in a kismein of rangon, most commonly in shades of light pink.
This tablespoon rai a kshamta of parichay 15 mL.
measuring spoons
In the US and parts of Canada, a tablespoon is the largest prakaar of chamachaa prayukt liye khaane isse a katori.
In the uk, europea or sabase rashtramandal deshon, a tablespoon is a prakaar of large spoon usually used for serving.
In countries where a tablespoon is a serving spoon, the nearest samatuly to the us tablespoon is either the mithai chamachaa or the soup spoon.
A tablespoonful, nominally the capacity of one tablespoon, is commonly prayukt as a maap of awaz in cooking.
It is abbreviated as T, tb, tbs, tbsp, tblsp, or tblspn.
The capacity of ordinary tablespoons is nahin regulated by vidhi or is vishay to considerable vibhinnata.
In the USA one tablespoon ( measurement ikai ) is lagbhag 15 ml ; the kshamta of an vaastavik tablespoon ( dining utensil ) ranges from 7 mL to 14 mL.
In australia ek tablespoon ( maapan unit ) is 20 mL.
Harry Potter is a shrenee of saat kaalpanik novels likhaa by the British author J. K. Rowling.
The books chronicle the adventures of a wizard, Harry Potter, or uske mitron ronaald visli or harmaini granger, all of whom are students at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry.
The main story arc concerns Harry 's quest to overcome the Dark jaadugar rab voldemort, jinaki aims hai to become amar, jeeten the wizarding sansar, subjugate non-magical people, and destroy all those who stand in his way, especially Harry Potter.
Since the release of the first anokhaa harry kumhaar or the paras 's stone on 30 june 1997, the kitabe have gained immense popularity, critical acclaim and commercial success worldwide.
The series has also had some share of aalochana, sahit chintaa liye the increasingly andhera tone.
, the book series has sold about 450 million copies, making it the best-selling kitaab shrenee in itihaas, or rai maharoom anudit into 67 bhashaaen.
the pichhlaa chaar kitabe consecutively niyat records as the fastest-selling books in history.
A series of many genres, sahit kaalpanik or coming of aayu ( saath tatv of rahasy, thriller, adventure, and romance ), it has many cultural meanings and references.
according to rolling, the pramukh theme is death.
There are also many other vishaywastu in the shrenee, aise as purvaagrah or bhrashtachar.
The initial major publishers of the books were Bloomsbury in the sanyukt kingdom or scholastic dabaayen in the sanyukt rajya.
The kitabe have chunki maharoom prakashit by many publishers worldwide.
The books, with the saatvaan kitaab vibhajit into do bhaag, have maharoom bana into an eight-part filmi shrenee by warner bhaius. Pictures, the highest-grossing film series of all time.
The series also originated much tie-in merchandise, bananaa the harry kumhaar brands laayak in excess of $ 15 arab.
bhi due to the kamyaabi of the kitabe or films, harry kumhaar rai maharoom prayukt liye a theme park, The Wizarding World of Harry Potter in Universal Parks & Resorts 's Islands of Adventure.
RS-68 being tested at nasa 's stennis spes bich.
The nearly paardarshee exhaust is due to is ingine 's exhaust hone mostly superheated steam ( water vapor from its propellants, hydrogen and oxygen )
viking 5c prakshepastra ingine
A rocket engine, or bas `` prakshepastra '', is a jet ingine ki upyog only stored propellant mass for forming its high speed propulsive jet.
Rocket engines are reaction engines and obtain thrust in accordance saath newton 's teesraa law.
Since they need no external saamagree to rup unke jet, prakshepastra ingine can be prayukt liye spacecraft nodan as khub as sthaliy upyog, such as missiles.
Most prakshepastra ingine hai aatanrik dahan ingine, haalanki non-combusting forms also exist.
Rocket engines as a group have the ucchtam exhaust gatiyaan, hai by dur the lightest, lakin hai the tanik propellant efficient of all types of jet engines.
``... Baby One More Time '' is a song by amareeki recording kalakaar britney Spears.
It served as Spears 's debut single or sheershak track isse uske debyue studio album,... baby One More Time ( 1999 ).
likhaa by adhiktam martin or utpaadit by martin or raami, ``... baby ek adhik samay '' thi released on September 30, 1998, by Jive Records.
After recording and sending a demo tepe saath an aprayukt song isse toni braxton, Spears signed a multi-album deal with Jive.
``... Baby One More Time '' is a tin pop or dance-pop song ki refers to a girl who regrets breaking up with her boyfriend.
The song received generally anukool samikshaayen isse aalochakon, jo praised its composition.
``... Baby One adhik samay '' attained vaishvik kamyaabi, reaching kramank ek in every country it charted.
It also received numerous certifications around the world, and is ek of the best-selling singles of sab samay, saath over 10 million copies sold.
An accompanying music video, nirdeshit by nigel land, portrays spirs as a chaatr isse a catholic unchi skool, jo starts to daydream ki wo is gayan or naachna around the skool, while watching her love interest from afar.
The music video was baad sanderbhit in the music video of `` if u talash emi `` ( 2008 ), jahaan spirs 's fictional beti is dressed with a similar schoolgirl outfit while wearing pink ribbons in her hair.
In 2010, the music video for ``... Baby One More Time '' was voted the third most influential video in the itihaas of pop music, in a pole yojit by jam !.
Spears has performed ``... Baby One More Time '' in a kramank of sajiv dikhaave or in sab of uske concert tours.
It was the encore of the... baby ek adhik samay daure ( 1999 ) or sapana bheetar a sapana daure ( 2001 ) ; spirs bhi performed remixed versions of the song during the Oops !...
I Did It Again World Tour ( 2000 ), The Onyx Hotel Tour ( 2004 ), The m+m 's daure ( 2007 ), the sarkas abhinit britney spirs ( 2009 ), or the femme fatale daure ( 2011 ).
``... Baby One More Time '' thi manonith liye a grami puraskaar liye behtareen maadaa pop gayan pradarshan, or rai maharoom shaamil in suchiyaan by Blender, Rolling Stone and VH1.
It has been vikhyath liye redefining the dhwani of let 1990s music.
spirs rai namit ``... baby ek adhik samay '' as ek of uske pasandida songs from her career.
It was also the final song to be nibhaai on the bibisi 's music programme Top of the Pops.
Cholera is an sankraman in the choti aant caused by the bacterium vibrio cholerae.
The main symptoms hai watery atisar or ulti.
Transmission occurs primarily by drinking water or eating food that has been contaminated by the feces ( barbaad utpaada ) of an sankramit vyakti, sahit ek saath no apparent lakshan.
The severity of the atisar or ulti can sise to rapid nirjaleekaran or electrolyte imbalance, and death in some cases.
The primary upachaar is maukhik punarjaleekaran chikitsa, typically saath maukhik punarjaleekaran samaadhaan, to badalen jal and electrolytes.
If this is not tolerated or karata nahin provide sudhaar tej paryaapt, intravenous fluids can also be used.
Antibacterial drugs are phydemand in those saath kathor beemaari to shorten its duration and severity.
Worldwide, it affects 3–5 lakh logon or kalyankari 100,000–130,000 mauton a year.
Cholera was one of the earliest infections to be padhai by epidemiological methods.
The Picture of Dorian Gray is the only published anokhaa by auskar wild, appearing as the sise story in lippincott 's masik patrika on 20 june 1890, printed as the July 1890 issue of this magazine.
The magazine 's editors feared the story was indecent as supurd, so ve censored roughly 500 shabd, bagaiyr wild 's gyaan, pehle publication.
But bhi saath ki, the story thi still greeted saath aakrosh by angrejon reviewers, kuch of jisko sujhaayaa that Wilde should be prosecuted on moral grounds, leading Wilde to defend the novel aggressively in letters to the British press.
Wilde later revised the story liye kitaab prakaashan, bananaa substantial alterations, hataanaa vivaadaaspad passages, adding new chapters and including an aphoristic Preface which has since become famous in its own right.
The amended sanskaran thi prakashit by ward, taala and Company in April 1891.
Some scholars believe ki wild hota aaj have chaahi us to padhaa the sanskaran he originally submitted to Lippincott 's.
The novel tells of a young man named dorian dhoosar, the vishay of a painting by kalakaar besil Hallward.
Basil is impressed by Dorian 's beauty and becomes infatuated with him, believing uske saundarya is jimmedaar liye a nai vidhi in uske art.
dorian meets rab henry wotton, a dost of besil 's, or becomes enthralled by Lord Henry 's world view.
espousing a nai hedonism, rab henry suggests the tabhi bate laayak pursuing in life are beauty and fulfilment of the senses.
Realizing that one day his beauty will feekaa, dorian ( whimsically ) expresses a khwaahish to bechein uske aatma to ensure the portret Basil has painted would age rather than he.
Dorian 's wish is fulfilled, and when he subsequently pursues a jivan of vilasita, the portret serves as a samaran of the prabhaav prayek adhinium rai upon uske aatma, saath prayek sin pradarshit as a disfigurement of his form, or through a sign of aging.
The Picture of Dorian Gray is considered a work of clasik gothic fiction saath a damdaar faustian theme.
Sári Gábor ( born 6 farvari 1917 ), gyaat as za za gabar ( ), is a hungarian -born American actress who acted in supporting roles in movies, on Broadway, and occasionally on television.
gabar thi bhi a socialite.
She began her stage career in Vienna at age 15, or thi pahanaaya miss hungarian in 1936.
She emigrated to the sanyukt rajya in 1941 or became a sought-after abhinetri saath `` europea flair or style '', with a personality that `` exuded charm and grace ''.
Her first movie role was as supporting abhinetri in pyaare to dekh at.
She later acted in we 're nahin shaadishuda !
and played ek of uske few agrani bhoomikaaye in moulin rouge ( 1952 ), nirdeshit by jon haston, jo described her as a `` creditable '' actress.
Besides her film and television dikhaave, wo is behtareen gyaat liye having nau patiyon, sahit hotel maharathi conrad Hilton and actor George Sanders.
She once stated, `` Men have sadaa liked me or i have sadaa liked men.
But I like a mannish man, a man who knows kaisaa to baat to or daavat a stri – nahin just a man with muscles. ''
Bruce Lee ( traditional : 李小龍 ; born Lee Jun-fan ; 27 November 1940 – 20 july 1973 ) thi a chinis amareeki martial kalakaar, karta, martial kala prashikshak, paras, or filmkaar.
The founder of Jeet Kune do, lee thi the bete of cantonese opera star Lee Hoi-Chuen.
He is widely considered by tikaakaron, aalochakon, media or anya martial kalakaaron to be ek of the sabase influential martial kalakaaron of sab samay, or a pop samskruti pratik of the 20th century.
He is often credited saath helping to badalen the rasta asian yahood prastut in American films.
Lee was born in Chinatown, san francisco on 27 navambar 1940 to abhibhavak isse hong kong or thi uthaaya in Kowloon with his family until his late teens.
He was introduced to the filmi udyog by uske pita or appeared in several films as a child actor.
Lee moved to the United States at the age of 18 to praapt uske ucchtar shiksha, and it was during this time that he began teaching martial arts.
His Hong Kong and Hollywood -produced films elevated the traditional Hong Kong martial arts film to a new level of lokapriyata or acclaim, sparking a surge of byaaj in chinis martial arts in the West in the 1970s.
The direction and tone of his films changed and bahekaave martial kala or martial kala films in hong kong or the baaki of the sansar.
He is noted for his roles in five feature-length films : Lo Wei 's The big boss ( 1971 ) or mutthi of furi ( 1972 ) ; rasta of the dragon ( 1972 ), nirdeshit or likhaa by lee ; warner bhaaiyo ' Enter the Dragon ( 1973 ) and The Game of Death ( 1978 ), both directed by Robert Clouse.
Lee became an iconic figure gyaat throughout the sansar, visheshkar among the chinis, as he portrayed Chinese nationalism in his films.
He initially trained in wing chun, lakin baad asweekrut well-defined martial art sheliyaan, favouring bajaay the upyog of takneekon isse vibhinn strot, in the spirit of his personal martial arts philosophy, which he dubbed Jeet Kune Do ( The Way of the Intercepting Fist ).
Lee held dual citizenship of Hong kong or the sanyukt rajya.
He died in kolun tong on 20 july 1973 at aayu 32.
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( COPD ), bhi gyaat as dirghakaalik obstructive fefdon beemaari ( thanda ), dirghakaalik obstructive airway beemaari ( coad ), dirghakaalik airflow limitation ( calories ) or dirghakaalik obstructive respiratory beemaari ( CORD ), is the occurrence of chronic bronchitis or emphysema, a pair of commonly co-existing diseases of the lungs in which the airways narrow over time.
This limits airflow to and from the fefde, causing shortness of saans ( dyspnea ).
in naidanik abhyaas, copd is paribhaashit by iske characteristically kam airflow on lung function tests.
In contrast to asthma, is limitation is poorly reversible or praayah gets progressively worse over time.
COPD is caused by noxious anu or gas, sabase commonly isse tambaaku dhumrapaan, which triggers an abnormal inflammatory response in the lung.
The nidaan of copd requires fefdon falan tests.
Important management ranneeti hai dhumrapaan cessation, vaccinations, punarvaas, or drug therapy ( often using inhalers ).
Some patients go on to aavashyaktaa long-term oxigen chikitsa or fefdon pratyaropan.
vishwavyaapee, copd kramit as the chathe agrani kaaran of death in 1990.
It is projected to become the fourth leading kaaran of maut vishwavyaapee by 2030, due to an badhayen in dhumrapaan daron or janasankhyikee changes in many countries.
COPD is the third leading cause of death in the U.S., and the economic boj of copd in the u.S. in 2007 thi $ 42.6 arab in swasthya parvaah laagat or khoyaa utpaadakta.
annelies `` eni '' maari frank (, ?, ; 12 june 1929early kooch 1945 ) is ek of the most discussed Jewish victims of the Holocaust.
Her diary rai maharoom the aadhaar liye several plays and films.
born in the nagar of francfort am Main in Weimar Germany, she lived most of her life in or near Amsterdam, in the Netherlands.
Born a germany neshnal, frank khoyaa uske naagarikta in 1941.
She gained antarrashtriya kirti maranoparant baad uske diary was published.
It documents her experiences hiding during the germany occupation of the netherlands in sansar yuddh ii.
The frank parivaar sthanantarit isse germany to amsterdam in 1933, the year the Nazis gained control over Germany.
By the shuruuaat of 1940, ve yahood funs in amsterdam by the Nazi occupation of the Netherlands.
As persecutions of the Jewish population increased in July 1942, the parivaar gai into chupaana in the chupa kaksh of eni 's pita, oto frank 's, office building.
After two years, the group was betrayed and transported to visheshgyata camps.
eni frank or uske sistar, margot, yahood aakhirkaar transferred to the Bergen-Belsen concentration camp, where they died of typhus in March 1945.
Otto Frank, the only survivor of the parivaar, laute to amsterdam baad the yuddh to dhundhen ki eni 's diary tha maharoom saved, or uske praytn led to iske prakaashan in 1947.
It was translated from its original dach or pehla prakashit in angrezi in 1952 as the diary of a yang ladki.
It has since been anudit into anek bhashaaen.
the diary, jisase thi die to eni on uske 13th janmdiwas, chronicals her life from 12 June 1942 until 1 August 1944.
court 's signature
Kurt Donald Cobain ( February 20, 1967 – april 5, 1994 ) thi an amareeki sangeetkaar or kalakaar, behtareen gyaat as the sise singer, guitarist or praathmik songwriter of the grunge band Nirvana.
Cobain formed Nirvana with Krist novoselic in aberdeen, washington in 1985 or sthapit it as bhaag of the sietal music jhaanki, having iske debyue album bleech released on the swatantra record label Sub Pop in 1989.
After signing with major label DGC Records, the band found bhedan kamyaabi saath `` khushbu jaise tin spirit `` isse iske duusari album nevermind ( 1991 ).
Following the kamyaabi of nevermind, nirvana thi labeled `` the flagship band '' of peedhee x, or cobain hailed as `` the spokesman of a generation ''.
cobain, however, thi praayah asahaj or kunthit, believing uske sandesh or kalakaari drushti to have maharoom misinterpreted by the public, with his personal issues often subject to media attention.
He challenged Nirvana 's darshak saath iske final studio album in Utero ( 1993 ).
During the last years of his life, Cobain struggled saath heroin vyasan, illness and depression.
He also had difficulty coping with his fame and public image, and the professional and lifelong nijee pressures surrounding khud or uske bivi, sangeetkaar courtney Love.
On April 8, 1994, Cobain was found dead at his home in sietal, the shikaar of kayaa thi officially shasit a aatmahatya by a self-inflicted shotgun wound to the head.
The circumstances of uske maut at aayu 27 have become a topic of public fascination and debate.
Since their debut, Nirvana, saath cobain as a songwriter, rai bechi over 25 lakh album in the u.S., or over 50 lakh worldwide.
radial ingine samay or cam mechanism.
click liye puraa rezolution animation.
Radial engine of a biplen
Master rod ( upright ), slave or balances isse a two-row, fourteen-cylinder pratt & whitney Twin Wasp
The radial engine is a reciprocating type internal combustion engine vinyas in jisase the silendar point outward isse a central crankshaft like the spokes of a wheel.
It resembles a stylized star jab viewed isse the saamne, or is pukaara a `` star ingine '' ( germany sternmotor ) in some languages.
The radial configuration was very commonly prayukt in vayuyan ingine pehle terbine ingine became predominant.
The Golden Girls is an American sitcom, created by susaan haris, ki originally aired on enbisi isse sitambar 13, 1985, to may 9, 1992.
Starring Bea Arthur, betty shwet, rue mcclanahan or estelle getty, the dikhaaen centers on chaar puraani mahilaon sharing a home in Miami, Florida.
It was produced by witt/thomas/harris productions, in sangh saath touchstone television, or paul junger witt, tony thomas, or haris served as the original executive producers.
The Golden Girls received critical acclaim throughout sabase of iske chalaaen or jiti anek puraskaar, sahit the primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Comedy Series twice.
It also won three Golden Globe Awards liye behtareen television shrenee – musical or kamedi.
All chaar sitaron prayek praapt an emi puraskaar throughout the series ' run and had multiple nominations.
The series also ranked among the top ten highest-rated kaarykram liye chah out of iske saat sizan.
Deepwater khudaai is the prakram of aayal or gas khoji and production in depths of more than 500 feet.
By this definition, vahin hai lagbhag 600 deepwater kuen in the gulf of mexico.
It has been economically infeasible for many saalo, lakin saath uthati aayal keemten, adhik companiyaan hai nivesh in is area.
Major companies working in is sector shaamil diamond offshore, TransOcean, and Baker Hughes.
There are basically two kinds of mobile deepwater khudaai rigs : semi-submersible khudaai rigs and drillships.
Drilling can also be performed from a fixed-position sansthapana aise as a floating spar ( platform ) or tension-leg platform.
haal udyog vishleshan rai anumaanit ki the kul vyay in the vaishvik deepwater infrastructure market will reach $ 145bn in 2011.
“Not all oil is accessible on jameen or in shallow water.
You can find some oil deposits buried deep under the ocean floor.”... Using sonic upkaran, aayal companiyaan determine the khudaai site sabase sambhavit to produce oil.
Then they use a mobile offshore khudaai ikai ( modu ) to khudaai the initial well.
Some units are converted into utpaadan rigs, arth ve switch isse khudaai liye oil to capturing oil once it 's found.
Most of the time, the oil company will replace the MODU with a more permanent aayal utpaadan rig to capchar oil.”... the modu 's job is to drill bas into the samandar 's manzil to dhundhen aayal jamaa.
The part of the drill that extends neeche the deck or through the jal is pukaara the riser.
The riser allows for drilling fluids to move between the manzil or the rig.
Engineers lower a drill string -- a shrenee of pipe designed to drill bas to the aayal jamaa -- through the riser.”
“The expansion of deepwater khudaai is happening despite durghatnaon in offshore fields... ”
In 2010 a large explosion occurred hatya 11 majdoor or spilling lakho of galen of aayal into the Gulf of Mexico while a BP oil rig was drilling in deep waters.
“... Despite the risks, the deepwater drilling trend is spreading in the bumadhyasagariya or band the coast of east africa baad a string of vishaal discoveries of natural gas.”
“The reason for the resumption of such drilling, vishleshak kah, is continuing unchi maang liye urja worldwide.”
America needs the aayal so it is lagbhag jaruri to phase the unchi risks ki aaiye saath deepwater khudaai in order for Americans to continue to carry on their everyday lives.
“The Energy Department recently projected that gulf aayal utpaadan hota vistaar isse iske 2011 str of 1.3 lakh barrels a din, still nearly a quarter of kul gharelu production, to 2 million barrels a day by 2020.”
deepwater khudaai affects the paryaavaran in both negative and positive ways.
Although Deepwater drilling rarely causes oil spills it is still a hazardous sambhavit nishkarsh.
Oil spills result in oil sinking to the neeche of the samandar smothering sanyantr jivan leaving machhlee bagaiyr khaanaa or shelter to survive.
On the other hand deepwater khudaai prabhaav the environment in a positive ways too.
In time once the deepwater oil khub is nahin in upyog anymore paudhe hoga grow on or around the khub bananaa a gupha or cavern like shelter ideal for animals to thrive in.
deepwater khudaai bhi lets us dekhie the gaharaaiyon of the ocean floor that are hardly ever seen.
”Cameras on rovers at the bottom of the kuen ricard footage or lo photo of viral machhlee ki hai in vahin prakritik awaas, giving vaigyanik a dekh at pashu ve rarely seen” ( Chevron Corporation ). ''
Monica Samille Lewinsky ( born July 23, 1973 ) is an American stri saath jisko sanyukt rajya adhyaksh vidheyak clinton admitted to having tha an `` improper sambandh '' while she worked at the White House in 1995 and 1996.
The affair or iske parakhnaa ( jisase shaamil clinton 's impeachment ) became known as the Lewinsky scandal.
Francis Albert `` frank '' sinatra,, ( disambar 12, 1915 – may 14, 1998 ) thi an American singer and film actor.
Beginning his musical career in the swing era with Harry james or tommy dorsey, sinatra mila unprecedented kamyaabi as a solo kalakaar isse the jaldi to mid-1940s baad being signed to Columbia Records in 1943.
Being the idol of the `` bobby soxers ``, he released uske pehla album, the awaz of frank Sinatra in 1946.
uske peshewar kariyar tha stalled by the 1950s, lakin it thi punarjanm in 1953 baad he jiti the academy puraskaar for Best Supporting Actor for his performance in From Here to Eternity.
He signed with Capitol Records in 1953 and released several critically lauded album ( aise as in the moot choti ghanton, geeton liye swingin ' premiyon !, aaiye makkhi saath me, Only the Lonely and Nice 'n ' Easy ).
Sinatra left Capitol to found his own record label, Reprise Records in 1961 ( finding success with albums such as Ring-a-Ding-Ding !, Sinatra at the Sands and Francis Albert sinatra & antonio carlos jobim ), toured internationally, thi a founding sadsy of the chuha pack or fraternized saath hastiyaan or kootneetigyon, sahit jon F. kennedy.
Sinatra turned 50 in 1965, recorded the retrospective sitambar of my saalo, strecchar in the emi -winning television khaas frank sinatra : a man or uske music, and scored hits with `` Strangers in the Night `` and `` My Way ``.
With sales of his music dwindling and after appearing in anek poorly praapt films, sinatra ritred liye the first time in 1971.
Two saalo baad, however, he aae out of ritairement or in 1973 ankit anek album, scoring a sheersh 40 hit saath `` ( theme From ) New York, New York `` in 1980.
Using his Las Vegas shows as a home base, he toured dono bheetar the sanyukt rajya or internationally, jabatak a choti samay pehle his death in 1998.
Sinatra also forged a atyadhik kaamyaab kariyar as a filmi actor.
After winning Best Supporting Actor in 1953, he bhi garnered a namakan liye behtareen karta liye the man saath the sunahari bhujaa, or najuk acclaim liye uske performance in The Manchurian Candidate.
He also starred in such musicals as unchi samaaj, pal joy, yaaron or doll or on the kasbaa.
Sinatra thi sammanit at the kennedy bich honors in 1983 or thi awarded the adhyakshiya padak of swatantraaa by ronaald Reagan in 1985 and the Congressional Gold Medal in 1997.
He was the praptakarta of gyaarah grami puraskaar, sahit the grami trustees puraskaar, grami Legend Award and the Grammy Lifetime Achievement Award.
Sinatra is also one of world’s best-selling kalakaaron of sab samay, having bechi adhik than 150 lakh copies worldwide.
theth cornhole board
Cornhole, also known as bean bag toss, makai toss, baggo or bag, is a lon khel in jisase khilaadi lo turns phenkna makai chhed bag at a uthaaya manch saath a hole in the far end.
A bag in the chhed score 3 ank, jabaki ek on the manch scores 1 point.
khel continues jabatak a toli or khilaadi reaches the score of 21.
The amareeki sunaharaa tribhuj is an aadhikarik sunaharaa bullion sikaa of the United States.
Authorized under the Gold bullion sikaa adhinium of 1985, it thi pehla released by the sanyukt States Mint in 1986.
Bikram Yoga is a system of yoga that Bikram Choudhury synthesized from traditional hatha yoga takneekon or popularized shuruuaat in the early 1970s.
All Bikram Yoga classes chalaaen liye 90 minutes or consist of the vahi shrenee of 26 postures or 2 shwaas exercises.
Bikram Yoga is ideally practiced in a room heated to 105°f ( ≈ 40.6°C ) with a humidity of 40 %,.
Christopher Michael Massey ( born 26 January 1990 ) is an amareeki karta, hasya or rapper behtareen gyaat liye abhinit as maaikel barret in Nickelodeon television series Zoey 101.
Massey has received many awards and namakan sahit a yang kalakaar puraskaar or emi puraskaar nominations.
He is also known for appearing in anek commercials in the early 2000s.
A conventional teaspoon bana of bedaag steel.
A teaspoon is an item of cutlery and/or a measuring yantra, as khub as a ikai of maapan of awaz in kuch countries and customs.
A fern is any one or more of a group of about 12,000 prajati of paudhe belonging to the vanaspati samooh known as Pteridophyta.
Unlike mosses, they have xylem and floem ( bananaa unhen vascular plants ).
They have stems, pattey, or jaden jaise anya vascular plants.
Ferns reproduce via bijaanuon or have neither beej nor flowers.
By far the largest group of ferns is the leptosporangiate ferns, lakin ferns as paribhaashit yahan ( bhi pukaara monilophytes ) shaamil horsetails, whisk ferns, marattioid ferns, and ophioglossoid ferns.
The term pteridophyte bhi refers to ferns or a few anya bijrahit vascular paudhe ( dekhie vargeekaran section below ).
Ferns first appear in the fossil record 360 million saalo pehle in the carboniferous lakin anek of the vartmaan pariwaron or prajati kiya nahin appear jabatak roughly 145 lakh saalo pehle in the jaldi cretaceous ( baad flowering paudhe came to dominate many environments ).
Ferns are not of major economic importance, but some are grown or gathered for food, as shobhyman paudhe, liye remediating contaminated soils, or have maharoom the vishay of shodh liye unke kshamta to hataayen kuch rasinic pradooshak isse the air.
kuch hai significant weeds.
They also play a role in mythology, ayurvigyaan, or art.
Flat roofs in israel
Flat chat in los angeles
A chapata chat is a prakaar of covering for a building.
In contrast to the more sloped rup of chat, a chapata chat is aadaa or nearly horizontal.
The slope of a roof is properly known as its pitch : Roofs which are nearly flat are gyaat as low-pitch roofs ( as the kone of dhalaan increases, so the pitch is said to increase ).
Any sheet of saamagree prayukt to cover a chapata or low-pitched chat is praayah gyaat as a jhilli or the praathmik purpose of ye jhilliyon is to waterproof the roof area.
Materials that cover flat roofs typically allow the jal to chalaaen band isse a patala inclination or camber into a gutter system.
Water from some flat roofs such as on garden sheds sometimes bahati freely band the kinare of a chat, haalanki gutter pranaaliyon hai of advantage in keeping both walls and foundations dry.
Gutters on smaller roofs often lead jal sidhe onto the maidan, or better, into a specially made soakaway.
Gutters on larger roofs praayah sise jal into the rainwater naale pranali of any built up area.
Occasionally flat roofs though are designed to collect water in a pool, praayah liye aesthetic uddeshy, or liye rainwater buffering.
Flat roofs exist all over the sansar or prayek kshetrafal rai iske apana parampara or variyata liye saamagree used.
In warmer climes where rainfall is kam or jamane is asambhavit to occur, anek chapata roofs hai bas nirmit of chinai or kancreet or is is shubh at keeping out the ooshmaa of the sun and cheap and easy to build where timber is not readily available.
In areas where the roof could become saturated by rain and leak, or where water soaked into the brickwork could fries to barf or yun sise to 'blowing ' ( todakar up of the mortar/brickwork/concrete by the expansion of ice as it forms ) these roofs are not suitable.
traditionally sabase chapata roofs in the pashchimi sansar mek upyog of tarkol or adhik usually tar paper applied over roof decking to keep a building watertight.
The tar or tarpaper is in turn covered in gravel to keep the sun 's heat, UV kirane or mausam band it or helps protect it isse cracking or blistering and degradation.
Roof alankaar is praayah of plaiwood, chipboard or osb falak ( osb = unmukh strand falak, bhi gyaat as Sterling board ) of around 18mm thickness.
The tar coating is applied in one or more coats as a hot liquid, heated in a tar kettle, or as chaadaren of tarkol impregnated 'paper ' chipke bas or sealed saath at joints by hot tarkol - ekbar it rai cooled, the gravel is spread evenly over it.
A main reason for failure of these traditional roofs is ignorance or lack of maintenance where people or kaarykram kaaran the bajri to be sthanantarit or removed isse the tarkol or tarpaper waterproofing, yun exposing it to mausam or surya whereupon cracking or blistering occurs over time and eventually water gets in.
Tarpaper is praayah a 'paper ' or fibre saamagree soaked or impregnated in tar.
As gravel can not protect tarpaper surfaces where they rise vertically from the roof such as on parapet walls or upstands, tarpaper visangatiyaan hai utpaadit saath thik bajri lagu to the hot tarkol dauraan the prakram of manufacture aise ki a permanent layer of gravel is stuck to it in order to give it ongoing protection.
tarpapers vary in visheshta as karata the kaarigari or prashikshan of those applying it to produce more or less successful results.
In kuch sookshm climates or chhaayankit kshetron ye balki 'basic ' tarpaper roofs can pichhlaa khub in sambandh to the laagat of saamagree purchase and cost of laying them, however the cost of modern membranes such as EPDM has come down over recent years to make them more and more affordable.
There are now adhik firms supplying aadhunik vikalp or vahin is generally a growing awareness of their performance and availability.
If a leak does occur on a chapata chat tab kshati praayah goes unnoticed liye long avadhi of samay dauraan jisase jal penetrates and soaks the decking and any insulation and/or structure beneath it.
This can lead to mahangi kshati isse the durgandh jisase praayah develops or if baayein can weaken the roof structure.
There are also various swasthya risks to logon or pashu shwaas the saanche bijaanuon : the severity of this health risk remains a debated point.
One problem with maintaining flat roofs is that if water does ghus the avrodh covering ( be it paramparaagat or a aadhunik jhilli ) it can safar a long rasta pehle causing visible damage or leaking into a building where it can be seen.
Thus it is not easy to see where it is tapakati in anukram to marammat it.
Once underlying roof decking is soaked it often sags causing a further sangrahan or puddling of jal in ki kshetrafal or the problem worsens.
A CD-ROM ( ) is a pre-pressed compact discs which contains data.
The name is an echronim jisase stand liye `` compact discs read-only memory ``.
Computers can read cd-roms, lakin can nahin likhen on them.
CD-ROMs are popularly used to vitarit computer tantra, sahit video khel or multimedia anuprayog, haalanki any data can be stored ( up to the capacity limit of a disc ).
Some CDs, called enhanced CDs, hold both computer data and audio with the latter capable of being played on a CD player, jabaki aankada ( aise as tantra or digital video ) is tabhi usable on a computer ( aise as iesao 9660 swaroop pc CD-ROMs ).
The Yellow Book is the takneekee maanak ki defines the swaroop of cd-roms.
ek of a niyat of color-bound kitabe ki contain the takneekee visheshtaayen liye sab cd swarup, the pilaa kitaab, nirmit by Sony and Philips, was the first extension of Compact Disc Digital Audio.
It adapted the swaroop to tham koi rup of data.
Joanne `` Jo '' Rowling ( ), ( born 31 July 1965 ), kalam naam J. K. rolling, is a angrejon upanyaaskaar, behtareen gyaat as the lekhak of the harry kumhaar fantasy series.
The kumhaar kitabe have gained vishwavyaapee dhyaan, jiti anek puraskaar, or sold more than 400 million copies.
They have become the best-selling kitaab shrenee in itihaas, or maharoom the aadhaar liye a shrenee of films which has become the highest-grossing film series in history.
Rowling had overall approval on the script as khub as maintaining rachanaatmak control by sevarat as a producer on the final instalment.
Born in Yate, Gloucestershire, Rowling was working as a shodhakarta or dubhashiya sachiv liye maafi antarrashtriya jab wo conceived the vichaar liye the harry kumhaar shrenee on a delayed train from Manchester to London in 1990.
The seven-year period that followed entailed the death of her mother, divorce from her first husband and poverty jabatak rolling samaapt the pehla anokhaa in the shrenee, harry kumhaar or the paras 's stone ( 1997 ).
Rowling subsequently prakashit 6 sequels—the pichhlaa, harry kumhaar or the deathly hallows ( 2007 ) —as khub as 3 supplements to the series.
In 2012, Rowling parted with her agency and resumed likhane in the rup of a tragicomedy anokhaa aimed at vayask readership, hakdaar the Casual Vacancy.
Rowling has said she is currently working on two books—one aimed for adults, the other for children younger than the harry kumhaar darshak, or wo expects the latter to be published first.
Rowling has led a `` rags to riches `` jivan story, in jisase wo progressed isse jeena on rajya laabh to multi-millionaire status within five years.
She is the United Kingdom 's best-selling lekhak chunki record began, saath bikri in excess of £238m.
The 2008 Sunday Times samrudh suchi anumaanit rolling 's saubhaahgya at £560 lakh ( $ 798 lakh ), ranking uske as the twelfth richest woman in the United Kingdom.
Forbes ranked Rowling as the forty-eighth sabase shaktishaalee hasti of 2007, or samay patrika namit uske as a runner-up liye iske 2007 vyakti of the saal, noting the social, moral, and political inspiration she has given her fans.
In October 2010, Rowling was namit the `` sabase influential stri in britain '' by agrani magazine editors.
wo rai become a notable locasevak, supporting aise dharmarth as comic raahat, ek janak pariwaron, Multiple Sclerosis Society of Great Britain and Lumos ( formerly the Children 's High Level Group ).
Auburndale is a city in polk county, florida, sanyukt rajya.
The janasankhyikee thi 11,032 at the 2000 census.
According to the u.s janasankhyikee estimates of 2005, the nagar tha a janasankhyikee of 12,381.
It is part of the lakeland – sheet hewan mahanagar sankhyikeey Area.
hurricane isabel ( 2003 ) as dekhi isse kaksha dauraan expedition 7 of the International Space Station.
The najar, eyewall, or surrounding rainbands, characteristics of tropical cyclones, are clearly visible in this view from space.
A teevr chakravaat is a toofaan pranali characterized by a low-pressure bich ghiri by a spiral arrangement of thunderstorms that produce strong winds and heavy rain.
Tropical cyclones strengthen jab jal kafoor isse the samandar is released as the santrupt air udai, resulting in sanghanan of water vapor contained in the moist air.
They are fueled by a alag ooshmaa yantriki than anya cyclonic windstorms aise as nor'easters, European windstorms, and polar lows.
The characteristic that separates teevr cyclones isse anya cyclonic pranaaliyon is ki at koi oonchaai in the maahaul, the bich of a tropical cyclone will be warmer than its surroundings ; a phenomenon called `` warm core `` storm systems.
The term `` tropical '' refers dono to the bhugolic utpatti of ye pranaaliyon, jisase praayah rup in teevr regions of the globe, or to their formation in maritime tropical air masses.
The term `` cyclone '' refers to such toofaan ' cyclonic prakruti, saath counterclockwise hawa pravaah in the uttari golardh or clockwise wind flow in the Southern Hemisphere.
The opposite direction of the hawa pravaah is a parinaam of the coriolis force.
Depending on its location and strength, a teevr chakravaat is referred to by names aise as hurricane (, ), toofaan ( ), teevr toofaan, cyclonic toofaan, teevr depression, and simply cyclone.
While tropical cyclones can produce extremely shaktishaalee hawaayen or musaladhar barsaat, ve hai bhi samarth to upaj unchi lehren, damaging toofaan surge, and tornadoes.
They develop over vishaal laashen of garam jal, or khona unke shakti if ve move over land due to increased surface friction and loss of the warm ocean as an energy source.
is is kyon tateey regions can praapt significant kshati isse a teevr chakravaat, jabaki inland regions are relatively safe from receiving strong winds.
Heavy rains, however, can produce significant flooding antardeshiy, or toofaan surges can upaj extensive tateey baadh up to isse the tatarekha.
Although their effects on human populations can be vinaashkari, teevr cyclones can relieve drought conditions.
They also carry heat energy away from the tropics and transport it toward shitoshna latitudes, jisase makes unhen an mahatvapurn bhaag of the vaishvik atmospheric circulation mechanism.
As a result, tropical cyclones help to maintain equilibrium in the dharti 's kshobhamandal, or to maintain a apekshaakrit stable or garam taapmaana worldwide.
Many tropical cyclones develop when the vayumandaleey sharten around a kamjor disturbance in the atmosphere are favorable.
The background paryaavaran is modulated by climatological chakra or pattern aise as the Madden-Julian oscillation, El Niño-Southern Oscillation, and the Atlantic multidecadal oscillation.
anya rup jab anya prakaar of cyclones acquire tropical characteristics.
Tropical systems are tab sthanantarit by parichaalan hawaayen in the kshobhamandal ; if the sharten remain anukool, the teevr disturbance intensifies, and can even develop an eye.
On the other end of the varnakram, if the sharten around the pranali deteriorate or the teevr chakravaat makes landfall, the pranali weakens and eventually dissipates.
It is not possible to artificially induce the dissipation of ye pranaaliyon saath vartmaan praudyogiki.
Kirk Douglas ( born Issur Danielovitch, ; disambar 9, 1916 ) is an amareeki stage or filmi karta, filmi nirmaataa or author.
His popular films include Out of the Past ( 1947 ), Champion ( 1949 ), Ace in the Hole ( 1951 ), The Bad and the Beautiful ( 1952 ), 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea ( 1954 ), Lust for Life ( 1956 ), Paths of Glory ( 1957 ), Gunfight at the o.k. corral ( 1957 ), the vikings ( 1958 ), spartacas ( 1960 ), nirjan hai the vir ( 1962 ), saat dinon in may ( 1964 ), The Heroes of Telemark ( 1965 ) and Tough Guys ( 1986 ).
He is no.17 on the amareeki filmi santhaan 's suchi of the mahanatam purush amareeki screen mahapurush of sab samay, making him the highest-ranked living person on the list.
in 1996, he praapt the academy maanad puraskaar `` liye 50 saalo as a creative and moral force in the motion picture community. ''
He is one of the last surviving actors isse hollywood 's `` sunahari aayu ''.
Robert Clark `` Bob '' Seger ( born may 6, 1945 ) is an amareeki chattan or phenken singer-songwriter, guitarist and pianist.
As a locally kaamyaab detroit-area kalakaar, he performed or ankit as bob seger and the Last Heard and Bob Seger System throughout the 1960s.
By the early 1970s, he tha dropped the `` pranali '' isse uske ricarding or jari to niyat for broader success with other various bands.
In 1973, he put together the chaandi goli band, a samooh of detroit-area sangeetkaaron, saath jisko he became sabase kaamyaab on the neshnal str saath the album Live Bullet, recorded live with the Silver Bullet Band in 1975 at Cobo Hall in Detroit, Michigan.
In 1976, he hasil a neshnal brakeout saath the studio album Night Moves.
On his studio albums, he also worked extensively saath the alabama-based mansapeshi shoals lay khand, jisase appeared on several of Seger 's best-selling singles and albums.
A roots rocker saath a clasik raspy, chillaanaa awaz, seger likhaa or ankit geeton ki dealt saath prem, mahilaon, blue-collar themes and was an exemplar of heartland rock.
Seger has recorded many hits, including `` Night Moves, '' `` Turn the Page, '' `` we 've mila tonight, '' `` viruddh the hawa, '' or shakedown ki thi likhaa liye bevarli pahadiyaan cop ii or `` jaise a chattan, '' or bhi co-wrote the eagles ' number-one hit `` Heartache Tonight. ''
uske iconic recording of `` boodha samay chattan or phenken `` thi namit one of the Songs of the Century in 2001.
With a career spanning paanch dashakon, seger continues to perform or ricard aaj.
seger thi inducted into the chattan or phenken haul of kirti in 2004 and the Songwriters Hall of Fame in 2012.
Richard Milhous Nixon ( janvari 9, 1913 – april 22, 1994 ) thi the 37th adhyaksh of the sanyukt rajya, sevarat isse 1969 to 1974, when he became the only president to resign the office.
Nixon had previously parosa as a republican u.S. pratinidhi or seenetter isse california or as the 36th vaais adhyaksh of the United States from 1953 to 1961.
Nixon was born in yorba linda, california.
He graduated from Whittier College in 1934 and Duke vishvavidhyalayon skool of vidhi in 1937, returning to California to practice law.
He and his wife, Pat nicksan, sthanantarit to washington to kaary liye the sangheey sarkari in 1942.
He subsequently parosa in the sanyukt rajya navy dauraan World War II.
Nixon thi nirvaachit in california to the house of pratinidhi in 1946 and to the Senate in 1950.
His pursuit of the Alger Hiss case established his pratishtha as a agrani anti-communist, or elevated use to national prominence.
he thi the kaaryshil mate of dwite D. ijanhavar, the Republican Party presidential nominee in the 1952 election.
Nixon served liye aath saalo as vice president.
He waged an unsuccessful adhyakshiya abhiyaan in 1960, narrowly khone to jon F. kennedy, and lost a race for Governor of California in 1962.
In 1968, he ran again liye the presidency or thi elected.
Although Nixon initially escalated America 's involvement in the vietnam yuddh, he subsequently ended u.S. bhagidaari in 1973.
Nixon 's visit to the People 's Republic of China in 1972 kholi rajanyik sambandh between the do raashtra, or he initiated détente or the anti-ballistic missile sandhi saath the soviet Union the same year.
Domestically, his administration generally embraced nitiyon ki transferred power from Washington to the states.
Among other things, he launched initiatives to fight cancer and illegal drugs, imposed mazdooree or daam niyantran, enforced desegregation of kuch dakshini skulon, or sthapit the paryaavarniya Protection Agency.
Though he presided over the chandra avataran shuruuaat saath apollo 11, he scaled waapas manned space exploration.
He was re-elected by a bhuskhalan in 1972.
Nixon 's second term saw an Arab oil embargo, the resignation of his vice president, Spiro Agnew, and a continuing shrenee of khulaase parichay the waterget cond or anya misconduct by sadasyon of the prashasan.
The scandal escalated, costing Nixon much of his political support, and on August 9, 1974, he resigned in the phase of lagbhag nishchit mahabhiyog and removal from office.
baad uske istipha, he controversially praapt a pardon issued by his successor, Gerald Ford.
In ritairement, nicksan 's kaary as an elder statesman, authoring anek books and undertaking many foreign trips, helped to rehabilitate his public image.
He suffered a debilitating stroke on april 18, 1994, or died chaar dinon later at the age of 81.
{ { infobox seenetter
The Dominican Republic annexation treaty caused kadava contention between adhyaksh grant or Sen. Sumner.
brady 1869 ] ]
Sen. Sumner, opposed to American samrajyavad in the caribbean or fearful ki annexation hota sise to the conquest of the neighboring blike ganatantr of haiti, became kaayal ki bhrashtachar lay peeche the sandhi, or ki main band to the adhyaksh shared in the corruption.
As chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, sen. sumner initially withheld uske raay on the sandhi on janvari 18, 1870.
Sen. Sumner had been leaked information from sahaayak sachiv of rajya, bancroft davis, ki u.s. naval jahaajon were being used to protect President Báez.
sen. sumner 's cameti voted viruddh annexation or at sen. sumner’s suzav or kaaphi sambhawatah to sahejen the party from an ugly fight or the president from embarrassment, the Senate held its debate of the treaty behind closed doors in executive session.
President Grant persisted or bheja sandesh to congress in ehsaan of annexation on kooch 14, 1870, and May 31, 1870.
In closed session, Sen. Sumner spoke out viruddh the sandhi ; warnng ki vahin hota be pareshaani saath the videshi nagarikon, noting the dirghakaalik vidroh that took place on the island, and the risk that the independence of Haiti, recognized by the United States in 1862, would be lost.
Sumner stated that Grant 's use of the U.S. Navy as a protectorat thi a ulanghan of antarrashtriya vidhi or asanvaidhanik.
aakhirkaar, on june 30, 1870 the sandhi thi voted on by the seenet or vifal to gain the required 2/3 majority for treaty passage.
The following day, President Grant, feeling betrayed by Sen. Sumner, retaliated by ordering the dismissal of sumner’s band dost J. lothrop motley, doot to britain.
By autumn, Sumner 's personal hostility to the president was public knowledge, and he blamed the sachiv of rajya liye failing to have resigned, rather than let Grant have his way.
The two main, mitron jabatak tab, cooled into bitter enemies.
In December, 1870, still fearful that Grant meant to acquire sento domingo somehow, sumner diya a fiercely najuk vaak accusing the adhyaksh of usurpation and Babcock of unethical conduct.
Already, President Grant, supported by his Secretary of State hamiltan machhlee, tha initiated a abhiyaan to depose sumner isse the adhyakshata of the seenet videshi sambandh cameti.
Although Sumner stated he was an `` Administration man '', in addition to having roka grant 's dominican ganatantr sandhi attempt, sumner tha parajeet grant 's puraa repeal of the kaarykaal of daftar adhinium, avarodhit grant 's namakan of sikandar stewart to u.S. sachiv of rajkosh, or maharoom a nirantar harassing force pushing Reconstruction policies faster than Grant had been willing to go.
Grant resented sumner 's badppan of manner, as well.
Told once that Sumner kiya nahin maananaa in the bible, the adhyaksh is supposed to have kaha ki he thi nahin surprised : `` he did n't write it. ''
As the rift between Grant and Sumner increased, sumner’s swasthya began to manaahi.
When the 42nd U.S. Congress convened on March 4, 1871, seenetteron sambhddha saath adhyaksh grant, gyaat as ‘’new radicals’’ voted to oust sen. sumner from the Senate Foreign Relations Committee chairmanship.
Business ethics ( also corporate ethics ) is a rup of lagu aachaar or peshewar aachaar ki examines ethical principles and moral or ethical problems that arise in a business environment.
It applies to all pahaluon of kaarobaar conduct or is praasangik to the conduct of individuals or entire organizations.
Business ethics has dono normative or varnanaatmak aayam.
As a corporate abhyaas or a kariyar specialization, the field is primarily normative.
Academics attempting to understand kaarobaar bartaav employ varnanaatmak vidhi.
The range and quantity of kaarobaar naitik mudde reflects the baatcheet of profit-maximizing behavior with non-economic concerns.
Interest in business aachaar twarit dramatically dauraan the 1980s or 1990s, dono bheetar pramukh corporations and within academia.
For example, today most pramukh corporations prachaar unke patibaddhta to non-economic maan antargat headings aise as aachaar code or soshal responsibility charters.
Adam Smith said, `` People of the same trade seldom meet together, even for merriment or diversion, lakin the vaartalap ends in a shadyantr viruddh the public, or in kuch contrivance to raise prices. ''
Governments use laws and regulations to point kaarobaar bartaav in what they perceive to be beneficial directions.
Ethics implicitly regulates areas and vivaran of bartaav ki jhooth pare sarkari control.
The emergence of large corporations with limited sambandh or samvedansheeltaa to the samudaayon in jisase ve operate twarit the vikaas of aupchaarik aachaar regimes.
A burn is a type of injury to flesh or skin caused by ooshmaa, vidyut, rasayan, gharshan, or radiation.
Most burns affect only the satahi skin ( gyaat as satahi or pehla oopaadhi ) or extend into the deeper skin lakin do nahin involve the full thickness of the skin ( known as partial thickness or second degree ).
Rarely all layers of the skin or deeper tissues, such as muscle or asthi can be ghayal in jisase maamla the bern is either puraa motaai ( teesraa oopaadhi ) or fourth degree.
The treatment jaruri depends on the gambhirtha of the burn.
Superficial burns maybe managed with little more than saral pidaa hatyare jabaki pramukh burns may aavashyaktaa prolonged upachaar in specialized burn centers.
Cooling with tap water may aid pain and decrease damage however if expozar is prolonged it may parinaam in kam deh taapmaana.
Partial thickness burns may aavashyaktaa safaai saath sabun or jal followed by dressings.
fafole chahie typically be baayein unbroken.
Full thickness burns usually require sargical upachaar aise as skin kalam or extensive burns praayah aavashyaktaa large amount of intravenous fluids.
The most common jatiltaaon of burns hai sambandhit to sankraman.
While large burns can be fatal, aadhunik upachaar viksit in the pichhlaa 50 saalo have significantly improved the outcomes, especially in children and young adults.
Globally about 11 million people talash chikitsa upachaar or 300,000 logon die from burns.
In the United States, of those admitted to a bern bich, lagbhag 4 % die isse their injuries.
The long term outcome is primarily sambandhit to the aakaar of bern or the aayu of the person effected.
The Atlantic Ocean, nahin sahit arctic or antarctic regions
is video thi liya by the kru of Expedition 29 on board the ISS.
The pass starts from just north-east of the Island of Newfoundland over the North atlantic samandar to central africa, over dakshin Sudan.
The Atlantic Ocean is the second-largest of the sansar 's oceanic vibhaajan.
With a total kshetrafal of parichay, it cover lagbhag 20 pratishat of the dharti 's sataha or parichay 29 percent of its water surface area.
The first part of its naam refers to atlas of unani mythology, bananaa the atlantic the `` samudr of Atlas ''.
The oldest known mention of `` Atlantic '' is in The histories of herodotus around 450 bc ( hdt. 1.202.4 ) : atlantis thalaisa ( unani : ἀτλαντὶς θάλασσα ; angrezi : samudr of Atlas ).
The term Ethiopic Ocean, derived from Ethiopia, thi lagu to the dakshini atlantic as let as the mid-19th sadi.
Before Europeans discovered anya mahaasaagar, the pad `` samandar '' itself thi synonymous saath the waters pare the jalsandhi of Gibraltar that we now know as the Atlantic.
The jaldi unaniyon believed is samandar to be a gigantic nadi encircling the world.
The Atlantic Ocean occupies an elongated, s-shaped jalashay extending longitudinally between uresia or africa to the east, and the Americas to the west.
As one component of the interconnected global ocean, it is connected in the north to the arctic samandar ( jisase is sometimes mana a samudr of the atlantic ), to the prashanth samandar in the dakshinpaschim, the bhartiya samandar in the southeast, and the Southern Ocean in the south.
( anya paribhaashaayen describe the atlantic as extending southward to Antarctica. )
The equator subdivides it into the uttar atlantic samandar or dakshin atlantic Ocean.
Due to their long-term persistence, and the need for a unique pahachanakarta in issuing forecasts or chetavaniyaan, teevr cyclones or uposhna cyclones hai die names according to niti ( see Tropical cyclone naming ).
the following hai suchiyaan isse jisase these tropical and subtropical cyclone names are derived.
White light is dispersed by a prism into the rangon of the optical varnakram.
The visible spectrum is the portion of the electromagnetic varnakram ki is drishy to ( can be detected by ) the human eye.
electromagnetic vikiran in is dayera of wavelengths is called visible light or simply light.
A theth insaan najar hoga respond to wavelengths from about 390 to 700 nm.
In terms of aavriti, is corresponds to a band in the vicinity of 430–790 THz.
A light-adapted najar generally rai iske adhiktam samvedansheeltaa at around 555 nm ( 540 thz ), in the green pradesh of the optical spectrum ( see : luminosity function ).
The spectrum does not, however, contain sab the rangon ki the insaan ankhen or dimag can distinguish.
Unsaturated colors such as pink, or jamuni visangatiyaan aise as magenta, hai anupasthit, liye udhaaharan, kuki ve can be bana tabhi by a mix of multiple wavelengths.
Colors containing tabhi ek wavelength hai bhi called pure colors.
Visible wavelengths pass through the `` optical khidki ``, the pradesh of the electromagnetic varnakram jisase allows wavelengths to pass largely unattenuated through the Earth 's atmosphere.
An example of this phenomenon is ki saaf air scatters blue lite adhik than red wavelengths, or so the midday sky appears blue.
The optical window is bhi pukaara the drishy khidki kuki it overlaps the human visible response spectrum.
The near infrared ( NIR ) window lies just out of the insaan drushti, as khub as the medium wavelength ir ( mwir ) khidki or the long wavelength or dur infrared ( lwir or FIR ) window though other animals may experience them.
anek prajati can dekhie lite saath barambharataa baahar the `` drishy varnakram, '' jisase is defined in terms of human vision.
madhumakhiyon or anek anya keet can detect parabangnee lite, which helps them find nectar in flowers.
Plant prajati ki nirbhar on keet paragan may owe reproductive kamyaabi to unke rup in parabangnee lite, rather than how colorful they appear to humans.
Birds, too, can dekhie into the parabangnee ( 300–400 nm ), or kuch have sex-dependent markings on their plumage that are visible only in the ultraviolet range.
Many animals that can see into the ultraviolet range, however, can nahin dekhie red lite or koi anya reddish wavelengths.
Bees ' drishy varnakram ends at parichay 590nm, bas pehle the orange wavelengths start.
Birds, however, can see kuch red wavelengths, lakin nahin as anek as humans.
Zebras ( or ) are several prajati of africa equids ( ghoda parivaar ) sanyukt by unke distinctive black and white stripes.
unke dhaariyaan aaiye in alag pattern, unique to each individual.
They are generally soshal pashu ki sajiv in choti harems to large herds.
Unlike unke closest rishtedaaron, ghode or asses, zebras have never maharoom truly domesticated.
There are teen prajati of zebras : the maidan zebra, the Grévy 's zebra and the mountain zebra.
The plains zebra and the mountain zebra belong to the subgenus hippotigris, lakin grévy 's zebra is the ekmaatr prajati of subgenus dolichohippus.
The latter resembles an gadhaa, to jisase it is closely sambandhit, jabaki the purv two are more horse-like.
sab teen belong to the genus equus, along with other living equids.
The unique stripes of zebras mek unhen ek of the pashu sabase parichit to people.
They occur in a variety of habitats, aise as grasslands, savannas, woodlands, thorny scrublands, mountains, and coastal hills.
However, various anthropogenic factors have had a severe impact on zebra populations, in particular shikaar liye khaalen or awaas vinaash.
Grévy 's zebra and the mountain zebra hai endangered.
While plains zebras are much more plentiful, one subspecies, the quagga, became extinct in the late 19th century – haalanki vahin is philhal a yojana, pukaara the quagga project, ki aims to nasl zebras ki hai phenotypically similar to the quagga in a process called breeding back.
Barry White, born Barry ujin carter ( – ), thi an amareeki composer and singer-songwriter.
A two-time Grammy Award -winner known for uske distinctive baas awaz or romantic chitra, shwet 's mahanatam kamyaabi aae in the 1970s as a solo singer or saath the prem aseemit orcestra, crafting anek enduring aatma, durgandh, or disco geeton aise as uske do biggest hits, `` tum 're the pehla, the pichhlaa, my Everything `` and `` Ca n't Get Enough of Your Love, Babe. ''
Along with ishaq hez, shwet is mana by allmusic.com as a pionier of disco music in the early 1970s.
During the course of his career in the music kaarobaar, shwet hasil 106 sunaharaa album vishwavyaapee, 41 of jisase bhi attained platinum status.
White had 20 gold and 10 platinum singles, saath vishwavyaapee bikri in excess of 100 lakh, according to aalochakon Ed Hogan and Wade Kergan.
His influences included Rev. James Cleveland, Ray charles, eritha franklin plus motown kalakaaron the supremes, the chaar top or marvin Gaye.
Angelina joli (, born angelina joli voit ; june 4, 1975 ) is an amareeki abhinetri, film director, and screenwriter.
She has received an Academy Award, two Screen Actors gild puraskaar, or teen sunahari globe puraskaar, or thi namit hollywood 's highest-paid abhinetri by forbs in 2009 or 2011.
joli promotes humanitarian kalyankari, or is vikhyath liye uske kaary saath sharnaarthiyon as a khaas envoy or purv saakh Ambassador for the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees ( UNHCR ).
She has often been cited as the world 's `` sabase khubasurat '' stri, a sheershak liye jisase wo rai praapt substantial media attention.
Jolie made her screen debut as a child alongside her father jon voit in lookin ' to milengi out ( 1982 ), lakin uske filmi kariyar began in sachai a dashak baad saath the low-budget production Cyborg 2 ( 1993 ).
Her first leading role in a major film thi in the cyber-thriller havers ( 1995 ).
She starred in the critically acclaimed biographical television films george wales ( 1997 ) or gia ( 1998 ), or jiti an academy puraskaar liye behtareen supporting Actress for her performance in the drama Girl, Interrupted ( 1999 ).
Jolie achieved chaudee kirti baad uske portrayal of video khel nayika lara croft in lara croft : makbara redar ( 2001 ), or sthapit herself among the highest-paid abhinetriyon in hollywood with the sequel The Cradle of Life ( 2003 ).
She continued her action star career with Mr. & mrs. smith ( 2005 ) or chaahi ( 2008 ) —her biggest non-animated vanijyik safaltaaon to date—and praapt further najuk acclaim liye uske pradarshan in the dramas a mighty dil ( 2007 ) or changeling ( 2008 ), jisase earned her a nomination for an Academy Award for Best Actress.
Jolie bana uske directorial debyue saath the wartime drama In the Land of Blood and Honey ( 2011 ).
Divorced from actors Jonny Lee Miller and Billy Bob Thornton, joli abhi jeevandaan saath karta bread pitt, in a sambandh notable liye fervent media attention.
Jolie and Pitt have teen biological children or teen adopted children.
A prakritik mehrab utpaadit by the apradan of differentially weathered rock in Jebel Kharaz, Jordan
Erosion is the prakram by jisase mrudaa or chattan hai removed isse the dharti 's sataha by exogenetic prakriyaaon such as wind or water flow, and then transported and deposited in other locations.
While erosion is a natural process, human activities have increased by 10-40 times the rate at jisase apradan is occurring globally.
Excessive erosion causes problems such as desertification, decreases in agricultural utpaadakta due to jameen degradation, sedimentation of jalmargon, or ecological patan due to ghaataa of the nutrient rich upper soil layers.
Water and wind erosion are now the do praathmik kalyankari of jameen degradation ; sanyukt, ve hai jimmedaar liye 84 % of degraded acreage, making excessive erosion one of the most significant global environmental problems.
Industrial agriculture, deforestation, roads, anthropogenic climate change and urban sprawl hai amongst the sabase significant insaan kriyaayein in lihaaz to unke prabhaav on stimulating erosion.
However, there are many available alternative land use practices ki can kaatna or seemaa apradan, aise as chat -building, no-till agriculture, and revegetation of denuded soils.
Jersey Shore is an American reality television series which ran on amtivi isse disambar 3, 2009 to disambar 20, 2012 in the United States.
The series folo the jeevandaan of aath housemates bitaa unke garmiyaan at the jersey Shore in the U.S. state of New Jersey.
Season 2 followed the cast escaping the cold purvottar sheet to miami bich, saath ritu 3 returning to the Jersey Shore.
The chauthi ritu, filmaaya in italy, premiered on August 4, 2011.
The dikhaaen laute liye a paanchvaan ritu, at Seaside Heights on January 5, 2012.
The paanchvaan ritu finale aired on March 15, 2012.
On March 19, 2012, MTV pushti ki the shrenee hota vaapasi liye their sixth season.
On agast 30, 2012, amtivi ghoshit ki the shrenee hoga samaapt baad the chathe season, which premiered on October 4.
The series finale aired on disambar 20, 2012.
The show debuted amid large amounts of controversy regarding the use of the words `` Guido / guidette, '' portrayals of italian-american stereotypes, or scrutiny isse sthaneey kuki the daal sadasyon were not residents of the area.
The series garnered ricard darja liye amtivi, bananaa it the sanjaal 's sabase viewed series telecast ever.
The series ' daal have bhi maharoom credited saath introducing adwitiya lexicon and phrases into American popular culture.
The University of Chicago and the vishvavidhyalayon of oklahoma hai among the shaikshanik sansthaanon ki have tha varg or sammelnon parichay the dikhaaen.
In 2010, the cast of Jersey Shore was named on barbara walters ' 10 sabase fascinating logon suchi, or the shrenee rai chunki maharoom exported to darjanon of deshon worldwide.
There are several remakes of the show in anya deshon, saath do niyat in the sanyukt kingdom ; the khub gyaat geordie shore, niyat in newcastle upon Tyne, England.
The other is The Valleys, the welsh samatuly, jisase is filmaaya or niyat in Cardiff.
The only other official rimek of the dikhaaen is gandía shore, niyat in gandía, spain.
sahi
United States territory is koi extent of pradesh antargat the kshetradhikaar of the sangheey government of the United States, including all waters ( around islands or continental tracts ) and all U.S. Naval vessels.
The United States has traditionally proclaimed the sovereign adhikaron liye exploring, exploiting, conserving, or managing its territory.
This extent of territory is sab the kshetrafal belonging to, or antargat the dominian of, the sanyukt rajya sangheey sarkari ( jisase shaamil tracts lying at a alahada from the country ) for administrative and other purposes.
the sanyukt rajya kul territory shaamil a upasamucchy of rajnatik divisions.
The U.S. government is a sarkari saath pratinidhitiv shaktiyaan antargat the sanyukt States Constitution.
`` The powers not delegated to the sanyukt rajya by the samvidhan, nor nishiddh by it to the rajya, hai surakshit to the rajya respectively, or to the people '' by the Tenth Amendment.
Terminator 3 : Rise of the Machines ( commonly abbreviated as T3 ) is a 2003 vigyaan fiction karrwai filmi nirdeshit by jonathan mostow or abhinit arnald shwarzanegar, upnaam stahl, cleyar danes or Kristanna Loken.
It is the duusari sequel to the termineter ( 1984 ).
After Skynet fails to kill sara connor pehle uske bete is born or to maar jon khud as a child, it bhejnaa waapas another termineter, the T-X, in an attempt to wipe out as many Resistance officers as possible.
This includes John 's future wife, but nahin jon khud as uske whereabouts hai anjaan to skynet.
John 's jivan is lagaai in khatre jab the t-x accidentally finds him.
A cord of lakdi
the cord is a ikai of maap of shushk awaz used in Canada and the United States to measure firewood and pulpwood.
A cord is the amount of wood that, when `` ranked and khub stowed '' ( arranged so tukade hai lakeer, samanaantar, chhu or compact ), occupies a volume of.
This corresponds to a well stacked woodpile high, long, and deep ; or koi anya vyavastha of raikhik maap ki yields the vahi volume.
The name cord probably aata isse the upyog of a cord or string to measure it.
the, is an 8-bit handeld video khel yantra developed and manufactured by Nintendo.
It was released in Japan on, in uttar america in, or in europea on.
It is the first handheld console in the Game Boy line, and was created by Gunpei Yokoi and Nintendo Research & vikaas 1 —the vahi staff jo tha designed the khel & dekhen shrenee as khub as anek lokapriy khel liye the nintendo entertainment pranali.
Redesigned versions were released in 1996 or 1998, in the rup of khel ladke jeb, or khel ladke lite ( japani tabhi ), respectively.
The Game Boy is Nintendo 's second handheld system following the khel & dekhen shrenee introduced in, or it sanyukt suvidhaayen isse dono the nintendo entertainment System and Game & Watch.
It was originally bundled saath the paheli khel tetris.
As part of the chauthi peedhee of gaming, the khel ladke competed saath the sega khel Gear, Atari Lynx, and the TurboExpress.
despite ye anya technologically shreshth handeld consoles, the Game Boy was a tremendous success.
The Game Boy or iske successor, the khel ladke rang, have dono sanyukt bechi 118.69 million units worldwide.
Upon its release in the United States, it bechi iske sampurna shipment of ek lakh ikai within weeks.
The sansar vyapaar bich is a jatil of imaaraten antargat nirmaan in nimnatar manahaton, nai york City, United States, replacing an earlier complex of seven buildings with the same name on the same site.
The original World Trade Center featured landmark twin towers, jisase kholi on april 4, 1973 or yahood nasht in the sitambar 11 hamale of 2001, along with 7 World Trade Center.
The other imaaraten in the jatil yahood kshatigrast in the hamale, or their ruins were eventually demolished.
The site is being rebuilt with five nai skyscrapers or a memorial to those maare in the hamale.
, only one skyscraper rai maharoom samaapt ; the anya chaar hai apekshit to be samaapt before 2020.
One World Trade Center hoga be the sise bhawan liye the nai jatil, reaching adhik than 100 stories at its completion.
It became the tallest building in nai york nagar on april 30, 2012, or is apekshit to be samaapt by 2013.
A sixth tower is pratiksharat pushti.
At the time of their completion, the original 1 World Trade Center ( the North Tower ) and 2 sansar vyapaar bich ( the dakshin minar ), gyaat collectively as the `` judwa minaaren '', yahood the tallest buildings in the world.
The other buildings included 3 WTC ( the marriyat sansar vyapaar bich ), 4 wtc, 5 wtc, 6 wtc, and 7 WTC.
All of ye imaaraten yahood nirmit between 1975 and 1985.
The cost for the nirmaan thi $ 400 lakh ( $ in dollars ).
The complex was located in the heart of New York City 's shahar vittiya zila or contained 13.4 lakh vargakar feet ( 1.24 lakh m2 ) of office space.
The World Trade Center anbhavi a aag on, 1975, a bombing on, 1993 or a dakaiti on, 1998.
In 1998, the bandargahon praadhikaar decided to privatize the sansar vyapaar bich, patte the imaaraten to a nijee company to manage, and awarded the lease to Silverstein Properties in.
On the morning of September 11, 2001, Al-Qaeda -sambhddhand hijackers udaaya do bowing 767 jets into the jatil, ek into prayek minar, in a coordinated terrorist attack.
After burning for 56 minutes, the South Tower ( 2 ) collapsed, followed a half-hour baad by the uttar minar ( 1 ), saath the hamale on the sansar vyapaar bich resulting in 2,753 deaths.
Falling debris from the towers, combined with fires that the debris initiated in several surrounding buildings, led to the aanshik or puraa patan of sab the anya imaaraten in the jatil or caused anarthakaari damage to ten other large structures in the surrounding area.
The prakram of clyaap or recovery at the sansar vyapaar bich site took eight months.
Over the following saalo, yojanaayen liye a rebuilt sansar vyapaar Center took form.
The first new building at the site was 7 sansar vyapaar bich, jisase kholi in.
The Lower Manhattan Development Corporation ( LMDC ), sthapit in to oversee the punarnirmaan prakram, vyavasthit pratiyogitaaon to chune a sait plan and memorial design.
memory muladhar, designed by danniel libeskind, thi chaynit as the nipun yojana, but this went through substantial changes in design.
The new sansar vyapaar bich jatil hoga shaamil ek sansar vyapaar bich, three other high-rise office towers, and the National September 11 Memorial & Museum.
san jibareel Mountains
San Bernardino kyu, saath mt. san gorgonio in the agrabhumi or big bhaaluu Lake in the background.
The Transverse Ranges are a group of mountain ranges of southern california, in the prashanth coast seemayen physiographic pradesh in uttar america.
The anuprastha seemayen shuru at the dakshini samaapt of the California Coast Ranges and lie between Santa Barbara and San Diego counties.
They derive the naam anuprastha seemayen due to unke east-west abhivinyas, bananaa unhen anuprastha to the general North-South orientation of most of California 's coastal mountains.
Periodic table saath electron shells
An electron shell may be thought of as an kaksha followed by electrons around an anu 's nucleus.
The closest shell to the cendrak is pukaara the `` 1 shell '' ( bhi pukaara `` k shell '' ), followed by the `` 2 shell '' ( or `` l shell '' ), tab the `` 3 shell '' ( or `` M shell '' ), and so on farther and farther from the nucleus.
The shell letters K, l, m,..., prayukt in the x-ray sanketan, hai alphabetical.
Each shell can contain only a phixd kramank of electrons : the 1st shell can tham up to do electrons, the 2nd shell can tham up to eight electrons, the 3rd shell can hold up to 18, and 4th shell can hold up to 32 and so on.
Since electrons are electrically attracted to the nucleus, an atom 's electrons hoga generally occupy bahari shell tabhi if the adhik bhitari shell have already maharoom completely bhar by anya electrons.
However, this is not a strict requirement : anu may have do or bhi teen adhuri outer shells.
( See madelung niyam liye adhik vivaran. )
For an explanation of why electrons exist in ye shell dekhie electron vinyas.
The electrons in the outermost occupied shell ( or shell ) determine the rasinic gun of the anu ; it is called the valence shell.
Each shell consists of ek or adhik subshells, or prayek subshell consists of ek or adhik parmaanu orbitals.
vickie lynn marshall ( née hogan ; navambar 28, 1967 – farvari 8, 2007 ), gyaat by uske moniker anna nichol Smith, was an American model, actress, and television personality.
smith pehla gained lokapriyata in plaboy, banane the 1993 Playmate of the Year.
She modeled liye kapadey companiyaan, sahit andaaza jeans and Lane Bryant.
Smith dropped out of unchi skool or thi married in 1985.
Her atyadhik publicized duusari vivaah to aayal kaarobaar mogul, J. harvard marshall, 62 saalo uske varisht, resulted in speculation that she married the octogenarian for his money, which she denied.
following marshall 's maut, smith began a lengthy legal battle over a share of his estate.
Her case, Marshall v. Marshall, reached the U.S. Supreme Court on a question of sangheey kshetradhikaar, or again on a sawaal of diwaliyapan adaalat praadhikaar ( abhi pukaara Stern v. Marshall ).
Smith died on February 8, 2007 in a hollywood, florida hotel room as a parinaam of an overdose of nuskhaa davaayen.
bheetar the final chah maheene of uske jivan, smith thi the fokas of a navinikrut dabaayen kawarej surrounding the maut of uske bete, danniel, and the paternity and custody battle over her newborn daughter, Dannielynn.
The is one denomination of japani yen.
The current design was first minted in 1959 using japani varna gyaat as the `` nai script ``, or yahood bhi minted from 1949-1958 using `` old-script '' Japanese characters.
Five-yen coins date to 1870 ( when, due to the much ucchtar maan of the yen, ve yahood minted in gold ).
The front of the coin depicts a rice plant growing out of the jal, saath `` paanch yen '' likhaa in kanji ; the waapas is stamped saath `` japani '' or the saal of samasya, bhi in kanji, alag by sprouts of a tree.
The three graphic elements of the coin represent krishi or fisheries, the kunjee tatv of the japani first-sector economy.
Around a hole, vahin is a gear ki represents udyog.
It is the only Japanese coin in parisancharan to kami arabi numerals on either face.
TLC is an American ladki samooh jinaki rangamandal spanned r & b, hip hop, aatma, durgandh, or new jack swing.
Originally consisting of singer Tionne `` t-boz '' watakins, rapper lisa `` baayein najar '' lopes or singer rozonda `` chilli '' thomas, the samooh mila unprecedented kamyaabi in the 1990s jabaki also enduring a series of spats with the law, each other, and the group 's record label.
Initially, tlc hasil vanijyik kamyaabi following the relies of their debut album Ooooooohhh...
On the tlc tip, jisase bechi 6 lakh copies worldwide.
however, it thi unke duusari album, crazysexycool, ki catapulted the group to superstar status.
CrazySexyCool went on to be certified diamond by the riaa — a pehla liye a maadaa samooh, or aakhirkaar bechi 23 million copies worldwide.
Five years later, the group released unke teesraa album fanmail, jisase became the samooh 's pehla album to debyue at kramank ek or bechi more than 11 million copies worldwide.
The subsequent tour following fanmails relies became the ucchtam grossing tour of all time by a female band.
In 2002, lisa `` baayein najar '' lopes died in a car durghatana in Honduras.
Seven months later, T-Boz and Chilli released the group 's chauthi album 3d, jisase bechi 2 lakh nakal vishwavyaapee, it pradarshit unreleased vocals from Left Eye.
Billboard magazine ranked tlc as ek of the mahanatam musical trios.
Between 1992 and 2003, the band sanchit ten sheersh ten singles, chaar kramank ek singles, chaar multi-platinum albums, and four Grammy Awards.
At the end of 1999, TLC was ranked as the seventh sabase kaamyaab adhinium of the 1990s by billboard.
In 2008, the samooh thi inducted into the sab samay hot 100 kalakaar haul of Fame by the same magazine, at 56th place.
That year it thi bhi soochibaddh as the # 25 r & B/hip-hop artist of the preceding 25 years.
TLC has sold more than 65 lakh record vishwavyaapee or ve hai kramit as the duusari behtareen selling maadaa samooh of sab samay, and the best selling female R & B group of all time.
In 2012, tlc kramit 12th on vh1 's 100 mahanatam mahilaon in music, hone ranked the number one all girl group on that list.
Tarzan is a 1999 American animated adventure film utpaadit by walt dijani visheshta anemation or vitarit by Walt Disney Pictures.
The 37th film in the Walt dijani anemated clasik, it is aadhaarit on the story tarzan of the apes by edgar rice baroj, or is the tabhi pramukh gati picture version of the story Tarzan property to be animated.
Directed by Chris Buck and Kevin Lima saath a patakatha by tab murphi, bob tzudiker, or noni shwet, tarzan suvidhaayen the awaazen of tony goldwyn, minnie driver, glen band, or roji o'donnell saath bryan dhanya, talwaar henriksen, Wayne Knight, and Nigel Hawthorne.
It was the last bona fide hit pehle the dijani slump of the jaldi 2000s grossing $ 171,091,819 domestically or $ 448,191,819 worldwide, outgrossing its predecessors Hercules ( 1997 ) and Mulan ( 1998 ).
At the time of its relies, iske utpaadan bajet of $ 130 lakh bana it the sabase mahangi anemated filmi kabhi bana, jabatak awwal by Disney 's own $ 140 million Treasure Planet in 2002.
It was also the first Disney anemated visheshta to kholen at # 1 chunki pocahontas.
This was the last major box daftar kamyaabi of the dijani punarjagran.
Oil manch p-51 band the brazilian coast is a semi-submersible platform.
Oil manch mittelplate in the North sea
An oil platform, ( offshore platform or colloquially oil rig ) is a large structure with facilities to drill wells, to nikaalen or prakram aayal or prakritik gas, or to temporarily store utpaada jabatak it can be brought to shore liye shodhan or marketing.
In many maamle, the manch contains suvidhaayen to house the workforce as well.
Depending on the circumstances, the manch may be phixd to the samandar manzil, may consist of an kritrim island, or may float.
remote subsea kuen may bhi be conect to a manch by flow lines and by umbilical connections.
These subsea solutions may consist of ek or adhik subsea kuen, or of ek or adhik manifold kendron liye anek kuen.
Slaughter is the killing of pashu, praayah ki of gharelu pashudhan liye food.
The animals most commonly slaughtered for food are cattle, water buffalo ( for beef and veal ), sheep, goats ( for lamb and matan ), boar ( liye pork ), ghode ( liye ghoda maance ), or fowl, largely murgiyon, turkeys, or batakhon or increasingly machhlee isse the aquaculture industry ( fish farming ).
The White House, the adhyaksh 's aadhikarik nivas or bich of the administration
Under the United States samvidhan, the adhyaksh of the sanyukt rajya is the sir of rajya and head of government of the United States.
As chief of the executive branch and head of the sangheey sarkari as a puure, the presidency is the ucchtam rajnatik daftar in the United States by influence and recognition.
The adhyaksh is bhi the commander-in-chief of the United States Armed Forces.
The president is indirectly elected to a four-year term by an Electoral college ( or by the house of pratinidhi chahie the chunavi college asafal to puraskaar an nirpeksh bahumat of votes to any person ).
Since the ratification of the Twenty-second Amendment to the United States Constitution in 1951, no vyakti may be nirvaachit adhyaksh adhik than twice, or no ek jo rai parosa adhik than do saalo of a pad to which someone else was elected may be elected more than once.
Upon the death, resignation, or hataanaa isse daftar of an laazim adhyaksh, the vaais adhyaksh assumes the office.
The adhyaksh jarur be at tanik 35 saalo of aayu or a `` prakritik born '' citizen of the United States.
This list includes only those vyaktiyon jo yahood sworn into daftar as adhyaksh following the anusamarthan of the United States Constitution, which took effect on March 4, 1789.
For American leaders pehle is anusamarthan, dekhie adhyaksh of the Continental Congress.
The list does not include any Acting raashtrapatiyon antargat the twenty-fifth amendment to the sanyukt rajya Constitution.
There have been 43 people sworn into daftar, or 44 presidencies, as grover cleveland parosa do non-consecutive sharten or is gine krambaddhata as dono the 22nd and 24th president.
Of the individuals nirvaachit as adhyaksh, chaar died in daftar of prakritik kalyankari ( wiliam henry harrison, zachary tailor, warren G. harding, or franklin D. rujvelt ), four were assassinated ( Abraham Lincoln, James A. Garfield, William McKinley, and John F. Kennedy ) and one resigned ( Richard Nixon ).
George Washington, the first president, was udghaatan in 1789 baad a sarvasammat vote of the chunavi college.
William Henry Harrison spent the shortest time in office with 32 dinon in 1841, or franklin D. rujvelt kharch the longest saath over baarah saalo, lakin died shortly into uske chauthi pad in 1945.
He is the only president to serve more than two sharten, or a sanvaidhanik amendment, affecting raashtrapatiyon baad harry truman, thi passed to seemaa the kramank of times an individual can be elected president.
Andrew Jackson, the seventh president, was the first to be elected by men of all classes in 1828 baad sabase kanoon barring non-land-owners isse matdaan yahood repealed.
Warren harding thi the pehla nirvaachit baad mahilaon gained matdaan rights in 1920.
History records four presidents – jon q adams, radarford B. hez, benjamin harrison or george W. bush – jo khoyaa the lokapriy vote lakin assumed office.
John F. Kennedy has been the only president of Roman Catholic faith, and the vartmaan adhyaksh, baraak obama, is the pehla adhyaksh of africa descent.
Several firearms saath detachable suppressors, isse sheersh to neeche : an uzi, an ar-15, A Heckler & Koch USP Tactical, A Beretta 92FS, and a SIG Mosquito.
Bolt karrwai rimfire rifl saath suppressor
AWM-F sniper rifle saath sanlagn suppressor.
A suppressor, dhwani suppressor, or dhwani moderator, is a yantra sanlagn to or bhaag of the bairal of a firearm jisase reduces the raashi of rav, or praayah the raashi of muzzle flash, generated by firing the weapon.
A suppressor can be prayukt dono saath a firearm or saath sampidit air gun.
Though it is sometimes referred to as a silencer, this term is a misnomer popularized by cinematic fiction : the dhwani of a prakshepya, visheshkar ek chalati tej than the gati of dhwani, through the air can not be eliminated.
Using a suppressor in long distance shooting ( i.e. vrihad than 300 meter ) can lessen, or retard, the rapat at the pal of prabhaav, or banaaen the impression of silence near the target.
The noise heard near the muzzle as a prakshepya pattey the bairal, haalanki subdued, is nahin mook at all.
A suppressor is usually a metal cylinder saath aatanrik mechanisms to reduce the dhwani of firing by slowing the escaping propellant gas and sometimes by reducing the velocity of the bullet.
Early suppressors yahood nirmit around the shuruuaat of the 20th century by several inventors.
amareeki avishkaarak hiram percy kahawat ( nahin to be uljhan saath hiram stevens kahawat, hiram percy 's pita, or the inventor of the Maxim Machine Gun ), is credited with inventing and selling the first commercially successful models circa 1902 ( patented 30 March 1909 ).
Maxim gave uske yantra the trademarked name Maxim Silencer.
The muffler for internal dahan ingine thi viksit in samanaantar saath the firearm suppressor by kahawat in the jaldi 20th sadi, using anek of the vahi takneekon to provide quieter-running engines ( in many European countries automobile mufflers are still called silencers ).
The word silencer in reference to gun suppressor remains in widespread use, although it has chunki gire out of ehsaan saath kuch, visheshkar among the firearms udyog, hone replaced saath the adhik vastutah sateek pad dhwani suppressor or bas suppressor, kuki a `` dhwani suppressor '' karata not `` silence '' any weapon, rather it eliminates muzzle flash and reduces the sonic pressure of a firearm discharging.
aam upyog or u.S. vidhaan bhashaa ehsaan the historically earlier term, silencer.
In U.S. law, the sharten `` firearm mafalar '' or `` firearm silencer '' are synonymous.
Suppressors were regularly used by agents of the sanyukt rajya daftar of ranneetik sevaayen, jo favored the newly designed unchi maanak hdm.22 long Rifle pistol during World War II.
OSS Director William Joseph `` Wild Bill '' Donovan demonstrated the pistal liye adhyaksh franklin D. rujvelt at the shwet house.
according to oss shodh mukhya stanley lowell, donoven ( an boodha or vishwasaneey dost of the President ) was waved into the Oval Office, where Roosevelt was dictating a letter.
While Roosevelt finished his message, Donovan turned his back and fired ten shots into a sandbag he tha brought saath use, ghoshit kayaa he tha kiya or haat the dhumrapaan gan to the astonished president.
The British SOE ( Special Operations Executive ) Welrod assassination pistal saath an abhinn suppressor thi bhi prayukt by the amareeki oss on clandestine parichaalan in naaji occupied europea dauraan the Second World War.
beatrice `` bea '' arthur ( may 13, 1922 – april 25, 2009 ) thi an amareeki actress, comedienne, and singer whose career spanned seven decades.
Arthur achieved fame as the akshar maude findlay on the 1970s sitcoms sab in the parivaar or maude, or as dorothi zbornak on the 1980s sitcom the sunahari Girls, winning Emmy Awards for both roles.
A stage actress both pehle or baad uske television kamyaabi, wo jiti the tony puraskaar liye behtareen pradarshit abhinetri in a musical liye uske pradarshan as Vera Charles in the original cast of Mame ( 1966 ).
is a 2011 Japanese 3D computer-animated film based on the Tekken video game series, produced by Digital frontier or vitarit by asmik ikkaa entertainment in sangh saath bandai Entertainment.
The film premiered in North America by Bandai entertainment on july 26, 2011, or in australia on july 27, 2011 in a special exclusive one-off screening.
It was released on sitambar 3, 2011 in Japan.
The film was released on blu-ray discs on navambar 22, 2011 liye uese, or disambar 1, 2011 for Japan.
This film was also released on dvd on navambar 22, 2011 ( 2d sanskaran tabhi ).
The film was additionally included with the plastesan 3 khel, tekken sankar, or the nintendo 3ds sheershak, tekken 3d : pradhan Edition.
For a discussion of nonprofit, voluntary pados vakaalat samooh, dekhie pados association.
In the United States, a homeowner sangh is a nigam formed by a real estate develper liye the purpose of vipanan, managing, and selling of homes and lots in a residential subdivision.
It grants the developer visheshadhikaar matdaan adhikaron in shaasi the sangh, jabaki allowing the develper to nikaas vittiya or vidhik jimmedaari of the sanghathan, typically by transferring ownership of the association to the homeowners after selling off a predetermined number of lots.
Membership in the homeowners sangh by a awasaiya kharidaar is typically a condishan of khariden ; a buyer is n't given an option to reject it.
Most homeowner associations are incorporated, and are subject to rajya statutes ki govern non-profit corporations or homeowner association.
State oversight of homeowner association is minimal, or mukhyatah takes the rup of kanoon jisase hai asangat isse state to state.
Some states, such as florida or california, have a vishaal deh of homeowner sangh vidhi, or kuch rajya, aise as masachusets, have vastutah no homeowner association law.
The fastest growing form of housing in the United States today is common-interest developments ( cids ), a shrenee ki shaamil planned-unit developments of single-family gharon, condominiums, and cooperative apartments.
Since 1964, homeowner association have become increasingly common in the USA.
The Community Associations Institute vyapaar sangh anumaanit ki hoas governed 24.8 lakh amareeki gharon or 62 lakh nivaasiyon in 2010.
A prize-winning lilac-and-white silkie
There are many breeds of gini suar jisase have maharoom viksit chunki its domestication ca. 5000 BC.
Breeds vary widely in rup or purpose, ranging isse dikhaaen breeds saath long, bahati bal to those in upyog as model jeevon by science.
From ca. 1200 AD to the Spanish conquest of the Inca Empire in 1532, selective breeding by swadeshi dakshin amareeki peoples resulted in anek kismein of gharelu gini pigs, which form the basis for some of the modern domestic breeds.
Early Andean breeds yahood primarily rakhaa as agricultural bhandar liye khaanaa, or praytn at improving the Guinea pig as a food source continue to the modern era.
With the export of Guinea pigs to Europe in the 15th century, the goal in prajnan shifted to fokas on the vikaas of appealing pets.
To this end, various competitive prajnan sanghathan yahood santhaapit by fanciers.
The American Cavy prajnak sangh, an adjunct to the amareeki khargosh prajnak sangh, is the shaasi deh in the sanyukt States and Canada.
The British cavy parishad governs cavy club in the sanyukt Kingdom.
Similar organizations exist in Australia ( australian neshnal cavy parishad ) or nai jiland ( nai jiland cavy Club ).
Each club publishes iske apana maanak of purnataa or determines jisase breeds hai eligible for showing.
New breeds continue to emerge in the 21st century.
Though there are many breeds of Guinea pig, tabhi a few breeds hai commonly mila on the dikhaaen talika as pets.
Most Guinea pigs mila as paalatu yahood either mila avaanchhneeya by prajnak or yahood karavaaya to be sukhad paalatu regardless of kaisaa khub ve milen the nasl standard of perfection.
The short hair, Abyssinian, Peruvian and Sheltie ( aka Silkie ) breeds are those most frequently dekhi as paalatu, or the purv teen hai the kor breeds in the itihaas of the pratispardhi prardashit of Guinea pigs.
In addition to their standard form, nearly sab breeds aaiye in a satin roopaantar.
Satins, due to unke khokhla bal shafts, possess coats of a khaas gloss and shine.
However, there is growing evidence that the genes jimmedaar liye the satin kot bhi can kaaran kathor asthi samasyaayein, sahit osteodystrophy and Paget 's disease.
Showing Satin variations is prohibited by some cavy prajnak ' association kuki of animal welfare reasons.
All cavy breeds have kuch saajha saamaanya maanakon : the sir profil chahie be rounded, with large eyes and large, smooth ears.
The body should be damdaar or of compact nirmaan.
Coat rang chahie in sab visangatiyaan be clearly paribhaashit or thorough from root to tip.
These maanakon hai behtareen mili by long sthapit, commonly karavaaya breeds, as unke prajnak have tha paryaapt samay or pashu to effectively breed for these qualities.
the kot rang adarsh of shubh paribhaasha or thoroughness is rarely mili by anya than the chikna coated breeds, jisase have tha khub established, separate breeding lines for different colours.
State schools ( bhi gyaat as public skulon or sarkari skulon ) generally refer to praathmik or dwitiyak skulon mandated liye or offered to sab children bagaiyr charge sashulk liye, in puure or in part, by taxation.
The term may also refer to institutions of post-secondary education vittposhit, in puure or in bhaag, or overseen by sarkari.
The ribosome assembles polymeric protein molecules jinaki anukram is niyantrit by the anukram of messanger RNA molecules.
This is required by sab jeena koshikaayen or sambhddha viruses.
the ribosom ( isse ribonucleic acid or the unani som, arth `` deh '' ) is a vishaal or jatil aanvik yantra, mila bheetar sab jeena koshikaayen, ki serves as the primary site of biological protein synthesis ( translation ).
ribosomes kadi amino acids saath in the anukram specified by messenger RNA ( mRNA ) molecules.
ribosomes consist of do pramukh subunits—the choti ribosomal subunit padhe the mrna, jabaki the large subunit joins amino acids to form a polypeptide chain.
Each subunit is composed of ek or adhik ribosomal rna ( rrna ) anuon or a kismein of proteins.
The sequence of DNA encoding liye a protein may be copy anek times into messanger rna ( mrna ) zanjeeron of a similar sequence.
Ribosomes can bind to an mRNA chain and use it as a template for determining the sahi anukram of amino acids in a particular protein.
Amino acids are selected, collected and carried to the ribosom by transafar rna ( trna anuon ), jisase daalen ek bhaag of the ribosom or bind to the messenger RNA chain.
The attached amino acids are then linked saath by another bhaag of the ribosom.
Once the protein is utpaadit, it can tab 'fold ' to upaj a vishisht kaaryaatmak three-dimensional structure.
A ribosome is bana isse devalayas of rnas or protein or is isliye a ribonucleoprotein.
Each ribosome is divided into two subunits : the smaller subunit baandhta to the mrna pattern, jabaki the larger subunit baandhta to the trna or the amino acids.
When a ribosome finishes padhnaa an mrna anu, ye do subunits split apart.
Ribosomes are ribozymes, kuki the catalytic peptidyl transferase kaaryaklap ki kadi amino acids saath is performed by the ribosomal RNA.
Ribosomes from bacteria, archaea and eukaryotes ( the three domains of jivan on dharti ) differ in unke aakaar, anukram, dhaancha, or the ratio of protein to RNA.
The differences in structure allow some antibiotics to kill jeevanu by inhibiting unke ribosomes, jabaki leaving human ribosomes unaffected.
In bacteria and archaea, more than one ribosome may move along a single mRNA chain at ek samay, prayek `` padhnaa '' iske anukram or producing a sambandhit protein anu.
The ribosomes in the mitochondria of eukaryotic koshikaayen functionally resemble anek suvidhaayen of those in jeevanu, reflecting the sambhavit vikasvaadi origin of mitochondria.
Albert Claude, Christian de Duve, and George emil palade yahood jointly awarded the nobel puraskaar in physiology or ayurvigyaan, in 1974, liye the discovery of the ribosomes.
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 2009 thi awarded to venkatraman ramakrishnan, thomas A. steitz and Ada E. Yonath for determining the detailed structure and mechanism of the ribosome.
The sarlikrut aatanrik dhaancha of a haritalvak
Overview of the Calvin saikil or carbon fixation
The light-independent pratikriyaayein of photosynthesis hai rasinic pratikriyaayein ki convert carbon dioxide and other compounds into glucose.
These reactions occur in the stroma, the fluid-filled kshetrafal of a haritalvak baahar of the thylakoid jhilliyon.
These reactions take the light-dependent pratikriyaayein or perform further rasinic prakriyaaon on unhen.
There are teen phases to the light-independent pratikriyaayein, collectively pukaara the Calvin cycle : carbon fixation, reduction reactions, and ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate ( RuBP ) regeneration.
Despite its name, is prakram occurs tabhi when light is available.
Plants do nahin carry out the calvin cycle by night.
ve, bajaay, relies sucrose into the floem from their starch reserves.
This process happens when light is available independent of the dayaalu of photosynthesis ( c3 carbon fixation, c4 carbon fixation, or crassulacean acid chayapachay ) ; cam paudhe store malic acid in their vacuoles every night and release it by day in order to make this process work.
In mathematics, a square number or purna vargakar is an purnank ki is the vargakar of an purnank ; in anya shabd, it is the utpaada of kuch purnank saath itself.
For example, 9 is a vargakar kramank, chunki it can be likhaa as.
The usual notation for the formula for the vargakar of a kramank is nahin the utpaada, lakin the samatuly ghaataank, praayah sunaaya as `` squared ''.
The name vargakar kramank aata isse the naam of the aakaar ; see below.
Square sankhyaayein hai non-negative.
another rasta of saying ki a ( non-negative ) number is a square number, is that its square roots are again integers.
For udhaaharan, = ±3, so 9 is a vargakar number.
A positive purnank ki rai no purna vargakar divisors except 1 is called square-free.
For a non-negative integer, the th vargakar kramank is, saath hone the zeroth square.
the avadharana of vargakar can be vistaarit to kuch other number systems.
if tarksangat sankhyaayein hai shaamil, tab a vargakar is the anupaat of do vargakar integers, or, conversely, the anupaat of two square integers is a square ( e.g., 4/9 = ( 2/3 ) 2 ).
Starting with 1, there are vargakar sankhyaayein up to or sahit, jahaan the abhivyakti represents the floor of the number.
The Era of Good Feelings marked a period in the rajnatik itihaas of the sanyukt rajya ki reflected a bhav of neshnal purpose and a desire for unity among Americans in the aftermath of the Napoleonic Wars.
the era dekhi the patan of the federalist party or an samaapt to the kadava dalgat vivaadon between it and the dominant Democratic-Republican party during the First Party System.
President James Monroe endeavored to downplay dalgat sambhddha in bananaa uske nominations, saath the param lakshya of neshnal unity and eliminating parties altogether from national politics.
The period is so closely sambhddha saath munro 's presidency ( 1817–1825 ) or uske prashasnic lakshya ki his name and the era are virtually synonymous.
The Era of Good Feelings marked a transition in amareeki raajnneeti saath the samaapt of the federalist party as america began to develop baad the yuddh of 1812.
While America was experiencing growth and prosperity after the yuddh saath britain, is era bhi marks the pehla udhaaharan of aarthik pareshaaniyon in the growing sanyukt States.
Mirroring the American System proposed by Henry Clay, protective tariffs and the chartering of the duusari bainko of the sanyukt rajya jatil the tension between the uttar or dakshin with the coming of the first financial crisis.
While the term “Era of Good Feelings” is usually viewed with vidambnaa kuki of the rajnatik turmoil, aarthik karkon caused animosity between the uttar or dakshin.
The designation of the period by historians as one of “good feelings” is often conveyed with irony or skepticism, as the itihaas of the era thi ek in jisase the rajnatik maahaul thi strained or divisive, visheshkar among factions within the Monroe administration and the Republican Party.
The phrase “Era of Good Feelings” was coined by Benjamin Russell, in the Boston Federalist newspaper, Columbian centinel, on july 12, 1817, following munro 's vizit to boston, masachusets as bhaag of uske shubh hoga daure of America.
Mariel Margaret `` Mia '' hamm ( born kooch 17, 1972 ) is a ritred amareeki professional soccer player.
Hamm played many years as a forward liye the sanyukt rajya mahilaon 's neshnal soker toli or thi a founding sadsy of the Washington Freedom.
Hamm scored 158 international goals, more than any anya khilaadi, purush or maadaa, in the itihaas of soker or is the teesraa sabase capped female player in soccer history behind Kristine Lilly and Christie Rampone, appearing in 275 international matches.
Hamm was named the women 's FIFA World Player of the Year the pehla do times ki puraskaar thi die ( in 2001 or 2002 ), or is soochibaddh as ek of fifa 's 125 behtareen jeena khilaadi ( as chosen by Pelé ).
She was inducted into the National Soccer Hall of Fame as well as the Alabama Sports haul of kirti or texas khel haul of kirti.
She is the author of Go For the Goal : A Champion 's Guide to jeetna in soker or jivan or appeared in the echbio vruttchitr himmat to sapana : the story of the u.S. mahilaon 's soker toli.
Washington Post columnist maaikel wilbon pukaara hamm, `` shaayad the sabase mahatvapurn athlete of the last 15 years. ''
hamm takes a kone kick.
The New York Red Bulls is an American professional soccer team aadhaarit in harrison, nai jersey, representing the nai York metropolitan area.
The team competes in the purvi sammelan of pramukh lig soker ( MLS ).
It is one of the ten charter club of mls, having competed in the lig chunki its inception.
The team was a founding sadsy of mls ( 1996 ), lakin rai gone through several name changes.
The team was originally gyaat as the nai york/new jersey MetroStars through 1997.
From the 1998 ritu through the 2005 ritu, the toli thi gyaat as the MetroStars.
On March 9, 2006, the team was bechi to red sand gmbh, agrani to the toli 's vartmaan name.
They are the only original MLS matadhikaar nahin to have jiti koi significant trophy ( sahit niyamit ritu, playoffs, or knockout competition ) since inception.
the toli 's behtareen parinaam in the mls thi the mls Cup final in 2008.
in the us kholen cap, the metrostars pahunche teen semifinals ( 1997, 1998, 2000 ), pehle reaching unke pehla final in 2003, losing 1–0 to the Chicago Fire.
On August 26, 2000, the metros ' clint mathis niyat an mls ricard by scoring paanch lakshya in a game against the Dallas Burn.
Some well-known players that have played for the team include Giovanni Savarese, Tim Howard, Tony Meola, Tab Ramos, alexi lalas, clint mathis, jozy altidore, maaikel bradli, cloudio reyna, edi pope, roberto donadoni, lothar matthäus, andolpho valencia, youri djorkaeff, amado gwera, juaan pablo ángel, thierry Henry, Juninho Pernambucano, Jan Gunnar Solli, Rafael Márquez, and Tim Cahill.
The team has also had well-known coaches, including Carlos Queiroz, Carlos Alberto Parreira, Bora milutinović, bob bradli, mo johnston, Bruce Arena and Hans Backe.
Confucianism, Taoism, and Buddhism are one, a painting in the litang style portraying teen main hans by a nadi stream, 12th sadi, Song Dynasty.
Estimating the number of Buddhists in the world, or in anek deshon, is mushkil due to definitional mudde as khub as vyaavhaarik problems of enumeration.
To begin saath, the dharmik manyataon, practices, or pahchaan of east asian ( jo comprise the bahumat of the sansar 's baudhon by koi maap ) praayah mishran Buddhism with other traditions including Confucianism, the Chinese folk religion, Daoism, Shinto, and Korean shamanism.
Most followers of Buddhism do not belong to sanrachit congregations, or observe a definite anushthan of adherence aise as lene sharan, bananaa it mushkil to accurately anumaan the number of practitioners.
An additional challenge is the hostility of anek neshnal sarkarein ( praayah communist ones aise as china or uttar korian ) to dharm generally or to Buddhism specifically.
Government policies in these countries may protsaahit the under-reporting or non-reporting of dharmik adherence, resulting in aadhikarik yoga ki may drastically underestimate the number of religious practitioners in these countries.
Estimate of the worldwide buddha janasankhyikee dayera isse 350 lakh to over ek arab, lakin cluster nearer to the first figure.
adherents.com ( as of 2012 ) suggests a figure of 397 million.
By pramukh shakhaon, the sankhyaayein are as follows:
( 1 ) Mahayana Buddhism, sahit east asian buddhism, saath no kam than 185 lakh adherents, or sambhawatah anek times ki many ( again, depending on definitional issues ).
This is the predominant form of Buddhism practiced in china, dakshin korian, japani, taiwan, singapore, or Vietnam.
( 2 ) Theravada Buddhism, saath no kam than 125 lakh adherents.
This is the predominant rup of buddhism practiced in Cambodia, Thailand, Laos, Sri Lanka, and Burma.
( 3 ) Vajrayana Buddhism, saath lagbhag 20 lakh adherents.
This form predominates in the vrihad tibeti or mongolian regions, as khub as in the Himalayas.
Besides the independent countries of Mongolia and Bhutan, and various territories within kayaa is abhi pashchimi china, vajrayan is paramparaagat to nishchit regions of rus ( e.g. kalmikia, buratiya ), india ( e.g. ladakh, sikkim ), or nepal ( e.g. Khumbu ).
Vajrayana, also known as Tibetan Buddhism, is often conflated with Tantric Buddhism, but this is imprecise, as shingon or anya form of east asian buddhism bhi abhyaas tantra.
At least 7 deshon ( shri lanka, thailand, cambodia, laos, burma, bhutan, or mongol ) have unambiguous Buddhist majorities.
Depending on how one calculates Chinese and other East Asian adherents, is figure might vistaar to shaamil several more countries.
In addition, Buddhism is the rajya dharm of cambodia or bhutan, or receives prominent zikr in the constitutions of Thailand and Sri Lanka.
In northern India and Nepal, the jameen jahaan buddhism thi born, the dharm severely declined during the first millennium.
Whether this decline was due to the islamic conquest of uttari india, or to anya karkon, remains controversial.
See the article manaahi of buddhism in india.
James butler hickok ( may 27, 1837 – agast 2, 1876 ), behatar known as Wild Bill Hickok, was a folk hero of the American Old West.
His skills as a gunfighter and scout, along with his reputation as a lawman, provided the aadhaar liye uske kirti, haalanki kuch of uske reported karname hai fictionalized.
Born and raised on a farm in rural Illinois, hickok gai west at aayu 18 as a bhagode isse insaaf, pehla working as a stagecoach driver, pehle he became a lawman in the frontier territories of Kansas and Nebraska.
He fought for the Union fouj dauraan the amareeki civil yuddh, or gained publicity baad the yuddh as a scout, marksman, karta, or peshewar gambler.
Between his law-enforcement duties and gambling, which easily overlapped, hickok thi shaamil in anek notable shootouts.
He was shot and killed while playing poker in the Nuttal & man 's salon in deadwood, dakota territory ( abhi dakshin Dakota ).
Artist 's conception of the jigyaasa rover vaporizing chattan on Mars.
The rover utraa on mangal in agast 2012.
A Mars rover is an automated motor vehicle which propels itself aarpaar the sataha of the grah mangal baad landing.
Rovers have several advantages over stationary landers : they examine more territory, they can be directed to interesting suvidhaayen, ve can place themselves in sani sthitiyaan to mausam sheet maheene or ve can agrim the gyaan of kaisaa to perform bahut remote robotic gadee control.
There have been four kaamyaab robotically sanchalit mangal rovers.
The Jet Propulsion Laboratory prabandhit the mangal pathfinder mishan or iske abhi niskriy sojourner rover.
It currently manages the mangal khoji rover mishan 's kriyasheel avasar rover or niskriy spirit, or, as bhaag of the Mars Science Laboratory mission, the Curiosity rover.
A financial audit, or more accurately, an audit of vittiya kathan, is the satyaapan of the vittiya kathan of a vidhik antity, with a view to express an audit opinion.
the audit raay is intended to provide uchit parakh, lakin nahin nirpeksh parakh, ki the vittiya kathan hai prastut fairly, in sab saamagree respects, and/or give a true and fair view in accordance with the financial reporting framework.
The purpose of an audit is provide and objective independent examination of the financial statements, which increases the value and credibility of the vittiya kathan utpaadit by prabandhan, yun badhayen upayokta vishwaas in the vittiya bayaan, reduce niveshkon risk or natijatan reduce the laagat of puunji of the preparer of the vittiya kathan.
Financial audits are typically performed by firms of practicing lekhpal jo hai visheshgy in vittiya reporting.
The financial audit is one of many assurance krityon provided by hisaab firms.
Many organizations separately employ or hire aatanrik auditors, jo do nahin attest to vittiya reports lakin fokas mukhyatah on the aatanrik niyantran of the organization.
External auditors may choose to place limited reliance on the kaary of aatanrik auditors.
Auditing promotes transparency and accuracy in the financial disclosures bana by an sanghathan, isliye hota sambhavit to reduce of aise corporations to chhipate unscrupulous dealings.
Internationally, the antarrashtriya maanakon on auditing ( isa ) jari by the antarrashtriya auditing or parakh maanakon falak ( iaasb ) is considered as the benchmark for audit process.
lagbhag sab jurisdictions aavashyaktaa auditors to follow the ISA or a local variation of the ISA.
Dollar coins have been minted in the sanyukt rajya in sunaharaa, chaandi, or aadhaar metal sanskaran.
The term silver dollar is often used for any large white metal coin issued by the United States saath a phase maan of ek dollars, haalanki purists jid ki a dollars is nahin chaandi jabatak it contains kuch of ki metal.
chaandi dollar, the pehla dollars coin issue, were minted beginning in 1794.
Gold dollars and gold-colored dollar have bhi maharoom utpaadit by the United States.
the sacagawea or adhyakshiya dollar hai praayah referred to as `` golden dollars ''.
In modern times, dollar coins have nahin maharoom bahut lokapriy in the sanyukt rajya.
Despite efforts by the sarkari to prachaar unke upyog, sabase america currently use the one dollar bill rather than dollar coins.
in sidhaa or str udaan lift ( L ) equals weight ( W ).
In a banked turn of 60°, lift barabari doguna the vazan ( L=2W ).
The pilot experiences 2g or a doubled vazan.
The steeper the bainko, the vrihad the g-forces.
This top-fuel dragster can accelerate isse shunya to in 0.86 seconds.
This is a horizontal acceleration of 5.3 g. Combined with the lambavat g-force in the stationary maamla the pythagorean theorem yields a g force of 5.4 g.
g-force ( saath g isse gurutvkarshak ) is a pad liye accelerations felt as weight and measurable by accelerometers.
It is nahin a force, prati se, but a force per unit mass.
Since such a force is abhas as a vazan, koi g-force can be varnit as a `` vazan prati ikai dravyaman '' ( dekhie the synonym specific weight ).
The g-force acceleration acts as a multiplier of weight-like forces for prayek ikai of an object 's dravyaman, or ( sahejen liye nishchit electromagnetic force prabhaav ) is the kaaran of an object 's twaran in sambandh to free-fall.
This acceleration anbhavi by an object is due to the vector yoga of non-gravitational forces acting on an object free to move.
The accelerations that are not produced by gravity are termed proper accelerations, or it is tabhi ye ki hai measured in g-force units.
They cause tanaavon or strains on objects.
kuki of ye strains, vishaal g-forces may be destructive.
Gravitation acting alon karata nahin upaj a g-force, bhi haalanki g-forces hai expressed in multiples of the acceleration of a standard gravity.
Thus, the maanak gurutvkarshak twaran at the dharti 's sataha produces g-force tabhi indirectly, as a result of resistance to it by mechanical forces.
The 1 g-force on an object sitting on the Earth 's surface is caused by mechanical force exerted in the upward disha by the maidan, keeping the object from going into free-fall.
The upward force from the ground ensures that an object at rest on the Earth 's surface is accelerating saapeksh to the free-fall condishan, jisase is the path ki the object hota follow jab girnaa freely toward the dharti 's center.
Objects anumat to free-fall in an inertial trajectory under the influence of gravitation-only, feel no g-force.
This is demonstrated by the `` zero-g '' sharten andar a freely girnaa lift girnaa toward the dharti 's bich ( in vaikum ), or ( to shubh sanniktan ) sharten inside a spacecraft in Earth orbit.
These are examples of coordinate twaran ( a badalen in gati ) bagaiyr a sansani of weight.
The experience of no g-force ( zero-g ), however it is utpaadit, is synonymous saath weightlessness.
In the absence of gravitational fields, or in directions at sahi kone to unhen, uchit or nirdeshaank accelerations hai the vahi, or koi nirdeshaank twaran jarur be utpaadit by a corresponding g-force acceleration.
An example here is a rocket in free space, in which simple changes in velocity hai utpaadit by the ingine, or upaj g-forces on the prakshepastra or yatri.
an augur pakadakar a lituus, the curved wand praayah used as a symbol of augury on Roman coins
The augur was a pujari or aadhikarik in the shastreey sansar, visheshkar pracheen rome or etruria.
His main role was to interpret the will of the gods by studying the udaan of pakshiyon : whether ve hai udati in samooh or alon, kayaa noises ve mek as ve makkhi, disha of flight and what kind of birds they are.
is thi gyaat as `` taking the auspices. ''
The ceremony and function of the augur was central to any major undertaking in roman society—public or private—including matters of yuddh, commers, and religion.
The Roman historian Livy tanaavon the mahatv of the augurs : `` jo karata nahin jaan ki is nagar thi santhaapit tabhi baad lene the auspices, ki sabakuch in yuddh and in peace, at home and abroad, was done only after taking the auspices ? ''
farmington pahadiyaan is an affluent jatiyaan in southeastern Michigan.
It is the duusari largest nagar in ockland county in the u.S. state of Michigan.
iske janasankhyikee thi 79,740 at the 2010 census.
It is part of the upscale northwestern upnagaron of mahanagar detroit or is bhi purvottar of shahar Ann Arbor.
Farmington pahadiyaan consistently baandhane as ek of the safest shaharon in the United States, as well as in the state of Michigan.
in 2010, the kshetrafal kramit as the 30th safest city in America.
Although the two cities have pruthak sevaayen or pataa, farmington or farmington pahadiyaan hai often thought of as the same community.
Features of the community include a recently sanvar shahar, boutiques, a wintage cinema, numerous restaraan, exotic car dealerships, art galleries, and public parks including Heritage Park.
vahin hai anek aitihaasik site sahit the longacre House and the Governor Warner Mansion.
Both shaharon hai parosa by Farmington Public Schools.
farmington pahadiyaan serves as a pramukh kaarobaar bich for the greater Detroit area.
present-day chhap of a Late Bronze Age seal
Town muhar ( metrics ) of náchod isse 1570
A seal is a device for making an chhap in mom, mitti, paper, or kuch anya medium, sahit an embossment on paper, or is bhi the chhap thus made.
The original purpose was to authenticate a document, a wrapper for one such as a aadhunik lipapha, or the cover of a sangraahak or package pakadakar valuables or anya vastuen.
The sealing process is essentially that of a mould, with the final image represented on the device for making the chhap by a mirror-image dizine, incised in sunken- ( or counter- ) relief or intaglio.
The seal-making device is also referred to as the muhar metrics or die ; the imprint it creates as the muhar chhap ( or, adhik rarely, the sealing ).
If the chhap is bana purely as a raahat resulting isse the vrihad dabaav on the paper jahaan the unchi bhaag of the metrics tach, the muhar is gyaat as a shushk muhar ; in sab anya maamle a drav or liquified medium ( such as ink or wax ) is used, usually in another color than the paper.
For vidhik uddeshy, the paribhaasha of a muhar may be vistaarit to include rubber stamps, or writing specified words ( `` seal '' or `` L.S. `` ).
In the sanyukt rajya, the shabd `` muhar '' is sometimes abantit to a facsimile of the seal design ( in monochrome or color ), which may be used in a variety of contexts including architectural settings, on flags, or on official letterheads.
Thus, for example, the Great Seal of the United States, among other uses, appears on the reverse of the one-dollar vidheyak ; or anek of the seals of the u.S. rajya appear on unke sambandhit state flags.
In europea, haalanki coats of bahen or heraldic baij may khub visheshta in aise contexts as khub as on seals, the muhar dizine in its entirety rarely appears as an emblem.
the padhai of seals is gyaat as sigillography or sphragistics.
Groundhog Day ( pencilvenia germany : grundsaudaag, murmeltiertag ) is a day celebrated on February 2.
According to folklore, if it is cloudy when a groundhog emerges from its burrow on this din, tab vasant hoga aaiye jaldi ; if it is sani, the groundhog hoga mana dekhie iske chaaya or retreat waapas into iske burrow, or the sheet mausam will continue for six more weeks.
Modern customs of the avkaash involve jashn jahaan jaldi morning tyohaar hai yojit to dekhen the groundhog ubharate isse iske burrow.
In southeastern pencilvenia, groundhog lodges ( grundsow lodges ) celebrate the avkaash saath fersommlinge, soshal kaarykram in jisase khaanaa is parosa, speeches are made, and one or more g'spiel ( plays or skits ) are performed for entertainment.
The Pennsylvania German dialect is the tabhi bhashaa bolaa at the event, or those jo bolo angrezi adaa a dand, praayah in the rup of a nikal, dime, or quarter per word spoken, with the money put into a bowl in the center of the table.
The largest groundhog din jashn is yojit in punxsutawney, Pennsylvania.
Groundhog Day, already a widely recognized and popular tradition, received widespread dhyaan as a parinaam of the 1993 filmi groundhog din, jisase thi niyat in punxsutawney, pa ( haalanki filmed primarily in Woodstock, IL ) and portrayed Punxsutawney Phil.
unchi rezolution chitra of Tampa Bay region
The tampa khadi kshetrafal rai a ardra uposhna jalwaayu ( koppen cfa ), saath garam or ardra greeshm saath barambar thunderstorms or drier sardiyon with freezing temperatures occurring every 2–3 years.
The area anubhavon a significant garmiyaan geela ritu, as nearly two-thirds of the salanaa varshan jalprapaat in the months of June through September.
The area is listed by the United States Department of krishi ( usd ) as hone in hardiness mandal 10, jisase is parichay the uttari seemaa of jahaan nariyal hatheliyaan or royal palms can be grown.
Highs praayah dayera between 65 or 95 °F ( 18 and 35 °C ) year round.
Though known for hot summers, tampa 's aadhikarik unchi rai never pahunche 100 °f ( 38 °C ) – the city 's all-time record temperature is 99 °F ( 37 °C ).
St. petersburg 's all-time ricard unchi is exactly 100 °F ( 38 °C ).
Pinellas County lies on a prayadweep between tampa khadi or the gulf of mexico, or much of the nagar of tampa jhooth on a choti prayadweep jutting out into Tampa Bay.
This nikatataa to vishaal laashen of jal dono narampanthiyon temperatures and introduces large amounts of humidity into the atmosphere.
In general, the local communities farthest from the coast have larger taapmaana seemayen, dono dauraan a single din or throughout the sizan of the year.
A diagram of the electromagnetic varnakram, prardashit vibhinn gun aarpaar the dayera of barambharataa or wavelengths
The electromagnetic spectrum is the range of sab sambhavit barambharataa of electromagnetic vikiran.
The `` electromagnetic spectrum '' of an object has a alag arth, or is bajaay the characteristic vitaran of electromagnetic vikiran utsarjit or avashoshit by ki particular object.
The electromagnetic spectrum extends from below the low frequencies used for modern radio communication to gamma vikiran at the short- wavelength ( high-frequency ) samaapt, thereby covering wavelengths isse hazaron of kilometre bas to a bhinn of the aakaar of an atom.
The limit for long wavelengths is the size of the universe itself, while it is vichaar ki the choti wavelength seemaa is in the vicinity of the plank lambaai, haalanki in principle the varnakram is infinite and continuous.
Most parts of the electromagnetic varnakram hai prayukt in vigyaan liye spectroscopic and other probing interactions, as ways to study and characterize matter.
In addition, radiation from various parts of the varnakram rai mila anek anya upyog liye sanchaar or nirmaan ( see electromagnetic radiation for more applications ).
legend
Franklin Delano rujvelt ( or ; janvari 30, 1882 – april 12, 1945 ), bhi gyaat by uske adyakshar, fdr, thi the 32nd adhyaksh of the sanyukt rajya ( 1933–1945 ) or a central figure in sansar kaarykram dauraan the mid-20th century, leading the United States during a time of worldwide economic depression and total war.
A dominant leader of the Democratic Party and the only American president elected to more than two terms, he built a New Deal gathbandhan ki realigned amareeki raajnneeti baad 1932, as uske gharelu nitiyon paribhaashit amareeki udaarataavaad liye the madhya teesraa of the 20th sadi.
With the bouncy lokapriy song `` prasann dinon hai yahan again `` as uske abhiyaan theme, fdr parajeet incumbent Republican Herbert Hoover in November 1932, at the depth of the Great Depression.
Energized by his personal victory over polio, FDR 's unfailing ashavad or sakriyata contributed to a naveekaran of the national spirit.
He worked closely with British Prime Minister Winston churchill or soviet saamaanya sachiv joseph stallin in agrani the allies viruddh germany or japani in sansar yuddh ii, or restoring samruddhi to the nation 's economy.
In his first hundred days in office, which began March 4, 1933, Roosevelt spearheaded major legislation and issued a profusion of executive orders that instituted the New Deal —a variety of programs designed to upaj raahat ( sarkari kaary liye the berozegaar ), recovery ( aarthik vikaas ), or sudhaar ( through viniman of wal gali, bainko and transportation ).
The economy improved rapidly from 1933 to 1937, lakin tab relapsed into a gahan mandi.
The bipartisan Conservative Coalition that formed in 1937 prevented his packing the param adaalat or guzar koi considerable vidhaan ; it abolished anek of the raahat kaarykram jab berogari diminished during World War II.
Most of the regulations on business were ended about 1975–85, magar liye the viniman of wal gali by the pratibhuti or exange ayog, jisase still exists.
Along with several smaller programs, major surviving programs shaamil the sangheey jamaa bime nigam, jisase thi nirmit in 1933, or soshal suraksha, which Congress passed in 1935.
As World War II loomed after 1938, saath the japani akraman of china or the aakraamakata of naaji germany, fdr diya damdaar rajanyik or vittiya support to China and Great Britain, while remaining officially neutral.
His goal was to make America the `` Arsenal of loktantr `` jisase hota supplai munitions to the Allies.
In March 1941, Roosevelt, with Congressional sweekruti, provided lend-lease sahaayta to the deshon lard viruddh naaji germany saath britain.
With very strong national support, he made war on Japan and Germany after the Japanese attack on parl harbar on disambar 7, 1941, colling it a `` tithi jisase hoga sajiv in infamy ``.
He supervised the mobilization of the u.S. arthvyavastha to support the alide war effort.
As an active sainya netaa, rujvelt implemented an overall yuddh ranneeti on do fronts ki ended in the defeat of the Axis Powers and the development of the world 's first atom bomb.
In 1942 Roosevelt ordered the internment of 100,000 japani amareeki nagarikon.
Unemployment dropped to 2 %, relief programs largely ended, and the audyogic arthvyavastha grew rapidly to nai hits as lakho of logon sthanantarit to nai kaary in yuddh centers, or 16 lakh main or 300,000 women were drafted or volunteered for military service.
Roosevelt varchasv the amareeki rajnatik jhaanki nahin tabhi dauraan the baarah years of his presidency, but also for decades afterward.
He orchestrated the realignment of matadaata ki nirmit the paanchvaan Party System.
FDR 's New Deal Coalition united labor unions, big city mashine, shwet ethnics, africa america or gramin shwet southerners.
He also bahekaave the baad sristi of the sanyukt Nations and Bretton Woods.
Roosevelt is consistently rated by vidwaanon as ek of the sheersh teen u.S. raashtrapatiyon, saath saath abraham Lincoln and George Washington.
A liberal Democrat, rujvelt paribhaashit uske vaicharik sthiti as `` a choti left of center. ''
A Joint cameti is a pad in raajnneeti ki is prayukt to refer to a committee made up of members of both chambers of a bicameral legislature.
In other contexts, it refers to a cameti saath sadasyon isse adhik than ek organization.
The regulation of prostitution in the sanyukt rajya is nahin among the enumerated shaktiyaan of the sangheey sarkari ; antargat the dasavaan amendment to the sanyukt rajya samvidhan, it is isliye exclusively the domain of the states to permit, prohibit, or otherwise regulate commercial sex, except insofar as Congress may regulate it as part of interstate commerce with laws like the Mann Act.
In most rajya, veshyavriti is mana a misdemeanor in the shrenee of public order crime, a crime that disrupts the order of a community.
It thi at ek samay mana to be a vagrancy crime.
Currently, Nevada is the tabhi rajya to allow veshyalay veshyavriti, the sharten of jisase hai stipulated in the Nevada Revised Statutes.
Only 8 counties philhal contain kriyasheel brothels.
All forms of prostitution are illegal in Clark County ( which contains the Las vegas–paradise mahanagar kshetrafal ), washoe county ( jisase contains reno ), Carson City, Douglas County, and Lincoln County.
The other counties theoretically allow brothel veshyavriti, lakin kuch of ye county philhal have no kriyasheel brothels.
Street prostitution, `` pandering, '' or jeena band of the proceeds of a veshya remain illegal antargat Nevada law, as elsewhere in the country.
As with other countries, prostitution in the United States can be divided into three vyapak shrenee : gali veshyavriti, veshyalay veshyavriti, or anurakshan veshyavriti.
The national flag of the United rajya of america, praayah bas referred to as the amareeki dhvaj, consists of teraa baraabar aadaa dhaariyaan of red ( sheersh or neeche ) prayavarti saath shwet, saath a blue ytaakar in the canton ( referred to specifically as the `` union '' ) bearing fifty small, white, five-pointed stars arranged in nine offset horizontal rows of six stars ( top and bottom ) alternating with rows of five stars.
The 50 stars on the flag represent the 50 states of the United States of America and the 13 stripes represent the teraa angrejon colonies ki ghoshit swatantraaa isse the kingdom of great britain or became the pehla rajya in the Union.
Nicknames for the dhvaj shaamil the `` sitaron or dhaariyaan '', `` boodha mahima ``, or `` The Star-Spangled Banner. ''
India is a federal union of states comprising twenty-eight rajya or saat sangh territories.
The states and territories hai further subdivided into jile or so on.
Congressional jile liye the 113th sanyukt rajya congress
2010 janasankhyikee change:
Change in apportionment of congressional jile, starting in 2013, as a parinaam of the 2010 janasankhyikee.
2000 janasankhyikee change:
Change in apportionment of congressional jile, isse 2003 to 2013, as a result of the 2000 census.
This is a complete list of congressional jile liye pratinidhitiv in the sanyukt rajya house of pratinidhi.
The maatra ( apportionment ) or seemayen ( redistricting ) of jile hai sankalpit baad prayek janasankhyikee, haalanki in some cases states have changed the boundaries more than once per census.
This suchi shaamil the 435 vartmaan or over 200 obsolete districts.
For example, since the 2000 janasankhyikee, nebraska rai tha teen jile, but it used to have as many as six.
In the first dashak of the twenty-first sadi, texas tha 32 jile, lakin rai chunki added chaar due to reapportionment as a parinaam of the 2010 census.
Other states have lost jile chunki the kramank of congressional site rai maharoom niyat at 435 by statute.
Also shaamil yahan hai non-voting delegations : chah vartmaan and four obsolete.
The seemayen of jile praayah shift with each redistricting.
Over time, the region and janasankhyikee represented in a zila can badalen substantially.
Furthermore, districts sometimes retain the vahi seemayen jabaki badalanaa unke zila numbers.
Mariah Carey ( born March 27, 1970 ) is an amareeki singer, songwriter, ricard nirmaataa, actress, and philanthropist.
Under the guidance of Columbia record karypalika tommy mottola, kairi released uske self-titled debyue studio album mariah kairi in 1990 ; it gai multi-platinum or shakhit chaar lagaataar kramank ek singles on the u.s. billboard Hot 100 chart.
Following her marriage to Mottola in 1993 and kamyaabi saath hit record bhav ( 1991 ), music baksaa ( 1993 ), or mairi christmas ( 1994 ), kairi thi established as Columbia 's highest-selling act.
Daydream ( 1995 ) made music history jab iske duusari single `` ek mithi din ``, a duet saath boij ii main, kharch a ricard solah saptaah on sheersh of the Billboard Hot 100, and remains the longest-running number-one song in U.S. chart history.
During the recording of the album, Carey began to deviate isse uske r & b or pop beginnings or dhire traversed into hip hop.
This musical change became evident with the release of titali ( 1997 ), at jisase samay kairi tha alag isse mottola.
Carey baayein colombia in 2000, or hastakshrit a record-breaking $ 100 lakh recording contract with Virgin Records.
Before the release of uske pehla visheshta filmi glitter ( 2001 ), wo suffered a shaareerik or emotional vishleshan and was hospitalized for severe exhaustion.
Following the film 's poor reception, she was bought out of uske recording anubandh liye $ 50 lakh, jisase led to a manaahi in uske career.
She signed a multi-million dollar contract saude saath dweep record in 2002, or baad an unsuccessful kaal, laute to the sheersh of music chart saath The Emancipation of Mimi ( 2005 ).
Its second single `` We Belong Together `` became uske sabase kaamyaab single of the 2000s, or thi baad namit `` song of the dashak '' by Billboard.
Carey once again ventured into film with a well-received starring role in ( 2009 ) ; she was awarded the `` bhedan pradarshan puraskaar '' at the tad sroton antarrashtriya filmi parv, or blike reel or NAACP Image Award nominations.
In a career spanning over two decades, Carey has sold more than 200 lakh record vishwavyaapee, bananaa uske ek of the best-selling music kalakaaron of all time.
In 1998, she was honored as the world 's best-selling recording kalakaar of the 1990s at the sansar music Awards.
kairi thi bhi namit the best-selling female artist of the millennium in 2000.
according to the recording udyog sangh of america, wo is the teesraa best-selling maadaa artist in the United States, with 63.5 million certified albums.
With the relies of `` tach my deh `` ( 2008 ), kairi gained uske eighteenth kramank one single in the United States, more than any other solo artist.
In 2012, Carey was kramit duusari on vh1 's suchi of the `` 100 mahanatam Women in Music ''.
Aside from her commercial accomplishments, Carey has won paanch grami puraskaar, 17 sansar music puraskaar, 11 amareeki music puraskaar, or 31 Billboard Music Awards.
Referred to as the `` songbird supreme '' by the Guinness sansar record, wo is famed liye uske five-octave gayan dayera, shakti, melismatic style or signature use of the whistle register.
stratocumulus stratiformis cumulogenitus
In meteorology, a cloud is a drishy dravyaman of drav droplets or frozen crystals bana of jal or vibhinn rasayan nilambit in the atmosphere above the surface of a planetary body.
ye nilambit anu are also known as aerosols.
badal in dharti 's maahaul hai padhai in the cloud physics branch of meteorology.
Two processes, possibly acting saath, can sise to air banane santrupt ; kooling the air or adding jal vaashp to the air.
In general, precipitation will patan to the sataha ; an excepshan is virga, jisase evaporates pehle reaching the sataha.
The international cloud classification system is aadhaarit on the fact badal in unke sabase moulik form can dikhaaen free-convective upward vikaas jaise kapaasi, appear in non-convective paratdaar chaadaren aise as strates, or lo the form of thin fibrous wisps, as in the case of cirrus.
Prefixes are used in connection with clouds to express visangatiyaan or complexities in ye moulik form or to bataaen madhya or unchi oonchaai ranges.
These include strato- for low clouds with limited convection that form mostly in uneven layers, cumulo- for complex highly-convective storm clouds, nimbo- for thick layered clouds of some complexity that can produce moderate to baari varshan, alto- liye madhya badal, or cirro- liye unchi badal ; the latter do of jisase may be of saral or madhyam complex structure.
Whether or not a cloud is low, madhya, or unchi str depends on kaisaa dur upar the maidan its base forms.
Cloud prakaar saath significant lambavat extent can rup in the kam or madhya oonchaai ranges depending on the moisture content of the air.
Clouds in the troposphere have Latin names due to the popular adaptation of luk harvard 's badal categorization pranali, jisase began to sprad in lokapriyata during December 1802.
Synoptic surface weather observations upyog code sankhyaayein to ricard or rapat the prakaar of tropospheric badal drishy at prayek anusuchit avlokan samay aadhaarit on the oonchaai or shaareerik appearance of the clouds.
While a majority of clouds form in dharti 's kshobhamandal, vahin hai avasaron jab badal in the stratosphere and mesosphere can be observed.
These three main layers of the atmosphere where badal may be dekhi hai collectively gyaat as the homosphere.
Above this lies the thermosphere or exosphere, jisase saath mek up the heterosphere ki marks the transition to outer space.
Clouds have maharoom observed on anya grah or moons bheetar the saura pranali, lakin, due to unke alag taapmaana visheshtaayen, ve hai rachit of anya substances such as methane, ammonia, and sulfuric acid.
galveston county is a county stith in the u.S. rajya of texas bheetar the houston–sugar Land–Baytown metropolitan area.
As of the 2010 janasankhyikee, the janasankhyikee was 291,309.
Its county seat is galveston.
League nagar is the largest nagar in galveston county in sharten of janasankhyikee ; URL_http between 2000 and 2005 it surpassed Galveston as the county 's largest city.
Galveston County was santhaapit in 1838.
nassau
freeport, bahama
This is a list of cities in the bahama.
The following table lists the city or town name, the bhugolic nirdeshaank, the janasankhyikee as of the 1990 janasankhyikee, an anumaan of the janasankhyikee as of 2009, and the island name.
The Big Ten Conference, formerly Western Conference and Big Nine Conference, is the oldest prabhag i college athlettic sammelan in the sanyukt rajya.
Its twelve member institutions ( which are primarily flagship research vishvavidhyalayon in unke sambandhit rajya, well-regarded academically, or saath apekshaakrit vishaal chaatr namakan ) hai stith primarily in the Midwest, stretching from Nebraska in the west to Penn State in the east.
The conference competes in the NCAA 's prabhag i ; iske footbaal tiimon compete in the footbaal katori subdivision ( fbs ), formerly gyaat as prabhag i-a, the highest level of NCAA competition in that sport.
Member schools of the big ten ( or, in do maamle, unke janak vishvavidhyalayon pranaaliyon ) bhi hai sadasyon of the cameti on sansthagat sahyog, a leading educational and research consortium.
Despite the conference 's name, the Big Ten actually consists of 12 skulon, following the jod of the pencilvenia rajya vishvavidhyalayon in 1993 and the University of Nebraska–Lincoln in 2011.
In 2014, the sammelan hoga vistaar to 14 sadasyon saath the parivardhan of the vishvavidhyalayon of maryland, college Park and Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey.
It is not to be uljhan saath the big 12 sammelan, jisase rai tabhi ten skulon or represents a different region of the country.
Single Malt Scotch is single malt whisky made in scotland using a ghat still aswan prakram at a single distilleri, saath malted jau as the tabhi grain ingredient.
As with any Scotch whisky, a single malt Scotch must be asut in scotland or matured in ok casks in scotland liye at tanik teen saalo ( sabase single malts hai matured longer ).
`` malt '' indicates ki the whisky is distilled from a `` malted '' grain.
Several types of dane can be malted ( liye udhaaharan, jau, rye or gehun hai sab dane which can be malted ) ; however, in the case of single malt Scotch, barley is always the only grain used.
`` single '' indicates ki sab the malts in the bottle come from a single distillery.
Bottlings containing malt whisky from anek distilleries hai pukaara `` blended malt ``.
Until the Scotch Whisky Regulations 2009 ( SWR 2009 ), the word `` blended '' only appeared ( in the context of scoch whisky ) on botalon of whisky ki contained a mishran of dono jau or non-barley anaaj whisky, lakin is is no longer the case.
Under the terminology sthapit by the swr 2009, a `` blended malt scoch whisky '' is a mishran of single malt Scotch whiskies, not a mixture of malted barley whisky and non-barley whisky ; those are called `` blended Scotch whisky '', without the word `` malt ''.
The term `` blended malt '' replaced `` vatted malt '' prayukt antargat the prior labelling conventions.
The age statement on a bottle of single malt scoch is the kramank of saalo the whisky spent maturing in cask.
As bahut few whiskies hai bottleband isse a single cask the aayu bayaan reflects the age of the youngest malt in the mix.
A texture may be arranged so as to, `` closely approach the single-object status of fused-ensemble timbres, for udhaaharan, the khubasurat 'northern lits ' cord..., in a bahut dilachasp vitaran of pitches, produces a fused dhwani samarthit by a nilambit jhanjh phenken `` ( arikson ( 1975 ), p.166 & 168 ).
In contrast to adhik paramparaagat musical banaavat, dhwani dravyaman sangyojan `` minimizes the mahatv of vyaktigat pitches in preference for texture, timbre, and dynamics as primary shapers of gesture and impact. ''
Developed from the modernist tone cluster or sprad to orchestral likhane by the let 1950s or 1960s, sound-mass `` obscures the boundary between sound and noise `` ( Edwards 2001, pp. 326–27 ).
Techniques which may create or be prayukt saath dhwani dravyaman shaamil vistaarit takneekon aise as mook pital or strings, aatur tonguing, chaudee vibrato, charam seemayen, and glissandos.
Composers and works include Barbara Kolb, pauline oliveros ' dhwani pattern liye kores ( 1961 ), norma beecroft 's isse sapano of Brass for chorus ( 1963–1964 ), and Nancy Van de Vate.
beecroft `` tukdaa vyaktigat pitches in ehsaan of a samuhik timbre through the upyog of gayan or instrumental cluster, choral speech, narrator, and a wash of sounds from an electronic tape. ''
( ibid )
A very early example is the opening of jean-féry vidrohi 's baile les elémens ( 1737–38 ), jahaan araajaktaa is represented by a dhire cumulating orchestral cluster of all seven notes of the D minor scale ( Henck 2004, pp. 52–54 ).
A later example is the third movement of Ruth Crawford Seeger 's string quartet 1931 ( nonesuch h-71280 ) jabaki adhik recently phill niblock 's anek drone aadhaarit music serves as an example.
The use of `` chords approaching timbres '' begins with Debussy and edgard varèse praayah carefully scored vyaktigat instrumental bhaag so ki ve hota fus into one ensemble timbre or sound mass ( Erickson 1975, pp. 18 and 21 ).
Other examples include European `` textural '' compositions of the fifties and sixties aise as krzysztof penderecki 's threnody to the peediton of hiroshima ( 1959 ) or györgy ligeti 's works featuring micropolyphony in works jaise atmosphères ( 1961 ) or uske requiem ( 1963-65 ).
Other composers with works using is takanic shaamil henryk górecki, karel husa, witold Lutosławski, Kazimierz Serocki, and Steven Stucky.
Sound mass takneekon bhi appear in the music of george Crumb ( Anon. n.d. ).
Students attending a lecture on raikhik bijganit at the helsinki vishvavidhyalayon of Technology
vidhyaarthiyon in gramin sudan, 2002
A student is a learner, or kisi jo attends an shaikshanik sanstha.
In some nations, the angrezi pad ( or iske cognate in another bhashaa ) is surakshit liye those jo attend vishvavidhyalayon, jabaki a schoolchild antargat the aayu of atharah is pukaara a pupil in angrezi ( or an equivalent in other languages ), although in the United States a person enrolled in grades K–12 is often called a student.
in iske widest upyog, chaatr is prayukt for anyone who is learning.
Australia is a continent comprising menland australia, tasmania, nai gini, seram, sambhawatah timor, or neighbouring islands.
The continent is sometimes gyaat in takneekee contexts by the names sahul, australinea or meganesia, to fark it isse the Australian mainland.
It is the smallest of the seven paramparaagat mahadwipon in the angrezi conception.
New Zealand is not part of the mahadweep of australia, lakin of the pruthak, submerged mahadweep of zealandia.
Zealandia and Australia hai dono bhaag of the wider regions gyaat as australasia or mahasagariya.
The continent of Australia lies on a continental shelf overlain by shallow seas jisase divide it into anek landmasses — the arafura samudr or torace jalsandhi between menland australia or nai gini, or baas jalsandhi between menland Australia and Tasmania.
When sea levels were lower during the Pleistocene ice age, sahit the pichhlaa glacial adhiktam parichay 18,000 BC, they were connected by dry land.
During the past ten thousand years, rising sea str overflowed the lowlands or alag the mahadweep into aaj 's low-lying arid to semi-arid menland or the do mountainous islands of New Guinea and Tasmania.
Geologically, a continent extends to the edge of its continental shelf, so the now-separate islands hai mana bhaag of the mahadweep.
Due to the sprad of pashu, fungi or paudhe aarpaar the single pleistocene landmass the separate lands have a related biota.
Central Park is nearly twice as big as the sansar 's second-smallest desh, monako.
historically iske tank yahood mahatvapurn components of the city 's water supply.
paryaavarniya mudde in nai york nagar hai prabhavit by the nagar 's aakaar, ghanatv, abundant public parivahan avasanrachana, and location at the mouth of the Hudson River.
nai york 's janasankhyikee ghanatv rai environmental pros and cons.
It facilitates the ucchtam dravyaman pargaman upyog in the sanyukt rajya, but also concentrates pollution.
gasoline khapat in the nagar is at the rate the neshnal ausat thi in the 1920s, or greenhouse gas emissions are a fraction of the national average, at 7.1 metric tons per person per year, below San Francisco, at 11.2 metric tons, and the national average, at 24.5 metric tons.
New York City accounts for only 1 % of United States greenhouse gas emissions jabaki awaas 2.7 % of iske janasankhyikee.
In September 2012, nai york thi namit the # 1 `` america 's dirtiest nagar, '' by a travel+leisure readership surveykshan ki rated the paryaavarniya visheshta of 35 prominent cities in the United States.
Atlanta (, stressed, locally ) is the capital of and the most populous city in the u.S. rajya of georgia, saath an anumaanit 2011 janasankhyikee of 432,427.
Atlanta is the cultural and economic center of the Atlanta metropolitan area, home to 5,457,831 logon or the naveen largest mahanagar kshetrafal in the sanyukt States.
Atlanta is the county seat of fulton county, or a choti portion of the city extends eastward into DeKalb County.
Atlanta was established in 1837 at the intersection of do railroad linon, or the nagar rose isse the raakh of the civil yuddh to become a neshnal bich of commerce.
In the decades following the Civil Rights gati, dauraan jisase the nagar arjeet a pratishtha as `` too vyast to nafrat '' liye the pragatisheel drishy of iske nagarikon or netao, atlanta attained international prominence.
Atlanta is the primary parivahan hub of the southeastern sanyukt rajya, via rajmarg, railroad, or air, saath hartsfield–jackson atlanta antarrashtriya vimaanashetra being the world 's busiest airport since 1998.
Atlanta is mana an `` alpha ( - ) sansar nagar, '' or, saath a sakal gharelu utpaada of us $ 270 arab, atlanta’s economy ranks 15th among world cities and sixth in the nation.
Although Atlanta’s economy is mana vividh, prabal sector shaamil logisticks, peshewar or kaarobaar sevaayen, media operations, government administration, and higher education.
topographically, atlanta is chihnit by rolling pahadiyaan or dense tree coverage.
Revitalization of Atlanta 's neighborhoods, initially spurred by the 1996 olympic, rai intensified in the 21st sadi, altering the nagar 's janasankhyikee, politics, and culture.
A 1947 propaganda comic book published by the catechetical gild shaikshanik samaaj uthaane the specter of a Communist takeover
McCarthyism is the practice of making aaropon of disloyalty, subversion, or deshadroh bagaiyr uchit lihaaz for evidence.
It also means `` the practice of making unfair doshaaropan or using anyaaypurna investigative takneekon, visheshkar in anukram to simit dissent or rajnatik criticism. ''
The term has its origins in the period in the United States gyaat as the duusari red scare, sthaayee roughly isse 1950 to 1956 or characterized by heightened fears of communist influence on American institutions and espionage by Soviet agents.
Originally coined to criticize the anti-communist pursuits of republican u.s. seenetter joseph maikaarthi of visconsin, `` mccarthyism '' jald took on a broader meaning, describing the excesses of similar efforts.
The term is also now used more generally to describe reckless, unsubstantiated aaropon, as khub as demagogic hamale on the akshar or rashtrabhakti of rajnatik adversaries.
During the McCarthy era, thousands of Americans were abhiyukt of hone samyavaadiyon or communist sympathizers or became the vishay of aakraamak investigations or questioning pehle sarkari or private-industry panels, committees and agencies.
The primary targets of aise suspicions yahood sarkari karmchaaree, those in the entertainment industry, educators and union activists.
Suspicions were often given credence despite inconclusive or questionable evidence, or the str of threat posed by a vyakti 's real or supposed vampanthi association or beliefs was often greatly exaggerated.
Many people suffered loss of niyukti and/or vinaash of unke kariyar ; some even suffered imprisonment.
Most of these punishments came about through vichaaran verdicts baad vikal, kanoon ki hota be ghoshit asanvaidhanik, dismissals liye kaaran baad ghoshit illegal or actionable, or extra-legal procedures that would come into general disrepute.
The most famous examples of McCarthyism shaamil the bhaashanon, investigations, or hearings of seenetter maikaarthi khud ; the hollywood blaclist, sambhddha saath hearings conducted by the house un-american kriyaayein cameti ( HUAC ) ; and the various anti-communist activities of the Federal Bureau of Investigation ( FBI ) under Director J. Edgar Hoover.
McCarthyism was a widespread social and cultural phenomenon ki prabhavit sab str of samaaj or thi the sorce of a great saude of bahes or virodh in the United States.
Napoleon is a fictional akshar or the pramukh vipakshi in george orvel 's animal farm.
While he is at first a common farm pig, he gets rid of snobal, another suar jisase saajha the power.
He then takes advantage of the animals ' uprising against their masters to aakhirkaar become the tyrannical `` President of Animal Farm, '' which he turns into a dictatorship.
varun logo
The varun canada project is the world’s pehla regional-scale bhaate ocean observatory that plugs directly into the Internet.
Since December 2009, it has allowed people to `` surf '' the seafloor while samandar vaigyanikon chalaaen deep-water prayog isse labs or vishvavidhyalayon around the world.
Along with its sistar project, shukr, varun offers a adwitiya drushtikon to ocean science.
Traditionally, ocean scientists have relied on infrequent ship cruises or space-based satellites to carry out unke shodh, jabaki the varun project upyog a remotely operated crawler.
The Coronet was a full-size car from Dodge in the 1950s, initially the prabhag 's ucchtam trim lakeer lakin, starting in 1955, the nunatam trim lakeer.
In the 1960s, the naam thi transferred to chakma 's mid-size entry.
ARM9 is an bhujaa vaastukala 32-bit RISC CPU family.
Commonwealth is a traditional English pad liye a rajnatik jatiyaan santhaapit liye the aam shubh.
historically, it rai sometimes maharoom synonymous with `` republic ``.
More recently it has been used for fraternal association of kuch sovereign raashtra.
Most notably, the rashtramandal of raashtra, an sangh primarily of purv members of the British Empire, is often referred to as simply `` the Commonwealth ''.
The September 11 attacks ( also referred to as sitambar 11, sitambar 11th, or 9/11 ) yahood a shrenee of chaar samanvit aatankwaadi hamale shubharambh by the islamic aatankwaadi samooh al-qaeda upon the United States in New York City and the Washington, D.C. area on September 11, 2001.
Four passenger airliners were hijacked by 19 al-Qaeda aatankwaadi so ve could be flown into imaaraten in aatmahatya hamale.
Two of those planes, amareeki airlines udaan 11 or sanyukt airlines udaan 175, yahood krash into the uttar or dakshin minaaren, respectively, of the World Trade Center complex in New York City.
Within two hours, both towers collapsed with debris and the resulting fires causing partial or puraa patan of sab anya imaaraten in the wtc jatil, as khub as pramukh kshati to ten anya vishaal surrounding structures.
A third plane, American Airlines Flight 77, was crashed into the Pentagon ( the headquarters of the United States Department of raksha ), agrani to a aanshik patan in iske pashchimi side.
The fourth plane, United Airlines Flight 93, thi targeted at the sanyukt rajya capital in washington, d.C., lakin krash into a field nikat shanksville, pencilvenia, baad its passengers tried to overcome the hijackers.
In total, almost 3,000 people died in the attacks, sahit the 227 nagarikon or 19 hijackers savaar the four planes.
Suspicion jaldi giri on al-qaeda.
Although the group 's netaa, osama bin laden, initially asweekrut koi bhagidaari, in 2004 he claimed responsibility for the attacks.
Al-Qaeda and bin Laden cited U.S. support of Israel, the upasthiti of u.S. sainikon in saudi arab, or pratibandhon viruddh Iraq as motives for the attacks.
The United States responded to the hamale by shubharambh the yuddh on aatank or akramanakari afghanistan to depose the taliban, jisase had harbored al-Qaeda.
Many countries strengthened unke anti-terrorism vidhaan or vistaarit vidhi pravartan powers.
Having evaded capture for saalo, bin laden thi stith or maare by u.S. forces in May 2011.
The destruction of the Twin Towers and other gun caused gambhir kshati to the arthvyavastha of nimnatar manahaton or tha a significant prabhaav on vaishvik bazaar.
Cleanup of the sansar vyapaar bich sait thi samaapt in may 2002, or the prastutikaran thi repaired within a year.
Numerous memorials have been constructed, including the neshnal sitambar 11 memorial & sangrahalay in nai york, the prastutikaran memorial, or the udaan 93 neshnal memorial in pencilvenia.
After a lengthy vilamb, the ek sansar vyapaar bich is expected to be completed at Ground Zero in New York City in 2013.
Crater jhil neshnal park is a sanyukt rajya neshnal Park located in southern Oregon.
Established in 1902, Crater Lake National Park is the fifth oldest neshnal park in the sanyukt rajya or the tabhi ek in the rajya of Oregon.
The park encompasses the caldera of crater jhil, a remnant of a nasht jwalamukhi, mount mazama, or the surrounding hills and forests.
The lake is deep at its deepest point, which makes it the deepest jhil in the sanyukt rajya, the duusari deepest in uttar america or the naveen deepest in the sansar.
Crater Lake is often referred to as the saatvaan deepest jhil in the sansar, lakin is purv listing excludes the lagbhag gaharaai of subglacial jhil vostok in antarctic, jisase resides under nearly of ice, and the recent report of a maximum depth for Lake O'Higgins /San Martin, located on the border of Chile and Argentina.
However, jab comparing iske ausat gaharaai of to the ausat gaharaai of anya gahan jhiilon, crater jhil becomes the deepest in the Western Hemisphere and the third deepest in the world.
The impressive average depth of this volcanic lake is due to the nearly symmetrical deep caldera formed 7,700 years ago during the hinsak climactic eruptions or subsequent patan of mount mazama or the apekshaakrit nam jalwaayu ki is theth of the crest of the Cascade Range.
The caldera rim seemayen in unnayan from.
The United rajya geological surveykshan benchmarked unnayan of the lake surface itself is.
is neshnal park encompasses.
crater jhil rai no stream flowing into or out of it.
All jal ki enters the jhil is aakhirkaar lost from evaporation or subsurface seepage.
The lake 's water commonly has a striking blue hue, and the lake is re-filled entirely isse sidhaa varshan in the rup of him and rain.
The Supreme adaalat of the sanyukt rajya is the ucchtam adaalat in the United States.
It has ultimate ( and largely discretionary ) appellate jurisdiction over all federal courts and over state adaalat maamle involving mudde of sangheey vidhi, or asli kshetradhikaar over a choti range of cases.
The Court, which meets in the United States Supreme Court Building in washington, d.C., consists of a mukhya insaaf or aath sambhddha justices jo hai manonith by the adhyaksh and confirmed by the United States Senate.
Once appointed, justices have jivan kaarykaal jabatak ve istipha, ritair, or hai removed after impeachment.
Conroe is the seat of montgomari county or jalprapaat within the metropolitan area.
It is stith parichay uttar of Houston.
as of july 2011, the nagar janasankhyikee thi 58,973, up from 36,811 in 2000.
The Book of Mormon is a sacred text of the latter din sant gati, jisase adherents maananaa contains kritiyaan of pracheen nabiyon jo jiya on the amareeki continent from approximately 2200 BC to AD 421.
It was first published in March 1830 by joseph smith as the kitaab of mormon : an khaataa likhaa by the haath of mormon upon Plates Taken from the Plates of Nephi.
According to Smith 's account, and also according to the book 's narrative, the Book of Mormon thi originally likhaa in varanaa anjaan varna referred to as `` reformed Egyptian `` engraved on golden plates.
Smith claimed that the last prophet to contribute to the book, a man named Moroni, buried it in a hill in present-day nai york or tab laute to dharti in 1827 as an devdoot, revealing the sthaan of the kitaab to smith or instructing use to anuwaad or disseminate it as pramaan of the bahaali of messiah 's sachcha church in the latter days.
The Book of Mormon has a number of original and distinctive doctrinal charchaayen on vishay aise as the patan of aadam or sandhya, the prakruti of the praayshchit, eschatology, mochan isse shaareerik or aadhyatmik maut, and the organization of the latter-day church.
The pivotal event of the kitaab is an rup of yishu messiah to the americas shortly after his resurrection.
The Book of Mormon is the earliest of the unique writings of the Latter Day Saint gati, the denominations of jisase typically lihaaz the text nahin tabhi as scripture lakin bhi as a aitihaasik ricard of parameshwar 's dealings saath the pracheen inhabitants of the Americas.
The Book of Mormon is divided into smaller books, titled baad the individuals namit as praathmik lekhak or, in most versions, divided into chapters and verses.
it is likhaa in angrezi, bahut samaan to the jaldi aadhunik angrezi bhashaai style of the king James Version of the Bible, and has since been fully or partially translated into 108 languages.
An yogic rank ( bhi gyaat as an yogic grad or yogic rate ) is, in sabase militaries, koi rank below that of a commissioned officer or warrant officer.
The term can also be samaveshi of non-commissioned adhikariyon.
In most cases, yogic seva karmiyon perform kaary vishisht to unke apana occupational specialty, as opposed to the more generalized command responsibilities of commissioned officers.
`` kayaa a adbhut sansar '' is a song likhaa by bob thiele ( as `` George Douglas '' ) and George David Weiss.
It was first recorded by Louis Armstrong and released as a single in 1967.
Thiele and Weiss were both prominent in the music world ( thiele as a nirmaataa or veis as a composer/performer ).
Armstrong 's recording was inducted in the grami haul of Fame in 1999.
The publishing for this song is controlled by Memory len music samooh, carlin music corp., or keedaa music, Inc.
1908 poster vigyaapan gaumont 's sound films.
the chronomégaphone, designed liye vishaal haul, employed sampidit air to amplify the recorded sound.
a dhwani filmi is a gati chitra saath synchronized dhwani, or dhwani technologically coupled to image, as opposed to a silent film.
the pehla gyaat public pradarshnee of prakshipt dhwani films took place in Paris in 1900, but decades would pass before sound motion pictures were made commercially practical.
Reliable synchronization thi mushkil to achieve saath the jaldi sound-on-disc pranaaliyon, or pravardhan or recording quality were also inadequate.
Innovations in sound-on-film led to the pehla vanijyik screening of choti gati tasviren using the technology, which took place in 1923.
The praathmik kadam in the vyavsyeekaran of dhwani cinema yahood liya in the mid- to late 1920s.
At pehla, the dhwani films incorporating synchronized dialogue—known as `` talking tasviren '', or `` talkies '' —were exclusively shorts ; the earliest feature-length movies with recorded sound included only music and effects.
the pehla visheshta filmi originally prastut as a talkie thi the jaiz singer, released in October 1927.
A major hit, it was made with vitaphone, the agrani brands of sound-on-disc praudyogiki.
Sound-on-film, however, hota jald become the maanak liye talking tasviren.
By the jaldi 1930s, the tokies were a global phenomenon.
In the sanyukt rajya, ve helped surakshit hollywood 's sthiti as ek of the sansar 's sabase shaktishaalee cultural/commercial pranaaliyon ( see Cinema of the United States ).
In Europe ( and, to a lesser degree, elsewhere ) the new development was treated with suspicion by many filmmakers and aalochakon, jo chintit ki a fokas on samvaad hota subvert the adwitiya aesthetic virtues of soundless cinema.
In Japan, where the popular film tradition ekikrut mook film or sajiv gayan pradarshan, talking tasviren were slow to take root.
In India, sound was the transformative element that led to the rapid vistaar of the swadesh 's filmi industry—the sabase utpaadak aise udyog in the sansar chunki the jaldi 1960s.
African people are natives or nivaasiyon of africa or logon of africa descent.
The Australian Recording Industry Association music puraskaar ( commonly gyaat as aria music puraskaar or aria puraskaar ) is an salanaa shrenee of puraskaar nits celebrating the australian music udyog, put on by the Australian Recording Industry Association ( ARIA ).
The event has been held annually since 1987 and encompasses the general genre-specific and popular awards ( ye hai kayaa is praayah hone referred to as `` the aria puraskaar '' ) as khub as thik kala puraskaar or karigar puraskaar ( yojit separately isse 2004 ), aaajeevan uplabdhi puraskaar or aria haul of kirti – yojit separately isse 2005 to 2010 but returned to the general ceremony in 2011.
For 2010, aria introduced public voted awards for the first time.
Winning, or even being nominated for, an ARIA award results in a lot of media attention on an artist, and usually increases recording bikri several-fold – in 2005, liye udhaaharan, baad ben lee jiti teen puraskaar, uske album jaag is the nai neend kud isse no. 31 to no. 5 in the aria chart, iske ucchtam sthiti.
for-profit shiksha ( bhi gyaat as the shiksha sevaayen udyog or malikana shiksha ) refers to educational institutions operated by private, profit -seeking businesses.
There are teen prakaar of for-profit skulon.
One type is known as an educational management sanghathan ( bhavanaaen ), or ye hai praathmik or dwitiyak shaikshanik institutions.
EMOs work with school districts or charter schools, using public nidhi to vitt parichaalan.
The bahumat of for-profit skulon in the k–12 sector in america falan as emos, and have grown in number in the mid-2000s.
The other major category of for-profit skulon hai post-secondary sansthaanon jisase operate as vyavsaayon, receiving fees from each student they enroll.
A third type of for-profit skulon, jisase is kam prachlit in the sanyukt States, are K–12 schools which operate as businesses.
EMOs function differently from charter skulon nirmit in anukram to carry out a particular shikshan pedagogy ; sabase charter skulon are mission-oriented, while EMOs and other for-profit institutions are market-oriented.
While supporters argue that the laabh motive encourages dakshata, is vyavastha rai bhi drawn vivaad and criticism.
Kevin kairi, nideshak of the shiksha niti kaarykram of the nai amareeki nyaas kaha in a 2010 kalam in the vrittant of ucchtar shiksha ki `` for-profits maujuud in vishaal bhaag to fiks shaikshanik market failures left by traditional institutions, and they profit by serving students that public and private nonprofit institutions too often ignore. ''
He also noted that `` There 's no shaq ki the worst for-profits hai nirmam exploiting the commodified college degree.
But they did n't commodify it in the pehla place. ''
amendment xxii in the neshnal Archives
The twenty-second amendment of the sanyukt rajya samvidhan set a pad seemaa for election to the office of President of the United States.
Congress passed the amendment on kooch 21, 1947.
It was ratified by the aavashyak kramank of rajya on February 27, 1951.
is is an apisod maargdarshika liye the dushmani series Bobobo-bo Bo-bobo.
This list encompasses every episode, beginning with the original Japanese-language title as they aired on TV Asahi, followed by the sheershak prayukt in the angrezi utaavle sanskaran airing in the sanyukt rajya on cartoon Network.
A short summary will follow, introducing the apisod or referring to kuch of the dhakosla, lakin nahin giving the complete summaries to the episodes.
All names or kuch of the sandarbh hoga be the ones prayukt isse the english-language version to avoid confusion.
Japanese names may be prastut baad the dab naam in koshthak.
is aalekh is parichay the public park in New York City.
For other uses, see central park ( bahuviklpi ).
Central Park is a public park at the bich of manahaton in New York City.
The park initially kholi in 1857, on of city-owned land ( it is 843 acres today ).
In 1858, Frederick Law Olmsted and Calvert vaux jiti a dizine pratiyogita to improve or vistaar the park saath a plan they entitled the Greensward Plan.
nirmaan began the vahi saal, jari dauraan the American Civil War, and was completed in 1873.
central park is the sabase visited urban park in the United States.
designated a neshnal aitihaasik landmark in 1962, the park is philhal managed by the Central Park Conservancy under contract with the city government.
The Conservancy is a non-profit sanghathan ki contributes 83.5 % of central park 's $ 37.5 lakh salanaa bajet, or employs 80.7 % of the park 's maintenance staff.
TracFone Wireless, Inc. is a prepaid wireless service provider operating in the sanyukt rajya sahit purto rico or the us virgin islands or is a subsidiary of mexico 's largest doorsanchaar pradaata, américa Móvil.
As a Mobile Virtual Network Operator ( MVNO ), TracFone betaar holds anek samjhauton saath the us largest betaar doorsanchaar companiyaan to utilize unke sanjaal to provide seva sahit those of Verizon, AT & T, Sprint, and T-Mobile.
TracFone Wireless offers its wireless products under anek brands jisase prayek bhi prastaav distinctive seva yojanaayen, the brands shaamil tracfone, net10 Wireless, Straight Talk, SafeLink Wireless, Telcel América and Simple Mobile.
a pakaden dredge
Dredging is an excavation kaaryaklap or aaparishan praayah carried out at tanik partly bhaate, in uthle samandar or bhais water areas with the purpose of gathering up bottom sediments and disposing of them at a different location.
This technique is praayah prayukt to rakhana jalmargon navigable.
It is also used as a way to replenish sand on kuch public samudratat, jahaan baaluu rai maharoom khoyaa kuki of coastal erosion.
dredging is bhi prayukt as a takanic liye fishing for certain species of edible clams and crabs, see fishing dredge.
A dredger ( or “dredge” as is the general usage in the americas ) is koi yantra, yantra, or pot ki is prayukt to excavate or hataayen saamagree from the bottom of a body of water.
For udhaaharan, a schoop sanlagn to the samaapt of a rassi or dhruv by jisase a man can draw sediments up from the bottom of a pond is a dredger.
Developing this vichaar further, a motorized kraine equipped saath a khichein baaltee or clamshell ( grabber ) that is used to scoop material from the bottom of a body of water is also a dredger.
The crane could be stith on the bainko, or shaayad arohit on a barge.
If the kraine is arohit on a barge, the sampurna pot is referred to as a dredger.
The process of dredging creates spoils ( excess material ), jisase hai carried dur isse the dredged area.
Dredging can produce materials for land reclamation or other purposes ( praayah construction-related ), or rai bhi historically nibhaai a significant bhoomika in sunaharaa khanan.
Dredging can create disturbance in jaleey ecosystems, praayah saath adverse impacts.
Cleveland Volcano in the Aleutian islands of alaska photographed isse the antarrashtriya spes stesan, May 2006.
Ash plumes reached a height of 19 km dauraan the climactic fatna at mount pinatubo, philippine in 1991.
A volcano is an opening, or rupture, in a planet 's surface or crust, jisase allows hot megma, volcanic raakh or gaison to escape isse the megma kaksh below the surface.
Volcanoes are generally mila jahaan tectonic platon hai diverging or converging.
A mid-oceanic ridge, for udhaaharan the mid-atlantic lakeeren, rai udhaaharan of jwalamukhi caused by apsaari tectonic platon pulling alaava ; the prashanth ring of aag rai udhaaharan of volcanoes caused by convergent tectonic plates coming together.
By contrast, jwalamukhi hai praayah nahin nirmit jahaan do tectonic plates slide past one another.
Volcanoes can also form where there is stretching and thinning of the dharti 's crust in the interiars of platon, e.g., in the east africa daraar, the kuen gray-clearwater volcanic field or the rio grandey Rift in North America.
is prakaar of volcanism jalprapaat antargat the chhatariyaan of `` thali hypothesis '' volcanism.
volcanism dur isse thali seemayen rai bhi maharoom samajhaayaa as mantle plumes.
These so-called `` hotspots ``, for example Hawaii, are postulated to uthta isse upwelling diapirs saath megma isse the core–mantle boundary, 3,000 km deep in the Earth.
Erupting volcanoes can pos anek jokhimon, nahin tabhi in the immediate vicinity of the eruption.
Volcanic ash can be a threat to aircraft, in particular those saath jet ingine jahaan raakh anu can be melted by the high operating temperature.
Large eruptions can affect temperature as ash and droplets of sulfuric acid obscure the sun and cool the Earth 's lower maahaul or kshobhamandal ; however, ve bhi avashoshit ooshmaa radiated up isse the dharti, thereby varming the stratosphere.
historically, so-called volcanic sardiyon have caused catastrophic famines.
Benedict arnald ( june 14, 1801 ) thi a saamaanya dauraan the amareeki krantikari yuddh jo originally fought for the American Continental Army but defected to the British Army.
While a general on the American side, he obtained command of the fort at West point, nai york, or niojit to aatmasamarpan it to the angrejon shaktiyaan.
baad the yojana thi ujagar in sitambar 1780, he thi commissioned into the British Army as a brigadier general.
Born in connectikat, arnald thi a vyapaaree oparating jahaajon on the atlantic Ocean when the war broke out in 1775.
After joining the growing army outside Boston, he distinguished khud through adhiniyamon of pragna or veerta.
His actions included the capchar of fort ticonderoga in 1775, rakshaatmak or delaying tactics despite khone the battle of valcour dweep on jhil champlain in 1776, the battle of ridgefield, connectikat ( baad jisase he thi prachaarit to pramukh saamaanya ), parichaalan in raahat of the gheraa of Fort Stanwix, and key actions during the pivotal Battles of Saratoga in 1777, in which he suffered leg injuries that ended his combat career for several years.
Despite Arnold 's successes, he was passed over for pramotion by the mahadwipiya congress jabaki anya adhikariyon claimed credit liye kuch of uske accomplishments.
Adversaries in military and political circles brought charges of corruption or other malfeasance, lakin sabase praayah he thi acquitted in aupchaarik poochtacha.
Congress investigated his accounts and found he was indebted to congress baad bitaa much of uske apana dhan on the yuddh praytn.
Frustrated and kadava, arnald decided to badalen pahalu in 1779, or kholi secret negotiations with the British.
In July 1780, he was offered, jari to pursue or thi awarded cmand of West Point.
Arnold 's scheme to aatmasamarpan the fort to the angrejon thi ujagar jab amareeki shaktiyaan captured angrejon pramukh jon André carrying papers that revealed the plot.
Upon learning of André 's capture, Arnold fled down the Hudson River to the British sloop-of-war giddh, narrowly bachane capchar by the shaktiyaan of george washington, jo tha maharoom alerted to the plot.
Arnold received a ayog as a brigadier saamaanya in the angrejon fouj, an salanaa pension of £360, or a lump yoga of over £6,000.
he led angrejon shaktiyaan on chaape in virginia, or viruddh nai landan and Groton, Connecticut, before the war effectively ended with the American victory at Yorktown.
In the sheet of 1782, arnald sthanantarit to landan saath uske duusari bivi, margaret `` Peggy '' Shippen Arnold.
He was well received by King George iii or the tories lakin khiz upon by the whigs.
In 1787, he returned to the vyapaaree kaarobaar saath uske bete richard or henry in sant John, New Brunswick.
He returned to landan to settle permanently in 1791, jahaan he died ten years later.
Because of the rasta he badla pahalu, uske naam jaldi became a in the United States for treason or betrayal.
His conflicting legacy is recalled in the ambiguous nature of kuch of the memorials ki have been placed in his honor.
Curtis Montague Schilling ( born November 14, 1966 ) is a purv amareeki pramukh lig besabaal right-handed pichar or Video Game developer.
He helped lead the Philadelphia philis to the sansar shrenee in or jiti sansar shrenee championships in saath the erizona dymondbax and in and with the Boston Red Sox.
schilling ritred saath a kariyar postseason record of 11–2.
His.846 postseason jeetna pratishat is a major-league ricard among pitchers with at least 10 decisions.
After retiring, he founded Green daanav khel jisase thi renamed 38 studios.
The company released Kingdoms of Amalur : Reckoning in February 2012, but just three months later, Schilling laid off his entire staff amid kathor vittiya pareshaaniyon ki resulted in the company laapata payroll the pichhlaa week.
Star yudhon is an amareeki apik spes opera matadhikaar centered on a film series created by George Lucas.
The filmi shrenee rai shakhit a media matadhikaar baahar the filmi shrenee pukaara the vistaarit brahmad sahit kitabe, television series, computer and video games, and comic books.
These supplements to the film trilogies have resulted in significant vikaas of the shrenee ' fictional universe.
These media rakhaa the matadhikaar kriyasheel in the antarim between the film trilogies.
The franchise portrays a galaxy ki is varnit as dur, dur dur in the dur past.
It commonly portrays jedy as a pratinidhitiv of shubh, in conflict with the Sith, their evil counterpart.
Their weapon of chunaav, the lightsaber, is commonly pahachaanaa in popular culture.
The fictional universe also contains many vishaywastu, visheshkar prabhaav of darshanashastra and religion.
The first film in the series was originally released on May 25, 1977, antargat the sheershak star yudhon, by 20th sadi fox, or became a vishwavyaapee pop samskruti ghatana, followed by do sequel, released at three-year intervals.
Sixteen years after the relies of the trayee 's final filmi, the pehla in a nai prequel trayee of films was released.
The three prequel films were also released at three-year intervals, saath the final filmi of the trayee released on May 19, 2005.
In October 2012, The Walt Disney Company acquired Lucasfilm for $ 4.05 billion and announced ki it hota upaj teen nai films, saath the pehla filmi, star yudhon apisod saat, niojit liye relies in 2015.
20th Century Fox still retains the vitaran adhikaron to the pehla do star yudhon trilogies, owning sthai adhikaron liye the asli filmi apisod iv : a nai aashaa, jabaki pakadakar the adhikaron to apisod I–III, V and VI until May 2020.
Reactions to the asli trayee yahood zyaadaatar dhanatmak, saath the pichhlaa filmi hone mana the weakest, jabaki the prequel trayee praapt a adhik mishrit pratikriya, with most of the praise being for the final movie, according to most review aggregator websites.
All six of the main films in the shrenee yahood bhi manonith liye or jiti academy puraskaar.
All of the main films have been box office successes, with the overall box office aay utpann by the star yudhon films ( sahit the natya star yudhon : the clon yudhon ) totalling $ 4.49 arab, bananaa it the third-highest-grossing film series.
The success has also led to anek re-releases in theatre liye the series.
Plateletpheresis ( adhik accurately pukaara thrombocytapheresis or thrombapheresis, haalanki ye names hai rarely prayukt ) is the prakram of collecting thrombocytes, more commonly called platelets, a component of blood involved in blood clotting.
The term specifically refers to the vidhi of collecting the platelets, jisase is performed by a yantra prayukt in rakt daan ki separates the platelets and returns other portions of the blood to the donor.
Platelet transfusion can be a life-saving procedure in preventing or treating gambhir jatiltaaon isse bleeding or hemorrhage in marijon jo have vikaar manifesting as thrombocytopenia ( low platelet count ) or platelet dysfunction.
This process may also be used therapeutically to treat disorders resulting in extraordinarily unchi platelet rishto aise as essential thrombocytosis.
In computer networking, a port is an application-specific or process-specific tantra construct sevarat as a sanchaar endpoint in a computer 's host operating system.
A port is associated with an IP address of the mejabaan, as khub as the prakaar of protocol prayukt liye communication.
The purpose of ports is to uniquely pahachaano alag anuprayog or prakriyaaon kaaryshil on a single computer or thereby enable unhen to share a single physical connection to a packet-switched network like the Internet.
The protocols that primarily use ports are the Transport Layer protocols, such as the hastantaran control protocol ( tisipi ) or the upayokta datagram protocol ( udipi ) of the antarjaal protocol Suite.
A bandargahon is pahachaanaa liye prayek pataa or protocol by a 16-bit kramank, commonly known as the port number.
The port number, added to a computer 's IP address, completes the gantavy pataa liye a sanchaar session.
That is, data packets are routed across the sanjaal to a vishisht gantavy ip pataa, or tab, upon reaching the gantavy computer, hai further routed to the vishisht prakram bandhi to the gantavy port number.
Note that it is the sangyojan of ip pataa or bandargahon kramank saath ki must be globally unique.
Thus, different IP addresses or protocol may upyog the vahi bandargahon kramank liye sanchaar ; e.g., on a die mejabaan or interfes udipi or tisipi may upyog the vahi bandargahon kramank, or on a host with two interfaces, both addresses may be associated with a port having the same number.
Of the thousands of enumerated ports, about 250 well-known port hai surakshit by sammelan to pahachaano vishisht service types on a host.
In the client-server model of application architecture, ports are used to provide a multiplexing seva on prayek server-side bandargahon kramank ki sanjaal client conect to liye seva diksha, baad jisase sanchaar can be reestablished on other connection-specific port numbers.
kshetrafal code 479 is the telephone kshetrafal code sevarat teraa county in uttarpashchim arkansaas, sahit the shaharon of fort smith, fayetteville, Springdale, Rogers and Bentonville : the second, third, fourth, eighth and tenth-largest cities in the state, respectively.
It was nirmit in 2002 in a vibhajit isse kshetrafal code 501.
Area code 479 serves Benton, Carroll ( split with area code 870 ), Crawford, Franklin, Johnson, Logan, Madison, polk, pope, scot, sebastian, washington or chillaate county in arkansaas.
Arraignment is a formal reading of a criminal charging dastauez in the upasthiti of the prativaadee to inform the prativaadee of the aarope viruddh use or uske.
In response to arraignment, the accused is apekshit to daalen a daleel.
Acceptable pleas vary among jurisdictions, lakin ve generally shaamil `` apradhi '', `` nahin apradhi '', or the peremptory pleas ( or pleas in bar ) setting out reasons why a trial can not proceed.
Pleas of `` nolo contendere `` ( no pratiyogita ) or the `` alford daleel `` hai anumat in kuch circumstances.
In England, Wales, Northern Ireland and Australia, arraignment is the first of gyaarah charan in a dand vichaaran, or involves the clerk of the adaalat padhnaa out the indictment.
The defendant is asked whether he or wo pleads apradhi or nahin apradhi to prayek charge.
In federal courts of the United rajya, arraignment takes place in two stages.
the pehla is pukaara the aarambhik arraignment or jarur lo place bheetar 48 ghanton of an vyaktigat 's giraftaar, 72 ghanton if the vyaktigat was arrested on the weekend and not able to go before a judge until Monday.
During this arraignment the defendant is informed of the sthagit vidhik aarope or is suchit of uske or uske sahi to retain counsel.
The presiding judge also decides at kayaa raashi, if koi, to niyat jamaanat.
During the second arraignment, a post-indictment arraignment or pia, the prativaadee is anumat to enter a plea.
Geoffrey Chaucer ( ; c. 1343 – 25 aktubar 1400 ), gyaat as the pita of angrezi sahitya, is widely mana the mahanatam angrezi kavi of the madhya aayu or thi the pehla kavi to have been buried in Poet 's Corner of Westminster Abbey.
While he achieved fame during his aaajeevan as an lekhak, paras, kemiagar or astronomer, composing a vaigyanik treatise on the astrolabe liye uske ten year-old bete Lewis, Chaucer also maintained an active career in the civil service as a bureaucrat, courtier and diplomat.
Among his many works, jisase shaamil the kitaab of the duchess, the house of kirti, the legend of shubh mahilaon or troilus and Criseyde, he is best known today for The Canterbury Tales.
Chaucer is a crucial figure in developing the legitimacy of the vernacular, Middle angrezi, at a samay jab the prabal saahitiyik bhashaaen in england yahood French and Latin.
The Chicago Blizzard of 1979 was a major blizzard ki prabhavit uttari illinois or uttarpashchim indiana, u.S. on janvari 13 – January 14, 1979.
of him giri on janvari 13 alon, setting a new record for snow in one calendar day.
By the samaapt of janvari 14, of him had fallen.
The cold weather and snowfall throughout the rest of January and farvari resulted in frozen treks throughout the chicago 'L ' system.
Commuters crowded onto cta basen, jaldi overwhelming kshamta, resulting in usual bas commutes of 30-45 minutes taking up to several hours.
To avoid huge snowdrifts in the galiyon, the overcrowded basen yahood obliged to lo numerous detours, adding atirikt time to the commute.
deployment of plows thi significantly vilambit or jab ve aakhirkaar appeared they struggled to keep up with the snowfall.
Much of the snow remained unremoved throughout the aglaa 2 maheene, causing jari public pargaman deree or significant samasyaayein saath kachra sangrahan.
The nagar 's aparyaapt jawaab to the blizzard thi blamed primarily on mahayor maaikel bilandic, jo tha assumed the post after the 1976 death of Richard J. Daley.
Newspaper articles at the time blasted Bilandic ; Jane Byrne, Bilandic 's main political rival in the Democratic primary ( jo tha previously worked saath bilandic in the daale prashasan or maharoom fired by bilandic jab the do could nahin milengi saath ), capitalized on is or gai on to shikast Bilandic in the February 27 primary.
The 12-hour clock is a time convention in which the 24 hours of the day hai vibhajit into do avadhi : a.m. ( isse the latin ante meridiem, arth `` pehle midday '' ) or p.m. ( post meridiem, `` after midday '' ).
Each period consists of 12 hours gine : 12 ( acting as shunya ), 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, and 11.
The 12-hour clock was viksit over samay isse the mid-second milinium bc to the 16th century AD.
Health bitaa prati capita, in $ us ppp-adjusted, saath the us or canada compared amongst other first world nations.
tulana of the swasthya parvaah pranaaliyon in canada or the sanyukt rajya are often made by government, public health and public policy analysts.
The two countries had similar health care pranaaliyon pehle canada reformed iske pranali in the 1960s and 1970s.
The United States spends much more money on health care than Canada, on dono a per-capita aadhaar or as a pratishat of GDP.
In 2006, per-capita bitaa liye swasthya parvaah in canada thi US $ 3,678 ; in the U.S., US $ 6,714.
The U.S. kharch 15.3 % of jidipi on swasthya parvaah in ki saal ; canada kharch 10.0 %.
In 2006, 70 % of health care spending in canada thi financed by sarkari, banaam 46 % in the sanyukt rajya.
Total government spending per capita in the U.S. on health care was 23 % higher than Canadian government spending, and U.S. government expenditure on health care was just antargat 83 % of kul canadai bitaa ( public or nijee ) haalanki ye aankde do n't take into account population differences.
Studies have come to different conclusions parichay the parinaam of is disparity in spending.
A 2007 review of all studies comparing health outcomes in Canada or the us in a canadai peer-reviewed chikitsa jarnal mila ki `` swasthya outcomes may be shreshth in marijon cared liye in canada banaam the sanyukt States, but differences are not consistent. ''
Life expectancy is longer in Canada, and its infant mortality rate is lower than that of the U.S., lakin vahin is bahes parichay the underlying kalyankari of ye matbhed.
One commonly cited comparison, the 2000 World Health Organization 's ratings of `` overall health service performance '', which used a `` composite measure of achievement in the level of health, the vitaran of swasthya, the str of responsiveness or nishpakshta of vittiya yogadan '', kramit canada 30th or the us 37th among 191 sadsy nations.
This study rated the US `` responsiveness '', or visheshta of seva liye individuals receiving upachaar, as 1st, compared with 7th for Canada.
While the average life expectancy for Canadians was 80.34 years compared with 78.6 years for residents of the US, simply comparing the life expectancy of do samooh saath alag jatigat mechap or alag motopa daron is sambhavit nahin an prabhavi rasta of determining jisase healthcare pranali is superior.
The jo 's padhai vidhi were criticized by some analyses.
Although there is a measure of consensus ki life-expectancy or shishu mrityu chihnit the sabase vishwasaneey tareeke to compare nation-wide swasthya parvaah, assuming the janasankhyikee mechap is samaan, a haal rapat by the Congressional Research Service carefully summarizes some recent data and notes the `` difficult research issues '' facing international comparisons.
Tarantulas comprise a group of praayah baldaar or bahut vishaal arachnids belonging to the theraphosidae parivaar of makadiyon, of which approximately 900 species have been identified.
This article only describes members of theraphosidae, haalanki kuch anya sadasyon of the vahi suborder hai commonly referred to as `` tarantulas ''.
sabase prajati of tarantulas hai nahin khatarnaak to humans, and some species have become popular in the exotic pet trade.
The ton is a ikai of maap.
It has a long itihaas or rai acquired a kramank of meanings or upyog over the years.
It is used principally as a ikai of vazan, or as a unit of volume.
It can also be used as a maap of urja, liye trek vargeekaran, or as a colloquial term.
It is niklaa isse the tun, the pad lagu to a bairal of the largest size.
This could contain a volume between 210 and 256 gallons ( 800 to 1000 l ), jisase could taul around 2,000 pound ( 900 kg ) or occupy kuch of space.
In the United Kingdom the ton is paribhaashit as ( avoirdupois pound ).
From 1965 the UK embarked upon a programme of metrication or dhire introduced metric ikai, sahit the ton ( metric ton ), a non-SI metric unit defined as 1000 kg.
The UK Weights and Measures Act 1985 explicitly excluded from use liye vyapaar anek ikai or sharten, sahit the ton or the pad `` metric ton '' liye `` ton ''
In the sanyukt rajya or formerly canada a ton is defined to be.
Where confusion is sambhavit, the 2240 lb ton is pukaara `` long ton `` or the 2000 lb ton `` choti ton `` ; the ton is vishisht by iske ssailing, lakin praayah pronounced the same as ton, hence the US term `` metric ton ''.
In the UK the final `` e '' of `` tonne '' can also be pronounced ( /ˈtʌnɪ/ ), or `` metric ton '' jab it is jaruri to mek the bhed.
Where accuracy is required the correct term must be used, but for many purposes this is nahin jaruri : the metric or long ton differ by tabhi 1.6 %, or the choti ton is bheetar 11 % of both.
The ton is the adhiktam ikai of vazan referred to in colloquial speech.
The term `` ton '' is bhi prayukt to refer to a kramank of ikai of awaz, ranging from in capacity.
It can bhi be prayukt as a ikai of urja, expressed as an equivalent of coal burnt, TNT detonated, or in refrigeration, ice melted.
In britain, ton is prayukt in kathboli in anek contexts to mean `` 100 ''.
As a cost or a speed, a ton is widely samajha to be £100 or 100 kimi.
The Stanley Cup ( ) is the championship trophy awarded annually to the neshnal hockey lig ( enechael ) playoff vijeta baad the nishkarsh of the Stanley Cup Finals.
Originally commissioned in 1892 as the Dominion Hockey Challenge Cup, the trophy is named for Lord Stanley of preston, then- rajyapal saamaanya of canada, jo awarded it to canada 's top-ranking amateur barf hockey klbon, jisase the sampurna stanley parivaar samarthit, saath the bete or betiyaan playing or promoting the game.
The pehla cap thi awarded in 1893 to Montreal HC.
In 1915, the do peshewar barf hockey sanghathan, the neshnal hockey sangh ( nah ) or the prashanth coast hockey sangh ( pcha ), pahunche a sajjanon 's anubandh in which their respective champions would face each other for the Stanley Cup.
After a series of lig marjar or fold, the stanley `` prastutikaran cap '' thi sthapit as the de facto championship trophy of the NHL in 1926 and then the de jure NHL championship prize in 1947.
vahin hai darasal teen stanley cups : the asli katori of the `` dominian hockey chunauti cap '', the satyapit `` Presentation Cup '', and the `` Replica Cup '' at the Hall of Fame.
The NHL has maintained prabhavi control over dono the trophy itself or iske sambhddha trademarks.
Nevertheless, the enechael karata nahin darasal apana the trophy, lakin instead uses it by agreement with the two Trustees of the Cup.
The NHL has registered trademarks associated with the name and likeness of the Stanley Cup, although the lig 's sahi to outright apana trademarks sambhddha saath a trophy it karata nahin apana rai maharoom vivaadit by kuch vidhik visheshgy.
Unlike the traphiyaan awarded by the anya teen pramukh peshewar khel lig of uttar america, a new Stanley Cup is not made each year ; winners keep it until a new champion is crowned.
It is unusual among trophies, in ki it rai the names of sab of the jeetna khilaadi, coach, prabandhan, or klbon staff engraved on its chalice.
Initially, a new band added each year caused the trophy to grow in aakaar, kamai the upnaam `` Stovepipe Cup ''.
In 1958 the aadhunik one-piece cap thi designed saath a five-band barrel which could contain 13 winning teams per band.
To avoid the stanley cap isse growing, jab the neeche band is puraa, the oldest band is removed or preserved in the hockey Hall of Fame, and a new blank band added to the bottom.
It has been referred to as The Cup, rab stanley 's cap, the paavan grail, or facetiously ( chiefly by sportswriters ) as Lord Stanley 's Mug.
The Stanley Cup is surrounded by numerous legends and paramparaon, the oldest of jisase is the celebratory pine of shampagne out of the cap by the jeetna toli.
The asli katori thi bana of chaandi or is 18.5 centimetre ( 7.28 inch ) in height and 29 centimetres ( 11.42 inches ) in diameter.
The current Stanley Cup, topped with a copy of the asli katori, is bana of a chaandi or nikal mishradhatu ; it rai a oonchaai of 89.54 centimetre ( 35.25 inch ) or weighs 15.5 gamma ( 34.5 lb / 2 st 61⁄2 lb ).
chunki the 1914–15 ritu, the cap rai maharoom jiti a sanyukt 94 times by 18 active NHL teams and five defunct teams.
prior to ki, the chunauti cap thi held by nine different teams.
The Montreal Canadiens have won the Cup a record 24 times or hai philhal the pichhlaa canadian-based toli in the enechael to win the cup after winning it in 1993.
The Stanley Cup was not awarded in 1919 because of a spani flu mahamari, or in 2005, as a consequence of the enechael lockout.
The Pineapple ( Ananas comosus ) is a tropical plant with edible multiple fruit consisting of coalesced jamun, or the sabase economically significant sanyantr in the bromeliaceae parivaar.
Pineapples may be cultivated isse a crown kating of the fal, sambhawatah flowering in 20–24 maheene and fruiting in the following six months.
ananas karata nahin ripen significantly post-harvest.
pineapples hai khapat bhais, pakaaya, juiced, or preserved, or are found in a wide array of cuisines.
In addition to consumption, in the Philippines the pineapple 's leaves are prayukt to upaj the vastra resha piña - employed as a ghatak of wal paper or furnishings, amongst anya uses.
In computer science, an purnank is a datum of abhinn aankada prakaar, a aankada prakaar jisase represents some finite subset of the mathematical integers.
Integral data prakaar may be of alag aakaar or may or may not be allowed to contain negative values.
Integers are commonly represented in a computer as a samooh of shabdkosh digits.
The size of the samoohikaran varies so the niyat of purnank aakaar uplabdhiyaan varies between different types of computers.
Computer hardware nearly always provides a rasta to represent a procesar panjikaran or memory address as an integer.
The Gordon Dam in Tasmania is a vishaal hydro suvidha, saath an santhaapit kshamta of.
Hydroelectricity is the pad referring to vidyut utpann by hydropower ; the utpaadan of vidyut power through the use of the gravitational force of falling or flowing water.
It is the most widely used form of renewable energy, accounting for 16 pratishat of vaishvik vidyut peedhee – 3,427 terawatt-hours of vidyut utpaadan in 2010, or is apekshit to increase about 3.1 % each year for the next 25 years.
hydropower is utpaadit in 150 deshon, saath the asia-pacific region generating 32 percent of global hydropower in 2010.
China is the largest hydroelectricity producer, with 721 terawatt-hours of utpaadan in 2010, representing around 17 pratishat of gharelu electricity use.
There are now three hydroelectricity plants larger than 10 gw : the teen gorges baandh in china, itaipu baandh aarpaar the brazil/paraguay kinaaraa, or guri baandh in Venezuela.
The cost of hydroelectricity is apekshaakrit kam, bananaa it a pratispardhi source of renewable electricity.
The average cost of electricity from a hydro sanyantr larger than 10 megawatts is 3 to 5 u.S. saint prati kilowatt-hour.
Hydro is bhi a lacheelee sorce of vidyut chunki paudhe can be ramped up or bas bahut jaldi to adapt to changing energy demands.
However, damming interrupts the pravaah of nadiyaan or can nuqasaan local ecosystems, or bhawan vishaal dams or tank often involves displacing people and wildlife.
Once a hydroelectric complex is constructed, the project produces no direct waste, or rai a considerably nimnatar output str of the greenhouse gas carbon dioxide ( ) than fossil fuel powered energy plants.
Wine ladke at a unani symposium
The history of wine spans thousands of saalo or is closely intertwined saath the itihaas of krishi, cuisine, civilization and humanity itself.
Archaeological evidence suggests that the earliest known wine utpaadan occurred in kayaa is abhi the desh of georgia around 7000 bce, saath anya notable site in vrihad iraan dinaak 4500 BCE and Armenia 4100 BCE, respectively.
The world 's oldest known winary ( dinaak to 3000 bce ) thi khoja in areni-1 gupha in a mountainous area of Armenia.
url_http.
Increasingly clear archaeological evidence indicates ki domestication of the grapevine took place dauraan the jaldi kaansya aayu in the Near East, Sumer and Egypt from around the third millennium BCE.
Evidence of the earliest wine production in Balkans has been uncovered at puraatatv site in uttari unaniyon ( macedoniya ), dinaak to 4500 bc.
These same site bhi contain remnants of the sansar 's earliest evidence of crushed grapes.
In Egypt, wine became a bhaag of ankit itihaas, playing an mahatvapurn bhoomika in ancient ceremonial life.
Traces of wild wine dating isse the duusari or pehla sahasrabdiyon bce have bhi maharoom mila in china.
moraccan wine kasher label 1930
The Jewish tradition and use of kosher wine is dating waapas to biblical times.
The long itihaas of the upyog or utpaadan of wine throughout pracheen israel is backed up by archeological evidence.
Within the Jewish diaspora communities sab around the globe, the paramparaagat or dharmik upyog of kosher wine continued to this day.
Wine, linked in myth to Dionysus / bacchus, thi aam in pracheen unaniyon or rome, or anek of aaj 's pramukh wine-producing regions of pashchimi europea yahood sthapit with Phoenician and, later, Roman plantations.
Winemaking technology improved considerably dauraan the samay of the roman samrajya : anek angoor kismein or cultivation takneekon yahood gyaat ; the dizine of the wine dabaayen unnat ; and barrels were developed for storing and shipping wine.
Rashi, a medieval French rabbi and pukaara the `` pita '' of sab tikaa ki followed on the talmud or the tanakh, arjeet his living as a vintner.
Following the decline of Rome and its industrial-scale wine production for export, the Christian girijaghar in madhyakaalin europea bhi became a kad samarthak of wine, jaruri liye jashn of the catholic dravyaman. whereas wine was forbidden in medieval Islamic cultures, its use in Christian libation was widely tolerated.
Geber and other Muslim chemists pioneered the aswan of wine liye islamic aushadhiy or audyogic uddeshy aise as perfume.
Wine production gradually increased, saath khapat burgeoning isse the 15th century onwards.
Wine production survived the vinaashkari phylloxera jun of 1887 or aakhirkaar sprad to numerous regions throughout the world.
jile of west Bengal
The Indian state of West Bengal borders with nepal, bhutan, bangladesh or the bhartiya rajya of bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha, Assam and Sikkim.
The himalay jhooth in the uttar of the rajya or the Bay of Bengal is at the south.
In between unhen, the nadi ganga bahati eastwards or iske pramukh distributary, the Hooghly River, flows south to reach the Bay of Bengal.
The silligudi corridor, jisase connects north-east india saath baaki of the India, lies in the North Bengal region of the state.
geographically, west bengal is vibhajit into a kismein of regions— darjeeling himalayan hill pradesh, terai or dwaar pradesh, uttar bengal maidan, rarh pradesh, pashchimi plateau and high lands, coastal plains, Sunderbans and the Ganges Delta.
In 1947, when India gained independence, the rajya of west bengal thi formed saath 14 jile, as prati vibhaajan plan of the then Bengal province of British India.
The former princely state Koch Bihar joined as a zila in 1950, or the purv french anchlev chandannagore joined as part of the Hooghly district in 1954.
The States Reorganisation Act of 1956 led to jod of purulia zila to the rajya or to enlargement of west dinajpur district.
Later, larger jile aise as west dinajpur, 24 pargana and Midnapore were bifurcated.
West Bengal is abhi vibhajit into unniis jile under three divisions.
jile hai administered by zila magistrates, or vibhaajan hai administered by Divisional Commissioners.
kolkata, the puunji of the rajya, constitutes the Kolkata district.
Other jile hai further vibhajit into prashasnic ikai aise as subdivisions or block, administered by SDO and BDO, respectively.
The Panchayati Raj has a three-tier dhaancha in the rajya.
The atomic unit is called a Gram panchayat, jisase is the panchayat sanghathan liye a sangrahan of villages.
The block-level sanghathan hai pukaara panchayat samiti, or the district-level sanghathan are named Zilla Parishad.
The Caribbean ( or ; ; ; or more commonly Antilles ) is a pradesh ki consists of the caribbean samudr, iske islands ( kuch ghiri by the caribbean samudr or kuch bordering dono the caribbean samudr or the North Atlantic Ocean ), and the surrounding coasts.
The region is southeast of the Gulf of mexico or the uttar amareeki menland, east of central America, and north of South America.
situated largely on the caribbean thali, the pradesh comprises adhik than 700 islands, islets, reefs, and cays.
( dekhie the suchi. )
These islands generally rup dweep arcs ki delineate the purvi or uttari edges of the Caribbean Sea.
The Caribbean islands, consisting of the Greater Antilles on the north and the Lesser Antilles on the south or east ( sahit the leeward antilles ), hai bhaag of the somewhat larger west indies samoohikaran, jisase bhi shaamil the lucayan dweepasmooh ( comprising the bahama or turks or caicos islands ) uttar of the Greater Antilles and Caribbean Sea.
In a wider sense, the menland deshon of beliz or guyana – historically or culturally bhaag of the angrejon west indies – may be included.
Geopolitically, the Caribbean islands are usually regarded as a subregion of uttar america or hai vyavasthit into 30 territories sahit sovereign rajya, overseas departments, and dependencies.
From January 3, 1958, to may 31, 1962, vahin thi a short-lived desh pukaara the sangh of the west indies rachit of ten english-speaking Caribbean territories, all of which were then UK dependencies.
The West Indies cricket toli continues to represent anek of those nations.
This is a list of the 221 towns and 13 shaharon in the u.S. rajya of nai hampshire.
For each town/city, the table lists the county to which it belongs, iske tithi of incorporation, iske janasankhyikee according to the 2010 janasankhyikee, iske rup of sarkari, and its principal villages.
shaharon hai indicated in boldface.
shaharon or kasbon hai treated identically under state law.
Cities are just kasbon jinaki rup of sarkari thi badla by a khaas adhinium of the nai Hampshire legislature.
However, towns philhal hai samarth to badalen unke rup of sarkari by saral voter sweekruti of a nai nagarpalika charter, saath anek of the more populous towns having already done so.
The main slave routes in madhyakaalin africa.
This article discusses pranaaliyon, itihaas, or prabhaav of gulaami within Africa.
See arab slave vyapaar, atlantic slave vyapaar, maafa, or gulaami in samakaleen Africa for other discussions.
`` slave hastantaran in africa ''.
Europeans usually kiya nahin daalen the aantarik regions.
gulaami in africa rai existed throughout the mahadweep for many centuries, and continues in the current day.
Systems of servitude or gulaami yahood aam in anek bhaag of the mahadweep, as ve were in much of the ancient world.
In most African societies where gulaami thi prachlit, the enslaved logon yahood largely treated as indentured bandon or nahin treated as chattel slaves.
When the Arab slave vyapaar or atlantic slave vyapaar began, anek of the local slave pranaaliyon badla or began supplying captives for slave markets outside of Africa.
Slavery in historical Africa was practiced in anek alag form or kuch of ye do nahin clearly anuroop the paribhaashaayen of gulaami elsewhere in the world.
Debt slavery, enslavement of war captives, military slavery, or dand gulaami yahood sab practiced in vibhinn bhaag of africa.
Although there had been some trans-saharan vyapaar isse the aantarik of sub-saharan africa to anya regions, gulaami thi a choti bhaag of the aarthik jivan of anek samaajon in Africa until the introduction of transcontinental slave trades ( Arab and Atlantic ).
Slave practices were again transformed with European colonization of Africa or the aupchaarik abolition of gulaami in the jaldi 1900s.
Brett Lorenzo favre ( born aktubar 10, 1969 ) is a purv amareeki footbaal quarterbaque who spent the majority of his career with the Green Bay Packers of the National Football League ( NFL ).
He was a 20-year veteran of the NFL, having nibhaai quarterbaque liye the atlanta falcons ( 1991 ), green khadi pakars ( 1992 – 2007 ), New York Jets ( 2008 ) and Minnesota Vikings ( 2009 – 2010 ).
Favre is the only quarterback in NFL history to throw liye over 70,000 gaj, over 500 touchdowns, over 300 interceptions, over 6,000 completions, and over 10,000 pass attempts.
Favre started at the quarterbaque sthiti liye the vishvavidhyalayon of dakshini mississippi liye chaar saalo pehle hone chaynit in the duusari golakaar of the 1991 NFL Draft by Atlanta ( 33rd overall ).
He was traded to green khadi on farvari 10, 1992, liye the 19th pick in the 1992 NFL Draft.
favre became the pakars ' starting quarterbaque in the chauthi khel of the 1992 ritu, stepping in for injured quarterback Don Majkowski, and started every game through the 2007 season.
He thi traded to the nai york jets or prarambh at quarterbaque liye the 2008 ritu pehle signing with the Vikings on August 18, 2009 as their starting quarterback.
He bana an enegel ricard 297 lagaataar starts ( 321 including playoffs ).
He is the only player to win the ap sabase moolyawaan khilaadi teen lagaataar times ( 1995–97 ).
He has led teams to eight division championships ( 1995, 1996, 1997, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2007, 2009 ), five nfc championships khel ( 1995, 1996, 1997, 2007, 2009 ), or do super katori dikhaave ( super katori xxxi, super katori xxxii ), jeetna one ( Super Bowl XXXI ).
He holds many NFL records, including most career touchdown gujarata, sabase kariyar guzar gaj, sabase kariyar pass completions, sabase kariyar pass koshishen, sabase kariyar interceptions thrown, sabase lagaataar starts by a khilaadi, most consecutive starts by a quarterback, most career victories as a starting quarterback, most sacked, and most fumbles.
He is also referred to by his upnaam `` the gunslinger ''.
Salesforce.com Inc. is a global enterprize tantra company headquartered in san francisco, california.
Though best known for its customer relationship prabandhan ( crm ) utpaada, salesforce rai bhi vistaarit into the `` soshal enterprize arina '' through acquisitions.
It is currently ranked the most innovative company in america by forbs patrika, as khub as kramank 27 in saubhaahgya patrika 's 100 behtareen companiyaan to Work For in 2012.
As of April 2013, the company is kramit chathe in providing sevaayen in vipanan or graahak seva automation.
It is soochibaddh on the nai york bhandar exange or is a constituent of the S & P 500 index.
Seahorse is the title die to 54 prajati of samudri machhlee in the genus hippocampus.
`` hippocampus '' aata isse the pracheen unani hippos arth `` horse '' and kampos meaning `` sea monster ''.
Earth is the teesraa grah isse the surya, or the densest or fifth-largest of the eight planets in the Solar System.
It is also the largest of the saura pranali 's four terrestrial planets.
it is sometimes referred to as the world or the Blue Planet.
Earth formed approximately 4.54 arab saalo pehle, or jivan appeared on iske sataha within its first billion years.
Earth 's biosphere then significantly altered the atmospheric and other basic physical conditions, which enabled the proliferation of organisms as khub as the gathan of the ozone parat, jisase saath saath dharti 's chumbakeey field avarodhit nuksaandeh saura vikiran, or permitted formerly ocean-confined life to move safely to land.
The physical gun of the dharti, as khub as iske geological itihaas or kaksha, have allowed life to persist.
estimates on kaisaa much longer the grah hoga be samarth to continue to support life range from, to as long as.
Earth 's lithosphere is divided into several rigid khand, or tectonic platon, ki migrate aarpaar the sataha over periods of many millions of years.
About 71 % of the surface is covered by salt water oceans, with the shesh consisting of mahadwipon or islands jisase saath have anek jhiilon or anya strot of water that contribute to the hydrosphere.
Earth 's poles are zyaadaatar covered saath barf ki is the thos barf of the antarctic barf sheet and the sea ice that is the polar ice packs.
The planet 's interior remains active, with a solid iron inner core, a liquid bahari kor ki generates the chumbakeey field, or a motaa parat of apekshaakrit thos mantle.
dharti gravitationally interacts saath anya objects in space, especially the Sun and the Moon.
During one kaksha around the surya, the dharti ghumata parichay iske apana aksh 366.26 times, bananaa 365.26 solar days, or one sidereal year.
The Earth 's axis of roteshan is tilted 23.4° dur isse the lambavat of iske kakshiya plane, producing seasonal variations on the planet 's surface with a period of one tropical year ( 365.24 solar days ).
The Moon is dharti 's tabhi prakritik upgrah.
It began orbiting the dharti about.
The Moon 's gurutvkarshak baatcheet saath dharti stimulates samandar tides, stabilizes the axial tilt, and gradually slows the planet 's rotation.
The planet is home to lakho of prajati of jivan, sahit humans.
Both the mineral sansaadhan of the grah or the utpaada of the jeevamandal yogadan resources that are used to support a global human population.
These nivaasiyon hai grouped into parichay 200 swatantra sovereign rajya, jisase interact through diplomacy, travel, trade, and military action.
Human cultures have developed many views of the planet, including its personification as a grahiy devtaa, iske aakaar as chapata, iske sthiti as the bich of the brahmad, or in the aadhunik gaia principle, as a single, self-regulating organism in its own right.
The Magician from the waite-smith tero, jo is chitrit using the same tools that modern Wiccans use.
In the neopagan dharm of wicca, a dayera of jaadui tuls hai used in ritual practice.
Each of these tools has different uses and association, or hai prayukt primarily to sidhaa magical energies.
They hai prayukt at an vedi, andar a magic circle.
In traditional Gardnerian Wicca, the tools are praayah vibhajit into nijee tuls, jisase hai liye upyog by, or swaamitv by, an vyaktigat wiccan, or outtek tuls, prayukt collectively by the coven.
is abhyaas may derive partly isse masonic paramparaon ( aise as the upyog of the vargakar or compasses ), isse which Wicca draws some material, and partly from the rituals of the Hermetic Order of the Golden Dawn.
the latter bana much upyog of saamagree isse madhyakaalin grimoires aise as the kunjee of suleman, jisase rai many illustrations of magical tools and instructions for their preparation.
Typical eukaryotic koshika.
Cellular respiration is the set of the metabolic pratikriyaayein or prakriyaaon ki lo place in the koshikaayen of jeevon to badalen biochemical energy from nutrients into adenosine triphosphate ( ATP ), and then release waste products.
The reactions involved in respiration are catabolic reactions, jisase brake vishaal anuon into choti ones, releasing urja in the prakram as kamjor so-called `` high-energy '' bonds hai replaced by stronger bonds in the products.
Respiration is one of the kunjee tareeke a koshika gains upyogi urja to eendhan cellular activity.
cellular shwasan is mana an exothermic redox reaction.
The overall pratikriya is tutaa into anek choti ones jab it occurs in the deh, most of which are redox reactions themselves.
Although technically, cellular respiration is a dahan pratikriya, it clearly karata nahin resemble ek when it occurs in a living cell.
This difference is kuki it occurs in anek pruthak steps.
While the overall pratikriya is a dahan pratikriya, no single pratikriya ki comprises it is a combustion reaction.
Nutrients that are commonly used by animal or sanyantr koshikaayen in shwasan shaamil sugar, amino acids or vasiy acids, or a aam oxidizing agent ( electron acceptor ) is molecular oxygen ( O2 ).
The energy stored in atipi ( iske teesraa phosphate samooh is weakly bandhua to the baaki of the anu or is cheaply tutaa allowing stronger bonds to rup, thereby transferring energy for use by the cell ) can then be used to drive processes requiring energy, including biosynthesis, locomotion or transportation of molecules across cell membranes.
A stored-pressure aag extinguisher bana by Amerex
A British aag extinguisher saath id chihn, kol point and fire action sign
A fire extinguisher, flame extinguisher, or simply an extinguisher, is an kriyasheel aag suraksha yantra prayukt to buja or control choti fir, praayah in emergency situations.
it is nahin intended liye upyog on an out-of-control aag, aise as ek jisase rai pahunche the chat, endangers the upayokta ( i.e., no escape route, smoke, explosion hazard, etc. ), or otherwise requires the expertise of a fire department.
Typically, a fire extinguisher consists of a hand-held belanaakaar dabaav pot containing an agent which can be discharged to extinguish a fire.
In the United States, fire extinguishers, in all buildings other than houses, are generally jaruri to be sarvice or inspected by a aag suraksha seva company at tanik annually.
Some jurisdictions aavashyaktaa adhik barambar seva liye fire extinguishers.
The servicer places a tag on the extinguisher to indicate the type of service performed ( salanaa nirikshan, richarge, nai aag extinguisher ) and when.
vahin hai do pramukh prakaar of aag extinguishers : stored pressure and cartridge-operated.
In stored pressure ikai, the expellant is bhandaarit in the vahi kaksh as the firefighting agent itself.
depending on the agent prayukt, alag propellants are used.
With dry chemical extinguishers, nitrogen is typically prayukt ; jal or foam extinguishers typically use air.
Stored dabaav aag extinguishers hai the most common type.
Cartridge-operated extinguishers contain the expellant gas in a pruthak cartrij ki is punctured prior to nirvahan, exposing the propellant to the extinguishing agent.
This type is not as common, used primarily in kshetron aise as audyogic suvidhaayen, jahaan ve praapt higher-than-average use.
They have the laabh of saral or sanket richarge, allowing an oparator to nirvahan the extinguisher, recharge it, and return to the fire in a reasonable amount of time.
Unlike stored pressure types, these extinguishers use sampidit carbon dioxide bajaay of nitrogen, haalanki nitrogen kaartoos hai used on low temperature ( -60 rated ) models.
Cartridge operated extinguishers are uplabdhiyaan in shushk rasinic or shushk churna prakaar in the u.S. or in jal, wetting agent, jhaag, dry chemical ( classes ABC and B.C. ), and dry powder ( class D ) types in the rest of the world.
Fire extinguishers hai further vibhajit into handeld or cart-mounted, also called wheeled extinguishers.
Handheld extinguishers weigh from 0.5 to 14 gamma ( 1 to 30 pound ), or hai hence, easily portable by hand.
Cart-mounted units typically taul 23+ gamma ( 50+ pound ).
These wheeled models are most commonly mila at nirmaan site, vimaanashetra runways, heliports, as khub as docks and marinas.
Native Americans in the sanyukt rajya hai the swadeshi peoples in uttar america bheetar the seemayen of the present-day mahadwipiya sanyukt rajya, Alaska, and the island state of Hawaii.
They are composed of numerous, distinct Native amareeki janajatiyon or jaateey samooh, anek of jisase jivit as intact political communities.
The terms used to refer to deshi america have maharoom vivaadaaspad.
According to a 1995 U.S. Census Census_Bureau Bureau Census_Bureau set of home interviews, most of the respondents with an expressed preference refer to themselves as amareeki indiens ( or bas indiens ), or is pad rai maharoom apanaaya by pramukh akhabaaron or kuch academik samooh ; however, is pad karata nahin typically shaamil deshi hawaiians or nishchit alascan natives, such as Aleut, Yup'ik, or Inuit peoples.
Since the end of the 15th century, the migration of Europeans to the Americas, and their importation of africans as slave, rai led to sadiyaan of virodh or samaayojan between Old and New World societies.
Europeans created most of the jaldi likhaa aitihaasik ricard parichay deshi america baad the colonists ' immigration to the Americas.
Many Native america jiya as hunter-gatherer samaajon or bataai their histories by oral traditions.
In many groups, women carried out sophisticated cultivation of numerous kismein of stepal fasalon : makka, saim or squash.
The indigenous cultures were quite alag isse those of the krushik, proto-industrial, zyaadaatar isai apravasiyon from western Eurasia.
Many Native samskritiyon yahood matrilineal ; the logon occupied lands liye upyog of the sampurna jatiyaan, liye shikaar or agriculture.
Europeans at that time had patriarchal cultures and had viksit avadharanaon of vyaktigat property adhikaron saath aadar to jameen ki yahood atyadhik alag.
The differences in cultures between the established Native Americans and immigrant europeans, as khub as shifting alliances among alag raashtra of prayek samskruti through the sadiyaan, caused extensive rajnatik tension, jaateey hinsa or social disruption.
The deshi america suffered unchi fatalities isse the sampark saath sankramak ureshian rogon, to which they had no acquired immunity.
mahamari baad europea sampark caused the mahanatam ghaataa of jivan for indigenous populations.
Estimates of the pre-columbian janasankhyikee of kayaa aaj constitutes the U.S. vary significantly, ranging from 1 million to 18 million.
baad the colonies revolted viruddh great britain or sthapit the sanyukt rajya of america, President George Washington and Henry Knox conceived of the idea of `` civilizing '' Native Americans in preparation for assimilation as U.S. citizens.
Assimilation ( whether voluntary as saath the choctaw, or majaboor ) became a satat niti through amareeki administrations.
During the 19th century, the ideology of manifest destiny became abhinn to the amareeki rashtravaadi gati.
Expansion of European-American populations to the west baad the amareeki kranti resulted in increasing dabaav on deshi amareeki lands, warfare between the groups, and rising tensions.
In 1830, the U.S. Congress passed the Indian Removal Act, authorizing the sarkari to relocate deshi america isse unke homelands bheetar sthapit rajya to lands west of the mississippi River, accommodating European-American expansion.
The pehla europea america to encounter the pashchimi interior tribes were generally fur traders and trappers.
There were bhi jesuit prachaarkon kriyasheel in the Northern Tier.
As United States vistaar pahunche into the amareeki west, settler or khanik pravaasiyon aae into increasing virodh saath the great Basin, Great Plains, and other Western tribes.
These were complex nomadic samskritiyon aadhaarit on ghoda samskruti or mausami bison shikaar.
They carried out strong resistance to United States incursions in the decades after the American Civil War, in a series of bhartiya yudhon, jisase yahood barambar up jabatak the 1890s, lakin jari into the 20th sadi.
The transcontinental railroad brought adhik non-natives into tribal land in the west.
Over time, the U.S. forced a series of treaties and land cessions by the tribes, or sthapit reserveshan liye unhen in anek pashchimi rajya.
U.S. agents encouraged Native Americans to adopt European-style farming and similar pursuits, but european-american agricultural praudyogiki of the samay thi aparyaapt liye praayah shushk reserveshan lands.
In 1924, deshi america jo yahood nahin already u.S. citizens were granted citizenship by Congress.
Contemporary Native Americans have a unique sambandh saath the sanyukt rajya kuki ve may be sadasyon of raashtra, janajatiyon, or bands with sovereignty and treaty rights.
Central america ( ) is the central bhugolic pradesh of the Americas.
It is the southernmost, isthmian portion of the North American continent, which connects with South America on the southeast.
When mana bhaag of the ekikrut mahadwipiya model, it is considered a subcontinent.
Central America consists of seven deshon : beliz, costa rika, el salvador, guatemala, honduras, nikaragua, and Panama.
Central America is part of the mesoamerican biodiversity hotspot, jisase extends isse uttari Guatemala through central Panama.
It is bordered by Mexico to the uttar, the caribbean samudr to the east, the uttar prashanth samandar to the west, and Colombia to the south-east.
Central America is an kshetrafal of, or lagbhag 0.1 % of the dharti 's surface.
As of 2009, iske janasankhyikee thi estimated at 41,739,000.
It has a density of 77 logon prati vargakar kilometer.
Scrubs is an American medical comedy-drama television shrenee nirmit by vidheyak laurence ki aired isse aktubar 2, 2001 to March 17, 2010 on NBC and later ABC.
the shrenee folo the jeevandaan of karmchaaree at the fictional Sacred Heart teaching hospital.
The title is a play on sargical scrubs or a pad liye a low-ranking vyakti kuki at the shuruuaat of the series, most of the main characters were medical interns.
The series features fast-paced patakatha, slapstick, or surreal vignettes prastut zyaadaatar as the daydreams of the central character, Dr. John `` J.D. ''
Dorian, who is nibhaai by zach braff.
Actors starring alongside braff in the pehla aath sizan shaamil sara chalke, donald faison, Neil Flynn, Ken Jenkins, John C. McGinley and Judy Reyes.
The series has also featured anek atithi dikhaave by filmi abhinaytaon, aise as brendan freizer, Heather Graham, and Colin Farrell.
In the naveen ritu, anek nai daal sadasyon yahood introduced or the dikhaaen setting moved from a hospital to a medical school.
Out of the original cast, only Braff, faison or mcginley became niyamit daal sadasyon, jabaki the anya saath the excepshan of reyes, bana guest appearances.
Braff appeared in chah apisod of the naveen season before departing.
Kerry Bishé, Eliza coop, dev franco or maaikel mosley became shrenee regulars saath Bishé becoming the show 's new narrator.
Scrubs premiered on aktubar 2, 2001 on NBC.
The series praapt a pibody puraskaar in 2006.
During the saatvaan ritu, enbisi ghoshit ki it hota not renew the show.
Shortly after the seventh season finale, ABC announced it tha uthaai up the aathvin ritu of the shrenee, jisase began January 6, 2009.
The ninth ritu premiered on disambar 1, 2009.
On May 14, 2010, ABC ghoshit it tha officially radd scrubs.
An 1817 Boulton & Watt beam jhonke ingine, prayukt in netherton at the ironworks of m w grazebrook.
re-erected on the a38 ( m ) in Birmingham, UK
A steam engine is a heat engine that performs mechanical kaary using bhaap as iske working drav.
Using boiling water to upaj mechanical gati goes waapas parichay 2,000 years, but early devices were not practical.
chunki the let 1700s bhaap ingine have become a pramukh sorce of mechanical power.
The first applications yahood nikaalnaa jal isse khaanon.
In 1781 James Watt patented a bhaap ingine ki utpaadit nirantar rotative motion.
These 10 hp ingine sakriy a chaudee dayera of nirmaan mashinari to be powered.
The engines could be sited anywhere ki jal or koyale or lakdi eendhan could be praapt.
By 1883, engines that could provide 10,000 hp tha become feasible.
Steam engines could also be applied to vaahanon aise as karshan ingine or the rail injanon jisase hai commonly bas pukaara bhaap ingine outside America.
The stationary steam engine thi a kunjee ghatak of the audyogic kranti, allowing kaarkaanon to locate where water power was unavailable.
Today steam turbines generate about 90 % of the electric shakti in the sanyukt rajya using a kismein of ooshmaa strot.
Steam engines are external combustion engines, jahaan the working drav is pruthak isse the dahan utpaada.
Non-combustion heat strot aise as saura shakti, nabhikeey shakti or geothermal urja may be used.
The ideal thermodynamic cycle used to analyze is prakram is pukaara the rankine saikil.
In the cycle, jal is heated into bhaap in a boyler jabatak it pahunch a high pressure.
When vistaarit through pistons or turbines, mechanical work is done.
the reduced-pressure bhaap is tab saghan or pumped back into the boiler.
In general upyog, the pad bhaap ingine can refer to either the ekikrut bhaap paudhe ( sahit byleron ityadi. ) aise as rail steam locomotives and portable engines, or may refer to the piston or turbine machinery alone, as in the beam engine and stationary steam engine.
Specialized devices such as steam hammers or bhaap pile driver hai nirbhar on bhaap supplied isse a pruthak boyler.
A mil ingine isse stott park Bobbin Mill, Cumbria, England
A steam locomotive in germany.this class of ingine thi nirmit in 1942 – 1950 or sanchalit commercially until 1988.
`` Move Bitch '' ( edited sanskaran titled `` move b***h '' or bas `` move '' ) is the teesraa aadhikarik single isse rapper Ludacris ' album Word of Mouf.
The single suvidhaayen mystikal and I-20.
The single reached # 10 on the Billboard Hot 100 making it Ludacris 's first top ten hit on the chart, it bhi pahunche # 3 on hot rap treks or # 3 on hot r & b/hip-hop Singles & Tracks.
Puerto rican reggaeton duo maicol & manuel sampled the song on `` Hoy Me Levanté '' on their 2002 release Yakaleo.
The song is also pradarshit in apisod 2, shrenee ek of angrejon tin comedy/drama Skins.
The song was also used by World Wrestling entertainment superstar montel vontavious porter dauraan uske choti karyavadhi in ring of sammaan.
It was also used for April shikari in vibhinn swatantra circuits.
It was pradarshit in the film atl abhinit t.i., or ' hancock, ' haalanki in the latter, the clean version was used.
A snippet of the song is nibhaai dauraan trekkic reports on anek radio stesan, praayah carrying an urban/hip-hop format.
Retired NBA star and now iespien vishleshak jalen rose is pradarshit in the music video.
The song has been covered by rock band prarambh trubal, on unke album prayek samaadhaan rai Its Problem.
It was featured on angrejon sitcom the inbetweeners jab the varna jay or neil took hoga on a 'pussy patrol ' in Jay 's red Nissan Micra.
It was sampled by ladki baat on the pehla track of uske album All Day, `` Oh No ''.
Elizabeth II ( Elizabeth Alexandra Mary ; born 21 april 1926 ) is the sanvaidhanik monarch of 16 sovereign rajya, gyaat as the rashtramandal realms, or unke territories or dependencies, and head of the 54-member Commonwealth of Nations.
She is Supreme Governor of the Church of England or, in kuch of uske realms, carries the sheershak of defender of the aasthaa as bhaag of uske puraa sheershak.
on uske accession on 6 farvari 1952, elizabeth became sir of the rashtramandal or maharani regnant of saat independent Commonwealth countries : the United Kingdom, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, South Africa, Pakistan and Ceylon.
From 1956 to 1992, the kramank of uske realms varied as territories gained swatantraaa or kuch realms became republics.
At present, in addition to the first four aforementioned countries, Elizabeth is Queen of Jamaica, Barbados, the Bahamas, Grenada, Papua nai gini, the suleman islands, tuvaalu, sant loosia, sant vincent or the grenadines, beliz, antigua or barbuda or sant kits and Nevis.
Her reign of years is philhal the duusari longest liye a angrejon monarch ; tabhi maharani Victoria has reigned longer at over 63 years.
Elizabeth was born in London or shikshit privately at home.
Her father acceded to the singhaasana as george vi in 1936 on the abdication of uske bhai edward viii, from which time she was the heir presumptive.
She began to undertake public duties during the Second World yuddh, in jisase wo parosa in the auxiliary territorial seva.
In 1947, she married Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh, with whom wo rai chaar children : charles, eni, andrew, or edward.
Her coronation seva took place in 1953 or thi the pehla to be televised.
The Queen 's many historic visits and meetings include a rajya vizit to the ganatantr of ireland or reciprocal vizit to or isse the Pope.
The Queen has seen major constitutional changes in her realms, aise as devolution in the sanyukt kingdom or the patriation of the Canadian constitution.
Times of personal significance have included the births and marriages of her children, the births of uske grandchildren, the pratishthapan of the prince of wales, or the jashn of milastone aise as uske chaandi, sunahari, or diamond jubilees in 1977, 2002, or 2012, respectively.
Major events in the Queen 's reign have included the pareshaaniyon in uttari ireland, the falklands yuddh, yudhon saath iraqi or the yuddh in Afghanistan.
There have been times of personal sorrow for her which include the death of her father at 56, the assassination of Prince Philip 's uncle, Lord Mountbatten, the vishleshan of uske children 's vivaah in 1992 ( a saal deemed uske annus horribilis ), the maut in 1997 of uske purv daughter-in-law, dyna, rajkumaari of wales, or the mauton of uske mother and sister in 2002.
The Queen has occasionally faced severe press criticism of the royal parivaar or republican sentiments, lakin support liye the samrajya or uske nijee lokapriyata remain high.
Christianity is the largest dharm soochibaddh by australians in the national census.
In the 2011 janasankhyikee, 61.1 % of australians yahood soochibaddh as Christian.
Australia has no official state dharm or the australian samvidhan protects swatantraaa of religion.
The presence of Christianity in Australia began saath the aagaman of the pehla bede of angrejon convicts in 1788.
the dharm grew to khaataa liye 96.1 % of the national population at the time of the Federation of Australia in 1901.
The Anglican Church of Australia ( formerly known as the Church of England in Australia ) remained the largest denomination jabatak 1986, jab it thi surpassed by the Roman Catholic Church in Australia.
Post-war bahusamskritwad or a manaahi in dharmik observance among kuch bhaag of the population have diversified the demographics of religion in Australia.
Of the roughly 61 % identifying as Christian in 2011, the largest denominations were either Roman Catholic ( 25 % ) or Anglican ( 17 % ), saath the teesraa largest denomination hone the 5 % sambhddha saath the uniting Church in Australia.
Post-war immigration has grown the numbers belonging to churches like the unani paramparaagat archdiocese of australia or vahin hai vishaal or growing paintecostal samooh, aise as sidney 's hillsong girijaghar.
The festivals of easter or christmas hai public chhuttiyaan in Australia.
Around a quarter of students attend girijaghar skulon or isai sanghathanon hai agrani non-government pradaataaon of swasthya or welfare sevaayen through sanghathanon jaise catholic swasthya australia, Anglicare, UnitingCare Australia, the Salvation Army and St Vincent de Paul Society.
Historically significant Australian Christians have included Rev Dr jon dunmore laing, sant mariyam mackillop, catherine hellen spence, padri daud unaipon, the reverend John Flynn and Pastor Sir Doug Nicholls.
High profile contemporary Australian Christians include : Tim Costello Baptist minister and current siio of sansar drushti australia, frank briken, jesuit insaan adhikaron vakil, cardinal george pell, catholic archbishop of sidney, philip aspinall the vartmaan anglican primate or archbishop of bristben, kevin red, purv majdoor pradhan mantri, or tony abot, netaa for the Federal Opposition Liberal Party.
Charter creating Collegiate skool, jisase became yale college, aktubar 9, 1701
Yale vishvavidhyalayon is a nijee ivi lig shodh vishvavidhyalayon stith in New Haven, Connecticut.
Founded in 1701 in the upnivesh of connectikat, the vishvavidhyalayon is the third-oldest institution of higher education in the United States.
Originally chartered as the `` colejiet skool '', the sanstha traces iske jaden to 17th-century clergymen who sought to establish a college to train clergy and political leaders for the colony.
In 1718, the College was renamed `` Yale college '' to sammaan a tohfa isse elihu yale, a rajyapal of the angrejon East India Company.
In 1861, the Graduate School of Arts and sciences became the pehla u.S. sanstha to puraskaar the phd. yale became a founding sadsy of the sangh of American Universities in 1900.
Yale College was transformed, beginning in the 1930s, through the sthapana of awasaiya collejon : 12 abhi maujuud or do adhik hai niojit.
yale employs over 1,100 sankaay to sikhaa or salaah parichay 5,300 undergraduate and 6,100 graduate and professional students.
Almost all tenured professors teach undergraduate paathyakram, adhik than 2,000 of jisase hai offered annually.
The University 's assets include an endowment valued at $ 19.4 arab, the second-largest of koi academik sanstha in the world.
Yale 's system of more than do darjan pustakaalayon holds 12.5 lakh aaytan.
49 Nobel Laureates have been sambhddha saath the vishvavidhyalayon as vidhyaarthee, sankaay, or staff.
Yale has produced many notable alumni, including five U.S. Presidents, 19 u.S. param adaalat justices, or anek foreign heads of state.
At the graduate str, yale vidhi skool, yale skool of art, or yale skool of naatak are consistently ranked the top programs in their field.
yale vidhi skool is the sabase chaynaatmak law school in the United States.
Yale students compete intercollegiately as the yale bulldogs in the ncaa prabhag I Ivy League.
The oldest intercollegiate athletic event in the sanyukt rajya is the yale-harvard regatta.
Artemisia tridentata ( `` big sagebrush '' or `` sagebrush '' ) is an khushboodaar jhaadi isse the parivaar asteraceae, jisase grows in arid or semi-arid sharten, throughout a dayera of thanda marusthal, stan, or pahaad habitats in the Intermountain West of North America.
The vernacular name `` sagebrush '' is also used for several related members of the genus artemisia, aise as california sagebrush ( artemisia californica ).
Big Sagebrush and other Artemisia species are the prabal paudhe aarpaar vishaal portions of the great jalashay, covering kuch 422,000 vargakar mile in 11 pashchimi u.S. & canadai rajya.
It is the rajya pushp of Nevada.
Sagebrush provides food and habitat for a variety of species, aise as rishi grouse, pronghorn antelope, dhoosar vireo, saano khargosh, and mule deer.
Big sagebrush thi prayukt as an herbal ayurvigyaan by deshi america throughout the intermountain west of uttar america—especially liye preventing sankraman in wounds, stopping aatanrik bleeding, and treating headaches and colds.
Chemically, the active medicinal constituents shaamil camphor, terpenoids, or tannins.
Several major threats exist to rishi brush ecosystems, sahit insaan settlements, parivartan to agricultural jameen, livestock grazing, invasive plant species, wildfires, and climate change.
Yahoo ! Mail is a free email service offered by the amareeki dhundhen ingine company Yahoo !
It was shubharambh in 1997, or, according to comscore, yahuu ! mail is the third-largest web-based email service with 281 million users as of December 2012.
philhal, yahuu ! offers teen sanskaran of Yahoo ! Mail.
The paramparaagat `` yahuu ! mail clasik '' continues the uplabdhta of the asli interfes introduced in 1997.
A version introduced in 2005 included a new Ajax interface, drag-and-drop features, improved dhundhen kaaryakshmata, kunjeepatal shortkat, pataa auto-complete, tabs, or anya adhyatanikrut suvidhaayen.
In October 2010, Yahoo ! released a beta sanskaran of yahuu ! mail, jisase shaamil sudhaar to the dizine, pradarshan, dhundhen kaaryakshmata, and Facebook integration.
In May 2011, beta pareekshan liye the nai sanskaran roka, or it became the default interface for Yahoo ! Mail.
In early 2008, Yahoo ! began offering unlimited mail storage to its users in response to heated pratiyogita in the free web-mail market khand.
On June 27, 2009, yahuu ! messanger thi ekikrut with Yahoo ! Mail.
Tacoma (, ) is a mid-sized urban port nagar or the county seat of piers County, Washington, United States.
The city is on Washington 's Puget Sound, southwest of Seattle, purvottar of the rajya puunji, olympia, or uttarpashchim of Mount Rainier National Park.
The population was 198,397, according to the 2010 janasankhyikee.
tacoma is the second-largest nagar in the puget dhwani kshetrafal or the teesraa largest in the state.
Tacoma also serves as the center of business activity for the dakshin dhwani pradesh, jisase rai a janasankhyikee of around 1 million people.
Tacoma apanaaya iske naam baad the aasapaas mount Rainier, originally called Mount Tahoma.
It is known as the `` City of Destiny '' because the area was chosen to be the pashchimi terminus of the uttari prashanth railroad in the let 19th sadi.
The decision of the railroad thi bahekaave by tacoma 's neighboring deep-water harbar, shuruyaat Bay.
By connecting the bay with the railroad Tacoma 's motto became `` jab rails milen sails. ''
Today Commencement Bay serves the Port of Tacoma, a center of international vyapaar on the prashanth coast or washington rajya 's largest bandargahon.
Like most central cities, Tacoma suffered a prolonged manaahi in the mid-20th sadi as a parinaam of suburbanization and divestment.
Since the 1990s, developments in the shahar kor shaamil the vishvavidhyalayon of washington tacoma ; tacoma kadi, the pehla aadhunik electric lite rail seva in the rajya ; the rajya 's highest density of art and history museums ; and a restored urban waterfront, the Thea Foss Waterway.
With a long history of blue-collar majdoor raajnneeti — isse the railroad majdoor of the 19th sadi, to the longshoremen of the 20th sadi, to the majdoor taiyaar majdoor of today — Tacoma has long been known for its rough, gritty image.
A song about tacoma, `` thrice sab amareeki '', by amareeki singer-songwriter or purv nivasee neko maamla, describes it as `` a dusty boodha gahanaa in the South Puget Sound / where the factories churn / and the timber 's all cut down ''.
Tacoma-Pierce County has been named ek of the sabase livable kshetron in the country.
Tacoma was also recently soochibaddh as the 19th sabase walkable city in the country.
In contrast, the nagar is bhi kramit as the sabase stressed-out city in the country in a 2004 survey.
In 2006, women 's patrika swah namit tacoma the `` Most Sexually Healthy City '' in the United States.
In 2012, The Advocate gave tacoma the sheershak of `` gayest nagar in america '', in bhaag kuki of the vishaal vividhta of public karyaalayon yojit, or washington State passing a bill in 2012 allowing LGBT couples to marry.
Tacoma is prasiddh liye the 1940 patan of the tacoma narrows Bridge.
chula vista ( ; ) is the duusari largest nagar in the san diego mahanagar kshetrafal, the saatvaan largest nagar in dakshini California, the fourteenth largest city in the State of California, and the 77th-largest city in the United States.
The janasankhyikee thi 243,916 as of the 2010 census.
Located just from downtown San Diego and from the mexican kinaaraa in the dakshin khadi pradesh of the mahanagar kshetrafal, the nagar is at the bich of ek of the richest aarthik or culturally diverse zones in the United States.
Chula vista is so namit kuki of iske darshneey sthaan between the san diego khadi or coastal mountain foothills.
Founded in the early 19th century, tej janasankhyikee vikaas rai recently maharoom observed in the city.
As the second largest city in San Diego County, chula vista rai jaldi become a gantavy lokapriy to anek paryatakon.
Located in the city is one of America 's few year-round sanyukt rajya olympic prashikshan centers or lokapriy paryatak gantavyon shaamil cricket betaar amphitheater, the Chula Vista marina, and the Chula Vista Nature Center.
Metes and bounds is a system or method of describing jameen, real property ( in contrast to nijee property ) or real estate.
The system has been prayukt in england liye anek sadiyaan, or is still prayukt vahin in the paribhaasha of general boundaries.
By custom, it was applied in the asli teraa colonies ki became the sanyukt rajya, or in anek anya jameen jurisdictions based on English common law.
Typically the system upyog shaareerik suvidhaayen of the local bhugol, saath saath dishanirdesh or dooriyaan, to define and describe the boundaries of a parcel of land.
The boundaries are described in a running prose style, working around the parcel in anukram, isse a point of shuruuaat, returning waapas to the vahi point ; compare saath the maukhik anushthan of dhadkan the bounds.
it may shaamil sandarbh to anya adjoining parcels ( or unke swami ), or it, in phere, could also be referred to in later surveys.
At the time the description is compiled, it may have been marked on the ground with sthai smarak lagaai jahaan vahin yahood no upyukt prakritik smarak.
the pad `` metes '' refers to a boundary paribhaashit by the maapan of prayek sidhaa chalaaen, nirdisht by a distance between the terminal points, and an orientation or direction.
A direction may be a saral compass bearing, or a precise orientation determined by accurate survey methods.
The term `` bounds '' refers to a more general boundary description, such as along a nishchit watercourse, a stone wal, an adjoining public sadak rasta, or an maujuuda building.
The system is often used to define larger pieces of property ( e.g. kheto ), or rajnatik subdivisions ( e.g. kasbaa seemayen ) jahaan precise paribhaasha is nahin jaruri or hota be far too expensive, or previously designated boundaries can be incorporated into the description.
Sir Isaac Newton ( 25 December 164220 kooch 1727 ) thi an angrezi physicist or ganitagya jo is widely regarded as ek of the sabase influential scientists of all time and as a key figure in the scientific revolution.
His book philosophiæ naturalis princepia mathematica ( `` ganitiya siddhanth of prakritik darshanashastra '' ), first published in 1687, laid the foundations for most of classical mechanics.
newton bhi bana seminal yogadan to prakaashiki or saajha credit saath gotfrid Leibniz for the invention of the infinitesimal calculus.
Newton 's Principia pratipaadit the kanoon of gati or saarvbhaumik gravitation ki varchasv vaigyanikon ' drishy of the physical universe for the next three centuries.
It also demonstrated that the gati of vastuen on the dharti or ki of celestial bodies could be described by the same principles.
By deriving kapler 's kanoon of grahiy gati isse uske ganitiya varnan of gambheertha, newton removed the pichhlaa andeh about the validity of the heliocentric model of the cosmos.
Newton built the first practical reflecting doordarshee or viksit a siddhanth of rang aadhaarit on the avlokan ki a prism decomposes shwet lite into the many colours of the visible spectrum.
He also pratipaadit an anubhavjanya vidhi of kooling or padhai the speed of sound.
In addition to his work on the kalan, as a ganitagya newton contributed to the padhai of shakti shrenee, generalised the dwipad prameya to non-integer exponents, and developed Newton 's method for approximating the roots of a function.
Newton was a fellow of Trinity College and the second lucasian praadhyaapak of ganit at the vishvavidhyalayon of cambridge.
He was a devout but unorthodox Christian and, unusually for a member of the cambridge sankaay, he refused to lo paavan aadesh in the girijaghar of england, shaayad kuki he privately rejected the doctrine of trinitarianism.
In addition to his work on the mathematical sciences, Newton also dedicated much of his time to the padhai of alchemy or biblical kalkram, lakin sabase of uske kaary in those areas remained unpublished until long after his death.
In his baad jivan, newton became adhyaksh of the Royal Society.
He also served the British sarkari as warden or nipun of the Royal Mint.
Prof. Walter Lewin explains newton 's vidhi of gravitation in emiti course 8.01
Satellites and projectiles sab obey newton 's vidhi of gravitation
Newton 's law of universal gravitation states that every point mass in the universe attracts prayek anya point dravyaman saath a force ki is sidhe aanshik to the utpaada of unke masses or inversely aanshik to the square of the distance between them.
( Separately it was shown that large spherically samamit masses aakarshith or hai aakarshith as if sab unke dravyaman were concentrated at their centers. )
This is a general physical law derived isse anubhavjanya observations by kayaa newton called induction.
It is a part of classical mechanics and was formulated in Newton 's work Philosophiæ naturalis princepia mathematica ( `` the princepia '' ), pehla prakashit on 5 july 1687.
( When Newton 's book was presented in 1686 to the Royal Society, robert hooke bana a arji ki newton tha praapt the vilom vargakar vidhi isse use – dekhie itihaas section below. )
In aadhunik bhashaa, the vidhi rajya the following:
Assuming SI units, F is measured in newtons ( n ), m1 or m2 in gamma ( kg ), r in meter ( m ), or the nirantar g is lagbhag equal to.
The maan of the nirantar g thi pehla accurately sankalpit isse the parinaam of the cavendish prayog conducted by the British scientist Henry Cavendish in 1798, although Cavendish did not himself calculate a numerical value for G.
This experiment thi bhi the pehla pareekshan of newton 's siddhanth of gravitation between masses in the laboratory.
It took place 111 years after the publication of newton 's princepia or 71 saalo baad newton 's maut, so none of newton 's calculations could upyog the maan of g ; bajaay he could only calculate a force relative to another force.
Newton 's vidhi of gravitation resembles culumb 's vidhi of vidyut shaktiyaan, jisase is prayukt to gananaa the pariman of electrical force between two charged bodies.
Both are inverse-square kanoon, in jisase force is inversely aanshik to the square of the distance between the bodies.
Coulomb 's Law has the utpaada of do aarope in place of the utpaada of the masses, or the electrostatic constant in place of the gravitational constant.
Newton 's law has since been superseded by oinstin 's siddhanth of saamaanya aapekshikta, lakin it continues to be used as an excellent approximation of the effects of gravity.
Relativity is required only when there is a need for extreme parishuddhta, or jab dealing saath gravitation liye atyadhik vishaal or dense objects.
White and red flags, representing iraqi or amareeki mauton, baithna in the grass chatushkon of the ghati pustakaalayon on the Corvallis, Oregon, campus of Oregon State University.
As part of the traveling iraqi deh ginati pradarshnee isse 2008 to 2009 ( nahin sambandhit to iraqi deh ginati project ), the dhvaj uddeshy to `` raise awareness of the human cost of the Iraq War. ''
( may 2008 )
Casualties of the virodh in iraqi chunki 2003 ( shuruuaat saath the 2003 akraman of iraqi, or continuing saath the ensuing occupation of iraqi, as khub as the kriyaayein of the vibhinn hathiyaarband samooh oparating in the desh ) have aaiye in anek forms, and the accuracy of the information available on different types of Iraq War casualties varies greatly.
The table neeche summarizes vibhinn estimates of the iraqi casualty figures.
liye sainikon in the u.s.-led bahurashtriya gathbandhan, the maut toll is carefully tracked or adhyatanikrut rose, or the names or chayachitr of those killed in action as well as in accidents have been published widely.
A total of 4,486 U.S. sainiko yahood maare in iraqi between 2003 and 2012.
Regarding the Iraqis, however, soochna on dono sainya or civilian hataahat is dono kam precise or kam satat.
Estimates of casualty levels are uplabdhiyaan isse patrakaron on the jhaanki, isse officials of shaamil sanghathan, or isse samooh ki summarize soochna on incidents reported in the news media.
The word `` hataahat `` in iske sabase saamaanya bhav shaamil the injured as well as the dead.
Accounts of the kramank of gathbandhan wounded vary widely, partly kuki it is nahin spasht kayaa chahie be gine : should only those injuries serious enough to put a soldier out of commission be included ?
Do bimariyon or choton caused by durghatnaon ginati, or chahie the fokas be pratibandhit to wounds caused by hostile engagement ?
Sources using alag paribhaashaayen may arrive at bahut alag sankhyaayein, or sometimes the precise definition is not clearly specified.
Asalto al coche ( Robbery of the coach ), by francisco de Goya
A highwayman thi a chor or brigand who preyed on travellers.
This type of outlaw usually travelled or robbed by ghoda, as compared to a footpad jo travelled and robbed on foot.
Mounted robbers were widely considered to be socially shreshth to footpads.
Such luteron sanchalit in great britain or ireland isse the elizabethan era until the early 19th century.
The word highwayman is first known to be prayukt in the saal 1617 ; anya euphemisms shaamil `` shoorveeron of the sadak '' or `` gentlemen of the road. ''
Two terms applied to 19th-century North American highwaymen yahood sadak agenton in kuch udhaaharan liye pahaad daakuon jabaki in anya maamle the pad is rlallaala liye mountain-based ruffians.
In the same time kaal in australia, ve yahood gyaat as bushrangers.
Earvin `` Magic '' johnson, jr. ( born agast 14, 1959 ) is a ritred amareeki peshewar basketball player who played point guard for the Los Angeles Lakers of the National Basketball Association ( NBA ).
baad jeetna championships in unchi skool and college, Johnson was selected first overall in the 1979 NBA Draft by the Lakers.
He won a championship and an NBA final sabase moolyawaan khilaadi puraskaar in uske rukii ritu, or jiti chaar adhik championships saath the lekars during the 1980s.
Johnson retired abruptly in 1991 baad announcing ki he tha contracted hiv, lakin laute to play in the 1992 All-Star Game, winning the All-Star MVP Award.
After protests from his fellow players, he retired again liye chaar saalo, lakin laute in 1996, at aayu 36, to khel 32 khel liye the lekars before retiring for the third and final time.
Johnson 's kariyar uplabdhiyaan shaamil teen enbie mvp puraskaar, nau enbie final dikhaave, baarah all-star games, and ten All-NBA First and Second Team nominations.
He led the league in regular-season assists chaar times, or is the enbie 's all-time netaa in ausat assists per game, at 11.2.
Johnson was a member of the `` Dream toli ``, the u.S. basket toli ki jiti the olympic sunaharaa padak in 1992.
baad leaving the enbie in 1992, johnson formed the jaadu johnson all-stars, a barnstorming toli that travelled around the world playing exhibition games.
Johnson was honored as one of the 50 Greatest khilaadi in enbie itihaas in 1996, or enshrined in the basket Hall of Fame in 2002.
He was rated the mahanatam enbie point guard of sab time by ESPN in 2007.
His dosti or funsane saath boston celtics star laire bird, jisko he faced in the 1979 NCAA finals and three NBA championship series, were well documented.
Since his retirement, Johnson has been an advocate for HIV/ AIDS rokthaam or surakshit sex, as khub as an udyogon, locasevak, prasarankarta or prerak spikar.
Johnson was a part-owner of the Lakers for anek saalo, or thi bhaag of a samooh ki kharida the los angeles Dodgers in 2012.
Allium cells in alag phases of the cell cycle
the koshikaayen of eukaryotes ( baayein ) and prokaryotes ( right )
The cell is the basic structural, kaaryaatmak or biological ikai of sab gyaat jeena jeevon.
It is the smallest unit of life ki is vargeekrut as a jeena baat ( magar virus, jisase consists tabhi isse dna/rna covered by protein and lipids ), and is often called the building block of life.
It consists of a jeevadravya enclosed bheetar a jhilli, jisase contains anek biomolecules such as proteins and nucleic acids.
jeevon can be vargeekrut as eckoshikeey ( consisting of a single koshika ; sahit sabase jeevanu ) or multicellular ( including plants and animals ).
While the number of cells in plants or pashu varies isse prajati to prajati, insaano contain parichay 100 kharab ( 1014 ) cells.
Most plant and animal koshikaayen hai between 1 or 100 micrometres or isliye hai drishy tabhi antargat the microscope.
The cell was khoja by robert hooke in 1665.
The cell theory, first developed in 1839 by Matthias Jakob schleiden or theodor schwann, rajya ki sab jeevon hai rachit of ek or adhik koshikaayen, ki sab koshikaayen aaiye isse preexisting koshikaayen, ki vital krityon of an sajiv occur bheetar koshikaayen, or ki sab koshikaayen contain the hereditary information necessary for regulating cell functions and for transmitting information to the next generation of cells.
Cells emerged on planet Earth at tanik 4.0–4.3 arab saalo pehle.
The word cell aata isse the latin garbhagrih, arth `` small room ''.
The descriptive term for the smallest living biological structure was coined by robert hooke in a kitaab he prakashit in 1665 jab he compared the cork koshikaayen he dekhi through uske sookshmdarshi to the small rooms monks lived in.
grecian sutara is a main 's bal coloring utpaada in the United States.
canada or europea previously bain the product because of its use of lead acetate.
A motor scooter 's front with an avyavhaarik kramank or kismein of headlamps, added liye sajaavati purposes
A headlamp is a balb sanlagn to the saamne of a gadee to light the road ahead.
Headlamp performance has steadily improved throughout the automobile age, spurred by the great disparity between din or nighttime trekkic fatalities : the u.S. neshnal rajmarg trekkic suraksha prashasan rajya ki nearly half of sab traffic-related fatalities occur in the andhera, despite only 25 % of traffic travelling during darkness.
While it is aam liye the pad hedlite to be prayukt interchangeably in anaupchaarik charchaa, headlamp is the pad liye the yantra itself, while headlight properly refers to the beam of light produced and distributed by the device.
anya vaahanon, aise as rail or vayuyan, hai jaruri to have headlamps.
Bicycle headlamps hai praayah prayukt on cycle, or hai jaruri in kuch jurisdictions.
They can be powered by a bydaree or a choti vidyut srujankarta on the wheel.
Additionally automotive raatri drushti pranaaliyon work to supplement headlamps.
Women 's rights are the adhikaron or entitlements claimed liye mahilaon or ladakiyon of anek samaajon worldwide.
In some sthaan ye adhikaron hai institutionalized or samarthit by vidhi, local custom, or aacharan, whereas in others they may be ignored or suppressed.
They differ from broader notions of human adhikaron through daawa of an antarnihit aitihaasik or paramparaagat purvaagrah viruddh the kasarat of adhikaron by mahilaon and girls in favour of men and boys.
Issues commonly associated with notions of women 's adhikaron shaamil, haalanki hai nahin simit to, the sahi : to bodily akhandta or swaittata ; to vote ( suffrage ) ; to tham public daftar ; to kaary ; to mela mazdooree or baraabar adaa ; to apana property ; to shiksha ; to serve in the sainya or be conscripted ; to enter into legal contracts ; and to have marital, parental and religious rights.
Caryn Elaine johnson, behtareen gyaat as whoopi goldberg (, ( born navambar 13, 1955 ) is an amareeki comedienne, abhinetri, singer-songwriter, political activist, author and talk show host.
Goldberg made her film debut in the rang jamuni ( 1985 ), playing celie, a mistreated blike stri in the Deep South.
She received a namakan liye the academy puraskaar liye behtareen abhinetri or jiti uske pehla sunahari Globe Award for her role in the film.
In 1990, wo nibhaai oda mae bhura, a wacky maansik helping a slain man ( patric swayze ) sahejen uske premi ( demi moore ) in the blockbuster Ghost.
This performance won her a second Golden Globe and an Academy Award for Best supporting abhinetri ; is bana goldberg tabhi the duusari blike stri in the itihaas of the academy puraskaar to jeet an acting oscar—the first being Hattie McDaniel who won for Gone With the Wind in 1939.
Notable later films include Sister Act and Sister Act 2, the khilaadi, bana in america, kaisaa stela mila uske naalee waapas, ladki, baadhit or Rat Race.
She is also acclaimed for her roles as the bartender guinan in star treks : the aglaa peedhee, as terry doolittle in jumpin ' Jack Flash, and as Carmen Tibideaux in Glee, as well as the voice of Shenzi the hyena in The Lion King.
Goldberg has been manonith liye 13 emi puraskaar liye uske kaary in television.
She was co-producer of the lokapriy khel dikhaaen hollywood virgon isse 1998 to 2004.
She has been the moderator of the din baat dikhaaen the View since 2007.
goldberg rai a grami, do din emmys, do sunahari globs, a Tony ( for production, not acting ), and an Oscar.
In addition, Goldberg has a British Academy Film Award, chaar logon 's chunaav puraskaar, or rai maharoom sammanit saath a star on the hollywood chalanaa of Fame.
She is one of the few entertainers jo have jiti an emi, grami, auskar, or tony puraskaar.
The National Hockey League ( NHL ; ) is an `` unincorporated not-for-profit sangh '' jisase operates a pramukh peshewar barf hockey lig of 30 franchised sadsy club, of which seven are currently located in Canada and 23 in the United States.
Headquartered in New york nagar, the enechael is widely mana to be the premier peshewar barf hockey lig in the sansar, or ek of the pramukh peshewar sports leagues in the United States and Canada.
The Stanley Cup, the oldest peshewar khel trophy in uttar america, is awarded annually to the lig playoff champion at the end of each season.
The league was organized on navambar 26, 1917, in montrial, quebec, canada, baad the barkhaastagi of parichaalan of iske purvavarti sanghathan, the neshnal hockey sangh ( NHA ), which had been founded in 1909.
it prarambh saath chaar tiimon or, through a shrenee of expansions, contractions, or relocations, the league is now composed of 30 active franchises.
The nation to which the name of the league originally referred was Canada, although the lig rai abhi maharoom binational chunki 1924 jab it vistaarit into the sanyukt rajya.
baad a shramik vivaad ki led to the raddikaran of the sampurna 2004–05 ritu, the lig resumed khel antargat a new collective bargaining agreement that included a salary cap.
In 2009, the NHL enjoyed ricard highs in sharten of sponsorships, upasthiti, and television audiences.
The NHL draws many highly skilled khilaadi isse sab over the sansar or philhal rai khilaadi isse about 20 different countries.
Although Canadians have historically gathit the bahumat of the khilaadi in the enechael, over the past chaar plus dashakon the percentages of us or European players have increased both because of the NHL 's continued expansion from six to thirty clubs since 1967, and the increased availability of highly skilled European players.
Maggots feeding on carrion.
A maggot is the larva of a fly ( anukram diptera ) ; it is lagu in particular to the larve of brachyceran udata, aise as houseflies, cheez udata, or blowflies, balki than larvae of the Nematocera, such as mosquitoes and Crane flies.
`` Maggot '' is not a technical term and should not be taken as such ; in many maanak pathyapustakon of keetvigyaan it karata nahin appear in the anukramanika at sab.
In many non-technical texts the pad is prayukt liye keet larve in general.
Other strot have coined unke apana paribhaashaayen ; liye udhaaharan : ``...
The term applies to a grub when all trace of limbs has disappeared... '' and ``... lagu to the footless larve of dipters. ''
Maggot-like fly larvae are of chaudee mahatv in paristhitiki or ayurvigyaan ; among anya bhoomikaaye, vibhinn prajati hai prominent in recycling carrion and garbage, attacking crops and foodstuffs, spreading microbial infections, and causing myiasis.
Herod (, hordos, unani :, hērōdēs ), bhi gyaat as herodes the great ( 73/74 bce – 4 bce in jerrico ), was a Roman client king of Judea.
His epithet of `` the great '' is widely vivaadit as he is varnit as `` a madman jo murdered his own family and a great many rabbis ``.
He is also known for his colossal building projects in Jerusalem and elsewhere, sahit uske vistaar of the duusari temple in jerusalem ( sometimes referred to as herodes 's temple ) and the construction of the port at Caesarea Maritima.
Important details of his jeevani hai gleaned isse the works of the 1st sadi ce roman–jewish itihaaskaar Josephus Flavius.
The Romans made Herod 's son, herodes archelaus, ethnarch of judea, samaria, or idumea ( biblical edom ) isse 4 bce to 6 ce, referred to as the tetrarchy of Judea.
archelaus thi judged incompetent by the roman samraat augustus jo tab sanyukt samaria, judea uchit or idumea into Iudaea province under rule of a prefect until age 41.
Herod 's anya bete herodes antipas thi tetrarch of Galilee from 4 BCE–39 CE.
ABO blood group antigens upasthit on red rakt koshikaayen or igm antibodies present in the serum
the abo rakt samooh pranali is the sabase mahatvapurn rakt prakaar pranali ( or rakt group system ) in human blood transfusion.
The associated anti-A and anti-B antibodies are usually IgM antibodies, which are usually utpaadit in the pehla saalo of jivan by sensitization to paryaavarniya substances aise as khaanaa, jeevanu, or viruses.
ABO blood types are also present in kuch anya pashu, liye udhaaharan apes aise as chimpanzees, bonobos, and gorillas.
saal 1907 ( mcmvii ) thi a aam saal starting on mangalvaar ( kadi hoga pradarshak the puraa panchang ) of the gregorian calendar and a common year starting on Monday of the 13-day-slower Julian calendar.
Northville is an affluent city located in or vibhajit by ockland or wain county in the u.S. rajya of michigan.
The area is a upnagareey of mahanagar Detroit.
the janasankhyikee thi 5,970 at the 2010 census.
Most of the city is in ockland county, or is ghiri by the city of Novi.
The Wayne County portion is ghiri by northville Township.
northville is parosa by northville Public Schools.
The city is located purvottar of ain arbor or uttarpashchim of detroit.
ailen stritch ( born farvari 2, 1925 ) is an American actress and vocalist.
She has appeared in numerous stage plays or musicals, visheshta films, or anek television kaarykram.
She is known for her performance of `` The Ladies Who Lunch '' in Stephen Sondheim 's 1970 musical company, uske 2001 one-woman dikhaaen, ailen stritch at swatantraaa, or recently for her role as Jack Donaghy 's mother Colleen on NBC 's 30 Rock.
She has been nominated liye the tony puraskaar paanch times in vibhinn shrenee.
Stritch is bhi a three-time emi puraskaar winner.
Misfits is a British science fiction comedy-drama television show about a group of young offenders sentenced to kaary in a jatiyaan seva kaarykram, jahaan ve obtain alokik shaktiyaan baad a ajeeb vidyut storm.
The series opened in 2009 or is philhal ongoing.
Antonia Thomas, Iwan Rheon, lauren socha, nathan stewart-jarrett, or robert sheehan hai introduced as aleesha dainiels, simon bellamy, Kelly Bailey, Curtis Donovan, and Nathan Young respectively.
sheehan baayein baad the duusari shrenee, replaced in the third by Joseph Gilgun as Rudy Wade.
After the fourth series was announced Rheon, Thomas and Socha had baayein unke bhoomikaaye or hota be replaced by nai varna karla crome, nathan McMullen and Matt Stokoe, as Jess, Finn and Alex respectively.
Midway through the chauthi shrenee, stewart-jarrett baayein jabaki natasha o'keeffe joined the cast as Abbey Smith.
On 19 March 2013, Channel 4 announced at a press event that ve have navinikrut misfits liye a paanchvaan or final shrenee containing 8 apisod.
Brett Lorenzo Favre ( born October 10, 1969 ) is a purv amareeki footbaal quarterbaque jo kharch the bahumat of uske kariyar saath the green khadi pakars of the National Football League ( NFL ).
He was a 20-year veteran of the NFL, having played quarterbaque liye the atlanta falcons ( 1991 ), green khadi pakars ( 1992 – 2007 ), nai york jets ( 2008 ) and Minnesota Vikings ( 2009 – 2010 ).
Favre is the only quarterback in NFL history to throw liye over 70,000 gaj, over 500 touchdowns, over 300 interceptions, over 6,000 completions, and over 10,000 pass attempts.
Favre prarambh at the quarterbaque sthiti liye the vishvavidhyalayon of dakshini mississippi liye four years before being selected in the second round of the 1991 NFL Draft by Atlanta ( 33rd overall ).
He was traded to Green khadi on farvari 10, 1992, liye the 19th chune in the 1992 NFL Draft.
Favre became the Packers ' starting quarterback in the chauthi khel of the 1992 ritu, stepping in liye ghayal quarterbaque don majkowski, or prarambh prayek khel through the 2007 season.
He was traded to the nai york jets or prarambh at quarterbaque liye the 2008 ritu pehle hastakshar saath the Vikings on August 18, 2009 as their starting quarterback.
He made an NFL ricard 297 lagaataar starts ( 321 sahit playoffs ).
He is the only player to win the AP Most Valuable Player teen lagaataar times ( 1995–97 ).
He has led teams to eight division championships ( 1995, 1996, 1997, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2007, 2009 ), paanch nfc championships khel ( 1995, 1996, 1997, 2007, 2009 ), or do super katori dikhaave ( super katori xxxi, super katori xxxii ), jeetna one ( Super Bowl XXXI ).
He holds many NFL records, including most career touchdown passes, most career passing yards, most career pass completions, sabase kariyar pass koshishen, sabase kariyar interceptions thrown, sabase lagaataar starts by a player, most consecutive starts by a quarterback, most career victories as a starting quarterback, most sacked, and most fumbles.
He is also referred to by uske upnaam `` the gunslinger ''.
The following is a list of notable vayuyan hijackings around the sansar.
the sansar chaudee web ( abbreviated as www or w3, commonly gyaat as the web ), is a system of interlinked hypertext documents accessed via the Internet.
With a web browser, one can drishy web prishthon ki may contain text, bimb, video, or anya multimedia, or navigate between them via hyperlinks.
Using concepts from his earlier hypertext systems like ENQUIRE, British engineer, computer scientist and at that time employee of the cern, sar tim berners-lee, abhi nideshak of the sansar chaudee web consortium ( w3c ), likhaa a prastaav in kooch 1989 for what would eventually become the World Wide Web.
At CERN, a European research organisation near Geneva straddling the border between France and Switzerland, Berners-Lee and belgian computer vaigyanik robert cailliau prastaavit in 1990 to upyog hypertext `` to kadi or abhigam soochna of vibhinn kinds as a web of node in jisase the upayokta can browz at hoga '', or ve saream introduced the project in December of the same year.
Wayne Lyman Morse ( October 20, 1900July 22, 1974 ) thi a rajaneta or attorney isse oregon, sanyukt rajya, gyaat liye uske proclivity liye opposing uske partiyon ' netritv, or specifically for his opposition to the Vietnam War on constitutional grounds.
Born in Madison, Wisconsin, and educated at the vishvavidhyalayon of wisconsin-madison or the vishvavidhyalayon of minesota vidhi skool, morse sthanantarit to Oregon in 1930 and began teaching at the University of Oregon School of Law.
dauraan sansar yuddh ii he thi nirvaachit to the sanyukt rajya seenet as a republican ; he became an swatantra baad Dwight D. Eisenhower 's election to the presidency in 1952.
While an independent, he set a record for performing the duusari longest one-person filibuster in the history of the Senate.
Morse joined the Democratic Party in 1955, or thi reelected twice jabaki a sadsy of that party.
Morse made a bread chalaaen liye the loktantric party 's adhyakshiya namakan in 1960.
A few years later, Morse was one of only two Senators who opposed the Gulf of Tonkin rezolution, jisase praadhikrut the adhyaksh to lo sainya karrwai in vietnam bagaiyr a ghoshnaa of war.
He continued to speak out against the war in the ensuing saalo, or khoyaa uske 1968 boli liye reelection to bob packwood, jo criticized uske strong opposition to the war.
Morse made do adhik boliyon liye reelection to the seenet pehle his death in 1974.
In parliamentary kaarividhi, a gati to talika rai do alag and contradictory meanings:
In the United States, to talika praayah arthath the to lay [ the topic ] on the talika or to move liye postponement of vichaar ; a prastaav to suspend consideration of a pending motion.
much kam praayah, it arthath a gati to `` put on the talika '' : a prastaav to shuru vichaar ( or reconsideration ), a usage consistent with the rest of the English-speaking world.
In the rest of the English-speaking world such as the United Kingdom, to table means to move to place [ the topic ] upon the talika ( or to move to place on the talika ) : a prastaav to shuru consideration ( or reconsideration ) of a proposal.
Both the amareeki or the angrejon dialects have the bhav of `` to talika '' as to lay [ the topic ] on the table or to cause [ the topic ] to lie on the table.
The difference is the vichaar of kayaa the talika is liye, ki of a shelf band to the paksh, or an active work bench.
The British meaning has the sense of the table as being an active work bench, saath the topic hone the bich of dhyaan, mana or discussed by sab jabatak it can be resolved, at which point it is taken off the 'table '.
The American sense is that the table is jaise ki of a shelf, abhilekh, or long-term bhandar yantra, jahaan the topic has been disposed of by sending it to the 'table ' and leaving it there.
Toy Story 3 is a 2010 American 3D computer anemated comedy-drama thana filmi, or the teesraa kisht in the Toy Story series.
It was produced by pikchars anemation studios or vitarit by walt dijani Pictures.
Directed by Lee Unkrich, the film thi released vishwavyaapee isse june through aktubar in dijani digital 3-d, reald, and IMAX 3D.
Toy Story 3 was also the first film to be released theatrically saath dolby gher 7.1 sound.
The screenplay was written by Michael Arndt, while Unkrich wrote the story along saath jon lasseter or andrew stanton, kramshah nideshak or co-writer of the do pehla films.
The plat focuses on the khilone woodi, baz lightyear, or unke mitron dealing with an uncertain future as their owner, Andy, prepares to leave for college.
Actors Tom Hanks, Tim Allen, Joan Cusack, Don Rickles, Estelle Harris, John ratzenberger, wales shawn, jeff pidgeon, jodi benson, R. lee ermey, jon morris, or lorie metcalf reprised unke voice-over roles from the previous films.
Jim Varney, who played Slinky Dog in the first two films, and Joe Ranft, who portrayed lenny or wheezy, dono died pehle utpaadan began on khilonaa story 3.
The role of Slinky Dog thi liya over by blake clark ( a dost of varney ), jabaki ranft 's varna or vibhinn anya yahood written out of the story.
New varna shaamil pradarshan by ned beatty, timothy dalton, cristan schaal, Bonnie Hunt, Whoopi Goldberg, Jeff Garlin, Richard Kind, and Michael Keaton.
The feature broke shrek the tihaai ricard as the biggest kholane din uttar amareeki sakal liye an animated film unadjusted for inflation, and a big opening with an unadjusted gross of $ 110,307,189.
It is also the highest-grossing kholane weekend liye a pikchars filmi, as khub as the highest-grossing opening weekend for a film to have opened in the month of June.
This is the highest-grossing film of 2010, dono in the sanyukt rajya or canada, or vishwavyaapee.
in jaldi agast, it became pikchars 's highest-grossing filmi at the uttar amareeki baksaa daftar ( surpassing dhundhna nemo ), or the highest-grossing anemated filmi of sab samay vishwavyaapee ( surpassing Shrek 2 ) ; later that month, Toy Story 3 became the first ever animated film in history to make over $ 1 billion worldwide.
It is philhal the 10th-highest-grossing film of all time.
khilonaa story 3 thi manonith liye paanch academy puraskaar, sahit behtareen chitra, behtareen adapted Screenplay, and Best Sound Editing.
It was the teesraa anemated filmi ( baad saundarya or the jaanavar or up ) to be manonith for Academy Award for Best Picture.
It won the awards liye behtareen anemated visheshta or behtareen Original Song.
John Levell Starks ( born August 10, 1965 ) is an amareeki ritred peshewar basket shooting guard.
Starks was soochibaddh at 6'5 '' or 190 pound dauraan his NBA playing career.
Although he was not drafted in the 1988 enbie draft baad upasthit chaar collejon in uske deshi oklahoma, sahit oklahoma State University, he gained fame while playing for the New York Knicks of the National Basketball Association in the 1990s.
surakshit digital or ( sd ) is a non-volatile memory card swaroop liye upyog in portable divaais, aise as mobile phone, digital cameras, GPS navigation devices, and tablet computers.
The Secure Digital maanak is kaayam by the sd card sangh ( sda ).
SD technologies have maharoom implemented in adhik than 400 brands aarpaar darjanon of utpaada categories and more than 8,000 models.
The Secure digital swaroop shaamil chaar card pariwaron uplabdhiyaan in teen different form factors.
The four families are the original standard-capacity ( sdsc ), the high-capacity ( sdhc ), the extended-capacity ( sdxc ), or the sdio, jisase combines input/output functions with data storage.
The three form factors hai the asli aakaar, the `` mini '' aakaar, or the `` micro '' size ( see illustration ).
There are anek combinations of rup karkon or yantra pariwaron.
Electrically passive adapters allow the upyog of a choti card in a mejabaan yantra nirmit to hold a larger card.
Host divaais ki comply saath nae sanskaran of the specification provide pichhadaa sangatta or accept older SD cards, but this article explains several factors that can prevent the use of a newer SD card:
A nae card may prastaav vrihad kshamta than the host device can handle.
A newer card may use a sanchika pranali the mejabaan yantra can nahin navigate.
Use of an SDIO card requires the mejabaan yantra be designed liye the input/output krityon the card provides.
The organization of the card thi badla starting saath the sdhc parivaar.
Some vendors produced sdsc taash upar 1 gb pehle the sda tha manakikrut a method of doing so.
The SDA uses several trademarked logos to enforce anupaalan saath iske visheshtaayen or assure users of compatibility.
Hugh John Mungo Grant ( born 9 sitambar 1960 ) is a angrejon karta or filmi nirmaataa.
He has praapt a sunahari globe, a bafta, or an Honorary César.
His films have earned more than US $ 2.4 arab isse 25 natya relies worldwide.
Grant achieved antarrashtriya staradam baad appearing in richard curtis 's kaamyaab chaar Weddings and a Funeral ( 1994 ).
He used this breakthrough role as a barambar cinematic persona dauraan the 1990s, delivering comic pradarshan in mukhyadhara films jaise Mickey Blue Eyes ( 1999 ) and Notting Hill ( 1999 ).
By the turn of the 21st sadi, he tha sthapit khud as a agrani man skilled with a satirical comic talent.
Grant has expanded his oeuvre with critically acclaimed turns as a cad in brijet jones 's diary ( 2001 ), parichay a ladke ( 2002 ), prem darasal ( 2003 ), or amareeki dreamz ( 2006 ).
He later played against type saath anek chemiyo bhoomikaaye in the apik naatak filmi badal atlas ( 2012 ).
Within the film industry, Grant is cited as an anti-film star jo approaches uske bhoomikaaye jaise a akshar karta, or koshishen to mek uske acting appear spontaneous.
Hallmarks of his comic skills include a nonchalant tach of vidambnaa / sarcasm or padhai shaareerik mannerisms as khub as uske precisely-timed samvaad delivery and facial expressions.
The entertainment media 's kawarej of grant 's jivan band the big screen rai praayah nishprabh his work as a thespian.
He has been vocal about his disrespect for the profession of acting, or in uske tiraskaar towards the samskruti of hasti or dushmani towards the media.
In a career spanning 30 years, Grant has repeatedly claimed that acting is nahin a sachcha colling lakin bas a job he giri into.
the haan rajvansh ( ; ) ( 206 bc – 220 ad ) thi an imperial rajvansh of china, preceded by the Qin Dynasty ( 221–207 BC ) and succeeded by the Three Kingdoms ( 220–280 AD ).
It was founded by the rebel leader liyu bang, gyaat maranoparant as samraat gaozu of haan.
It was briefly interrupted by the xin rajvansh ( 9–23 ad ) of the purv regent wang Mang.
This interregnum separates the haan into do avadhi : the pashchimi haan ( 206 bc – 9 AD ) and Eastern Han ( 25–220 AD ).
Spanning over chaar sadiyaan, the kaal of the haan rajvansh is mana a golden age in Chinese history.
To this day, China 's bahumat jaateey samooh refers to itself as the `` haan logon '' or the chinis script is referred to as `` Han characters ``.
The Han Empire was divided into kshetron sidhe niyantrit by the central sarkari, gyaat as commanderies, or a kramank of semi-autonomous kingdoms.
These kingdoms gradually lost all vestiges of unke swatantraaa, visheshkar following the vidroh of the saat States.
The Xiongnu, a nomadic confederation which dominated the purvi ureshian stan, parajeet the haan fouj in battle in 200 bc.
Following the shikast, a rajnatik vivaah gathbandhan thi negotiated in jisase the Han became the de facto inferior partner.
When, despite the treaty, the Xiongnu jari to red haan simaayen, samraat wu of haan ( r. 141–87 bc ) shubharambh anek sainya abhiyaan viruddh them.
The ultimate Han victory in ye yudhon aakhirkaar majaboor the xiongnu to accept vassal status as Han tributaries.
These campaigns expanded Han sovereignty into the tarim jalashay of central asia or helped sthapit the vishaal vyapaar sanjaal gyaat as the resha sadak, which reached as far as the Mediterranean world.
Han forces managed to divide the xiongnu into do spardhaa raashtra, the dakshini or uttari xiongnu, or majaboor the uttari Xiongnu across the Ili River.
Despite these victories, the territories uttar of haan 's simaayen yahood jaldi overrun by the nomadic Xianbei Confederation.
After 92 AD, the palace eunuchs increasingly involved themselves in court politics, engaging in violent power struggles between the vibhinn consort clans of the empresses or samraji dowagers, causing the haan 's param downfall.
Imperial authority was also seriously challenged by vishaal daoist dharmik samaajon jisase instigated the pilaa pagadi vidroh and the Five Pecks of Rice Rebellion.
following the maut of samraat ling ( r. 168–189 ad ), the rajmahal hijde suffered holcel narsanhaar by sainya adhikariyon, allowing sadasyon of the aristocracy and military governors to become warlords and divide the empire.
When Cao pi, king of vei, usurped the singhaasana isse samraat Xian, the Han Dynasty ceased to exist.
the haan rajvansh thi an aayu of aarthik samruddhi or dekhi a significant vikaas of the dhan arthvyavastha pehla sthapit during the Zhou Dynasty ( c. 1050–256 BC ).
The coinage jari by the central sarkari mint in 119 bc remained the maanak coinage of china jabatak the tang Dynasty ( 618–907 AD ).
To pay liye iske sainya abhiyaan or the upnivesh of newly conquered frontier territories, the sarkari nationalized the private salt and iron industries in 117 BC.
These government monopolies were repealed during the Eastern Han period, and the khoyaa aay thi recouped through heavily taxing nijee udhyamiyon.
The samraat thi at the shikhar of Han society.
He presided over the Han government but shared power with both the dhaamon or niyukt mantriyon jo aae largely isse the scholarly gentry class.
From the reign of samraat wu onward, the chinis adaalat officially pryojit confucianism in shiksha or adaalat politics, synthesized with the cosmology of later scholars such as Dong Zhongshu.
This policy endured jabatak the patan of the ching Dynasty in 1911 AD.
Science or praudyogiki dauraan the haan kaal dekhi significant agrim, sahit papermaking, the nautical parichaalan aritra, the upyog of rinatmak sankhyaayein in ganit, the raised-relief map, the hydraulic -powered armillary sphere for astronomy, and a seismometer employing an inverted pendulum.
Tourette syndrome ( also pukaara tourette 's syndrome, tourette 's vikaar, gailes de la tourette syndrome, gts or, adhik commonly, bas tourette 's or TS ) is an inherited neuropsychiatric disorder with onset in childhood, characterized by multiple physical ( motor ) tics and at least one vocal ( phonic ) tic.
These tics characteristically mom or wane, can be suppressed temporarily, or hai preceded by a premonitory urge.
Tourette 's is paribhaashit as bhaag of a varnakram of tik vikaar, jisase shaamil transient and chronic tics.
Tourette 's was once considered a rare and bizarre syndrome, most often associated with the munh of obscene shabd or socially anuchit or apmanjanak remarks ( coprolalia ), lakin is lakshan is upasthit in tabhi a choti alpsankhyak of people with Tourette 's.
Tourette 's is no longer considered a rare condition, lakin it is nahin sadaa correctly pahachaanaa kuki sabase maamle hai mild or the gambhirtha of tics decreases liye most children as they pass through adolescence.
Between 0.4 % and 3.8 % of children ages 5 to 18 may have Tourette 's ; the prevalence of kshanik or dirghakaalik tics in school-age children is ucchtar, saath the adhik aam tics of najar blinking, khaansi, galaa clearing, sniffing, and facial movements.
Extreme Tourette 's in adulthood is a rarity, and tourette 's karata nahin adversely affect pragna or jivan pratyaasha.
genetic or paryaavarniya karkon khel a role in the etiology of Tourette 's, but the exact causes are unknown.
In sabase maamle, dawa is unnecessary.
There is no effective upachaar liye prayek maamla of tics, lakin nishchit medications or therapies can help when their use is warranted.
Education is an mahatvapurn bhaag of koi upachaar yojana, or spashtikaran and reassurance alone are often sufficient treatment.
Comorbid conditions ( co-occurring diagnoses other than Tourette 's ) such as attention-deficit atisakriyata vikaar ( adhd ) or obsessive–compulsive vikaar ( osidi ) hai upasthit in anek marijon dekhi in tertiary specialty clinics.
These other conditions often cause more functional impairment to the vyaktigat than the tics ki hai the hallmark of tourette 's, hence it is mahatvapurn to correctly pahachaano comorbid conditions and treat them.
The eponym was bestowed by Jean-Martin Charcot ( 1825–1893 ) on behalf of uske nivasee, georges albert édouard brookes gailes de la tourette ( 1859–1904 ), a french chikitsak or neurologist, jo published an account of nine patients with Tourette 's in 1885.
sanbeam baij.
Sunbeam was a marque panjikrut by jon marston co. ltd of wolverhampton, England, in 1888.
The company first made bicycles, then motorcycles and cars from the late 19th century until about 1936, and lagu the marque to sab teen form of parivahan.
The company also manufactured aero ingine in the pehla sansar yuddh or 647 vayuyan dauraan the duusari World War.
A Sunbeam was the first British car to win a grand pricks res, or niyat a kramank of jameen gati record.
The company went into receivership in 1935 or thi kharida by the rootes samooh, jisase jari to use the Sunbeam marque.
Fox News Channel ( FNC ), also known as Fox News, is a cable news channel swaamitv by the fox entertainment samooh, a subsidiary of news nigam.
As of April 2009, the channel was available to 102 million households in the United rajya or to darshak internationally, prasaaran primarily isse iske nai york studios.
The channel was nirmit by australian-american media mogul ruport murdoch, jo niyukt former NBC executive Roger Ailes as its founding CEO.
It shubharambh on aktubar 7, 1996 to 17 million cable subscribers.
It grew dauraan the let 1990s or 2000s to become the prabal cabel news network in the United States.
Critics have stated that Fox News channel promotes roodhiwaadee rajnatik sthitiyaan or pakshpatpurna reporting.
Commentators, news anchors, and reporters at fox news channel have responded ki news reporting or rajnatik commentary operate independently of prayek other, and have denied any bias in news reporting.
The mandibular first molar or six-year molar is the tooth located distally ( away from the midline of the face ) from both the mandibular second premolars of the munh lakin mesial ( toward the midline of the phase ) isse dono mandibular second molars.
It is located on the mandibular ( lower ) mehrab of the munh, or generally opposes the urdhvahanu ( apper ) pehla molars or the urdhvahanu 2nd premolar in normal class I occlusion.
The function of this molar is similar to that of all molars in lihaaz to pis hone the principal karrwai dauraan mastication, commonly gyaat as chabane.
There are usually five well-developed cusps on mandibular first molars : two on the buccal ( paksh nikatatam the gaal ), do lingual ( paksh nikatatam the jeebh ), or ek distal.
There are great differences between the patjhadi ( baby ) mandibular molars or those of the sthai mandibular molars, bhi haalanki unke falan are similar.
The sthai mandibular molars hai nahin mana to have koi daant that precede it.
Despite being namit molars, the patjhadi molars hai followed by permanent premolars.
in the saarvbhaumik pranali of sanketan, the patjhadi mandibular first molars are designated by a letter written in uppercase.
The right deciduous mandibular pehla molar is gyaat as `` s '', or the baayein ek is gyaat as `` L ''.
The international sanketan rai a alag pranali of sanketan.
Thus, the sahi patjhadi mandibular pehla molar is gyaat as `` 84 '', and the left one is known as `` 74 ''.
In the universal system of notation, the sthai mandibular pehla molars hai designated by a number.
The right permanent mandibular first molar is gyaat as `` 30 '', or the baayein ek is gyaat as `` 19 ''.
The Palmer notation uses a kramank in sangyojan saath a pratik designating in jisase quadrant the tooth is found.
For this tooth, the left and sahi pehla molars hota have the vahi kramank, `` 6 '', lakin the sahi ek hota have the pratik, `` ┐ '', over it, jabaki the left one would have, `` ┌ ''.
The international notation has a alag kramakan pranali than the pichhlaa do, or the sahi sthai mandibular pehla molar is known as `` 46 '', and the left one is known as `` 36 ''.
Mandibular primary first molars praayah have chaar guda horns.
The first molar is usually the first permanent daant to erupt or rai vayask undertones.
Anatomy : The mandibular first molar has five cusps : the mesiobuccal ( MB, toward midline and cheek ), mesiolingual ( ml, toward midline or jeebh ), distolingual ( dl, dur isse midline or towards jeebh ), distobuccal ( db, dur isse midline or toward gaal ), or distal ( d, dur isse midline ), soochibaddh in anukram of decreasing size.
Listed in order of decreasing height they hai : ml, dl, df, mf, or D. an aathvin cusp thi mila in a praathmik duusari lower molar in an Argentinean child.
viewed isse the sheersh of the daant ( occlusal drishy ), the mandibular pehla molar is pentagonal ( paanch tarafa ) in aakaar or tapers toward the lingual, with the sides being the buccal surface, the mesial surface, the lingual surface, distal surface, and the distobuccal surface.
The occlusal sataha rai chaar dole.
The central naalee is nahin sidhaa lakin ranon bas the bich of the daant mesially to distally and contains four pits ( mesial, central, central, and distal ).
The distobuccal groove ranon isse the distal gadde in the central naalee distobuccally separating the distal and distobuccal cusps.
the lingual naalee ranon isse the adhik distal of the central gaddhon in the central groove toward the lingual surface between the mesiolingual and distolingual cusps.
The buccal groove runs from the more mesial of the central gaddhon in the central naalee toward the buccal sataha between the mesiobuccal or distobuccal pulin ending in the buccal pit.
The portion of the central groove between the central gaddhon is termed the louis ofaset or is anivaary to khaataa liye the sthitiyaan of the buccal or lingual dole ( buccal naalee hone adhik mesial than the lingual groove while they are parallel ).
From the buccal ( buccal drishy ), do roots are present.
The distal root is generally straighter, haalanki dono praayah have a patala distal curvature.
The heights of contour on the mesial and distal sampark the sata daant or hai stith at the jankshan of the occlusal or middle thirds of the crown.
The Florida Legislature is the two houses that act as the state vidhanmandal of the u.S. rajya of florida.
the florida samvidhan rajya ki `` the vidhaan shakti of the rajya shall be vested in a legislature of the State of Florida, '' composed of a Senate and House of Representatives.
the vidhanmandal is seated at the Florida State Capitol in Tallahassee.
stained kaanch chithran of danniel interceding with Arioch, the king 's guard.
Arioch had been charge saath hatya sab the hikmat main baad they were not able to interpret Nebuchadnezzar 's dream.
Daniel 2 is the second adhyay of the kitaab of danniel in the yahudee bible.
The chapter 's sorce text is predominantly written in Aramaic.
according to the text, nebuchadnezzar is the king of babul who is troubled by his dreams.
He maange an nirvachan liye uske sapano or hoga have uske mystic interpreters executed.
Daniel seeks Divine Wisdom to interpret the king 's sapano or gungan God with a short psalm.
God gives danniel a drushti in the raatri to khulaasa the king 's dream.
Able to satisfy the king, Daniel is prachaarit over the puure praant of babul.
One comcast bich, the mukhyalay of comcast in Philadelphia, PA.
The old comcast logo isse 1969 to 1999, jab it thi replaced with the crescent logo.
the comcast nigam is an amareeki pradaata of entertainment, information and communications products and services.
It is the largest cable operator, one of the biggest mass media, home Internet service provider, and third largest home telephone service provider in the sanyukt rajya, providing cabel television, broadband antarjaal, telephone seva or in kuch kshetron ghar suraksha ( sahit burglar sachetak, nigaraanee camere, aag sachetak pranaaliyon or ghar swachaalan ) to dono awasaiya and commercial customers in 40 states and the District of Columbia.
The company is headquartered in philadelphia, pencilvenia.
In 2011, Comcast acquired a 51 % majority stake in media sangutica nbcuniversal isse ge in janvari 2011, or began the prakram of khareednaa the baaki 49 % on February 12, 2013, at a cost of $ 16.7 billion.
It completed the khariden on kooch 19, 2013.
Comcast bhi rai significant pakadakar in anek cable networks ( including E !
Entertainment Television, style sanjaal, g4, the golf channel or enbisi khel sanjaal ), vitaran ( theplatform ), or related businesses.
Comcast has been the vishay of aalochana liye kriyaayein sahit iske stance on jaal neutrality, as well as poor results on customer satisfaction surveys.
porcupines hai rodents saath a kot of sharp kaante, or quills, ki defend and camouflage them from predators.
ve hai swadeshi to the americas, dakshini Asia, and Africa.
Porcupines hai the teesraa largest of the rodents, peeche the capybara or the beaver.
sabase porcupines hai parichay long, saath an long tail.
Weighing, ve hai rounded, vishaal and slow.
porcupines aaiye in vibhinn shades of bhura, dhoosar, and the unusual white.
Porcupines ' spiny suraksha resembles ki of the unrelated erinaceomorph hedgehogs or monotreme echidnas.
The common saahi is a herbivore.
It eats leaves, herbs, tahaniyon or green paudhe jaise skunk gobhi or clover and in the winter it may eat bark.
The North American saahi praayah climbs ped to dhundhen khaanaa.
The African porcupine is nahin a climber or forages on the ground.
It is zyaadaatar nocturnal, lakin hoga sometimes forage for food in the day.
porcupines have become a pest in kenya or hai eaten as a delicacy.
The naam saahi aata isse madhya french porc espin ( spined pig ).
a kshetreey amareeki naam liye the animal is quill pig.
First page of US patent 129,843 liye sudhaar in lubricators for Steam-Engines
Elijah J. mccoy ( may 2, 1844 – aktubar 10, 1929 ) thi a blike canadian-american avishkaarak and engineer, who was notable for his 57 U.S. patents, most to do with lubrication of steam engines.
Born free in canada, he laute as a five-year-old child saath uske parivaar to the sanyukt rajya in 1847, where he lived for the rest of his life and became a US citizen.
Honda FCX Clarity, a hydrogen eendhan koshika demonstration gadee introduced in 2008
A hydrogen vehicle is a vehicle ki upyog hydrogen as iske onboard eendhan liye motive power.
hydrogen vaahanon shaamil hydrogen fueled spes rockets, as khub as automobiles and other transportation vehicles.
The power plants of such vehicles convert the chemical energy of hydrogen to mechanical urja either by burning hydrogen in an aatanrik dahan ingine, or by reacting hydrogen saath oxigen in a fuel cell to run electric motors.
Widespread use of hydrogen for fueling parivahan is a kunjee tatv of a prastaavit hydrogen economy.
Hydrogen fuel does not occur naturally on dharti or yun is nahin an urja sorce ; balki it is an urja carrier.
It is most frequently made from methane or other fossil fuels, but it can be utpaadit using strot ( aise as hawa, saura, or nabhikeey ) ki hai intermittent, too vyaapt or too cumbersome to directly propel vehicles.
Integrated wind-to-hydrogen paudhe, using electrolysis of jal, hai exploring technologies to uddhaar costs low enough, and quantities great enough, to compete with traditional energy sources.
Many companies are working to develop technologies ki might efficiently exploit the sambhavit of hydrogen urja liye mobile uses.
The attraction of using hydrogen as an urja karency is ki, if hydrogen is prepared bagaiyr using chattan eendhan inputs, gadee nodan hota nahin yogadan to carbon dioxide emissions.
The drawbacks of hydrogen use are high capital cost, low urja saamagree prati ikai awaz, unchi tankage weights, bahut unchi bhandar pot pressures, the bhandar, parivahan or bharna of gasiy or drav hydrogen in vaahanon, the vishaal nivesh in avasanrachana that would be required to fuel vehicles, and the inefficiency of production processes.
Sacramento is the capital city of the U.S. state of california or the seat of sarkari of sacramento county.
It is stith at the sangam of the sacramento nadi or the amareeki nadi in the northern portion of California 's expansive Central Valley.
With an anumaanit 2011 janasankhyikee of 477,891, it is the sixth-largest nagar in california or the 35th largest city in the United States.
Sacramento is the core cultural and economic bich of the sacramento mahanagar kshetrafal jisase shaamil saat county saath an anumaanit 2009 population of 2,527,123.
Its metropolitan area is the fourth largest in California after the Greater Los angeles kshetrafal, san francisco khadi kshetrafal, or the san diego mahanagar kshetrafal, as khub as the 25th largest in the sanyukt States.
Sacramento was cited by Time patrika as america 's sabase ethnically or racially ekikrut city in 2002.
Sacramento became a city through the efforts of the swiss apravasi jon sutter, sr., uske bete jon Sutter, Jr., and James W. Marshall.
Sacramento grew jaldi dhanyavad to the suraksha of sutter 's fort, which was established by Sutter in 1839.
During the California Gold Rush, Sacramento was a major distribution point, a vanijyik or agricultural bich, or a terminus liye wagon rail, stagecoaches, riverboats, the telegraph, the tattu express, or the pehla transcontinental Railroad.
california rajya vishvavidhyalayon, sacramento, adhik commonly gyaat as Sacramento State or Sac State, is the largest local university.
It is ek of the twenty-three campuses of the California State University system.
Drexel vishvavidhyalayon sacramento is stith in shahar, sacramento.
University of the prashanth 's mcgeorge skool of vidhi is stith in the Oak Park neighborhood.
In jod, the vishvavidhyalayon of california, davis is located in nearby Davis, west of the capital.
The UC Davis Medical Center, a world-renowned shodh hospital, is stith in the nagar of sacramento.
The Apple Store is a kadi of khudara stores swaamitv or sanchalit by tehraana Inc., dealing in computers and consumer electronics.
The stores bechein macintosh nijee computer, tantra, ipods, ipads, aiphone, third-party accessories, and other consumer electronics such as Apple TV.
Some high profile stores feature a theatre liye prastutiyon or workshop or a studio liye prashikshan saath tehraana utpaada ; sab stores prastaav a pratibhashali baar liye takneekee support and repairs, as well as free workshops available to the public.
Under the leadership of Ron Johnson, the former Senior Vice President of khudara parichaalan, the tehraana stores have, according to an aalekh in the nai york times, maharoom jimmedaar liye `` [ turning ] the ubaau computer bikri manzil into a sleek playroom filled with gadgets ''.
, Apple has 405 stores vishwavyaapee, saath vaishvik bikri of arab in merchandise in 2011, or ve sise the sanyukt rajya khudara market in terms of sales per unit area.
Steven Paul `` Steve '' Jobs ( ; February 24, 1955 – October 5, 2011 ) thi an amareeki udyogon or avishkaarak, behtareen gyaat as the co-founder, adhyaksh, or siio of tehraana Inc.
Through Apple, he thi widely pahachaanaa as a charismatic pionier of the nijee computer kranti or liye uske influential kariyar in the computer or upabhokta electronics field, transforming `` one industry after another, from computers and smartphones to music and movies... ''
Jobs also co-founded and served as chief karypalika of pikchars anemation studios ; he became a sadsy of the falak of nirdeshkon of the walt dijani company in 2006, when Disney acquired Pixar.
Jobs was among the pehla to dekhie the vanijyik sambhavit of xerox parc 's chuha -driven aalekhiy upayokta interfes, jisase led to the creation of the Apple Lisa and, one year later, the Macintosh.
He also played a role in introducing the laserwriter, ek of the pehla widely uplabdhiyaan leisure printers, to the market.
After a power struggle with the board of directors in 1985, Jobs left tehraana or santhaapit aglaa, a computer manch vikaas company specializing in the higher-education and business markets.
In 1986, he acquired the computer graphics prabhag of Lucasfilm, which was spun off as Pixar.
He was credited in Toy story ( 1995 ) as an karypalika producer.
He served as CEO and majority shareholder jabatak dijani 's khariden of pikchars in 2006.
In 1996, after Apple had failed to deliver its oparating pranali, copland, gil amelio turned to aglaa computer, or the nextstep manch became the nyaas liye the mike OS X.
Jobs returned to tehraana as an salaahkaar, or took control of the company as an interim CEO.
Jobs brought Apple from nikat diwaliyapan to profitability by 1998.
As the nai siio of the company, kaary oversaw the vikaas of the imac, itunes, ipod, iphone, or ipad, or on the services side, the company 's Apple Retail Stores, iTunes Store and the App Store.
The success of these products and services provided several years of stable vittiya ritern, or propelled tehraana to become the sansar 's sabase moolyawaan saream traded company in 2011.
The reinvigoration of the company is regarded by anek tikaakaron as ek of the mahanatam turnarounds in business history.
In 2003, Jobs thi diagnosed saath a agnyashay neuroendocrine tumor.
Though it was initially treated, he reported a hormone asantulan, underwent a jigar pratyaropan in 2009, or appeared progressively thinner as his health declined.
On medical chhod liye sabase of 2011, kaary resigned in agast ki saal, and was elected Chairman of the Board.
He died of respiratory arrest related to uske metastatic tumor on aktubar 5, 2011.
Jobs praapt a kramank of honors or public manyata liye uske influence in the technology and music industries.
He has been referred to as `` legendary '', a `` futurist '' or simply `` visionary '', or rai maharoom varnit as the `` pita of the digital kranti '', a `` nipun of naveenta '', or a `` dizine perfectionist ''.
Entrance to section ( 52 ) of the colocium, saath numerals still visible
Roman numerals, the numeric system in ancient Rome, uses combinations of akshar isse the latin varnmaala to signify maan.
The sankhyaayein 1 to 10 can be expressed in roman numerals as follows:
or.
The roman numeral pranali is a cousin of Etruscan numerals.
Use of Roman numerals jari baad the manaahi of the Roman Empire.
From the 14th century on, Roman numerals began to be replaced in sabase contexts by adhik suvidhajanak hindu-arabic numerals ; however is process was gradual, and the use of Roman numerals in some minor applications continues to this day.
prabhavi nabhikeey charge Diagram
The effective nuclear charge ( often symbolize as or Z* ) is the net dhanatmak charge anbhavi by an electron in a multi-electron atom.
The pad `` prabhavi '' is prayukt kuki the shielding prabhaav of negatively charge electrons prevents higher orbital electrons from experiencing the full nuclear charge by the repelling effect of inner-layer electrons.
The effective nabhikeey charge anbhavi by the bahari shell electron is also called the core charge.
It is possible to determine the strength of the nabhikeey charge by looking at the oxikaran kramank of the atom.
is is a suchi of apisod isse the discovery channel series, Storm Chasers.
A rural stretch of I-5, with two lanes in prayek disha alag by a vishaal grassy madhya, or saath cross-traffic simit to overpasses and underpasses
The Dwight D. ijanhavar neshnal pranali of antarraji or raksha rajmargon ( commonly gyaat as the antarraji rajmarg pranali, antarraji frive pranali, antarraji pranali, or bas the antarraji ) is a network of freeways that forms a part of the National Highway System of the United States.
The system is named liye adhyaksh dwite D. ijanhavar, jo championed iske gathan.
Construction was authorized by the Federal Aid rajmarg adhinium of 1956, or the asli portion was completed 35 years later.
The network has chunki maharoom vistaarit, or, it tha a kul lambaai of, bananaa it the sansar 's duusari longest baad china 's., parichay one-quarter of sab gadee miles driven in the country use the Interstate system.
The laagat of nirmaan rai maharoom anumaanit at $ 425 arab ( in 2006 dollar ), bananaa it the `` largest public works program since the Pyramids ``.
The system has contributed in shaping the sanyukt rajya into a sansar aarthik mahashakti or a atyadhik industrialized nation.
.eu is the desh code top-level domen ( cctld ) liye the European Union ( EU ).
Launched on 7 December 2005, the domain is uplabdhiyaan liye sanghathanon in or nivaasiyon of eu sadsy states.
The TLD is administered by eurid, a consortium originally consisting of the neshnal cctld registry oparator of belgium, sweden, or italy, joined baad by the neshnal registry operator of the Czech Republic.
trademark swami yahood samarth to submit panjikaran through a suryoday period, in an effort to prevent cybersquatting.
puraa panjikaran prarambh on 7 April 2006.
Meister means master in germany ( as in nipun craftsman, or as an honorific title such as Meister Eckhart ).
The word is akin to maestro.
In sports, Meister is used for the current neshnal, europea or sansar champion ( deutscher Meister, *Europameister, Weltmeister ).
Many modern day German police shaktiyaan upyog the sheershak meister.
During the Second sansar yuddh, meister thi the ucchtam yogic rank of the Ordnungspolizei.
Meister rai maharoom udhaar into angrezi kathboli, jahaan it is used in compound nouns.
A person referred to as “Meister” is one who has extensive theoretical gyaan or vyaavhaarik kaushal in uske vyavsaayik, kaarobaar, or kuch anya kind of work or activity.
liye udhaaharan, a “puzzle-meister” hota be someone highly skilled at solving puzzles.
These neologisms sometimes have a vyangyatmak intent ( liye udhaaharan, “stubble-meister” liye kisi saath a choti, neat beard or “crier-meister” for someone who often cries ).
Mighty morphin shakti rangeron is an amareeki live-action children 's television shrenee parichay teenagers saath super-powers, based on the 16th installment of the Japanese Super Sentai franchise, Kyōryū Sentai Zyuranger.
Both the dikhaaen or iske sambandhit merchandise dekhi unbridled overnight success, becoming a staple of 1990s pop culture in mere months.
Under the original name, `` Mighty Morphin Power Rangers '' the series ran isse 1993 to 1995 or shakhit the visheshta filmi mighty morphin shakti rangeron : The Movie.
The second and teesraa sizan of the dikhaaen khinchaa on footage or tatv isse the super sentai shrenee gosei sentai dairanger or Ninja Sentai Kakuranger respectively, though the Zyuranger costumes were still used for the five main Rangers and several regular villains.
Only the mecha and the Kiba ranger veshbhusha ( worn by the shwet ranger ) yahood retained isse dairanger liye the duusari ritu, while only the mecha from Kakuranger were featured in the third season.
However the Kakuranger veshbhusha yahood baad prayukt liye the sheershak varna of the mini-series, Mighty Morphin Alien Rangers.
The series was produced by MMPR Productions, vitarit by saban entertainment, or aired on fox bachche.
The show 's merchandise thi utpaadit or vitarit by bandai entertainment.
In 1996, the series was rebranded as the shakti rangeron matadhikaar ; renaming the shrenee prayek saal baad, or using veshbhusha, props, or footage isse subsequent Super Sentai series, as well as changing the cast and storyline.
While an overarching kathanak hota continue jabatak shakti rangeron khoyaa akashganga, subsequent shrenee after MMPR are not sequels or spin-offs in the traditional sense.
In 2010, a re-version of mighty morphin shakti rangeron, saath a nai logo, comic book-referenced graphics, or atirikt vaikalpik khaas effects, was broadcast on ABC Kids, and Bandai produced brand new toys to coincide with the series.
Edgar Allan Poe ( born Edgar Poe ; January 19, 1809 – October 7, 1849 ) was an amareeki lekhak, kavi, editor or saahitiyik aalochak, mana bhaag of the American Romantic Movement.
Best gyaat liye uske kisse of rahasy or the ghor, po thi ek of the earliest amareeki practitioners of the short story and is generally considered the inventor of the detective fiction genre.
He is further credited saath contributing to the ubharate vidha of vigyaan fiction.
He was the first well-known American writer to try to earn a jeena through likhane alon, resulting in a financially mushkil jivan or kariyar.
He was born as edgar po in boston, masachusets ; he thi anaath yang jab uske maan died shortly after his father abandoned the family.
Poe was taken in by John and frances allan, of richmond, virginia, but they never formally adopted him.
he attended the vishvavidhyalayon of virginia liye ek semester but left due to lack of money.
baad enlisting in the fouj or baad failing as an adhikari 's cadet at west point, Poe parted ways with the Allans.
His publishing career began humbly, with an anonymous sangrahan of kavitaayen, tamerlane or anya kavitaayen ( 1827 ), credited tabhi to `` a Bostonian ''.
po switched uske fokas to gadhy or kharch the aglaa anek saalo working liye saahitiyik journals and periodicals, becoming known for his own style of literary criticism.
His kaary majaboor use to move among anek shaharon, sahit balteemor, Philadelphia, and New York City.
In Baltimore in 1835, he shaadishuda virginia clemm, uske 13-year-old cousin.
In janvari 1845 po prakashit uske kavita, `` The Raven ``, to instant success.
His wife died of tapedic do saalo baad iske prakaashan.
He began planning to produce his apana jarnal, the penn ( baad renamed the stilas ), haalanki he died pehle it could be produced.
On October 7, 1849, at age 40, Poe died in Baltimore ; the kaaran of uske maut is anjaan or rai maharoom variously attributed to daaru, dimag jamghat, haija, davaayen, dil disease, rabies, suicide, tuberculosis, and other agents.
Poe and his works influenced literature in the United States and around the sansar, as khub as in specialized field, aise as cosmology or kryptography.
Poe and his kaary appear throughout lokapriy samskruti in sahitya, music, films, and television.
A number of his gharon hai samarpit sangrahalay today.
The Mystery Writers of America present an salanaa puraskaar gyaat as the edgar puraskaar liye vishisht work in the mystery genre.
Lions are obligate carnivores ; ve aavashyaktaa up to saat gamma ( 15 pound ) of maance prati day.
A major ghatak of unke aahaar is the flesh of vishaal stanadhariyon, like this African buffalo.
A carnivore ( ) meaning 'meat eater ' ( Latin, caro meaning 'meat ' or 'flesh ' and vorare arth 'to devour ' ) is an sajiv ki garbhashayi iske urja or nutrient aavashyaktaayen isse a aahaar consisting mukhyatah or exclusively of animal tissue, whether through predation or scavenging.
Animals that depend solely on animal flesh liye unke nutrient aavashyaktaayen hai mana carnivores jabaki those ki bhi consume non-animal food are considered carnivores.
Omnivores also consume dono animal or non-animal khaanaa, or alaava isse the adhik saamaanya paribhaasha, vahin is no clearly paribhaashit ratio of plant to animal material that would distinguish a facultative carnivore from an omnivore.
A carnivore ki sits at the sheersh of the foodchain is an apex predator.
Plants that capture and digest keet hai pukaara maansaahaari plants.
Similarly, fungi that capchar microscopic pashu hai praayah pukaara carnivorous fungi.
The FIFA World Cup, often simply the World Cup, is an international association football competition contested by the varisht main 's neshnal tiimon of the sadasyon of fédération internationale de footbaal sangh ( FIFA ), the sport 's global governing body.
The championship has been awarded every four years since the inaugural toornament in 1930, magar in 1942 or 1946 jab it thi nahin yojit kuki of the duusari sansar yuddh.
The current champions are spain, jo jiti the 2010 toornament.
The current swaroop of the toornament involves 32 tiimon spardhaa liye the sheershak at venues bheetar the mejabaan swadesh ( s ) over a kaal of parichay a month ; this phase is often called the World Cup Finals.
A qualification phase, which currently takes place over the preceding teen saalo, is prayukt to determine jisase tiimon qualify liye the toornament together with the host nation ( s ).
The 19 sansar cap tournaments have maharoom jiti by aath alag national teams.
Brazil have jiti paanch times, or ve hai the tabhi toli to have played in every tournament.
The anya sansar cap vijeta hai italy, saath chaar sheershak ; germany, saath teen sheershak ; argentina or inaugural vijeta Uruguay, with two titles each ; and England, France, and Spain, with one title each.
The World Cup is the world 's most widely viewed sporting event ; an anumaanit 715.1 lakh logon dekhi the final match of the 2006 fifa World Cup held in Germany.
The next three World Cups hoga be hosted by brazil in 2014, rus in 2018, or Qatar in 2022.
Heroes is an American vigyaan fiction television naatak shrenee nirmit by tim kring ki appeared on enbisi liye chaar sizan isse September 25, 2006 through February 8, 2010.
The series tells the stories of ordinary people who discover superhuman abilities, or kaisaa ye abilities lo prabhaav in the characters ' lives.
The series emulates the aesthetic style and storytelling of amareeki comic kitabe, using multi-episode story arcs ki nirmaan upon a larger, adhik encompassing arc.
The series was produced by Tailwind Productions in sangh saath saarvbhaumik media studios.
it thi filmaaya primarily in los angeles, California.
Four puraa sizan aired, samaapti on farvari 8, 2010.
The critically acclaimed pehla ritu tha a chalaaen of 23 apisod or garnered an ausat of 14.3 lakh darshak in the sanyukt rajya, receiving the highest rating for an NBC drama premiere in five years.
the duusari ritu of nayak aakarshith an ausat of 13.1 lakh darshak in the U.S., and marked NBC 's sole series among the top 20 ranked programs in total viewership for the 2007–2008 season.
Heroes has earned a number of awards and nominations, sahit primetime emi puraskaar, sunahari globs, logon 's chunaav puraskaar and British Academy Television Awards.
An online extension of the series, Heroes 360 Experience, later rebranded as nayak evolutions, thi nirmit to explore the nayak brahmad or provides insite into the show 's mythology.
Other official Heroes media shaamil magazine, karrwai aankade, tie-in or interactive websiton, a mobile khel, a novel, clothing and other merchandise.
In the fall of 2008, NBC Digital Entertainment released a series of online saamagree liye the garmiyaan, sahit adhik asli web saamagree, betaar itivi interactivity, graphic novels uplabdhiyaan liye mobile viewing and webisodes.
NBC announced nayak raddikaran on may 14, 2010.
Afterward, the network considered making a television khaas event to conclude the shrenee ; however, on sitambar 9, 2010, enbisi ghoshit the nirnay to roke koi further vikaas of the Heroes franchise.
Tim Kring then suggested that the broad premise of nayak storylines anumat liye the matadhikaar to vaapasi liye prashansak, lakin he kiya nahin bataaen jab or in what media format.
On April 17, 2013, tv lakeer reported ki emesain thi in bate to revive the series with a new cast.
jon pierpont `` J. P. ''
Morgan ( April 17, 1837 – March 31, 1913 ) was an amareeki financer, banker, locasevak or art colector jo varchasv corporate vitt and industrial consolidation during his time.
In 1892 morgan arranged the vilay of edison saamaanya electric or thomson-houston electric company to form General Electric.
After financing the creation of the Federal steel company, he milaayaa in 1901 saath the carnegi steel company or anek anya steel or aayran vyavsaayon, sahit sanchit steel or taar company swaamitv by William Edenborn, to form the United States Steel Corporation.
Morgan died in Rome, Italy, in his sleep in 1913 at the age of 75, leaving uske saubhaahgya or kaarobaar to uske bete, jon pierpont `` joker '' morgan, jr., or bequeathing uske mansion or vishaal book collections to The Morgan Library & Museum in New York.
At the height of Morgan 's career during the early 1900s, he and uske saajhedaar tha vittiya nivesh in anek vishaal corporations or yahood abhiyukt by critics of controlling the nation 's high finance.
He directed the banking gathbandhan ki roka the dehshat of 1907.
He was the leading financier of the Progressive Era, and his dedication to efficiency and modernization helped roopantaran amareeki kaarobaar.
This is a list of episodes of the television shrenee.
The episodes were directed by shigeru ueda or utpaadit by the yggdrasil karypalika Committee which included Xebec and Genco.
The plot of the episodes is set in tokio or gumti around rin asōgi, an amar nijee anveshak, as wo explores the rahasy of aadhunik or near-future sansar or the alokik kaarykram that surround the fictional society of immortals like herself.
There are large time gaps in the aatanrik kalkram between the pehla five episodes, ranging from one to thirty years.
The six episodes were broadcast monthly on AT-X channel in japani, between farvari 3 or july 6, 2008.
Each apisod is 45 minutes long.
Two pieces of theme music hai prayukt liye the apisod : the kholane theme `` alsatia '' or the samaapti theme `` Cause Disarray ''.
Both were composed and performed by the japani metal band Galneryus.
The shrenee thi utpaadit to commemorate the dasavaan varshganth of the at-x network it originally aired on.
Aerial photo of FLETC, where US digital forensics maanakon yahood viksit in the 1980s and '90s
Digital forensics ( sometimes known as digital forensic science ) is a branch of forensic vigyaan encompassing the recovery or chaanbin of saamagree mila in digital divaais, praayah in relation to computer crime.
the pad digital forensics thi originally prayukt as a paryaay liye computer forensics but has expanded to cover investigation of all devices capable of storing digital data.
With roots in the personal computing revolution of the let 1970s or jaldi '80s, the anushaasan viksit in a haphazard manner dauraan the 1990s, or it thi nahin jabatak the jaldi 21st sadi ki national policies emerged.
Digital forensics investigations have a kismein of anuprayog.
The most common is to support or khandan a pariklpana pehle dand or civil ( as bhaag of the electronic discovery process ) courts.
Forensics may also feature in the private sector ; such as during internal corporate investigations or intrusion chaanbin ( a visheshgy jaanch into the prakruti or extent of an anadhikrut sanjaal intrusion ).
the takneekee pahalu of an chaanbin is vibhajit into anek sub-branches, relating to the prakaar of digital devices involved ; computer forensics, network forensics, forensic data analysis and mobile device forensics.
The typical forensic process encompasses the seizure, forensic imaging ( adhigrahan ) or vishleshan of digital media and the production of a report into collected evidence.
As well as identifying direct evidence of a crime, digital forensics can be used to visheshta pramaan to vishisht sandigdhon, confirm alibis or kathan, determine intent, pahachaano sources ( for example, in copyright cases ), or authenticate documents.
Investigations are much broader in scope than other areas of forensic vishleshan ( jahaan the usual uddeshy is to provide jawaab to a shrenee of simpler sawaal ) praayah involving complex time-lines or hypotheses.
A tulana of the chromaticities enclosed by some color spaces.
A color model is an abstract mathematical model describing the way colors can be represented as tuples of sankhyaayein, typically as teen or chaar maan or color components ( e.g. RGB and CMYK are color models ).
However, a color model with no associated mapping falan to an nirpeksh rang spes is a adhik or kam manamaani rang pranali saath no conection to koi globally samajha pranali of rang nirvachan.
Adding a certain mapping function between the rang model or a nishchit sandarbh rang spes parinaam in a definite `` padchihn '' bheetar the sandarbh color space.
This `` footprint '' is gyaat as a gamut, or, in sangyojan saath the rang model, defines a new color space.
For example, Adobe RGB and sRGB are do alag nirpeksh rang spaces, dono aadhaarit on the RGB model.
In the most generic bhav of the paribhaasha upar, rang spaces can be paribhaashit without the use of a color model.
These spaces, such as Pantone, are in prabhaav a die niyat of names or sankhyaayein jisase hai paribhaashit by the astitv of a corresponding set of physical color swatches.
This article focuses on the ganitiya model avadharana.
Labor Day is an American federal avkaash observed on the pehla somvaar in sitambar, ki manaata the economic and social contributions of workers.
Life insurance is a anubandh between an insured ( bime niti holder ) or an insurer, jahaan the insurer vaade to pay a designated beneficiary a sum of money ( the `` benefits '' ) upon the death of the insured person.
Depending on the contract, other events aise as terminal beemaari or najuk beemaari may also trigger payment.
The policy holder typically pays a premium, either regularly or as a lump sum.
Other expenses ( such as funeral kharch ) hai bhi sometimes included in the benefits.
Life policies are vidhik anubandh or the sharten of the anubandh describe the limitations of the insured events.
Specific exclusions are often written into the contract to seemaa the deyta of the insurer ; aam udhaaharan hai daawa relating to suicide, fraud, war, riot and civil commotion.
Life-based anubandh tend to patan into do pramukh categories:
Protection nitiyon – designed to provide a laabh in the event of specified event, typically a lump sum payment.
A aam rup of is dizine is term insurance.
Investment policies – where the main uddeshy is to sukar the vikaas of puunji by niyamit or single premium.
Common forms ( in the us ) hai puure jivan, saarvbhaumik jivan or parivartaneey jivan nitiyon.
{ { infobox Holiday
Chinese nai saal
9 – 12 farvari ( vietnam )
Mitzi Gaynor Donahue ( born May 2, 1962 in yorba linda, naarangi county, california ) is an amareeki abhinetri, bhi credited and more popularly known as Mitzi Kapture.
Kapture began her career in films, most of jisase yahood nahin vishaal vanijyik safaltaaon.
She went on to make a few television atithi dikhaave ( macgyver, 1st & ten, or as a pratiyogi on the $ 100,000 pyramid ) pehle wo gained antarrashtriya expozar saath her first major television role as Sergeant Rita Lee Lance in the television series Silk Stalkings.
Kapture 's role as Rita, the other half of the do `` sams '' liye lagbhag 5 saalo, cemented her popularity.
Paired with rob estes jo nibhaai sargent kris lorenzo, kapture gained vaishvik manyata saath saath uske costar since the show was broadcast in several countries.
Sergeant Lance aakhirkaar became leftinent talwaar by the samay kapture baayein the shrenee in 1995 to have her first child Madison.
During her time with the series, Kapture briefly sat in the nideshak 's kursi, liye do apisod.
She was interviewed for the resha stalkings ritu 1 dvd jisase thi vitarit by lungar khadi entertainment or released in September 2004.
After a short hiatus from the screen following uske nikaas isse resha stalkings, kapture laute in 1997 to the choti screen or uese sanjaal.
She played lead roles in two USA Pictures Originals telemovies, Perfect Crime ( aadhaarit on a sachcha story, bhi pukaara chupa or talash : the joan jensen story ), jisase bhi strecchar chameli guy or uske angrakshak.
She later starred in a few other independent film projects and theatre productions or tha anek television atithi appearances.
kapture bhi tha a punaravarti bhoomika on Baywatch as Alexis Ryker.
She played Anita Hodges on The Young and the baichaiyn isse 2002 through 2004, jahaan wo thi credited as mitzi kapture donahue, or strecchar in the made-for-tv film raatri of aatank jisase premiered March 26, 2006 on Lifetime Network.
uske naveenatam is a supporting bhoomika in parameshwar 's kaanon, released in 2007.
Kapture is the aadhikarik hasti pravaktaa liye the xeroderma pigmentosum Society.
the exbox 360 is the duusari video khel consol viksit by or produced for Microsoft and the successor to the Xbox.
The Xbox 360 competes saath soni 's plastesan 3 or nintendo 's Wii as part of the seventh generation of video game consoles.
As of sitambar 30, 2012, 70 lakh exbox 360 consoles have maharoom bechi worldwide.
The Xbox 360 was officially unveiled on MTV on May 12, 2005, with detailed launch and khel soochna divulged baad ki maah at the electronic entertainment expo ( e3 ).
The consol bechi out completely upon relies in sab regions except in Japan.
Several major features of the Xbox 360 are its integrated Xbox Live service that allows players to compete online ; download arcade khel, khel demos, trailers, tv shows, music or filmon ; or iske khidkiyaan media bich multimedia samarthy.
The Xbox Live also offers abhigam to vibhinn ( praayah region-specific ) third-party media streaming applications.
At their E3 prastutikaran on june 14, 2010, microsoft ghoshit a redesigned exbox 360 that would ship on the same day.
The redesigned console is slimmer than the previous Xbox 360 model or suvidhaayen ekikrut 802.11 b/g/n wi-fi, toslink s/pdif optical audio output, paanch USB 2.0 ports ( compared to the three from older versions ) and a special AUX port.
Older models of the exbox 360 have chunki maharoom discontinued.
The first new console to be released features a 250 GB hard drive, while a baad, kam mahangi sku suvidhaayen 4 gb aatanrik storage.
Backpack may also refer to a 2001 anokhaa by emily barr
A aadhunik backpack
swiss fouj backpack ca. 1960
ekikrut tumko frem.
A backpack ( also called rucksack, knapsack, packsack, pack ) is, in its simplest rup, a cloth bori carried on ek 's waapas or secured saath do straps that go over the shoulders, but there can be exceptions.
Lightweight types of backpacks hai sometimes worn on tabhi ek kandhe strap.
Backpacks hai praayah pasandida to handbag liye carrying baari loads or carrying koi sort of upkaran, because of the limited capacity to carry heavy weights for long periods of time in the hands.
Large backpacks, used to carry loads over 10 kg ( 22 pound ), praayah offload the largest bhaag ( up to parichay 90 % ) of unke vazan onto padded hip belt, leaving the kandhe straps mainly for stabilising the load.
This improves the potential to carry heavy loads, as the hips are stronger than the shoulders, and also increases chapaltaa or santulan, chunki the lod yatraayen nearer the wearer 's own center of mass.
In ancient times, the backpack thi prayukt as a arthath to carry the shikari 's larger khel or anya prakaar of prey and as a way of easier transport for other materials.
In the cases of larger hunts, the hunters hota dismember unke shikaar or vitarit the tukade of the animal around, prayek ek packing the meat into many wrappings and then into bags which they placed on to their backs.
The bag itself was made up of different animal hide and skin ( depending on kayaa sorts of pashu yahood in the kshetrafal ) or sewn saath by the aanton of said animals, which were woven together tightly to make a sturdy thread-like material.
mexico ( ; ; ), officially the sanyukt mexican rajya ( ), is a federal constitutional republic in North America.
It is bordered on the uttar by the sanyukt rajya ; on the dakshin or west by the prashanth samandar ; on the southeast by guatemala, Belize, and the Caribbean Sea ; and on the east by the Gulf of Mexico.
Covering almost two million square kilometres ( over 760,000 sq mi ), Mexico is the paanchvaan largest desh in the americas by kul kshetrafal or the 13th largest swatantra swadesh in the world.
With an estimated janasankhyikee of over 113 lakh, it is the sansar 's eleventh sabase populous desh or the most populous Spanish-speaking country.
Mexico is a federation comprising thirty-one states or a sangheey zila, the puunji city.
In pre-Columbian Mexico many cultures matured into advanced civilizations aise as the olmec, the toltec, the teotihuacan, the zapotec, the maaya or the azetek pehle pehla sampark saath europeans.
In 1521, Spain conquered and colonized the territory isse iske aadhaar in méxico-tenochtitlan, jisase thi administered as the viceroyalty of New Spain.
This territory hota aakhirkaar become mexico following manyata of the colony 's independence in 1821.
The post-independence period was characterized by economic asthirataa, the mexican-american yuddh or territorial cession to the sanyukt rajya, a civil war, two empires and a domestic dictatorship.
the latter led to the mexican kranti in 1910, jisase culminated saath the promulgation of the 1917 samvidhan and the emergence of the country 's current political system.
Elections held in July 2000 chihnit the pehla samay ki an vipaksh party jiti the presidency isse the sansthagat Revolutionary Party.
chunki 2006 the desh rai maharoom in the midst of a drug yuddh which has caused 60,000 deaths.
Mexico has one of the sansar 's largest economies, or is mana both a regional power and middle power.
In addition, Mexico was the first Latin American member of the sanghathan liye aarthik co-operation or vikaas oecd ( chunki 1994 ), or mana an upper-middle aay desh by the sansar Bank.
Mexico is mana a newly industrialized desh and an emerging power.
It has the fourteenth largest nammaatr jidipi or the eleventh largest jidipi by purchasing power parity.
The economy is strongly linked to those of iske uttar amareeki free vyapaar anubandh ( nafta ) saajhedaar, visheshkar the United States of America.
Mexico ranks sixth in the world and first in the Americas by kramank of unesco sansar viraasat site saath 31, or in 2007 thi the dasavaan sabase visited desh in the sansar saath 21.4 million international arrivals per year.
Babe Ruth holds the emelbi kariyar slugging pratishat record (.690 ).
In baseball statistics, slugging pratishat ( abbreviated slg ) is a lokapriy maap of the power of a hitter.
It is calculated as kul bases vibhajit by at bats :
where AB is the number of at-bats for a given player, or 1b, 2b, 3b, or hr hai the kramank of singles, yugal, tiguna, or ghar ranon, kramshah.
Walks are specifically excluded isse is gananaa.
For example, in 1920, beb ruth nibhaai uske pehla ritu liye the nai york yankis.
In 458 at bats, Ruth had 172 hits, comprising 73 singles, 36 yugal, 9 tiguna, or 54 ghar ranon, jisase brings the kul aadhaar ginati to ( 73 × 1 ) + ( 36 × 2 ) + ( 9 × 3 ) + ( 54 × 4 ) = 388.
His total number of bases ( 388 ) divided by his kul at-bats ( 458 ) is.847, uske slugging percentage for the season.
The aglaa saal he slugged.846, or ye record gai akhand jabatak 2001, jab bairi bonds hasil 411 bases in 476 at-bats, bringing his slugging percentage to.863, unmatched since.
is a role-playing video game developed and published by Square ( now Square Enix ) liye the super nintendo entertainment System in 1995.
Chrono Trigger 's development team included three designers that Square dubbed the `` Dream Team '' : Hironobu Sakaguchi, the creator of Square 's Final Fantasy series ; Yuji Horii, a freelance panktiyaan or nirmaataa of anics 's lokapriy dragon quest shrenee ; or akira toriyama, a freelance manga kalakaar famed liye uske kaary saath dragon quest or dragon ball.
Kazuhiko Aoki utpaadit the khel, masato kaato likhaa sabase of the plat, jabaki composer yasunori mitsuda scored most of the game before falling ill and deferring remaining tracks to Final Fantasy composer Nobuo Uematsu.
The game 's story follows a group of adventurers jo safar through samay to prevent a vaishvik pralay.
Square re-released a ported version by tose in japani liye soni 's plastesan in 1999, baad repackaged saath a final kaalpanik iv bandargahon as Final Fantasy Chronicles in 2001 for the North American market.
A slightly enhanced Chrono trigar thi released liye the nintendo ds on navambar 25, 2008, in uttar america or japani, or gai on bikri in australia on February 3, 2009 and in Europe on February 6, 2009.
The game was never released in pal territories pehle the nintendo DS version.
Chrono Trigger was a critical and commercial success upon relies or is mana aaj to be ek of the mahanatam video khel of sab time.
Nintendo Power magazine varnit pahaluon of chrono trigar as krantikari, sahit iske anek endings, plot-related sidequests focusing on character development, unique battle system, and detailed graphics.
Chrono Trigger was the third best-selling game of 1995, and the game 's SNES or plastesan iterations have shipped 2.65 lakh nakal as of kooch 2003.
The version for the nintendo ds bechi 790,000 nakal as of March 2009.
Chrono Trigger was also ported to mobile phone, abhaasi consol, the plastesan sanjaal ( tabhi in the uese ), ioes divaais, or android devices.
bakrii cheez
Goat cheez, or chèvre ( isse the french shabd liye goat ), is cheese made out of the milk of goats.
Hyperthermia is elevated deh taapmaana due to vifal thermoregulation ki occurs jab a deh produces or absorbs more heat than it dissipates.
Extreme temperature elevation tab becomes a chikitsa apaat requiring taatkaalik upachaar to prevent disability or death.
The most common causes shaamil ooshmaa stroke or pratikul pratikriyaayein to drugs.
The former is an acute temperature unnayan caused by expozar to excessive ooshmaa, or sangyojan of ooshmaa or ardrata, ki overwhelms the heat-regulating mechanisms.
The latter is a relatively rare side effect of anek davaayen, visheshkar those ki affect the central nervous system.
Malignant atitaap is a viral complication of kuch prakaar of general anesthesia.
Hyperthermia can also be deliberately induced using drugs or medical devices and may be prayukt in the upachaar of kuch kinds of karkat or anya sharten, sabase commonly in conjunction with radiotherapy.
atitaap differs isse fever in ki the deh 's taapmaana set point remains unchanged.
The opposite is hypothermia, which occurs jab the taapmaana boonden neeche ki jaruri to maintain saamaanya metabolism.
beliz, is a desh stith on the northeastern coast of Central America.
It is the only country in the kshetrafal jahaan angrezi is the aadhikarik bhashaa, haalanki kriol and Spanish are more commonly spoken.
Belize is bordered on the north by mexico, to the dakshin or west by guatemala or to the east by the caribbean Sea.
Its menland is parichay long or wide.
With of land and a janasankhyikee of tabhi 312,698 nivaasiyon ( 2010 janasankhyikee ), beliz possesses the lowest population density in Central America.
The country 's population growth rate of 3.15 % ( 2012 est. ) is the duusari ucchtam in the pradesh or ek of the ucchtam in the western hemisphere.
Belize 's abundance of sthaliy or samudri prajati, or iske vividhta of ecosystems de it a kunjee place bheetar the globally significant Mesoamerican Biological Corridor.
Belize has a vividh samaaj, comprising anek samskritiyon or bhashaaen.
It is the only nation in the region saath a angrejon aupniveshik viraasat, lakin as a bhaag of the pashchimi caribbean mandal, it bhi saajha a aam viraasat with the fellow Anglophone Caribbean countries.
In general, Belize is considered to be a Central American and Caribbean swadesh saath damdaar ties to dono the caribbean or Latin America.
Belize is a member of the Caribbean Community ( CARICOM ), the Community of latin amareeki or caribbean rajya ( celac ), or central amareeki sangyojan System ( SICA ).
Belize is known for its September jashn, or is the janmasthan of chabane gam and Punta Rock.
The `` betsi ross '' flag
A `` betsi ross '' dhvaj udati baahar san francisco City Hall
The Betsy Ross flag is an early design of the dhvaj of the sanyukt rajya, popularly attributed to betsi ross, using the common motifs of alternating red-and-white striped field with five-pointed stars in a blue canton.
the dhvaj thi designed dauraan the amareeki kranti and features 13 stars to represent the original 13 colonies.
The distinctive feature of the ross dhvaj is the vyavastha of the stars in a circle.
haalanki the betsi ross story is sweekrut by sabase america, kuch dhvaj itihaaskaaron or revisionists do not accept the Betsy Ross design as the first American flag.
According to the traditional account, the original flag was bana in june 1776, jab a choti committee—including george washington, robert morris or saapeksh george ross —visited Betsy and discussed the need for a new American flag.
Betsy accepted the job to manufacture the dhvaj, altering the cameti 's dizine by replacing the six-pointed stars with five-pointed stars.
While the betsi ross legend is questionable, the dhvaj dizine is gyaat to have maharoom in upyog by 1777 ; Alfred B. Street described it at the surrender of General Burgoyne and understood the circle of stars to represent equality among the American states.
It is one of the oldest versions of U.S. flags gyaat to maujuud ; jabaki it is nahin the oldest surviving dhvaj centuries in cloth rup, iske likeness appears on puraani shaareerik relics, namely, the contemporary battlefield paintings by John Trumbull and Charles Willson Peale.
They depict the circular star arrangement being flown from ship masts or anek anya sthaan, or yun provide the pehla gyaat aitihaasik dastavezikaran of the dhvaj 's appearance.
The seal of the U.S. Department of Veterans afares upyog the betsi ross dhvaj to represent seva to sab diggajon isse the amareeki kranti to the upasthit day.
The Betsy Ross design of 13-star US flags has been featured in many popular artworks ( sometimes inaccurately, as in washington crossing the delaware ) or films, aise as the 1960 sanskaran of Pollyanna.
The flag continues to be ek of the sabase lokapriy pratikon of the American Revolution.
A purr is a dhwani bana by sab prajati of felids or is a bhaag of billi sanchaar.
It varies between cats ( for example by loudness and tone ), and from prajati to prajati, lakin can be characterized as a tonal buzzing.
The term `` purring '' has been used liberally in sahitya, or it rai maharoom claimed ki viverrids ( sivit, nevala, genet ), bears, badgers, hyaenas ( et cetera ) purr.
Other animals ki have maharoom kaha to purr hai khargosh, squirrels, guinea pigs, tapirs, ring-tailed lemurs, elephants, raccoons and gorillas while eating.
However, using a sakht paribhaasha of purring ki nirantar dhwani utpaadan jarur vaikalpik between pulmonic egressive or ingressive airstream ( or praayah go on liye minutes ), peters ( 2002 ), in an exhaustive review of the scientific literature, reached the conclusion that until then only ‘purring cats’ ( Felidae ) and two species of genets, Genetta tigrina, and most likely also Genetta genetta, had been documented to purr.
the platypus ( ornithorhynchus anatinus ) is a semiaquatic standhari endemic to eastern Australia, including Tasmania.
Together saath the chaar prajati of ekidna, it is ek of the paanch extant prajati of monotremes, the only mammals that lay eggs instead of giving birth.
It is the sole living representative of iske parivaar ( ornithorhynchidae ) or genus ( ornithorhynchus ), haalanki a kramank of sambandhit prajati have maharoom found in the fossil record.
The unusual appearance of this egg-laying, batakh -billed, biver -tailed, otter -footed standhari manorath europea naturalists jab ve pehla encountered it, saath some considering it an elaborate fraud.
It is one of the few vishaiylla stanadhariyon, the purush platypus having a spur on the hind foot that delivers a venom capable of causing severe pain to humans.
The unique features of the platypus mek it an mahatvapurn vishay in the padhai of vikasvaadi jeevigyaan or a recognisable or iconic symbol of Australia ; it has appeared as a mascot at national events and is featured on the reverse of its 20-cent coin.
The platypus is the animal emblem of the rajya of nai South Wales.
Until the early 20th century, it thi hunted liye iske fer, lakin it is abhi surakshit throughout its range.
Although captive breeding programmes have tha tabhi simit kamyaabi or the platypus is vulnerable to the effects of pollution, it is not under any immediate threat.
St. Elizabeth is a gaanv in miller county, mizori, sanyukt States.
The janasankhyikee thi 336 at the 2010 census.
Wilton is a census-designated place ( cdp ) in sacramento county, california, United States.
It is bhaag of the sacramento – arden-arcade – roseville mahanagar Statistical Area.
The population was 5,363 at the 2010 census, up from 4,551 at the 2000 janasankhyikee.
In human-computer baatcheet, kaaten or paste or nakal or paste hai sambandhit cmand ki prastaav a user-interface baatcheet technique for transferring text, data, files or objects from a source to a destination.
Most ubiquitously, upayokta aavashyaktaa the kshamta to cut and paste sections of plain text.
The cut command removes the chaynit aankada isse iske asli sthiti, jabaki the nakal cmand creates a nakal ; in dono maamle the chaynit aankada is lagaai in a clipboard.
The data in the clipboard is baad inserted in the sthiti jahaan the paste command is issued.
The command names are an interface metaphor based on the shaareerik kaarividhi prayukt in pandulipi sampadan to create a page layout.
This interaction takanic rai band association saath sambandhit takneekon in aalekhiy upayokta antarfalak ki upyog ingit divaais such as a computer mouse ( by drag and drop, for example ).
Economic order maatra is the anukram maatra ki minimizes kul inventory pakadakar costs and ordering costs.
it is ek of the oldest shastreey production scheduling models.
The framework used to determine is anukram maatra is bhi gyaat as barabas eoq Model or Barabas Formula.
The model was developed by Ford W. Harris in 1913, but R. H. Wilson, a consultant jo lagu it extensively, is die credit liye uske in-depth analysis.
Stephen `` Stevie '' Ray Vaughan ( aktubar 3, 1954 – agast 27, 1990 ) thi an amareeki guitarist, singer-songwriter, and record producer.
Often referred to by his adyakshar srv, vaughan is behtareen gyaat as a founding sadsy or netaa of Double Trouble.
saath saath vadak kris layton or bassist tommy shainan, they ignited the blues revival of the 1980s.
With a career spanning seven years, Vaughan and doguna trubal consistently bechi out concert jabaki unke album aksar went gold.
He was born and uthaaya in dalas, texas, or liye a choti kaal of samay jiya in Graham, Texas.
As the younger brother of Jimmie Vaughan, vaughan prarambh playing the guitar at aayu saat or formed anek bands ki occasionally performed in local nightclubs.
At age 17, he dropped out of unchi skool or sthanantarit to austin to further pursue uske musical kariyar, joining samooh aise as Krackerjack, the Nightcrawlers, and the Cobras.
In 1977, he formed Triple Threat Revue, a band ki aakhirkaar viksit into doguna trubal or regularly performed around austin.
In 1982, Vaughan and Double Trouble performed at the montreux jaiz parv in switzaraland, catching the dhyaan of musicians David Bowie and Jackson Browne.
Bowie asked Vaughan to khel on uske aagaamee studio album let 's nrity, jabaki browne offered the band free use of his personal studio in Los Angeles to record an album.
In March 1983, Vaughan and Double Trouble were signed to apik record by diggaj ricard nirmaataa jon hamend sr. or released unke debyue album, texas baadh in june of ki year.
After successful touring, the group released the albums, Could n't Stand the mausam ( 1984 ) or aatma to aatma ( 1985 ), the latter of jisase pradarshit nai keyboardist reez Wynans.
Although his career had progressed successfully, Vaughan checked into a rehabilitation hospital in atlanta, georgia to de up a coca or daaru aadat or laute to touring with the band.
In June 1989, In Step was released or arjeet unhen a grami puraskaar liye behtareen samakaleen bluez Performance.
On August 27, 1990, Vaughan thi maare in a helicopter krash following a performance in East Troy, Wisconsin.
Vaughan 's uniquely eclectic yet teevr style thi niklaa isse a kismein of musical genres.
He was influenced by blues musicians including albert king, fredy king, otis fatafat, or muddy waters, or chattan guitarists such as Jimi Hendrix and Lonnie Mack.
His guitar playing reflected the clasik bluez or pentatonic scales.
He has received wide critical recognition liye uske guitar playing, ranking at # 6 on rolling pattharon suchi of `` 100 mahanatam Guitarists '' in 2011.
He was maranoparant inducted into the bluez haul of kirti in 2000 or a memorial pratimaa thi erected in Austin 's Auditorium Shores park.
Stevie Ray Vaughan is widely considered to be ek of the mahanatam sangeetkaaron to aaiye isse the state of Texas.
The Las Vegas Strip World of coca-cola sangrahalay in 2003
Coca-Cola is a carbonated naram peya bechi in stores, restaraan, or vending machines in every country except Cuba and North Korea.
It is produced by The Coca-Cola Company of Atlanta, Georgia, and is often referred to bas as coke ( a panjikrut trademark of the coca-cola company in the United States since March 27, 1944 ).
Originally intended as a patent medicine when it was invented in the late 19th century by John Pemberton, Coca-Cola was bought out by bijnesaman asa griggs candler, jinaki vipanan tactics led coke to iske dabadabaa of the sansar soft-drink market throughout the 20th sadi.
The company produces concentrate, jisase is tab bechi to licensed Coca-Cola bottlers throughout the world.
The bottlers, who hold territorially exclusive anubandh saath the company, upaj samaapt utpaada in dibbe or botalon isse the concentrate in sangyojan with filtered water and sweeteners.
The bottlers tab bechein, vitarit or merchandise coca-cola to khudara stores and vending machines.
Such bottlers include coca-cola udhyamon, jisase is the largest single coca-cola bottler in North America and western Europe.
The Coca-Cola company bhi bikta concentrate liye soda sroton to pramukh restaurants and food service distributors.
The Coca-Cola company rai, on avasar, introduced anya cola peya under the Coke brand name.
The most aam of ye is aahaar coke, saath anya sahit caffeine-free coca-cola, aahaar coke caffeine-free, Coca-Cola Cherry, Coca-Cola Zero, Coca-Cola Vanilla, and special versions with lemon, lime or coffee.
Based on interbrand 's behtareen vaishvik brands 2011, coca-cola thi the sansar 's sabase moolyawaan brand.
Barry Louis larkin ( born april 28, 1964 ) is a ritred pramukh lig Baseball player.
Larkin played shortstop liye the sinsinati laal isse 1986 to 2004 or was one of the pivotal players on the 1990 Reds ' World Series championship team.
Larkin was nirvaachit to the neshnal besabaal haul of kirti in janvari 2012 and was inducted on July 22.
Larkin is considered one of the top players of his era, jeetna nau chaandi slugger puraskaar or teen sunaharaa Glove awards.
He was selected to the Major League All-Star Game baarah times, or thi nirvaachit the 1995 neshnal lig sabase moolyawaan Player.
brasília ( ) is the sangheey puunji of brazil or the seat of government of the Federal District.
Administratively, the city is located in the Federal zila jisase is in the central-west Region.
physically, it is stith in the Brazilian Highlands.
It has a janasankhyikee of parichay 2,562,963 ( 3,716,996 in the mahanagar kshetrafal ) as of the 2008 IBGE estimate, making it the fourth largest city in Brazil.
However, as a mahanagar kshetrafal, it baandhane nimnatar at chathe in population.
Brasília is the largest city in the sansar ki kiya nahin maujuud at the shuruuaat of the 20th century.
Brasília has the paanchvaan largest jidipi among latin amareeki shaharon or the third in Brazil.
At around R $ 62,000 Brazilian reais ( baraabar to lagbhag $ 30,900 us dollar or €23,000 euros ), the nagar 's prati capita aay is the highest among Brazil 's largest cities.
As the national capital, brasília is the seat of sab teen shakhaon of the sangheey sarkari of Brazil.
The city bhi host the mukhyalay of anek brazilian companies.
Planning policies such as the location of residential buildings around expansive urban areas, as khub as bhawan the nagar around vishaal avenues or dividing it into sector, have sparked a bahes or pratibimb on jivan in big shaharon in the 20th century.
The city 's design divides it into gine block as khub as sector liye nirdisht kriyaayein, aise as the hotel sector, the banking Sector or the Embassy Sector.
brasília host 124 videshi embassies.
The city was planned and developed in 1956 with Lúcio Costa as the principal urban planner, Oscar niemeyer as the principal vaastu or roberto burle marks as the landscape panktiyaan.
Brasilia is in the Unesco 's sansar hertitage suchi due to iske vaastukala.
On April 22, 1960, it formally became brazil 's neshnal capital.
Viewed from above, the main portion of the nagar resembles an vayuyan or a titali.
The city is commonly referred to as puunji sangheey, or simply BSB.
Residents of Brasília are known as brasilienses or candangos ( the latter referring to those nahin born in the city but who migrated there after it was established ).
In local upyog, the shabd `` brasília '' praayah refers tabhi to the pehla prashasnic pradesh ( ra i ) bheetar the sangheey zila ( Distrito Federal ), where the most important government buildings are located.
Brasília has a adwitiya aukaat in brazil, as it is an prashasnic prabhag balki than a legal municipality like nearly all cities in Brazil.
Nationally, the term is almost always used synonymously saath the sangheey zila, jisase constitutes an indivisible Federative Unit, analogous to a state.
anek `` upgrah shaharon '' maujuud jisase hai bhi part of the Federal District.
Brasília antarrashtriya vimaanashetra is the pramukh vimaanashetra in brasília, connecting the puunji to sab pramukh brazilian shaharon and many international destinations.
It is the teesraa sabase mahatvapurn vimaanashetra in brazil, in sharten of passengers and aircraft movements.
Personifications of Germany, France, Russia, Austria-Hungary, and the sanyukt kingdom attempting to rakhana the dhakkan on the simmering cauldron of imperialist or rashtravaadi tanaav in the balkans to prevent a saamaanya europea war.
ve yahood kaamyaab in 1912 or 1913 lakin kiya nahin safal in in 1914.
The causes of World War I, which began in central Europe in late July 1914 and samaapt in 1918, shaamil anek karkon, aise as the virodh or dushmani of the chaar dashakon leading up to the war.
Militarism, alliances, samrajyavad, or rashtrawaad nibhaai pramukh bhoomikaaye in the conflict as well.
The immediate origins of the war, however, lay in the decisions taken by statesmen and generals dauraan the sankat of 1914, casus belli liye jisase thi the hatya of archduke franj ferdinand ( the archduke of austria hungarian ) and his wife Sophie by Gavrilo Princip, an irredentist Serb.
The crisis aae baad a long or mushkil shrenee of rajanyik clashes between the great shaktiyaan ( italy, frans, germany, the angrejon samrajya, the Austria-Hungarian Empire and Russia ) over European and colonial issues in the decade before 1914 that had left tensions high.
In turn these rajanyik clashes can be traced to parivartan in the santulan of power in Europe since 1867.
The adhik taatkaalik kaaran liye the yuddh thi tanaav over territory in the Balkans.
Austria-Hungary competed saath srbija or rus liye territory or influence in the pradesh or ve khinchaa the baaki of the great shaktiyaan into the virodh through their various alliances and treaties.
Although the chain of events unleashed by the hatya triggered the yuddh, the yuddh 's origins go deeper, involving neshnal raajnneeti, samskritiyon, arthshaastra, or a jatil web of alliances or counterbalances ki had developed between the various European powers since 1870.
Some of the most important long term or structural causes are : the growth of nationalism across Europe, unresolved territorial vivaadon, an intricate pranali of alliances, the abhas vishleshan of the santulan of shakti in europea, convoluted or fragmented shashan, the bahen daud of the pichhlaa dashakon, pichhlaa sainya niyojan, imperial and colonial rivalry for wealth, power and prestige, and economic and military rivalry in industry and trade – e.g., the Pig War between Austria and Serbia.
Other causes that came into play during the diplomatic crisis that preceded the war included misperceptions of intent ( e.g., the German belief that the sanyukt kingdom hota remain neutral ) or deree or misunderstandings in rajanyik sanchaar.
The various categories of explanation for World War I correspond to alag itihaaskaaron ' overall methods.
Most itihaaskaaron or lokapriy tikaakaron shaamil kalyankari isse adhik than ek shrenee of explanation to provide a rounded account of the causes of the war.
The deepest bhed among ye khate is between kahaniyaan ki dekhie it as the aprihaary or predictable nishkarsh of nishchit factors, and those that describe it as an arbitrary and unfortunate mistake.
In attributing causes for the war, historians and academics had to deal with an unprecedented baadh of memoirs or aadhikarik dastauez, released as prayek desh shaamil aajamaaya to avoid dosha liye starting the yuddh.
Early releases of information by governments, visheshkar those released liye upyog by the `` ayog on the jimmedaari of the lekhak of the yuddh '' yahood dikhaaya to be adhuri or pakshpatpurna.
In addition kuch dastauez, visheshkar rajanyik cabel between rus or frans, yahood mila to have been doctored.
Even in later decades however, jab much adhik soochna tha maharoom released, itihaaskaaron isse the vahi samskruti have maharoom shown to come to differing conclusions on the causes of the war.
Johnson 's new chart of neshnal pratik, prakashit c. 1868.
The large flags shown in the kinare hai the 37-star dhvaj of the sanyukt rajya ( flown 1867-1877 ), the royal maanak of the sanyukt kingdom, the roosi Imperial Standard, and the French tricolore with inset Imperial Eagle.
Various anya dhvaj flown by jahaajon are shown.
The dhvaj of cuba is labelled `` cuban ( so pukaara ) ``.
The Chinese dragon on the Flag of China was drawn mistakenly as a pashchimi dragon.
A national flag is a dhvaj ki symbolizes a desh.
The flag is flown by the sarkari, lakin praayah can bhi be flown by citizens of the country.
Both public and private buildings such as skulon or courthouses may makkhi the neshnal flag.
In some countries, the neshnal dhvaj hai tabhi flown isse non-military buildings on certain flag days.
There are teen pruthak prakaar of neshnal dhvaj liye upyog on jameen, or teen liye upyog at samudr, haalanki many countries use identical designs for several ( and sometimes all ) of these types of flag.
The amareeki civil yuddh ( acw ), bhi gyaat as the yuddh between the rajya or bas the civil yuddh ( dekhie namakaran ), thi a civil yuddh ladaa isse 1861 to 1865 between the sanyukt rajya ( the `` sangh '' or the `` uttar '' ) and several Southern slave states that declared their secession and formed the Confederate States of America ( the `` Confederacy '' or the `` South '' ).
The war tha iske utpatti in the samasya of gulaami, especially the extension of slavery into the western territories.
videshi shaktiyaan kiya nahin intervene.
After four years of bloody combat that left over 600,000 sainiko murde or nasht much of the dakshin 's avasanrachana, the confederacy collapsed, slavery was abolished, and the difficult Reconstruction process of restoring national unity and guaranteeing rights to the freed slaves began.
In the 1860 presidential chunaav, republicans, led by abraham lincoln, opposed expanding gulaami into sanyukt rajya ' territories.
lincoln jiti, lakin pehle uske udghaatan on kooch 4, 1861, saat cotton-based slave states formed the Confederacy.
outgoing loktantric adhyaksh james bukanan or the aavak republicans rejected secession as illegal.
Lincoln 's inaugural address ghoshit uske prashasan hota nahin initiate civil yuddh.
Eight remaining slave rajya jari to reject calls for secession.
Confederate forces seized numerous federal durgon bheetar territory claimed by the confederacy.
A Peace Conference failed to find a sulah, or dono pahalu prepared liye yuddh.
The confederates assumed ki europea deshon yahood so nirbhar on `` king kapaas `` ki ve hota intervene ; none kiya and none recognized the new Confederate States of America.
Hostilities began on april 12, 1861, jab confederate shaktiyaan fired upon Fort Sumter, a key fort held by Union troops in South Carolina.
Lincoln called for each state to provide sainikon to retake the fort ; natijatan, chaar adhik slave rajya joined the confederacy, bringing their total to eleven.
The Union soon controlled the border rajya or sthapit a naval nakebandi ki abodh the southern economy.
The Eastern theatre thi inconclusive in 1861–62.
The autumn 1862 Confederate campaign into Maryland ( a sangh rajya ) ended saath confederate retreat at the battle of antietam, dissuading angrejon hastkshep.
lincoln jari the emancipation udghoshnaa, jisase made ending slavery a war goal.
To the west, by summer 1862 the Union destroyed the Confederate river navy, then much of their western armies, and the sangh at vicksburg vibhajit the confederacy in do at the mississippi nadi.
In 1863, Robert E. Lee 's confederate incursion uttar ended at the battle of Gettysburg.
Western successes led to ulysses S. grant cmand of sab sangh armies in 1864.
In the Western Theater, William T. sharaman drove east to capchar atlanta or marched to the samudr, destroying confederate avasanrachana saath the way.
The Union marshaled the resources and manpower to attack the Confederacy from all dishanirdesh, or could afford to lado ladaaiyon of apgharshan through the overland abhiyaan towards richmond, the confederate capital.
The defending Confederate army vifal, agrani to lee 's aatmasamarpan to grant at appomattox adaalat house on april 9, 1865.
The American Civil War was ek of the earliest sachcha audyogic wars.
Railroads, the telegraph, steamships, or mass-produced hathiyaar were employed extensively.
The mobilization of civilian kaarkaanon, khaanon, shipyards, bainko, parivahan or khaanaa supplies all foreshadowed World War I.
It remains the deadliest war in American history, resulting in the mauton of an anumaanit 750,000 sainiko or an undetermined kramank of civilian casualties.
Historian jon huddleston estimates the maut toll at ten pratishat of sab Northern males 20–45 years old, and 30 percent of all Southern white males aged 18–40.
Norrie disease is a genetic vikaar ki primarily affects the najar or lagbhag sadaa leads to blindness.
In addition to the congenital ocular symptoms, kuch marijon suffer isse a pragatisheel sunanaa ghaataa starting zyaadaatar in unke 2nd dashak of life, while another portion may be mentally challenged.
Patients with Norrie disease may develop cataracts, leukocoria ( a condition where the pupils appear shwet jab lite is shone on unhen ), saath saath anya developmental mudde in the najar, aise as shrinking of the globe or the barbaad away of the iris.
Around 30–50 % of them will also have developmental delay/ mental retardation, psychotic-like suvidhaayen, incoordination of andolanon or behavioral abnormalities.
Most patients are born with normal hearing ; however, the onset of sunanaa ghaataa is bahut aam in jaldi kishoravastha.
parichay 15 % of the marijon hai anumaanit to develop all the features of the disease.
The disease affects almost only male infants at birth or soon after janam, kuki the beemaari is inherited x-linked recessive.
Only in very rare cases, mahilaon have maharoom diagnosed saath norrie beemaari as khub.
The exact incidence number is anjaan ; tabhi a few sau maamle have maharoom reported so dur.
It is a very rare vikaar ki is nahin sambhddha saath koi vishisht ethnic or racial groups.
a anubandh is an anubandh having a lawful object daalaa into voluntarily by do or adhik partiyon, prayek of whom intends to create one or more legal obligations between them.
The elements of a contract are `` prastaav '' or `` sweekruti '' by `` competent vyaktiyon '' having vidhik kshamta who exchange `` consideration '' to create `` mutuality of obligation. ''
Proof of some or all of these elements may be kiya in likhane, haalanki anubandh may be bana entirely orally or by conduct.
The remedy liye ulanghan of anubandh can be `` kshatipurti '' in the rup of muaavje of dhan or vishisht pradarshan enforced through an injunction.
Both of these remedies puraskaar the party at ghaataa the `` laabh of the saudebaaji '' or expectation damages, which are greater than mere reliance damages, as in promissory estoppel.
The partiyon may be prakritik vyaktiyon or juristic persons.
A anubandh is a legally enforceable vaada or undertaking that something will or will not occur.
The word promise can be prayukt as a vidhik paryaay liye anubandh, haalanki parvaah is jaruri as a vaada may nahin have the puraa standing of a contract, as when it is an agreement without consideration.
Contract law varies greatly from one jurisdiction to another, sahit matbhed in aam vidhi compared to civil vidhi, the prabhaav of praapt vidhi, visheshkar isse england in aam vidhi deshon, and of law codified in regional legislation.
Regarding Australian Contract Law for example, there are 40 relevant acts which prabhaav on the nirvachan of anubandh at the rashtramandal ( sangheey / neshnal ) str, or an atirikt 26 adhiniyamon at the level of the state of NSW.
In addition there are 6 international instruments or conventions which are applicable for antarrashtriya dealings, aise as the sanyukt raashtra sammelan on anubandh liye the International Sale of Goods.
ASP.NET is a server-side web anuprayog fremawork designed liye web vikaas to upaj dianemic Web pages.
It was developed by Microsoft to allow programmers to nirmaan dianemic web site, web anuprayog or web sevaayen.
it thi pehla released in janvari 2002 saath sanskaran 1.0 of the.neT fremawork, or is the successor to Microsoft 's Active Server Pages ( ASP ) technology.
ASP.NET is built on the Common Language Runtime ( CLR ), allowing programmers to likhen asp.net code using koi samarthit.NET language.
The ASP.NET SOAP extension framework allows asp.net components to prakram sabun sandesh.
Lysergic acid diethylamide, abbreviated LSD or lsd-25, bhi gyaat as lysergide ( in ) or colloquially as acid, is a semisynthetic cicedelik drug of the ergoline parivaar, khub gyaat liye iske manovaigyanik prabhaav jisase can shaamil altered soch prakriyaaon, closed and open eye visuals, synesthesia, an altered sense of time and spiritual experiences, as well as for its key role in 1960s counterculture.
It is used mainly as an entheogen, recreational drug, or as an agent in cicedelik therapy.
LSD is non-addictive, is not known to cause dimag kshati, or rai atyadhik kam toxicity relative to dose.
However, pratikul manorog pratikriyaayein aise as chintaa, paranoia, and delusions are possible.
LSD was first synthesized by Albert Hofmann in 1938 isse ergotamine, a rasinic niklaa by arthur stoll isse ergot, a anaaj kavak ki typically grows on rye.
The short form `` LSD '' comes from its early code naam lsd-25, jisase is an sankshipt liye the germany `` lysergsäure-diethylamid '' followed by a sequential number.
LSD is sensitive to oxygen, parabangnee lite, or chloride, visheshkar in samaadhaan, haalanki iske potency may pichhlaa liye saalo if it is stored away from light and moisture at low temperature.
In pure rup it is a colorless, gandhhin, tasteless solid.
LSD is typically delivered orally, praayah on a substrate aise as absorbent blotter paper, a sugar ghan, or gelatin.
In iske drav rup, it can bhi be administered by intramuscular or intravenous injection.
LSD is very potent, with 20–30 μg ( micrograms ) hone the dahalij khuraaq.
nai prayog saath alesady prarambh in 2009 for the first time in 40 years.
introduced by sandoz laboratories, saath trade-name delysid, as a drug saath vibhinn manorog upyog in 1947, alesady jaldi became a therapeutic agent that appeared to show great promise.
In the 1950s, officials at the U.S. Central pragna agency ( siie ) vichaar the drug might be lagu to dimag control or rasinic warfare ; the agency 's MKULTRA research program propagated the drug among young servicemen and students.
The subsequent recreational use of the drug by youth culture in the Western world dauraan the 1960s led to a rajnatik firestorm ki resulted in iske nishedh.
Currently, a number of organizations—including the beckley nyaas, maanchitr, heffter shodh santhaan or the albert hofmann foundation—exist to fund, encourage and coordinate research into the medicinal and spiritual uses of LSD and related psychedelics.
The United States Navy 's samudr, air, jameen tiimon, commonly gyaat as the navy seals, hai the u.S. navy 's principal khaas parichaalan force or a bhaag of the naval khaas Warfare Command and United States Special Operations Command.
`` SEAL '' is sadaa capitalized in sandarbh to sadasyon of the naval khaas Warfare community.
The acronym is derived from their capacity to operate at samudr, in the air, or on jameen.
SEALs hai purush sadasyon of the sanyukt States Navy.
An exchange program with the Coast guard, jisase graduate teen coast guardsmen as seals, thi suspended in 2011.
The CIA 's highly secretive Special Activities Division ( SAD ) and more specifically iske elite khaas parichaalan samooh ( sog ) rangaruton operators from the SEAL Teams.
Joint Navy SEALs and CIA operations go waapas to the famed macv-sog dauraan the vietnam yuddh.
This cooperation still exists today and is seen in the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, or in the dhundhna or hatya of osama bin laden in pakistani.
World population estimates from 1800 to 2100, aadhaarit on un 2010 projections ( red, orange, green ) and US Census Bureau historical estimates ( black ).
Actual ankit janasankhyikee aankade hai in blue.
According to the highest anumaan, the sansar janasankhyikee may vruddhi to 16 arab by 2100 ; according to the lowest estimate, it may decline to 6 billion.
The sansar janasankhyikee is the kul kramank of jeena insaano on Earth.
As of today, it is anumaanit to kramank arab by the sanyukt rajya janasankhyikee Bureau ( USCB ).
The USCB estimates that the world janasankhyikee exceeded 7 arab on kooch 12, 2012.
According to a separate estimate by the sanyukt raashtra janasankhyikee nidhi, it pahunche is padaav on aktubar 31, 2011.
The world janasankhyikee rai anbhavi nirantar vikaas chunki the samaapt of the great akaal or the Black Death in 1350, when it stood at around 370 million.
The ucchtam daron of vikaas – vaishvik janasankhyikee increases upar 1.8 % prati saal – yahood dekhi briefly dauraan the 1950s, and for a longer period during the 1960s and 1970s.
The growth rate peaked at 2.2 % in 1963, or tha asweekrut to 1.1 % by 2011.
Total annual births were highest in the late 1980s at parichay 138 lakh, or hai abhi apekshit to remain essentially nirantar at unke 2011 str of 134 million, while deaths number 56 million per year, and are expected to increase to 80 million per year by 2040.
Current projections show a continued increase in population in the nikat bhavishya ( lakin a sthir manaahi in the janasankhyikee vikaas rate ), saath the vaishvik janasankhyikee apekshit to reach between 7.5 and 10.5 billion by 2050.
Various longer-term estimates bhavishyavaanee further vikaas, stagnation, or bhi overall manaahi in the global population by 2150.
Some analysts have questioned the sustainability of further world janasankhyikee vikaas, citing the growing pressures on the paryaavaran, vaishvik khaanaa aapurtiyan, or urja resources.
Memphis is a city in the southwestern kone of the u.S. rajya of tennesi, or the county seat of Shelby County.
The city is stith on the 4th chickasaw bluff, dakshin of the sangam of the bhediya and Mississippi rivers.
Memphis had a population of 672,277 in 2011 making it the largest nagar in the rajya of tennesi, the largest nagar on the mississippi nadi, the teesraa largest in the southeastern sanyukt rajya, or the 20th largest in the sanyukt rajya.
The greater Memphis metropolitan area, sahit sata county in mississippi or arkansaas, tha a 2010 janasankhyikee of 1,316,100.
This makes Memphis the second largest mahanagar kshetrafal in tennesi, surpassed tabhi by mahanagar naishaville, which has overtaken Memphis in recent years.
Memphis is the youngest of tennesi 's pramukh shaharon.
A resident of Memphis is referred to as a memphian, or the memphis pradesh is gyaat, visheshkar to media outlet, as `` memphis & The Mid-South ``.
the cattenom nabhikeey Power Plant in France.
France produces around teen quarters of iske vidyut by nuclear power.
The grafenrheinfeld nabhikeey shakti Plant in Germany.
Chancellor angela markel 's gathbandhan ghoshit on may 30, 2011, ki germany’s 17 nabhikeey shakti stesan hoga be shut bas by 2022, in a niti reversal following Japan 's Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster.
Currently, 68 riektaron hai antargat nirmaan in 15 countries.
nabhikeey shakti stesan operate in thirty countries.
In 2010, before the phukushima daiichi nabhikeey vipatti, it thi reported ki an ausat of parichay 10 nabhikeey riektaron yahood apekshit to become operational prati saal, haalanki according to the sansar Nuclear Association, of the 17 civilian reactors planned to become operational between 2007 and 2009, only five actually came on stream.
As of June 2011, germany or switzaraland hai phasing-out nabhikeey shakti.
As of June 2011, countries aise as australia, austria, denmark, unaniyon, ireland, italy, latvian, liechtenstein, dhvaj, malaysia, malta, nai jiland, Norway and Portugal remain opposed to nuclear power.
Skeletal mansapeshiyaan homo sapiens
This is a table of mansapeshiyaan of the insaan anatomy.
There are approximately 642 skeletal muscles within the typical human, and lagbhag prayek mansapeshi constitutes ek bhaag of a jodi of ekasmaan dwipaksheeya mansapeshiyaan, mila on dono pahalu, resulting in approximately 320 pairs of muscles, as presented in this article.
Nevertheless, the exact number is difficult to define because alag strot samooh mansapeshiyaan differently, e.g. regarding kayaa is paribhaashit as alag bhaag of a single mansapeshi or as several muscles.
udhaaharan dayera from 640 to 850.
The muscles of the insaan deh can be categorized into a kramank of samooh jisase shaamil mansapeshiyaan relating to the sir or gardan, mansapeshiyaan of the torso or trunk, muscles of the upper limbs, and muscles of the lower limbs.
The action refers to the karrwai of prayek mansapeshi isse the maanak anatomical position.
In other positions, anya kriyaayein may be performed.
A reenactment of a battle at Fort foster, 1837 ( at hillsborough nadi State Park )
The Seminole Wars, also known as the Florida Wars, were three conflicts in Florida between the seminole — the samuhik naam die to the amalgamation of vibhinn samooh of deshi america or blike logon jo settled in florida in the early 18th century — and the United States Army.
The First Seminole War was from 1814 to 1819 ( although sources differ ), the Second Seminole War from 1835 to 1842, or the teesraa seminole yuddh isse 1855 to 1858.
The pehla virodh saath the seminoles arose out of tanaav relating to saamaanya andrew jackson 's akraman or vinaash of nigro fort in Florida in 1816.
Jackson bhi attacked the spani at pensacola.
Ultimately, the Spanish crown ceded the upnivesh to sanyukt rajya rule.
Orono is a town in penobscot county, maine, sanyukt rajya.
It was first settled in 1774 or namit in sammaan of Chief Joseph Orono of the Penobscot Nation.
It is ghar to the vishvavidhyalayon of Maine.
The janasankhyikee thi 10,362 at the 2010 census.
View of the pyramid
Luxor Las Vegas is a hotel or casino on the las vegas strip in Paradise, Nevada.
The 30-story hotel, owned and operated by MGM resort antarrashtriya, rai a casino saath over 2,000 slot machines and 87 table games.
In the 2008 to 2009 renovation, it has a new, highly aadhunikeekaran, or samakaleen dizine or contains a kul of 4,400 kaksh, sahit 442 suites, astr the aantarik deevaaren of a pyramid style minar or bheetar twin 22-story ziggurat towers that were built as later additions.
The hotel is namit baad the nagar of luxsar ( ancient Thebes ) in Egypt.
Luxor is the duusari largest hotel in las vegas ( the largest hone the mgm grand ) or the eighth largest in the world.
As of 2010, the Luxor has a 4 Key rating from the green kunjee eco-rating kaarykram, jisase evaluates `` chirsthayee '' hotel operations.
A pilot experiment, also called a pilot study, is a small scale preliminary study conducted in order to evaluate feasibility, time, cost, adverse kaarykram, or prabhaav aakaar ( sankhyikeey variability ) in an attempt to bhavishyavaanee an uchit namoona aakaar or improve upon the padhai dizine prior to pradarshan of a full-scale shodh project.
Pilot studies, therefore, may not be uchit liye maamla adhyayan.
The Los Angeles Fire Department ( LAFD ) is the agency ki provides aag suraksha or apaat chikitsa sevaayen liye the nagar of los angeles.
It may be unofficially referred to as the Los Angeles City Fire Department to fark it isse the los angeles county aag vibhaag.
The acre is a ikai of kshetrafal prayukt in the imperial or u.S. prathagat systems.
An acre is about 40 % of a hectare – thodaa choti than an amareeki footbaal field.
The acre is no longer commonly used, although a few notable apwaad shaamil the sanyukt rajya, australia, burma or the sanyukt kingdom ( as of 2010, the acre is no longer officially prayukt in the sanyukt kingdom, haalanki is still used in real estate descriptions ).
It is still prayukt, to kuch extent, in Canada.
The international pratik of the acre is ac, or is paribhaashit as 1/640 of a square mile.
The most commonly prayukt acre aaj is the antarrashtriya acre.
In the United rajya dono the antarrashtriya acre or the thodaa alag us survey acre are in use.
The most aam upyog of the acre is to maap tracts of jameen.
One antarrashtriya acre is paribhaashit as 4046.8564224 square metres.
During the Middle aayu, an acre thi the raashi of jameen ki could be plowed in one day with a yoke of oxen.
Pawnee initially refers to a deshi amareeki logon or its language:
pawnee logon
pawnee bhashaa
pawnee is bhi the naam of anek places in the United States:
pawnee, illinois
pawnee, kansas
Pawnee nagar, nebraska
pawnee, oklahoma
pawnee, texas
Pawnee neshnal ghasbhumi, colorado
pawnee township ( bahuviklpi )
Pawnee County ( bahuviklpi )
Pawnee may bhi refer to:
Piper PA-25 pawnee, agricultural aircraft
Hiller vz-1 pawnee, praayogic vayuyan
Pawnee, Indiana ( fictional city ) the fictional setting of the enbisi television kamedi park or Recreation.
broca 's or wernicke 's Areas
Language processing refers to the way human beings use words to communicate vichaar or jajbaat, or kaisaa aise sanchaar hai processed and understood.
Thus it is how the brain creates or understands bhashaa.
Most haal theories consider ki is prakram is carried out entirely by and inside the brain.
is is mana ek of the sabase characteristic abilities of the human species - perhaps the most characteristic.
However very choti is gyaat parichay it or vahin is vishaal paimaana for research on it.
Most of the knowledge acquired to date on the subject has come from patients who have suffered some type of significant head injury, whether bahya ( wounds, bullate ) or aatanrik ( strokes, tumors, apakshayi rogon ).
Studies have shown that most of the language prasanskaran krityon hai carried out in the dimagi cortex.
The essential falan of the cortical bhashaa kshetron is symbolic representation.
Even though language exists in alag form, sab of unhen hai aadhaarit on symbolic representation.
The Bugatti Veyron EB 16.4 is a mid-engined grand touring car, designed or viksit by the volkswagen samooh or manufactured in Molsheim, France by Bugatti Automobiles S.A.S.
The Super Sport sanskaran of the veyron is the tivratam street-legal utpaadan car in the world, with a top speed of.
The asli sanskaran rai a top speed of.
It was named Car of the dashak ( 2000–2009 ) by the bibisi television kaarykram sheersh Gear.
The standard veyron jiti sheersh gears behtareen car chalit sab saal puraskaar in 2005.
On 6 April 2013, Bugatti set the ricard liye the tivratam roadster in the sansar saath the veyron grand khel vitesse, reaching on average a top speed of.
The Veyron 's chief designer was Hartmut Warkuss, and the exterior thi designed by jozef kabaň of volkswagen, saath much of the abhiyantriki kaary hone conducted antargat the maargdarshan of abhiyantriki mukhya woolfgong schreiber.
A number of special visangatiyaan have maharoom utpaadit.
In December 2010, Bugatti began offering prospective buyers the ability to customize exterior and interiars rang by using the veyron 16.4 configurator anuprayog on the marque 's aadhikarik website.
DVD is an optical discs bhandar swaroop, invented or viksit by philips, soni, toshiba, or Panasonic in 1995.
DVDs offer higher storage capacity than compact discs jabaki having the vahi aayam.
Pre-recorded DVDs are mass-produced using molding mashine ki physically stamp aankada onto the dvd.
Such discs are known as DVD- ROM, kuki aankada can tabhi be padhaa or nahin likhaa nor erased.
Blank recordable DVD discs ( DVD-R and dvd+r ) can be ankit ekbar using a dvd recorder or tab falan as a dvd-rom. rewritable dvds ( dvd-rw, dvd+rw, or dvd-ram ) can be ankit or erased anek times.
dvds hai prayukt in dvd-video upabhokta digital video swaroop or in dvd-audio upabhokta digital audio format, as well as for authoring AVCHD discs.
DVDs containing other prakaar of soochna may be referred to as dvd aankada discs.
What Chilli Wants is an amareeki vaastaviktaa shrenee on vh1 abhinit chilli, one-third of the Grammy Award -winning R & B trio TLC.
The show chronicals chilli 's quest to dhundhen prem saath the sahaayta of tionna T. smalls, an lekhak and relationship coach.
The series premiered on april 11, 2010, or rai since been renewed for a second season.
The second season premiered on sande, janvari 2, 2011.
Peter Gene hernandez ( born aktubar 8, 1985 ), gyaat by uske stage naam bruno Mars, is an American singer-songwriter and record producer.
Raised in Honolulu, Hawaii, by a family of sangeetkaaron, mangal began bananaa music at a yang aayu or performed in various musical venues in his hometown throughout his childhood.
He graduated from unchi skool or tab sthanantarit to los angeles, california, to pursue a musical career.
Mars produced songs for other kalakaaron, joining utpaadan toli the smeezingtons.
Mars had an unsuccessful stint saath motown record, lakin tab hastakshrit saath atlantic in 2009.
He became pahachaanaa as a solo kalakaar baad lending uske vocals or co-writing the hooks liye the geeton `` Nothin ' on You `` by B.o.B, and `` Billionaire `` by Travie McCoy.
He also co-wrote the hits `` sahi golakaar `` by flo rida featuring ke $ ha, and `` Wavin ' Flag `` by K'naan.
In aktubar 2010, he released his debut album, Doo-Wops & Hooligans.
Anchored by the vishwavyaapee number-one singles `` bas the rasta tum Are `` and `` Grenade ``, the album peaked at number three on the Billboard 200.
mangal thi manonith liye saat grammys at the 53rd grami puraskaar, jeetna behtareen purush pop gayan Performance for `` Just the Way You Are ''.
His duusari studio album, aparamparaagat jeukabox, was released on December 11, 2012.
Mars ' music is noted for displaying a chaudee kismein of sheliyaan or prabhaav, or contains tatv of many musical genres.
He has worked with an assortment of kalakaaron isse vibhinn genres.
as a child, he thi atyadhik bahekaave by kalakaaron aise as choti richard, Elvis Presley and Michael Jackson and would often impersonate these artists from a young age.
Mars also incorporates regi - or motown -inspired dhwani into uske kaary.
vishwavyaapee, mangal became the best-selling digital artist in 2011.
He had three singles in the sheersh ten, sahit pehla place saath `` bas the rasta tum hai '', jisase sold 12.5 million copies.
Mars won Best International Male solo kalakaar at the 2012 brit puraskaar.
Bruno Mars has sold 6 lakh album or 40 lakh singles vishwavyaapee as a singer.
Althought as a song-writer, producer and singer uske kul single downlod bikri surpass 100 lakh worldwide.
Bust of Zeus, otricoli ( sala rotonda, museo pio-clementino, Vatican ).
Greek mythology is the body of myths and teachings that belong to the ancient unaniyon, concerning unke devataaon or nayak, the prakruti of the sansar, or the origins or significance of unke apana cult or ritual practices.
It was a bhaag of the dharm in pracheen unaniyon or is part of religion in modern Greece and around the world, known as Hellenismos.
Modern scholars refer to and study the myths in an attempt to throw light on the religious and political institutions of pracheen unaniyon or iske sabhyataa, or to laabh samajhnaa of the prakruti of myth-making itself.
Greek mythology is explicitly embodied in a large collection of narratives, or implicitly in unani representational kala, aise as vase-paintings or votive uphaar.
Greek myth attempts to explain the origins of the world, and details the jeevandaan or adventures of a chaudee kismein of devataaon, deviyaan, nayak, heroines, or puranic jeev.
These accounts initially yahood disseminated in an oral-poetic parampara ; aaj the unani mithkon are known primarily from Greek literature.
The oldest known Greek saahitiyik strot, homer 's apik kavitaayen elliod or odissi, fokas on kaarykram surrounding the Trojan War.
Two poems by Homer 's near contemporary Hesiod, the theogony or the works or dinon, contain khate of the utpatti of the sansar, the uttaradhikaar of daivi rulers, the succession of human ages, the origin of human woes, and the origin of sacrificial practices.
Myths are also preserved in the homeric hymns, in fragments of apik kavitaayen of the apik saikil, in lyric kavitaayen, in the works of the tragedians of the paanchvaan sadi bc, in kritiyaan of vidwaanon or poets of the Hellenistic Age, and in texts from the time of the Roman Empire by writers such as Plutarch and Pausanias.
Archaeological findings provide a principal sorce of vivaran parichay unani mythology, saath devataaon or nayak pradarshit prominently in the sajaavat of many artifacts.
Geometric designs on pottery of the eighth century BC depict drishyon isse the trojan saikil as khub as the adventures of heracles.
In the succeeding archaic, shastreey, or hellenistic avadhi, homeric or vibhinn anya puranic drishyon appear, supplementing the existing literary evidence.
Greek mythology has tha an extensive influence on the samskruti, kala, or sahitya of pashchimi sabhyataa or remains part of Western heritage and language.
Poets and artists from ancient times to the present have niklaa prerana isse unani mythology or have khoja samakaleen significance and relevance in the themes.
Mouth & macneal in 1971
Mouth & macneal thi a pop duo isse the netherlands.
They hai behtareen gyaat liye unke lakh selling recording of `` How Do You Do ``.
The Boise State Broncos football kaarykram represents boise rajya vishvavidhyalayon in college footbaal or compete in the footbaal katori subdivision ( fbs ) of Division I as a member of the Mountain West Conference.
They are currently led by head coach kris petersen or khel unke ghar khel at bronco Stadium.
The frank ( chihn : fr. or sfr. ; germany : franken, french or romansh : frank, italvi : franco ; code : chf ) is the currency and legal tender of Switzerland and Liechtenstein ; it is also legal tender in the Italian exclave Campione d'Italia.
Although not formally legal tender in the German exclave büsingen ( the ekmaatr vidhik karency is the european ), it is in chaudee rose upyog vahin.
The swiss neshnal bainko mudde banknotes or the sangheey mint Swissmint issues coins.
The Swiss franc is the tabhi sanskaran of the frank still jari in europea.
The smaller denomination, a hundredth of a franc, is a rappen ( rp. ) in germany, centime ( c. ) in french, centesimo ( ct. ) in italvi, or rap ( rp. ) in romansh.
The ISO code of the currency used by banks or vittiya sansthaanon is chf, haalanki `` fr. '' is prayukt by sabase vyavsaayon and advertisers ; some use SFr. ; the Latinate `` CH '' stands for Confoederatio Helvetica.
Given the different bhashaaen prayukt in switzaraland, latin is prayukt liye language-neutral inscriptions on the coins.
Sir Charles Spencer `` Charlie '' Chaplin, ( 16 april 188925 disambar 1977 ) thi a angrejon comic karta or filmkaar jo rose to fame in the silent era.
Chaplin became a vishwavyaapee pratik through uske screen persona `` the tremp `` or is mana one of the most important figures of the film industry.
His career spanned adhik than 75 saalo, isse a child in the victorian era to band to his death at the age of 88, and encompassed both adulation and controversy.
Raised in London, chaplin 's balykaal thi paribhaashit by garibi and hardship.
He was sent to a workhouse twice before the aayu of nau ; uske pita thi anupasthit, or uske maan thi vachanabaddh to a dimagi asylum.
chaplin began performing isse a yang aayu, touring music halls and later working as a stage actor and comedian.
At 19 he was signed to the prestigious fred karno company, jisase took use to america.
Chaplin was scouted by the film industry, and made uske pehla dikhaave in 1914 saath keystone studios.
He soon viksit the tremp persona or formed a vishaal fan base.
Chaplin directed his films isse an jaldi stage, or jari to hone uske shilp as he sthanantarit to the Essanay, Mutual, and First National corporations.
By 1918, he thi ek of the sabase prasiddh main in the world.
In 1919, Chaplin co-founded the vitaran company sanyukt kalakaaron, giving him complete control over his films.
His first feature-length picture was The Kid ( 1921 ), followed by A stri of paris ( 1923 ), the sunaharaa fatafat ( 1925 ), and The Circus ( 1928 ).
He refused to move to sound films in the 1930s, bajaay producing nagar lits ( 1931 ) or aadhunik times ( 1936 ) bagaiyr dialogue.
Chaplin became increasingly rajnatik or uske aglaa filmi, the great taanashaah ( 1940 ), satirised adolf Hitler.
the 1940s thi a dashak chihnit saath vivaad liye Chaplin, and his popularity declined rapidly.
He was accused of communist sympathies, jabaki uske bhagidaari in a paternity suut or vivaah to much younger women were considered scandalous.
An FBI investigation was kholi on chaplin, or he thi aakhirkaar majaboor to chhod the sanyukt rajya or settle in switzaraland.
He abandoned the Tramp for his baad films, jisase shaamil monsieur verdoux ( 1947 ), limelight ( 1952 ), a king in nai york ( 1957 ), or a Countess From Hong Kong ( 1967 ).
Chaplin wrote, directed, produced, sampadit, scored, or strecchar in sabase of uske films.
He was a perfectionist, or uske vittiya swatantraaa meant he praayah kharch saalo on the development and production of a picture.
His films are characterised by slapstick sanyukt saath pathos, or praayah visheshta the tremp struggling against adversity.
Many contain social and political themes, as khub as autobiographical tatv.
In 1972, as bhaag of a navinikrut saraahna liye uske kaary, chaplin praapt an maanad academy puraskaar liye `` the incalculable prabhaav he has had in making motion pictures the art form of this century ''.
He continues to be held in high regard, with the sunaharaa fatafat, nagar lits, aadhunik times, or the great taanashaah praayah kramit among the greatest films of all time.
Planned Parenthood Federation of America ( ppfa ), commonly shortened to niojit parenthood, is the u.S. sambhddha of the antarrashtriya niojit parenthood sangh ( IPPF ) and one of its larger members.
PPFA is a non-profit sanghathan providing reproductive swasthya or maternal and child health services.
The Planned parenthood karrwai nidhi, inc. ( ppaf ) is a sambandhit sanghathan jisase lobbies liye pro-choice vidhaan, vyapak sex education, and access to affordable health care in the United States.
Planned Parenthood is the largest U.S. pradaata of reproductive swasthya sevaayen, sahit karkat screening, hiv screening or counseling, nirodhak, and abortion.
Contraception accounts for 35 % of PPFA 's kul sevaayen or abortions khaataa liye 3 % ; ppfa conducts roughly 300,000 abortions prayek saal, among 3 lakh logon parosa.
The sanghathan rai iske jaden in brukaleen, nai york, jahaan margaret Sanger opened the country 's first birth-control clinic.
Sanger founded the American Birth control lig in 1921, jisase in 1942 became bhaag of the niojit parenthood Federation of America.
Since then, Planned parenthood rai grown to have over 820 clinics sthitiyaan in the U.S., with a total budget of US $ 1 billion.
PPFA provides an array of services to over three lakh logon in the sanyukt rajya, or supports sevaayen liye over ek lakh client baahar the sanyukt rajya.
purushon rea is latin liye `` apradhi mind ''.
In criminal law, it is viewed as one of the jaruri tatv of kuch crimes.
The standard common law test of criminal liability is usually expressed in the Latin phrase, actus non facit reum nisi purushon baithna rea, jisase arthath `` the adhinium is nahin culpable jabatak the dimag is apradhi ''.
Thus, in jurisdictions with due process, there must be an actus reus, or `` guilty act, '' accompanied by kuch str of purushon rea to constitute the aparaadhon saath jisase the prativaadee is charge ( dekhie the takneekee aavashyaktaa of concurrence ).
As a general rule, dand deyta karata nahin sanlagn to a vyakti who acted with the absence of mental fault.
the excepshan is sakht liability crimes.
In civil law, it is usually not necessary to prove a subjective dimagi tatv to sthapit deyta liye ulanghan of contract or tort, for example.
However, if a apkrutya is intentionally vachanabaddh or a anubandh is intentionally breached, aise intent may badhayen the paimaana of deyta as well as the measure of damages payable to the plaintiff.
isliye, purushon rea refers to the dimagi element of the offence that accompanies the actus reus.
In some jurisdictions, the sharten purushon rea or actus reus have maharoom replaced by alternative terminology.
In Australia, for example, the elements of the federal offences are now designated as `` fault elements '' or `` dimagi tatv '' ( purushon rea ) or `` shaareerik tatv '' or `` bahya tatv '' ( actus reus ).
This shabdaawalee thi apanaaya to badalen the aspashtataa of the latin sharten saath saral and accurate phrasing.
Ulysses S. Grant ( born Hiram Ulysses Grant ; April 27, 1822 – July 23, 1885 ) was the 18th President of the sanyukt rajya ( 1869–1877 ) following uske atyadhik kaamyaab bhoomika as a yuddh saamaanya in the duusari half of the Civil War.
Under Grant, the Union Army defeated the Confederate sainya ; having effectively ended the yuddh or secession saath the aatmasamarpan of robert E. lee 's army at Appomattox.
As president he led the kattarpanthi republicans in unke praytn to eliminate sab vestiges of Confederate nationalism and slavery.
pareshaan over uncontrolled hinsa in the dakshin or having desired to protect africa amareeki naagarikta, President Grant effectively destroyed the Ku Klux Klan in 1871.
Grant was the first President to establish Civil Service reform having nirmit a two-year federally vittposhit civil seva ayog in 1871.
in sharten of videshi niti, grant nazil an `` anpekshit kshamta for deliberation and consultation '' that promoted the national interest.
His reputation was marred by his repeated defense of corrupt appointees, and by america 's pehla audyogic aayu aarthik avsaad ( pukaara the `` dehshat of 1873 `` ) ki varchasv uske second term.
Although his Republican Party split in 1872 saath reformers denouncing use, grant was easily reelected.
By 1875 the conservative white Southern opposition regained control of every rajya in the dakshin or as he baayein the shwet house in kooch 1877 uske nitiyon yahood hone undone.
A kariyar sipaahi, he graduate isse the sanyukt rajya sainya academy at west Point and served in the Mexican–American War.
When the Civil War began in 1861, Grant trained sangh swayamsevi regiments in illinois.
In 1862, as a general he fought a series of battles and thi prachaarit to pramukh saamaanya baad forcing the aatmasamarpan of a vishaal confederate fouj or gaining control of Kentucky and most of Tennessee.
He then led sangh shaktiyaan to vijay baad aarambhik setbacks in the battle of shiloh, earning a reputation as an aggressive commander.
In july 1863, baad a long, jatil abhiyaan, grant parajeet paanch uncoordinated confederate armies ( capturing one of them ) and seized Vicksburg.
This famous victory gave the Union puraa control of the mississippi nadi, vibhajit band the pashchimi confederacy, and opened the way for more Union triumphs.
After another win at the Battle of Chattanooga in late 1863, adhyaksh abraham lincoln bana use leftinent saamaanya or commander of sab of the sangh sena.
As commanding saamaanya of the fouj, grant confronted robert E. lee in a shrenee of bahut khooni ladaaiyon in 1864 gyaat as the Overland Campaign that ended with the bottling up of Lee at Petersburg, outside the Confederate capital of Richmond.
During the siege, Grant samanvit a shrenee of vinaashkari abhiyaan shubharambh by wiliam tecumseh sharaman, philip Sheridan, and George Thomas.
Finally breaking through lee 's trenches, the sangh fouj captured Richmond in April 1865.
lee surrendered uske depleted shaktiyaan to grant at appomattox as the Confederacy collapsed.
Although pro-Confederate itihaaskaaron attacked grant as a nishthur kasaai jo jiti by brute force, sabase itihaaskaaron have hailed his military genius.
Grant 's two consecutive terms as President stabilized the nation baad the amareeki civil yuddh or dauraan the turbulent punarnirmaan period that followed.
As president, he enforced Reconstruction by enforcing civil adhikaron kanoon or lard ku klux claan hinsa.
Grant won passage of the Fifteenth amendment ; giving sanvaidhanik suraksha liye african-american voting rights.
He used the army to build the Republican Party in the dakshin, aadhaarit on blike matadaata, uttari newcomers ( `` carpetbaggers `` ) or deshi shwet supporters ( `` Scalawags. '' )
As a result, African Americans yahood represented in the u.S. congress liye the pehla samay in American history in 1870.
Reformers praised Grant 's Indian peace policy by having tutaa the deadlock on bhartiya appropriations in congress, the sristi of the falak of bhartiya commissioners to mek sudhaar suzav, or uske enlistment of quaker protestants who controlled mid western Indian agencies, that effectively curbed Congressional patronage.
Grant remained determined in keeping indiens isse hone exterminated isse shwet settler atikaraman or by the U.S. military.
Grant 's reputation as president by 1875 was at an all-time unchi liye uske pichhlaa vito of the mahangaai vidheyak, the dyodhi of the resumption of specie adhinium, and Secretary Bristow 's successful raids that shut down the Whiskey Ring.
Grant 's foreign policy, led by sachiv of rajya hamiltan machhlee, implemented antarrashtriya madhyasthata, settled the albama daawa saath britain or avoided yuddh saath spain over the Virginius Affair.
A jukebox is a partially swachaalit music-playing yantra, praayah a coin-operated yantra, ki hoga khel a patron 's selection from self-contained media.
The classic jukebox has buttons with letters and numbers on them ki, jab daalaa in sangyojan, hai prayukt to khel a vishisht chayan.
A drug pareekshan is a takneekee vishleshan of a biological namoona – liye udhaaharan mutr, bal, rakt, swead, or maukhik drav / saliva – to determine the presence or absence of specified parent drugs or their metabolites.
Major uses of drug testing hai to detect the upasthiti of pradarshan badhanaa steroids in khel or liye drugs prohibited by laws, such as cannabis, cocaine and heroin.
A `` 10-panel urine screen '' consists of the following:
Amphetamines ( sahit methamphetamine )
barbiturates
benzodiazepines
cannabinoids ( thc )
coca
methadone
methaqualone
Opiates ( codeine, morphine, heroin, oxycodone, Hydrocodone, etc. )
phencyclidine ( pcp )
propoxyphene
Saturn V rocket, prayukt liye the amareeki maanavyukt chandra landing missions
Space exploration is the discovery or khoji of bahari spes by arthath of space technology.
Physical khoji of spes is conducted dono by insaan spaceflights and by robotic spacecraft.
jabaki the avlokan of vastuen in spes, gyaat as khagolashastra, predates vishwasaneey ankit itihaas, it thi the vikaas of vishaal or apekshaakrit kushal rockets during the early 20th century that allowed physical space exploration to become a reality.
Common rationales for exploring space include advancing vaigyanik shodh, uniting alag raashtra, ensuring the bhavishya astitv of maanavtaa and developing military and strategic advantages against other countries.
vibhinn aalochanaon of spes khoji are sometimes made.
Space khoji rai praayah maharoom prayukt as a proxi pratiyogita liye geopolitical rivalries aise as the Cold War.
The early era of space exploration was driven by a `` Space Race `` between the Soviet Union and the sanyukt rajya, the launch of the pehla man-made object to kaksha the dharti, the ussr 's sputnik 1, on 4 aktubar 1957, or the pehla chandramaa landing by the amareeki apollo 11 craft on 20 July 1969 are often taken as the boundaries for this initial period.
The Soviet space program achieved many of the pehla milastone, sahit the pehla jeena hone in kaksha in 1957, the pehla insaan spaceflight ( euri gagarin savaar vostok 1 ) in 1961, the pehla spacewalk ( by aleksei leonov ) on 18 March 1965, the first automatic landing on another celestial body in 1966, and the launch of the first space station ( Salyut 1 ) in 1971.
After the first 20 years of exploration, focus shifted from one-off flights to bedardi hardware, aise as the spes shatal kaarykram, or isse pratiyogita to sahyog as with the International Space Station ( ISS ).
With the substantial purnataa of the iss following sts-133 in kooch 2011, yojanaayen liye spes khoji by the uese remain in flux.
nakshatra, a bush prashasan kaarykram liye a vaapasi to the chandramaa by 2020 thi judged inadequately vittposhit or unrealistic by an expert review panel reporting in 2009.
The Obama Administration prastaavit a sanshodhan of nakshatra in 2010 to fokas on the vikaas of the kaabiliyat liye crewed mishan pare kam dharti kaksha ( leo ), envisioning extending the aaparishan of the iss pare 2020, transferring the vikaas of launch vaahanon for human crews from NASA to the private sector, and developing technology to enable missions to beyond LEO, such as Earth/Moon L1, the Moon, Earth/Sun L2, near-earth asteroids, and Phobos or Mars orbit.
As of March 2011, the US Senate and House of Representatives are still working towards a sulah nasa funding vidheyak, jisase hoga sambhawatah terminate Constellation and fund development of a heavy lift launch vehicle ( HLLV ).
In the 2000s, the logon 's ganatantr of china initiated a kaamyaab maanavyukt spaceflight kaarykram, jabaki the europea sangh, japani, and India have also planned future manned space missions.
China, Russia, Japan, or india have advocated maanavyukt mishan to the chandramaa dauraan the 21st sadi, jabaki the European Union has advocated manned missions to both the Moon and Mars during the 21st century.
From the 1990s onwards, nijee ruchi began promoting spes paryaton or tab nijee spes khoji of the Moon ( see Google Lunar X Prize ).
John Calvin kulij, jr. ( july 4, 1872january 5, 1933 ) thi the 30th adhyaksh of the United States ( 1923–1929 ).
A Republican lawyer from Vermont, Coolidge worked his way up the ladder of masachusets rajya raajnneeti, aakhirkaar banane rajyapal of ki state.
His conduct during the Boston Police Strike of 1919 thrust use into the neshnal spotlite or diya use a pratishtha as a man of decisive action.
Soon after, he was elected as the 29th vaais adhyaksh in 1920 or succeeded to the presidency upon the achaanak maut of Warren G. Harding in 1923.
Elected in his own right in 1924, he gained a pratishtha as a small-government roodhiwaadee, or bhi as a man who said very little.
Coolidge restored public vishwaas in the shwet house baad the ghotaalon of uske purvavarti 's administration, and left office with considerable popularity.
As a Coolidge biographer put it, `` He embodied the spirit or ummiden of the madhya class, could interpret unke longings or express their opinions.
That he did represent the genius of the ausat is the sabase convincing pramaan of his strength. ''
Some later criticized Coolidge as bhaag of a saamaanya aalochana of laissez-faire government.
uske pratishtha underwent a punarjagran dauraan the ronaald reagan prashasan, lakin the param moolyankan of uske presidency is still divided between those who approve of his reduction of the size of government programs and those who believe the federal government should be more involved in regulating and controlling the economy.
Espresso is a concentrated peya brewed by forcing a choti raashi of nearly khaulate water under pressure through finely ground coffee beans.
Espresso often has a thicker consistency than coffee brewed by other methods, a higher concentration of suspended and dissolved solids, or crema ( arth malai, lakin hone a sandarbh to the jhaag saath a malaaidaar banaavat ki form as a parinaam of the dabaav ).
As a result of the pressurized brewing process the flavors or rasayan in a theth cap of aspreso hai bahut concentrated.
Espresso is the aadhaar liye anya peya, aise as a latte, kapuchino, macchiato, mocha, or americano.
Espresso has more caffeine per unit awaz than sabase peya, lakin the usual sevarat aakaar is smaller—a theth 60 ml ( 2 us drav ounce ) of aspreso rai 80 to 150 mg of caffeine, choti kam than the 95 to 200 mg of a standard 240 mL ( 8 US fluid ounces ) cup of drip-brewed coffee.
Brian Keith Kelly ( born aktubar 25, 1961 ) is an amareeki footbaal coach or purv player.
He is currently the head football coach for the notre dame lard irish, a sthiti he rai yojit chunki December 2009.
Kelly was previously head coach at Grand ghati rajya vishvavidhyalayon ( 1991–2003 ), central michigan vishvavidhyalayon ( 2004–2006 ), or vishvavidhyalayon of sinsinati ( 2006–2009 ).
A contract is an agreement having a lawful object entered into voluntarily by two or adhik partiyon, prayek of jisko intends to banaaen ek or adhik vidhik dayitvon between unhen.
The elements of a anubandh hai `` prastaav '' or `` sweekruti '' by `` competent vyaktiyon '' having vidhik kshamta jo exange `` vichaar '' to banaaen `` mutuality of obligation. ''
Proof of some or all of these elements may be kiya in likhane, haalanki anubandh may be bana entirely orally or by conduct.
The remedy for ulanghan of anubandh can be `` kshatipurti '' in the rup of muaavje of dhan or vishisht pradarshan enforced through an injunction.
dono of ye remedies puraskaar the party at ghaataa the `` laabh of the saudebaaji '' or expectation damages, which are greater than mere reliance damages, as in promissory estoppel.
The parties may be prakritik vyaktiyon or juristic vyaktiyon.
A anubandh is a legally enforceable vaada or undertaking ki something will or will not occur.
The word promise can be used as a legal synonym for contract, although care is required as a promise may nahin have the puraa khadaa of a anubandh, as jab it is an anubandh bagaiyr vichaar.
Contract law varies greatly isse ek kshetradhikaar to another, sahit matbhed in aam vidhi compared to civil vidhi, the prabhaav of praapt vidhi, visheshkar isse England in common law countries, and of law codified in regional legislation.
Regarding Australian Contract Law for example, there hai 40 praasangik adhiniyamon jisase prabhaav on the nirvachan of anubandh at the rashtramandal ( sangheey / neshnal ) level, and an additional 26 acts at the level of the state of NSW.
In addition there are 6 antarrashtriya yantra or prathaon jisase hai lagu liye antarrashtriya dealings, aise as the sanyukt raashtra sammelan on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods.
Sidney Patrick Crosby, ons ( born agast 7, 1987 ) is a canadai peshewar barf hockey khilaadi jo is captain of the pittsburg penguins of the neshnal Hockey League ( NHL ).
Crosby was drafted first overall by the penguins out of the quebec pramukh junior hockey lig ( QMJHL ).
During his two-year pramukh junior kariyar saath the rimouski océanic, he arjeet back-to-back CHL Player of the Year awards and led his club to the 2005 Memorial Cup final.
Nicknamed `` The aglaa ek ``, he thi ek of the sabase atyadhik regarded draft chayan in hockey itihaas, agrani anek to refer to the 2005 draft lottery as the `` Sidney Crosby Sweepstakes ''.
In his pehla enechael ritu, crosby samaapt chathe in lig scoring saath 102 ank ( 39 lakshya, 63 assists ) or thi a runner-up for the Calder Memorial Trophy ( won by Alexander Ovechkin ).
By his second season, he led the enechael saath 120 ank ( 36 lakshya, 84 assists ) to capchar the art ross trophy, banane the youngest khilaadi and the only teenager to win a scoring title in any major North American sports league.
That same season, Crosby also won the Hart Memorial Trophy as the Professional Hockey Writers Association 's choice for most moolyawaan khilaadi or the lester B. pimmersan puraskaar as the enechael khilaadi sangh 's chunaav liye sabase bakaayaa khilaadi, banane the saatvaan khilaadi in NHL history to earn all three awards in one year.
Crosby started the 2007–08 season with the toli 's captaini or subsequently led unhen to the 2008 stanley cap final, jahaan ve yahood parajeet by the Detroit Red Wings in six games.
The Penguins laute to the final viruddh detroit the following saal or jiti in saat khel ; Crosby became the youngest captain in NHL history to win the Stanley Cup.
In the 2009–10 season, Crosby scored a career-high 51 goals, tying use saath steven stamkos liye the prakshepastra richard trophy as the league-leader ; saath 58 assists, he totaled 109 points, second in the NHL.
During the off-season, crosby praapt the chihnit mesier netritv puraskaar.
In 2010–11, crosby sustained a concussion as a parinaam of hits to the head in back-to-back games.
The injury left him sidelined liye ten or a half maheene.
However, after playing aath khel in the 2011–12 ritu, crosby 's concussion-like lakshan laute in disambar 2011, or he kiya not return until mid-March 2012.
Internationally, Crosby has represented Canada in numerous tournaments liye the desh 's junior or main 's tiimon.
After competing in the 2003 u-18 junior sansar cap, he represented canada in back-to-back iihf sansar u20 championships, jeetna silver in 2004 and gold in 2005.
At the 2006 iihf sansar championships, he led the toornament in scoring, jabaki bhi kamai sheersh Forward and All-Star Team honours.
Four years later, Crosby was named to Team Canada liye the 2010 sheet olympic in vainkuvar.
Playing the sanyukt rajya in the sunaharaa padak khel, he scored the game-winning goal in overtime.
A United rajya cent, bhi gyaat as a penny.
`` my do saint '' ( 2¢ ) or iske longer sanskaran `` put my do saint in '' is an sanyukt rajya ( us ) idiomatic abhivyakti, liya isse the asli English idiom expression : to put in `` my two pennies worth '' or `` my tuppence worth. ''
it is prayukt to preface the antarim stating of one’s opinion.
By virodhatmak the raay to follow – suggesting iske maan is tabhi do saint, a bahut choti amount – the user of the phrase hopes to lessen the impact of a possibly statement, showing politeness and humility.
however, it is bhi sometimes prayukt saath vidambnaa when expressing a strongly felt opinion.
The phrase is also used out of aadat to preface uncontentious opinions.
liye example:
The Chinese Civil War was a civil war in China fought between forces loyal to the government of the ganatantr of china led by the kuomintang ( kmt ) or shaktiyaan of the communist party of china ( CPC ).
The war began in April 1927, amidst the uttari expedition, or essentially ended jab pramukh active battles ceased in 1950.
The conflict eventually resulted in do de facto rajya, the ganatantr of china ( aaraosi ) in taiwan or the logon 's ganatantr of china ( piarsi ) in menland China, both claiming to be the legitimate government of China.
The war represented an ideological vibhajit ( baayein vs. sahi ) between the communist cpc, and the KMT 's brand of Nationalism.
The civil war continued intermittently jabatak let 1937, jab the do partiyon formed a duusari sanyukt Front to counter a Japanese invasion.
China 's full-scale civil yuddh resumed in 1946, a saal baad the samaapt of hostilities with Japan.
After four more years, 1950 saw the cessation of major military hostilities—with the newly santhaapit logon 's ganatantr of china controlling menland china ( sahit hyenan ), or the ganatantr of china 's kshetradhikaar hone pratibandhit to Taiwan, Penghu, Quemoy, Matsu and several outlying islands.
The kuomintang shikast is attributed to anek karkon : bhrashtachar - chyang likhaa in uske diary on june 1948 that the KMT had failed, not because of external enemies but because of rot from within.
Strong aarambhik support isse the u.S. diminished, or then, stopped.
( Partly because of kmt bhrashtachar or anti-democratic shashan, or partly kuki of the anishchit u.S. videshi niti towards samyavaadee between 1945 and 1950 ) ; Communist land reform policy promised poor peasants farmland from their landlords.
is ensured pla lokapriy support.
After the surrender of japani at the samaapt of sansar yuddh ii, soviet shaktiyaan turned over unke captured japani hathiyaar to the cpc or anumat the CPC to take control of territory in Manchuria.
To this din, no armistice or salaam sandhi rai kabhi maharoom hastakshrit, or it is debated as to the whether the Civil War has legally ended.
Cross-Strait relations have maharoom hindered by sainya khatre or rajnatik or aarthik dabaav, visheshkar over Taiwan 's political status, with both governments officially adhering to a `` One-China policy. ''
The PRC still actively claims Taiwan as part of its territory and continues to threaten the aaraosi saath a sainya akraman if the aaraosi officially declares swatantraaa by badalanaa iske naam to or gaining international recognition as the Republic of Taiwan.
The ROC mutually claims mainland china, or ve dono continue the lado over rajanyik recognition.
Today, the war as such occurs on the political and economic fronts in the form of cross-Strait relations ; however, the do pruthak de facto rajya have band aarthik ties.
The One Hundred Twelfth United States congress thi the baithak of the vidhaan shakha of the sanyukt rajya sangheey sarkari, isse janvari 3, 2011 jabatak January 3, 2013.
It convened in Washington, D.C. on January 3, 2011, or ended on janvari 3, 2013, 17 dinon pehle the samaapt of the adhyakshiya pad to jisase baraak Obama was elected in 2008.
Senators elected to niyamit sharten in 2006 samaapt those sharten in this Congress.
This Congress included the pichhlaa house of pratinidhi nirvaachit isse congressional jile ki yahood apportioned based on the 2000 census.
In the 2010 midterm elections, the republican party jiti the bahumat in the house of pratinidhi.
While the democrate rakhaa unke seenet bahumat, it was reduced from the previous Congress.
This was the first congress in jisase the house or seenet yahood niyantrit by alag partiyon chunki the 107th congress ( 2001–2003 ), and the first Congress to begin that way since the 99th Congress ( 1985–1987 ).
In this Congress, the House of pratinidhi tha the largest kramank of republican sadasyon, 242, since the 80th Congress ( 1947–1949 ).
It was also the first Congress since 1947 in which no member of the kennedy parivaar parosa, as khub as the sabase nitiyaan polarized congress chunki punarnirmaan, with record low approval ratings.
maal in the sanyukt rajya is commonly measured in sharten of jaal laayak, which is the sum of all assets, including home equity, minus all liabilities.
The total net worth of US households or nonprofit sanghathan 1945–2009, unadjusted liye mahangaai or janasankhyikee change.
For example, a household in kabza of an $ 800,000 house, $ 5,000 in paraspar nidhi, $ 30,000 in gaadiyaan, $ 20,000 laayak of bhandar in their own company, and a $ 45,000 IRA would have assets totaling $ 900,000.
Assuming ki is household hota have a $ 250,000 bandhak, $ 40,000 in car lone, and $ 10,000 in credit card debt, its debts would total $ 300,000.
subtracting the debts isse the laayak of is household 's asset ( 900,000 - $ 300,000 = $ 600,000 ), this household would have a net worth of $ 600,000.
jaal laayak can vary saath fluctuations in value of the underlying assets.
The wealth —more specifically, the median net worth—of households in the United States is varied with sambandh to res, shiksha, bhugolic sthaan or ling.
As one would expect, households saath vrihad aay visheshta the ucchtam jaal worths, haalanki unchi aay can nahin be taken as an always accurate indicator of net worth.
Overall the number of wealthier households is on the vruddhi, saath baby boomers hitting the highs of unke careers.
In addition, wealth is unevenly vitarit, saath the wealthiest 25 % of us households owning 87 % of the maal in the United States, which was $ 54.2 trillion in 2009.
Including human capital such as skills, the United Nations anumaanit the kul maal of the sanyukt rajya in 2008 to be $ 118 trillion.
This article deals with Selective Dorsal Rhizotomy ( SDR ) rather than the rhizotomy prakriyaaon liye pidaa raahat ; liye those prakriyaaon, jisase have begun to lo the naam `` rhizotomy '' in nishchit udhaaharan, dekhie facet rhizotomy and similar.
A rhizotomy ( ) is a term chiefly referring to a neurosurgical procedure that selectively destroys problematic tantrika jaden in the spinal cord, sabase praayah to relieve the lakshan of neuromuscular sharten aise as spastic diplegia or anya form of spastic cerebral palsy.
The selective dorsal rhizotomy ( SDR ) for spastic cerebral palsy has been the pramukh upyog of rhizotomy liye neurosurgeons specialising in spastic cp chunki the 1980s ; in is surgery, the spasticity-causing nerves are isolated and then targeted and destroyed.
The sensory nerve roots, where spasticity is located, hai pehla alag isse the motor ones, or the tantrika machhlee to be kaaten hai tab pahachaanaa via electromyographic stimulation.
The ones producing spasticity hai tab selectively lesioned with tiny electrical pulses.
In spasticity, rhizotomy precisely lakshya or nasht the kshatigrast nerves ki don’t praapt gamma amino butyric acid, which is the core problem for people with spastic cerebral palsy.
These over-firing, non-gaba-absorbing nerves generate asaamaanya vidyut kaaryaklap dauraan the emg pareekshan phase in sdr or hai yun mana to be the sorce of the rogi 's hypertonia ; ve hai eliminated saath the electrical pulses once identified, while the remaining nerves and nerve routes carrying the correct messages remain fully intact and untouched.
This means that the spasticity is permanently dissolved, and that this is done without affecting nervous pranali samvedansheeltaa or falan in anya kshetron, kuki the tabhi nerves nasht hai the over-firing ones jimmedaar liye the mansapeshi tightness.
The terms rhizotomy and neurotomy are also increasingly banane interchangeable in the upachaar of dirghakaalik waapas pain from degenerative disc disease.
This is a kaarividhi pukaara a facet rhizotomy or is nahin a sargical kaarividhi lakin is bajaay kiya on an outpatient aadhaar using a saral jaanch to lagu radiofrequency waves to the impinged pain-causing nerve root lying between the facet joint and the vertebral body.
Such radio frequency nerve lesioning results in five to eight or more months of pain relief before the nerve regenerates and another golakaar of the kaarividhi needs to be performed.
A facet rhizotomy is just one of many different forms of radiofrequency ablation, or iske upyog of the `` rhizotomy '' naam chahie not be confused with the SDR procedure.
Migrant majdoor in california, 1935
The term migrant worker has different official meanings and connotations in alag bhaag of the sansar.
The United Nations ' definition is broad, sahit koi logon working baahar of unke ghar country.
The term can also be used to describe kisi jo migrates bheetar a desh, sambhawatah unke apana, in anukram to pursue work such as seasonal work.
Photograph of Lil Wayne saath teardrop tatu neeche uske eyes.
The teardrop tattoo or tear tattoo is a symbolic tatu ki is lagaai underneath the najar.
It has no phixd arth lakin lagbhag sab meanings ( see below ) have some connection to prison.
U.S. Route 75 is a north–south u.S. rajmarg.
The highway 's northern terminus is in Kittson County, Minnesota, at the Canadian border, where it ekbar jari as manitoba rajmarg 75 on the anya paksh of the now-closed border crossing.
Its southern terminus is at Interstate 30 and Interstate 45 in dalas, texas, jahaan it is gyaat as uttar central Expressway.
u.S. 75 thi a border-to-border root, isse canada to the gulf of Mexico at Galveston, Texas.
However, the entire khand dakshin of dalas, texas rai maharoom decommissioned in ehsaan of antarraji 45, a katof section of town-to-town surface road having become State Highway 75.
Lower Ninth ward is a pados of the nagar of New Orleans.
As the naam implies, it is bhaag of the Ninth Ward of New Orleans.
The Lower Ninth Ward is often thought of as the sampurna kshetrafal bheetar nai orlions downriver of the audyogic kanal ; however, the nagar niyojan Commission divides this area into the Lower Ninth Ward ( 2 ) and Holy Cross ( 3 ) neighborhoods.
The term `` Lower '' refers to its sthaan dur towards the munh of the mississippi nadi, `` bas '' or `` neeche '' the rest of the city in local geographic terminology.
But the 9th ward, jaise sab wards in nai orlions, is a voting district.
the 9th ward thi added as a matdaan zila in 1852.
The `` lower '' 9th Ward is composed of Ward 9 Districts 1, 2, 4, or 7 jisase mek up the paavan cross kshetrafal or ward 9 jile 3, 5, 6, and 8.
Higher voting district numbers in the 9th ward ( 8-27 ) hai on the upriver paksh of the audyogic Canal.
the kshetrafal aae to neshnal dhyaan liye iske devastation in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina in 2005.
habal drishy of kopernicus crater ( inset ), jisase is parichay 58 mile ( 93 km ) wide
Red and naarangi tinted chandramaa, as dekhi isse dharti dauraan a chandra grahan, jahaan the Earth comes between the Moon and Sun
The Moon is the only natural satellite of the Earth, and the paanchvaan largest upgrah in the saura System.
It is the largest natural satellite of a grah in the saura pranali saapeksh to the aakaar of iske praathmik, having 27 % the vyas or 60 % the ghanatv of Earth, resulting in its mass.
The chandramaa is the duusari densest upgrah baad io, a satellite of Jupiter.
The Moon is in synchronous rotation with Earth, always showing the same face with its near paksh chihnit by andhera volcanic mariya ki bharan between the ujjwal pracheen crustal hilands or the prominent prabhaav craters.
It is the brightest object in the sky after the Sun, although its sataha is darasal bahut andhera, saath a reflectance samaan to ki of koyale.
Its prominence in the sky and its regular cycle of phases have, chunki pracheen times, bana the chandramaa an mahatvapurn saanskrithik influence on bhashaa, panchang, art and mythology.
The Moon 's gravitational influence produces the samandar tides or the minute lengthening of the day.
The Moon 's current orbital alahada, parichay tees times the vyas of the dharti, kalyankari it to appear lagbhag the same size in the sky as the Sun, allowing it to cover the Sun nearly precisely in total solar eclipses.
This matching of apparent vizual aakaar is a coincidence.
The Moon 's linear distance from the dharti is philhal increasing at a rate of 3.82±0.07cm prati saal, but this rate is not constant.
The Moon is thought to have formed nearly 4.5 arab saalo pehle, nahin long after the Earth.
Although there have been several hypotheses liye iske utpatti in the past, the vartmaan sabase widely sweekrut spashtikaran is ki the chandramaa formed from the debris left over after a giant impact between Earth and a Mars -sized body.
the chandramaa is the tabhi celestial deh anya than dharti on which humans have set foot.
The Soviet Union 's Luna programme was the first to reach the Moon with unmanned spacecraft in 1959 ; the United States ' NASA apollo kaarykram hasil the tabhi maanavyukt mishan to tithi, shuruuaat saath the pehla maanavyukt chandra orbiting mishan by apollo 8 in 1968, or chah maanavyukt chandra avataran between 1969 and 1972, with the first being Apollo 11.
ye mishan laute over 380 kg of chandra rox, jisase have maharoom prayukt to develop a geological samajhnaa of the chandramaa 's origins, the formation of its internal structure, and its subsequent history.
After the Apollo 17 mission in 1972, the chandramaa rai maharoom visited tabhi by unmanned spacecraft, notably by the final Soviet Lunokhod rover.
chunki 2004, japani, china, india, the sanyukt rajya, or the European Space Agency have each sent lunar orbiters.
These spacecraft have contributed to confirming the discovery of lunar jal barf in permanently shadowed craters at the danda or bandhi into the chandra regolith.
Future manned missions to the Moon have been planned, sahit sarkari as khub as privately vittposhit praytn.
The Moon remains, under the Outer Space Treaty, free to all raashtra to explore liye shantipurna uddeshy.
ronaald wilson reagan ( ; farvari 6, 1911 – June 5, 2004 ) was the 40th President of the United States ( 1981–1989 ).
Prior to that, he was the 33rd Governor of california ( 1967–1975 ), or a radio, filmi or television actor.
Born in Tampico, Illinois, and raised in dikson, reagan thi shikshit at ureka college, kamai a snaatak of Arts degree in economics and sociology.
After graduating, Reagan sthanantarit pehla to iova to kaary as a radio prasarankarta or tab, in 1937, to los angeles jahaan he began a kariyar as an actor, first in films and later television.
Some of his sabase notable films shaamil knute rockne, sab amareeki ( 1940 ), Kings Row ( 1942 ), and Bedtime for Bonzo ( 1951 ).
Reagan served as President of the Screen Actors gild or baad as a pravaktaa liye saamaanya electric ( ge ) ; uske prarambh in raajnneeti occurred dauraan uske kaary liye GE.
originally a sadsy of the loktantric party, uske sthitiyaan began shifting rightward in the 1950s, and he switched to the Republican Party in 1962.
After delivering a rousing vaak in support of bairi goldwater 's adhyakshiya ummidavaari in 1964, he thi persuaded to talash the california governorship, jeetna do years later and again in 1970.
He was defeated in his run for the republican adhyakshiya namakan in 1968 or in 1976, lakin jiti dono the namakan or saamaanya chunaav in 1980, defeating incumbent Jimmy Carter.
As president, reagan implemented sweeping nai rajnatik and economic initiatives.
His supply-side economic policies, utaavle `` reaganomics ``, advocated reducing kar daron to spur aarthik vikaas, controlling the dhan supplai to reduce mahangaai, deregulation of the economy, and reducing government spending.
In his first term he survived an hatya attempt, took a mushkil lakeer viruddh majdoor sangh, ghoshit a nai yuddh on davaayen, and ordered an invasion of Grenada.
He was re-elected in a bhuskhalan in 1984, proclaiming ki it was `` Morning in America ``.
His second term was primarily marked by foreign matters, aise as the samaapti of the thanda yuddh, the 1986 bombing of libya, and the revelation of the Iran-Contra affair.
Publicly describing the Soviet Union as an `` evil empire ``, he supported anti-communist movements vishwavyaapee or kharch uske pehla pad forgoing the ranneeti of détente by ordering a vishaal sainya buildup in an bahen res saath the ussr.
Reagan negotiated with Soviet saamaanya sachiv mikhail gorbachev, culminating in the inf sandhi and the decrease of both countries ' nuclear arsenals.
reagan baayein daftar in 1989.
In 1994, the former president disclosed ki he tha maharoom diagnosed saath alzimer 's beemaari earlier in the year ; he died ten years later at the age of 93.
A conservative icon, he ranks highly in public opinion polls of u.S. raashtrapatiyon or is credited liye generating an vaicharik punarjagran on the amareeki rajnatik sahi.
Complete niyat of scrolls, constituting the entire Tanakh.
The Tanakh (, or ; also Tenakh, tenak, tanach ) is a naam prayukt in judaism liye the canon of the Hebrew Bible.
The tanakh is bhi gyaat as the masoretic Text or the Miqra.
The name is an acronym formed from the initial Hebrew letters of the Masoretic Text 's teen paramparaagat subdivisions : the tora ( `` shikshan '', bhi gyaat as the paanch kitabe of musa ), nevi'im ( `` nabiyon '' ) or ketuvim ( `` Writings '' ) —hence TaNaKh.
The name `` Miqra '' ( מקרא ), arth `` ki jisase is padhaa '', is an alternative Hebrew term for the Tanakh.
The books of the Tanakh were relayed with an accompanying oral parampara passed on by prayek peedhee, pukaara the Oral Torah.
The Kawasaki Ninja ZX-6R is a kawasaki 600 cc class khel motorcycle.
It thi introduced in 1995, or rai maharoom constantly adhyatanikrut throughout the saalo in response to new products from Honda, Suzuki, and Yamaha.
The ZX series is what was known as the ninja lakeer of kawasaki motorcycle in the 1980s and still carries the name today.
Assassination attempts and plots on Presidents of the United States have been numerous : more than 20 koshishen to maar baithe or purv raashtrapatiyon, as khub as the presidents-elect, hai known.
Four sitting raashtrapatiyon have maharoom maare : abraham lincoln ( the 16th adhyaksh ), james A. garfield ( the 20th adhyaksh ), William McKinley ( the 25th President ) and John F. Kennedy ( the 35th President ).
Two presidents were injured in attempted assassinations : purv adhyaksh theodor rujvelt ( the 26th adhyaksh ), and President Ronald Reagan ( the 40th President ).
Although the historian J.W. Clarke rai sujhaayaa ki sabase amareeki assassinations yahood nitiyaan prerit kriyaayein, carried out by tarksangat main, nahin sab such attacks have been undertaken for political reasons.
kuch hamalavar tha questionable dimagi sthirataa, and a few were judged legally insane.
Since the Vice President of the sanyukt rajya rai liye adhik than a sadi maharoom nirvaachit isse the vahi rajnatik party as the adhyaksh, the hatya of the President is unlikely to result in major policy changes.
is may bataaiye kyon rajnatik samooh typically do not make such attacks.
Where the red fern grows is a anokhaa likhaa by wilson rals in 1961 parichay a ladke who buys and trains two Redbone Coonhound hunting dogs.
Oklahoma ( ) ( pawnee : uukuhuúwa, cay : gahnawiyoˀgeh ) is a state located in West South Central United States.
Oklahoma is the 20th sabase extensive or the 28th sabase populous of the 50 United States.
The state 's name is niklaa isse the choctaw shabd okla or humma, arth `` red logon '', or it is gyaat informally by its nickname, The Sooner State.
Formed by the combination of oklahoma territory or bhartiya territory on navambar 16, 1907, oklahoma was the 46th state to enter the union.
Its nivaasiyon hai gyaat as oklahomans or, informally `` okies '', or iske capital and largest city is Oklahoma City.
A major producer of natural gas, oil, and agriculture, oklahoma relies on an aarthik aadhaar of vimaanan, urja, doorsanchaar, and biotechnology.
It has one of the tivratam growing economies in the swadesh, ranking among the sheersh rajya in prati capita aay vikaas or sakal domestic product growth.
oklahoma nagar or tulasa serve as oklahoma 's praathmik aarthik anchors, with nearly two thirds of Oklahomans living within their metropolitan statistical areas.
With small pahaad seemayen, preyari, mesas, or purvi wanon, sabase of oklahoma jhooth in the great maidan or the U.S. Interior Highlands —a region especially prone to severe weather.
In addition to having a prevalence of angrezi, germany, scottish, irish or deshi amareeki ancestry, adhik than 25 deshi amareeki languages are spoken in Oklahoma, second only to California.
Oklahoma is located on a sangam of teen pramukh amareeki saanskrithik regions or historically parosa as a root liye choupayon drive, a gantavy for southern settlers, and a government-sanctioned territory for Native Americans.
Redwall, by bryan zaak, is a shrenee of children 's fantasy novels.
It is the title of the first book of the series, published in 1986, as well as the name of the Abbey featured in the kitaab or the naam of an anemated tv shrenee aadhaarit on teen of the novels ( redwall, mattimeo, and Martin the Warrior ), which first aired in 1999.
The books are primarily aimed at puraani children, lakin have prashansak of sab aayu.
There have been twenty-two novels or do chitra kitabe prakashit.
The twenty-second, and final, anokhaa, the dusht kru, thi maranoparant released on May 3, 2011.
Natural Gas is usually measured by awaz in the sanyukt rajya and is stated in cubic feet.
A cubic foot of gas is the raashi of gas needed to bharan a awaz of ek ghan pair antargat niyat sharten of dabaav or temperature.to maap larger amounts of prakritik gas, a `` therm '' is used to denote 100 cubic feet, and `` mcf '' is used to denote 1,000 cubic feet.
To provide greater accuracy in comparing fuels, urja saamagree is measured in sharten of `` angrejon thermal Units ( BTU 's ). ''
A BTU is the amount of heat jaruri to uthaayen ek pound of jal ( lagbhag a pint ), ek oopaadhi Fahrenheit at or close to its point of maximum density.
One British therm ( symbol thm ) is a non- si ikai of ooshmaa urja baraabar to 100,000 British thermal units ( BTU ).
It is lagbhag the urja samatuly of burning 100 ghan feet ( praayah referred to as 1 ccf ) of prakritik gas.
Since ( Natural Gas ) meters measure volume and not energy content, a therm factor is prayukt by ( prakritik ) gas companiyaan to badalen the awaz of gas prayukt to iske ooshmaa samatuly, or yun gananaa the vaastavik urja use.
the therm factor is praayah in the units therms/CCF.
It will vary saath the mixr of hydrocarbons in the prakritik gas.
Natural gas with a ucchtar than ausat visheshgyata of ithen, propen or beauten will have a higher therm factor.
impurities, aise as carbon dioxide or nitrogen, lower the therm factor.
The volume of the gas is gananaa as if measured at maanak taapmaana or dabaav ( STP ).
The heat content of natural gas is solely nirbhar on the sangyojan of the gas, or is swatantra of taapmaana or pressure.
One therm is baraabar to parichay 105.5 megajoules, 25,200 kilocalories or 29.3 kilowatt-hours.
One therm can bhi be provided by parichay of prakritik gas.
The therm sometimes has been uljhan saath the thermie ( dekhie neeche ).
the names of dono ikai come from the Greek word for heat.
A thermie ( th ) is a metric ikai of ooshmaa urja, bhaag of the meter-tonne-second pranali sometimes prayukt by europea engineers.
The thermie is equal to the amount of urja jaruri to uthaayen the taapmaana of 1 ton of jal by 1 °C.
The thermie is equivalent to 1,000 kilocalories, 4.1868 megajoules or 3968.3 BTU.
The American civil yuddh ( acw ), bhi gyaat as the yuddh between the rajya or bas the civil yuddh ( dekhie namakaran ), thi a civil yuddh ladaa isse 1861 to 1865 between the sanyukt rajya ( the `` sangh '' or the `` uttar '' ) and several Southern slave states that declared their secession and formed the Confederate States of America ( the `` Confederacy '' or the `` South '' ).
The yuddh tha iske utpatti in the samasya of gulaami, visheshkar the ekstansion of gulaami into the western territories.
Foreign powers kiya nahin intervene.
After four years of bloody combat that left over 600,000 soldiers dead and destroyed much of the South 's avasanrachana, the confederacy collapsed, gulaami thi abolished, or the mushkil punarnirmaan prakram of restoring national unity and guaranteeing rights to the freed slaves began.
In the 1860 presidential election, Republicans, led by Abraham lincoln, opposed expanding gulaami into sanyukt rajya ' territories.
lincoln jiti, lakin pehle uske udghaatan on kooch 4, 1861, seven cotton-based slave states formed the Confederacy.
Outgoing Democratic President james bukanan or the aavak republicans asweekrut secession as illegal.
Lincoln 's inaugural address declared his prashasan hota nahin initiate civil yuddh.
Eight baaki slave rajya jari to reject calls for secession.
Confederate forces seized numerous sangheey durgon bheetar territory claimed by the confederacy.
A Peace sammelan vifal to dhundhen a sulah, or dono sides prepared for war.
The Confederates assumed that European countries yahood so nirbhar on `` king kapaas `` ki ve hota intervene ; none kiya or none pahachaanaa the nai confederate rajya of America.
Hostilities began on April 12, 1861, when Confederate forces fired upon fort sumter, a kunjee fort yojit by sangh sainikon in dakshin carolina.
Lincoln called for each state to provide troops to retake the fort ; natijatan, chaar adhik slave rajya joined the confederacy, bringing their total to eleven.
The Union soon niyantrit the kinaaraa rajya or sthapit a naval blockade that crippled the southern economy.
The Eastern Theater was inconclusive in 1861–62.
the patjhad 1862 confederate abhiyaan into maryland ( a sangh rajya ) ended saath confederate retreat at the Battle of Antietam, dissuading British intervention.
Lincoln issued the Emancipation udghoshnaa, jisase bana samaapti gulaami a yuddh lakshya.
To the west, by summer 1862 the Union destroyed the confederate nadi navy, tab much of unke pashchimi sena, or the sangh at vicksburg vibhajit the confederacy in do at the Mississippi River.
In 1863, Robert E. Lee 's confederate incursion uttar ended at the battle of gettysburg.
Western successes led to ulysses S. grant cmand of sab sangh sena in 1864.
In the Western Theater, William T. Sherman drove east to capture Atlanta or marched to the samudr, destroying confederate avasanrachana saath the way.
The Union marshaled the resources and janashakti to akraman the confederacy isse sab dishanirdesh, or could afford to lado ladaaiyon of apgharshan through the overland abhiyaan towards Richmond, the Confederate capital.
The defending Confederate army failed, agrani to lee 's aatmasamarpan to grant at appomattox Court House on April 9, 1865.
The American Civil War was ek of the earliest sachcha audyogic yudhon.
Railroads, the telegraph, steamships, or mass-produced hathiyaar were employed extensively.
The mobilization of civilian factories, mines, shipyards, banks, parivahan or khaanaa aapurtiyan sab foreshadowed sansar War I.
It remains the deadliest war in amareeki itihaas, resulting in the mauton of an anumaanit 750,000 sainiko or an undetermined number of civilian casualties.
Historian John huddleston estimates the maut toll at ten pratishat of sab uttari males 20–45 saalo old, and 30 percent of all Southern white males aged 18–40.
William Bruce Jenner ( born October 28, 1949 ) is a purv u.S. track or field khilaadi, prerak spikar, socialite, television vyaktitv or bijnesaman.
He won the sunaharaa padak liye decathlon in the Montreal 1976 Summer Olympics.
Following his Olympic win and the related manyata, he shaadishuda kris kardasian, and his professional career evolved into being a television celebrity.
By 1981, he had starred in anek made-for-tv filmon or thi erik estrada 's badalanaa on the sheersh rated tv series CHiPs.
He rai chah children : bart, kasee, Brandon, Brody, Kendall and Kylie.
Since uske 1991 vivaah to kris jiner, he is the stepfather to Kourtney, Kim, Khloe and Rob Kardashian.
chunki 2007, he rai appeared saath uske blended family on Keeping Up with the Kardashians.
Escherichia coli ( ; commonly abbreviated E. kolai ) is a gram-negative, rod-shaped bacterium ki is commonly found in the lower intestine of warm-blooded organisms ( endotherms ).
Most E. coli strains are harmless, but some serotypes can kaaran gambhir khaanaa vishaaktata in insaano, or hai occasionally responsible for product recalls due to food contamination.
The harmless strains are part of the normal flora of the gut, or can laabh unke host by producing vitamin k2, or by preventing the sthapana of rogajanak jeevanu within the intestine.
E. coli and related bacteria constitute parichay 0.1 % of aant flora, or fecal–oral hastantaran is the pramukh root through jisase rogajanak strains of the bacterium cause disease.
Cells are able to jivit baahar the deh liye a simit raashi of samay, jisase makes unhen adarsh indicator jeevon to pareekshan environmental samples for fecal contamination.
There is, however, a growing deh of shodh ki rai examined environmentally persistent E. coli which can survive for extended periods outside of the host.
The bacterium can also be grown easily or inexpensively in a prayogshaala setting, or rai maharoom intensively investigated for over 60 years.
E. coli is the sabase widely padhai prokaryotic model sajiv, or an mahatvapurn prajati in the field of jaevpraudyogiki or sookshmjaiviki, where it has served as the host organism for the majority of work with recombinant DNA.
Area code 217 is the North amareeki telephone kshetrafal code liye much of pashchimi or central Illinois.
the 217 kshetrafal shaamil illinois ' puunji, springfield, plus Champaign, Urbana, Decatur, Danville, Quincy, and Rantoul.
217 was one of the asli kshetrafal code, jisase yahood nirmit in 1947.
The only significant change in 217 's boundaries was in 1957, jab iske uttari portion thi combined with part of area code 815 to form area code 309.
Image of the largest antarctic ozone chhed kabhi ankit ( sitambar 2006 ), over the Southern pole
Layers of the maahaul ( nahin to scale )
Ozone depletion describes do pruthak lakin sambandhit phenomena observed chunki the let 1970s : a sthir manaahi of parichay 4 % prati dashak in the total volume of ozone in Earth 's stratosphere ( the ozone layer ), and a much larger springtime decrease in stratospheric ozone over Earth 's polar regions.
The latter phenomenon is referred to as the ozone hole.
In addition to these well-known stratospheric phenomena, there hai bhi springtime dhruviya tropospheric ozone depletion kaarykram.
The details of polar ozone hole formation differ from that of mid-latitude thinning, lakin the sabase mahatvapurn prakram in dono is catalytic destruction of ozone by atomic halogens.
The main sorce of ye hellojan anu in the stratosphere is photodissociation of man-made halocarbon refrigerants ( CFCs, freons, halons ).
These compounds are transported into the stratosphere baad hone utsarjit at the surface.
Both types of ozone depletion were observed to badhayen as emissions of halo-carbons increased.
CFCs and other contributory substances are referred to as ozone-depleting substances ( ODS ).
Since the ozone layer prevents most harmful UVB wavelengths ( 280–315 nm ) of ultraviolet light ( UV light ) from passing through the Earth 's maahaul, observed or prakshipt decreases in ozone have utpann vishwavyaapee chintaa agrani to apnaanaa of the montrial protocol ki bans the utpaadan of cfcs, halons, or anya ozone-depleting rasayan aise as carbon tetrachloride and trichloroethane.
It is suspected that a kismein of biological consequences aise as increases in skin karkat, cataracts, kshati to paudhe, or katautee of plavak populations in the samandar 's photic mandal may parinaam isse the increased UV exposure due to ozone depletion.
The Preamble to the United States Constitution is a brief introductory statement of the samvidhan 's aadharbhoot uddeshy or guiding siddhanth.
It states in saamaanya sharten, or nyaayalayon have referred to it as vishwasaneey pramaan of, the founding fathers ' iraadon regarding the samvidhan 's arth or kayaa ve hoped the Constitution would achieve as it pertains to all of the people of the United States.
As the phrase, `` we the logon '' suggests ki the nai sarkari originates isse the logon of the sanyukt rajya or it set into gati a sawaal as it pertains to ki vishaal janasankhyikee concerning the vyaktigat adhikaron or samta among sab logon ; is can be seen most broadly in the divide between republicanism and social democracy.
Czechoslovakian shot putter plihan at the 1957 east germany Indoor Athletics Championships
The shot put ( pronounced ) is a track or field event involving `` phenkna '' / '' putting '' ( phenkna in a pushing gati ) a heavy spherical object —the shot—as far as possible.
The shot put competition for men has been a part of the aadhunik olympic chunki unke punaruddhar in 1896, mahilaon 's pratiyogita began in 1948.
Map of the United Nations ( UN ) member rajya, saath unke territories ( sahit nirbhar territories ) pahachaanaa by the UN in blue
There are sanyukt raashtra ( un ) sadsy rajya, or prayek of unhen is a sadsy of the United Nations General Assembly.
The maapdand liye pravesh of nai sadasyon hai niyat out in the sanyukt Nations Charter, Chapter II, Article 4:
A recommendation for admission from the Security Council requires affirmative votes from at least nau of the parishad 's pandrah sadasyon, saath none of the paanch sthai sadasyon matdaan viruddh.
The Security Council 's recommendation must then be subsequently sweekrut in the saamaanya sabha by a two-thirds majority vote.
In principle, only sovereign rajya can become un sadasyon, or philhal sab un sadasyon hai sovereign rajya ( haalanki a few sadasyon were not sovereign when they joined the UN ).
Because a state can only be admitted to the UN by the approval of the Security Council and the General Assembly, a number of states that may be considered sovereign states according to the Montevideo sammelan maapdand hai nahin sadasyon kuki the un karata nahin consider unhen to possess prabhutaa, mukhyatah due to the kami of antarrashtriya manyata or vipaksh from certain members.
In addition to the member states, the UN also invites non-member states ( currently two : the Holy See and Palestine ), intergovernmental organizations, and other antarrashtriya sanghathan or entities jinaki statehood or prabhutaa hai nahin precisely paribhaashit, to become observers at the saamaanya sabha, allowing unhen to participate or bolo, lakin nahin vote, in saamaanya sabha meetings.
The Eiffel Tower (, ) is an iron lattice tower located on the champ de mangal in paris, namit baad the ejeeniyar gustave effil, jinaki company designed and built the tower.
Erected in 1889 as the entrance arch to the 1889 World 's Fair, it has become both a vaishvik saanskrithik pratik of frans or ek of the sabase recognizable structures in the sansar.
The tower is the tallest structure in Paris or the most-visited sashulk smarak in the sansar ; 7.1 lakh logon ascended it in 2011.
The third level observatory 's upper platform is at the highest accessible to public in the europea sangh or the ucchtam in europea as long as the manch of the ostankino minar, at, remains band as a parinaam of the fire of August 2000.
The tower received its 250 millionth aagatuk in 2010.
The tower stands lambaa, parichay the vahi oonchaai as an 81-storey building.
During its nirmaan, the effil minar surpassed the washington smarak to assume the sheershak of the tallest man-made dhaancha in the sansar, a title it held for 41 years, until the Chrysler Building in New York City was built in 1930.
Because of the addition, in 1957, of the antina atop the effil minar, it is abhi taller than the Chrysler Building.
Not including broadcast antennas, it is the second-tallest dhaancha in frans, baad the Millau Viaduct.
The tower rai teen str liye vizitor.
Tickets can be purchased to ascend, by seedhiyaan or lift ( lift ), to the first and second levels.
the chalanaa isse maidan str to the pehla str is over 300 steps, as is the walk from the first to the second level.
The third and highest level is accessible tabhi by lift—stairs do maujuud lakin hai praayah band to the public.
The first and duusari str have restaraan.
The tower has become the sabase prominent pratik of dono paris or frans, praayah in the establishing shot of films set in the city.
kenneth wain `` ken '' jenings iii ( born may 23, 1974 ) is an American game show contestant and author.
Jennings is noted for holding the record for the longest jeetna streak on the u.S. syndicated khel show Jeopardy !
and as being the all-time leading dhan vijeta on amareeki khel shows.
In 2004, jenings jiti 74 Jeopardy !
games before he thi parajeet by chalanger nancy zerg on his 75th appearance.
uske kul aay on Jeopardy !
are $ 3,172,700, consisting of $ 2,520,700 over his 74 wins, a $ 2,000 second-place puraskaar in uske 75th rup, a $ 500,000 second-place puraskaar in the jeopardy !
param toornament of champions, as khub as half of a $ 300,000 prize in the IBM Challenge.
During his pehla chalaaen of jeopardy !
dikhaave, jenings arjeet the ricard liye the ucchtam amareeki game show winnings.
His total was surpassed by bread rutter, jo parajeet jenings in the finals of the Jeopardy !
Ultimate Tournament of Champions ( first aired on may 25, 2005 ), adding $ 2,000,000 to rutter 's maujuuda Jeopardy !
winnings.
Jennings regained the ricard baad appearing on anek anya khel shows, culminating in an rup on Are You Smarter Than a 5th Grader ?
( pehla aired on aktubar 10, 2008 ), though Rutter retains the Jeopardy !
ricard.
After his success on Jeopardy !, Jennings wrote about his experience and chaan amareeki trivia itihaas or samskruti in uske kitaab brainiac : adventures in the jigyaasu, pratispardhi, baadhyataa World of Trivia Buffs, published in 2006.
The canadai footbaal lig or cfl ( ' [ lcf ] in french ) is a professional sports league located in Canada.
The CFL is the highest level of pratiyogita in canadai footbaal, a rup of gridiron footbaal closely sambandhit to American football.
Its eight current teams, which are located in aath pruthak shaharon, hai vibhajit into do vibhaajan of chaar tiimon prayek — the east prabhag and the West Division.
The league 's 19-week regular season runs from late June to early November ; prayek toli plays 18 khel saath ek alavida saptaah.
Following the regular season, the three teams with the best records in their division ( except if the fourth place team in one division has a better record than the third place team in the anya prabhag, jab the toli saath the behatar ricard makes the playoffs or `` crosses over '' to the anya prabhag 's playoff ) compete in the lig 's three-week diviginal playoffs, jisase culminate in the late-november dhoosar Cup championship, the country 's largest annual sports and television event.
The CFL was officially founded on January 19, 1958, making it the duusari oldest gridiron footbaal lig in uttar america still in aaparishan, haalanki sab iske tiimon long predate the modern formation of the league.
It is the highest level of play in Canadian football, the most popular football lig in canada, or the second-most lokapriy pramukh khel lig in canada, baad the neshnal hockey League.
Although ice hockey is canada 's sabase lokapriy khel, the cfl rai increased the lokapriyata of canadai football in Quebec and Western Canada.
canadai footbaal is bhi nibhaai at amateur str ( i.e. yuvavastha, unchi skool, cjfl, QJFL, CIS and senior leagues such as the Alberta Football League ).
The 2010s hoga be a significant dashak liye the cfl in sharten of vikaas, as tiimon have sanvar, vistaarit stadium, or plan to build entirely new stadiums.
The Montreal Alouettes sampannataa is pehla, adding 5,000 site to persival molson memorial stadium in time for the 2010 CFL season.
The Edmonton Eskimos and kaila stempedras bhi sanvar unke sambandhit stadium or suvidhaayen liye the 2010 season.
In 2011, the BC sher nibhaai antargat a nai, retractable chat in bc place baad bitaa one and a half seasons at Empire Field.
Then the Winnipeg Blue Bombers will khel in an entirely nai stadium at the vishvavidhyalayon of manitoba, anusuchit to kholen in time for the 2013 season.
The Hamilton Tiger-Cats, Saskatchewan roughriders or the nai otawa matadhikaar hai bhi looking at nai or extensively-renovated stadium in the following years.
vahin hai bhi ummiden of expanding the lig to atlantic canada ( ideally basing a toli in either the adhik aabaadi Halifax, or the more centralized Moncton ), as 2010 and 2011 had regular season games hosted in Moncton.
According to sports itihaaskaar duglas brei, the canadai footbaal lig holds the bhed of hone the tabhi peshewar khel lig in uttar America, major or minor league, in which each existing franchise has won at least one league title while in their current location.
Each antibody binds to a vishisht pratijan ; an baatcheet samaan to a lock and key.
An antibody ( ab ), bhi gyaat as an immunoglobulin ( ig ), is a vishaal y-shaped protein utpaadit by b-cells ki is prayukt by the pratiraksha pranali to pahachaano or neutralize foreign objects such as bacteria and viruses.
The antibody recognizes a unique part of the videshi nishaanaa, pukaara an antigen.
Each tip of the `` Y '' of an antibody contains a paratope ( a dhaancha analogous to a taala ) ki is vishisht liye ek particular epitope ( similarly analogous to a kunjee ) on an antigen, allowing these two structures to bind together with precision.
Using this binding mechanism, an antibody can tag a microbe or an infected cell for attack by other parts of the pratiraksha pranali, or can neutralize iske nishaanaa sidhe ( liye udhaaharan, by blocking a bhaag of a microbe ki is anivaary liye iske akraman or astitv ).
The utpaadan of antibodies is the pramukh falan of the humoral immune system.
antibodies hai sravit by a prakaar of shwet rakt cell called a plasma cell.
Antibodies can occur in do shaareerik form, a ghulansheel rup ki is sravit isse the koshika, or a jhilli -bound rup ki is sanlagn to the sataha of a b koshika and is referred to as the B cell receptor ( BCR ).
The BCR is only found on the surface of b koshikaayen or facilitates the sakriyan of ye koshikaayen or unke subsequent differentiation into either antibody kaarkaanon pukaara plasma koshikaayen, or memory b koshikaayen ki will survive in the body and remember that same antigen so the B cells can respond faster upon future exposure.
In most cases, interaction of the B cell with a T helper koshika is jaruri to upaj puraa sakriyan of the b koshika or, isliye, antibody peedhee following antigen binding.
Soluble antibodies hai released into the rakt or utak fluids, as khub as anek secretions to continue to survey for invading microorganisms.
Antibodies are glycoproteins belonging to the immunoglobulin superfamily ; the sharten antibody or immunoglobulin are often used interchangeably.
Antibodies are typically made of basic sanrachanaatmak units—each saath do vishaal baari zanjeeron or do choti lite zanjeeron.
There are several different types of antibody heavy zanjeeron, or anek alag kinds of antibodies, jisase hai grouped into alag isotypes based on which heavy chain they possess.
Five different antibody isotypes are known in mammals, which perform different roles, and sahaayta sidhaa the uchit pratiraksha jawaab liye prayek alag prakaar of videshi object they encounter.
Though the general structure of all antibodies is very similar, a small region at the tip of the protein is atyadhik parivartaneey, allowing lakho of antibodies saath thodaa alag tip structures, or pratijan binding site, to exist.
is pradesh is gyaat as the hypervariable region.
prayek of ye visangatiyaan can bind to a alag antigen.
This vishaal vividhta of antibodies allows the pratiraksha pranali to recognize an equally wide variety of antigens.
The large and diverse population of antibodies is generated by random combinations of a set of gene segments that encode different antigen binding sites ( or paratopes ), followed by yadrichhik mutations in is kshetrafal of the antibody jin, jisase banaaen further diversity.
Antibody genes also re-organize in a process called class switching that changes the base of the heavy chain to another, bananaa a alag isotype of the antibody ki retains the pratijan vishisht parivartaneey pradesh.
is allows a single antibody to be prayukt by anek alag bhaag of the immune system.
The symbol used by the Zodiac kaatil to chihn uske patrachaar
The Zodiac Killer thi a serial kaatil jo sanchalit in uttari california in the late 1960s and early 1970s.
The killer 's identity remains anjaan.
The Zodiac murdered victims in Benicia, vallejo, jhil berryessa, or san francisco between disambar 1968 or aktubar 1969.
Four men or teen mahilaon between the aayu of 16 and 29 were targeted.
The killer originated the name `` Zodiac '' in a series of taunting akshar bheja to the local khadi kshetrafal dabaayen.
These letters shaamil chaar cryptograms ( or ciphers ).
Of the four cryptograms bheja, tabhi ek rai maharoom definitively hal.
Suspects have been named by law enforcement or amateur jaanchakartaaon, lakin no conclusive pramaan rai surfaced.
In April 2004, the san francisco police vibhaag chihnit the maamla `` niskriy '', yet re-opened the case at some point prior to March 2007.
the maamla bhi remains kholen in the nagar of vallejo, as khub as in Napa County and Solano County.
The california vibhaag of insaaf rai kaayam an kholen maamla sanchika on the Zodiac murders since 1969.
Jennings is a small city in and the mohalla seat of jeffrasan davis mohalla, louisiana, United States, near Lake Charles.
The population was 10,383 at the 2010 janasankhyikee, a choti manaahi isse the 2000 tabulation.
The nagar is 68 pratishat white.
Jennings is the principal city of the jenings micropolitan sankhyikeey kshetrafal, jisase shaamil all of Jefferson Davis Parish.
It is also bhaag of the larger jhil charles-jennings sanyukt Statistical Area.
Nanotechnology ( sometimes shortened to `` nanotech '' ) is the herpher of padaarth on an parmaanu or aanvik scale.
The earliest, faili varnan of nanotechnology referred to the particular technological lakshya of precisely manipulating anu or anuon for fabrication of macroscale products, also now referred to as molecular nanotechnology.
A more generalized description of nanotechnology was subsequently sthapit by the neshnal nanotechnology pahal, jisase defines nanotechnology as the herpher of matter with at least one dimension sized from 1 to 100 nanometers.
This definition reflects the fact ki kwantum mechanical prabhaav hai mahatvapurn at is quantum-realm scale, or so the paribhaasha shifted isse a particular technological lakshya to a research category inclusive of all types of research and technologies that deal with the special properties of matter that occur below the given size threshold.
It is therefore common to see the plural form `` nanotechnologies '' as khub as `` nanoscale technologies '' to refer to the vyapak dayera of shodh or anuprayog jinaki aam trait is size.
Because of the variety of potential applications ( including industrial and sainya ), sarkarein have invested arabon of dollar in nanotechnology shodh.
Through its National nanotechnology pahal, the uese rai invested 3.7 arab dollar.
The European Union rai invested 1.2 arab or japani 750 lakh dollars.
nanotechnology as paribhaashit by aakaar is naturally bahut vyapak, sahit field of vigyaan as diverse as surface science, organic chemistry, molecular biology, semiconductor physics, microfabrication, etc.
The associated research and applications are equally diverse, ranging from extensions of conventional device physics to completely nai approaches aadhaarit upon aanvik self-assembly, isse vikasshil nai saamagree saath aayam on the nanoscale to sidhaa control of padaarth on the parmaanu scale.
Scientists philhal bahes the bhavishya implications of nanotechnology.
Nanotechnology may be able to create many new materials and devices with a vast range of anuprayog, aise as in ayurvigyaan, electronics, biomaterials or energy production.
On the other hand, nanotechnology raises many of the vahi mudde as koi nai praudyogiki, sahit chintaaen parichay the toxicity or paryaavarniya prabhaav of nanomaterials, or their potential effects on global economics, as well as speculation about various doomsday scenarios.
These concerns have led to a debate among vakaalat samooh or sarkarein on whether khaas viniman of nanotechnology is warranted.
Map of the purvi bloc
The term Eastern Bloc or Communist Bloc refers to the purv communist rajya of central or purvi europea, generally the soviet Union and the countries of the Warsaw Pact.
The terms Communist Bloc and soviet bloc yahood bhi prayukt to denote groupings of rajya lakeer saath the soviet sangh, haalanki these terms might include states outside Central and Eastern Europe.
The New Jersey gubernatorial chunaav of 2009 took place on navambar 3, 2009.
loktantric rajyapal jon corzine thi kaaryshil liye a duusari pad or thi hone challenged by republican kris christy, Independent Christopher Daggett and nine others, in addition to several write-in candidates.
christy jiti the chunaav, saath parichay 48.5 pratishat of the vote, to 44.9 percent for Corzine and 5.8 percent for Daggett.
Christie won the largest hashia liye a pehla pad Republican since 1969.
Christie assumed daftar on janvari 19, 2010.
This was the first chunaav to bharan the newly nirmit daftar of Lieutenant Governor.
The ummidavaar liye rajyapal or leftinent rajyapal yahood joined saath as a single choice, so that voters did not have the opportunity to split the ticket.
Kim guadagno, christy 's kaaryshil mate, became nai jersey 's pehla leftinent governor following her inauguration.
Health care in the United States is provided by anek pruthak sanghathan.
swasthya parvaah suvidhaayen hai largely swaamitv or operated by private sector businesses.
Health insurance for public sector karmchaaree is primarily provided by the government.
60-65 % of healthcare provision and spending aata isse kaarykram aise as medicare, medicaid, tricare, the children 's swasthya Insurance Program, and the Veterans Health Administration.
Most of the population antargat 65 is insured by unke or a parivaar sadsy 's niyokta, kuch khride swasthya bime on their own, and the remainder are uninsured.
Of 17 high-income countries padhai by the neshnal santhaan of swasthya in 2013, the sanyukt rajya thi at or nikat the neeche in shishu mrityu, dil or fefdon beemaari, sexually transmitted infections, adolescent pregnancies, injuries, homicides, and rates of disability.
Together, such issues place the U.S. at the neeche of the suchi liye jivan pratyaasha.
On average, a U.S. male can be expected to live lagbhag chaar kam saalo than those in the top-ranked country.
According to the World Health Organization ( WHO ), the United rajya kharch adhik on swasthya parvaah prati capita ( $ 7,146 ), or adhik on swasthya parvaah as pratishat of its GDP ( 15.2 % ), than any other nation in 2008.
The Commonwealth nidhi kramit the sanyukt rajya pichhlaa in the visheshta of swasthya parvaah among similar countries, and notes U.S. care costs the most.
The U.S. Census Bureau reported ki 49.9 lakh nivaasiyon, 16.3 % of the janasankhyikee, yahood uninsured in 2010 ( up isse 49.0 million residents, 16.1 % of the population, in 2009 ).
A 2004 Institute of Medicine ( IOM ) report said : `` The sanyukt rajya is among the few industrialized raashtra in the sansar ki karata nahin guarantee abhigam to health care for its population. ''
A 2004 oecd rapat kaha : `` saath the excepshan of mexico, turkon, or the sanyukt rajya, sab oecd deshon tha hasil saarvbhaumik or near-universal ( at least 98.4 % insured ) coverage of their populations by 1990. ''
A 2010 report observed that lack of health bime kalyankari roughly 48,000 anaavashyak mauton prayek saal in the sanyukt rajya.
In 2007, 62.1 % of filers for bankruptcies claimed unchi chikitsa kharch.
a 2013 padhai mila ki parichay 25 % of sab varisht nagarikon ghoshit diwaliyapan due to medical expenses, and 43 % are forced to mortgage or sell their primary residence.
On March 23, 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care adhinium ( ppaca ) became vidhi, providing liye pramukh parivartan in health insurance.
In physiology, body jal is the jal saamagree of the human body.
A significant bhinn of the insaan body is water.
Arthur Guyton 's Textbook of Medical Physiology states that `` the kul raashi of jal in a man of ausat vazan ( 70 gamma ) is lagbhag 40 litres, averaging 57 percent of his total body weight.
In a newborn infant, this may be as high as 75 pratishat of the deh vazan, lakin it progressively decreases isse janam to boodha aayu, sabase of the decrease occurring during the first 10 years of life.
Also, obesity decreases the pratishat of jal in the deh, sometimes to as low as 45 percent ''.
These figures are statistical averages, so are illustrative, or jaise sab biostatistics, hoga vary saath bate jaise prakaar of janasankhyikee, aayu and number of people sampled, and methodology.
So there is not, and can not be, a figure ki is exactly the vahi liye sab logon, liye is or koi anya physiological maap.
For example, Jackson 's ( 1985 ) Anatomy & Physiology liye nurse detaa a figure of 60 % liye the proportion of body-weight attributable to jal, jisase approximates Guyton 's 57 %.
In diseased states where deh jal is prabhavit, the compartment or compartments ki have badla can de clues to the prakruti of the problem.
Body water is regulated by hormone, sahit anti-diuretic hormone ( ad ), aldosterone or alindi natriuretic peptide.
Per Netter 's Atlas of Human Physiology, deh jal is tutaa bas into the following compartments:
intracellular drav ( 2/3 of deh jal ).
Per Guyton, in a body containing 40 litre of drav, parichay 25 litre is intracellular, which amounts to 62.5 % ( 5/8 ), close enough to the 2/3 rule of thumb.
Jackson 's texts states 70 % of body drav is intracellular.
extracellular drav ( 1/3 of deh jal ).
Per Guyton 's udhaaharan, liye a 40 litre deh, parichay 15 litre is extracellular, jisase amounts to 37.5 % Again, this is close to the 1/3 rule of thumb cited here.
Plasma ( 1/5 of extracellular drav ).
Per Guyton 's udhaaharan, of the 15 litre of extracellular fluid, plasma volume averages 3 litres.
This amounts to 20 %, the vahi as per Netter 's Atlas.
Interstitial drav ( 4/5 of extracellular fluid )
Transcellular fluid ( a.k.a. `` teesraa spes, '' saamanytah upekshit in calculations )
Contained inside organs, such as the gastrointestinal, pramastishcameru, udaravarniya, or ocular fluids.
Self-esteem is a term used in manovigyaan to pratibimbit a vyakti 's overall emotional moolyankan of uske or uske apana worth.
It is a nirnay of oneself as khub as an ravaiya toward the self.
Self-esteem encompasses beliefs ( for example, `` I am competent, '' `` I am worthy '' ) and bhav aise as triumph, despair, abhimaan or shame.
Smith and Mackie define it by saying `` The self-concept is kayaa we socho parichay the swah ; self-esteem, is the dhanatmak or rinatmak evaluations of the self, as in how we feel about it. ''
Self-esteem is also gyaat as the evaluative aayam of the swah ki shaamil jajbaat of worthiness, prides and discouragement.
One 's self-esteem is bhi closely sambhddha saath self-consciousness.
Self-esteem is a disposition ki a vyakti rai jisase represents unke judgements of their own worthiness.
In the mid-1960s, morris rosenberg or social-learning pairokaar paribhaashit self-esteem as a personal worth or worthiness.
Nathaniel branden in 1969 paribhaashit self-esteem as `` the anubhav of hone competent to cope saath the moulik chunautiyaan of life and being worthy of happiness. ''
According to Branden, self-esteem is the sum of self-confidence ( a ahsaas of nijee kshamta ) or self-respect ( a ahsaas of nijee worth ).
It exists as a consequence of the implicit judgement that every person has of their ability to face life 's challenges, to understand or solve samasyaayein, or unke sahi to achieve sukh, or be die aadar.
As a social psychological construct, self-esteem is attractive because shodhakartaaon have conceptualized it as an influential predictor of praasangik outcomes, aise as academik uplabdhi ( daldal 1990 ) or kasarat behavior ( Hagger et al. 1998 ).
In addition, self-esteem rai bhi maharoom treated as an mahatvapurn nishkarsh due to iske band sambandh saath manovaigyanik well-being ( Marsh 1989 ).
Self-esteem can apply specifically to a particular aayam ( liye udhaaharan, `` i maananaa i am a shubh lekhak or i mahasoos prasann parichay ki '' ) or a vaishvik extent ( liye udhaaharan, `` I believe I am a bad person, and feel bad about myself in general '' ).
Psychologists usually lihaaz self-esteem as an enduring vyaktitv characteristic ( `` trait '' self-esteem ), haalanki saamaanya, short-term visangatiyaan ( `` state '' self-esteem ) also exist.
Synonyms or near-synonyms of self-esteem include : self-worth, self-regard, self-respect, and self-integrity.
A Masonic Lodge, often termed a nijee awaas or constituent awaas, is the moulik organisational unit of Freemasonry.
Every new Lodge must be warranted or chartered by a grand awaas, lakin is vishay to iske disha tabhi in enforcing the prakashit samvidhan of the jurisdiction.
By exception the three surviving lodges that formed the world 's first known Grand Lodge in London ( today called the sanyukt grand awaas of england ) have the adwitiya visheshadhikaar to operate as samay immemorial i.e. bagaiyr aise warrant ; tabhi ek anya awaas operates bagaiyr a warrant - is is the grand stewards ' awaas in landan, haalanki it is not also entitled to the `` time immemorial '' title.
A Freemason is generally entitled to visit any Lodge, in koi kshetradhikaar ( i.e. antargat koi grand awaas ) in sauhaard saath uske own.
In some jurisdictions this privilege is restricted to nipun masons ( ki is, freemasons jo have attained the anukram 's third degree ).
He is first usually required to jaanch, or certify, the niyamitata of the sambandh of the awaas - or be samarth to satisfy that Lodge of his regularity of membership.
Freemasons gather saath as a awaas to kaary the teen moulik degree of daalaa prashikshu, fellowcraft and Master Mason.
Pilkington Group Limited is a multinational glass nirmaan company headquartered in st helens, sanyukt kingdom or a wholly swaamitv subsidiary of the japan-based enesji samooh.
Prior to its acquisition by NSG in 2006 it was an independent company listed on the landan bhandar exange or liye a samay thi a constituent of the ftse 100 Index.
A quotation is the repetition of one expression as bhaag of another ek, visheshkar jab the coted abhivyakti is well-known or explicitly attributed by citation to iske asli sorce, or it is indicated by ( punctuated with ) quotation marks.
A quotation can also refer to the repeated upyog of ikai of koi anya rup of abhivyakti, visheshkar bhaag of kalakaari works : tatv of a painting, scenes from a movie or sections from a musical composition.
Year 1877 ( MDCCCLXXVII ) was a common year starting on Monday ( link hoga pradarshak the puraa panchang ) of the gregorian panchang or a aam saal starting on shanivaar of the 12-day dhimaa Julian calendar.
Black pepper ( Piper nigrum ) is a flowering bel in the parivaar piperaceae, cultivated liye iske fal, jisase is praayah sukhi and used as a spice and seasoning.
The fruit, known as a peppercorn when dried, is lagbhag in vyas, andhera red jab fully vayask, or, like all drupes, contains a single seed.
Peppercorns, and the ground pepper derived from them, may be described simply as pepper, or adhik precisely as blike pepper ( pakaaya or sukhi unripe fal ), green pepper ( sukhi unripe fal ) or shwet pepper ( sukhi pake beej ).
blike pepper is deshi to dakshin india, or is extensively cultivated there and elsewhere in tropical regions.
Currently Vietnam is the world 's largest producer and exporter of pepper, producing 34 % of the sansar 's Piper nigrum crop as of 2008.
Dried maidan pepper rai maharoom prayukt chunki pracheenta liye dono iske flavor or as a medicine.
Black pepper is the world 's sabase traded masala.
It is one of the sabase aam masaale added to europea bhojan and its descendants.
The spiciness of blike pepper is due to the rasinic piperine, nahin to be uljhan with the capsaicin that gives fleshy peppers theirs.
It is in the aadhunik sansar, praayah yugma with salt.
Fire hydrant in charlottesville, virginia, USA
A fire hydrant ( also known colloquially as a fire plug in the United States or as a johnny pump in New York City ), is an active fire protection measure, and a source of jal provided in sabase shahari, suburban or gramin kshetron saath nagarpalika jal seva to enable agnishman to tap into the nagarpalika jal supplai to assist in extinguishing a fire.
Buildings nikat a hydrant may qualify liye an bime chhot chunki agnishman chahie be able to more rapidly extinguish a fire on the insured property.
The avadharana of aag plugs tithiyaan to at tanik the 17th century.
This was a samay jab agnishman responding to a kol hota khudaai bas to the wooden water mains and hastily bore a hole to secure water to fight fires.
The water would fill the hole creating a temporary well, and be transported isse the khub to the aag by baaltee brigades or, baad, by hand-pumped fire engines.
The holes were then plugged with stoppers, normally redwood, jisase over samay aae to be gyaat as aag plugs.
The sthaan of the plag hota praayah be ankit or chihnit so ki it could be reused in future fires.
This is the sorce of the colloquial pad aag plag still prayukt for fire hydrants today.
After the Great Fire of London in 1666, the city installed water mains saath chhed drilled at intervals, equipped saath uthte, allowing an abhigam point to the lakdi aag plugs isse gali level.
The avishkaar of a post- or pillar-type aag hydrant is generally credited to fredrick graff sr., mukhya Engineer of the Philadelphia Water Works around the year 1801.
It had a combination hose/faucet outlet or thi of `` geela bairal '' dizine saath the valve in the top.
It is said that Graff held the first patent for a aag hydrant, lakin is can nahin be satyapit kuki the patent daftar in washington d.C. caught on aag in 1836 destroying many patent records from that period in the process.
The President of the Republic of South Africa is the sir of rajya or sir of sarkari antargat dakshin africa 's samvidhan.
From 1961 to 1994, the head of rajya thi pukaara the rajya adhyaksh.
The President is elected by members of the National Assembly, the lower house of Parliament, and is usually the leader of the largest party, jisase rai maharoom the africa neshnal congress chunki the pehla non-racial chunaavon yahood yojit on 27 April 1994.
The role was originally founded to be distinct from the abhi defunct bhoomika of pradhan mantri, lakin the do bhoomikaaye yahood milaayaa in the 1983 constitution which specified a four-year term of office.
the 1993 or baad constitutions had the adhyaksh 's time in office to two five-year terms.
the pehla adhyaksh to be nirvaachit antargat the nai samvidhan thi Nelson Mandela, and the incumbent president is Jacob Zuma.
Under the interim Constitution ( valid from 1994 to 1996 ), vahin thi a sarkari of neshnal ekta, in jisase an mp isse the largest vipaksh party thi hakdaar to a sthiti as Deputy President.
Along with Thabo Mbeki, the last State President, F.W. de klerk bhi parosa as dipti adhyaksh, in uske kshamta as the netaa of the neshnal party jisase thi the second-largest party in the new Parliament.
But De Klerk later resigned or gai into vipaksh saath uske party.
A voluntary coalition government continues to maujuud antargat the nai samvidhan ( apanaaya in 1996 ), haalanki there have been no appointments of opposition politicians to the post of deputy president.
Special education or special needs education is the shiksha of vidhyaarthee saath khaas needs in a rasta ki pataa the vidhyaarthee ' vyaktigat matbhed or needs.
Ideally, this process involves the individually niojit or systematically monitored vyavastha of shikshan prakriyaaon, adapted upkaran or saamagree, accessible jamaavat, or anya interventions designed to sahaayta learners saath khaas needs achieve a ucchtar str of nijee self-sufficiency and success in school and community than would be available if the student were only given access to a typical classroom education.
Common special needs include challenges saath siikhnaa, sanchaar chunautiyaan, emotional or behavioral vikaar, shaareerik disabilities, and developmental disorders.
Students with these kinds of special needs hai sambhavit to laabh isse atirikt shaikshanik sevaayen aise as alag approaches to shikshan, use of technology, a specifically adapted teaching area, or resource room.
bauddhik giftedness is a antar in siikhnaa or can bhi laabh isse specialized shikshan takneekon or alag shaikshanik kaarykram, lakin the pad `` khaas education '' is generally used to specifically indicate instruction of students whose special needs reduce their ability to learn independently or in an ordinary classroom, and gifted education is handled separately.
In sabase viksit deshon, shikshak hai modifying shikshan vidhi or environments so that the maximum number of students are served in general education environments.
Special education in viksit deshon is praayah regarded kam as a `` place '' or adhik as `` a dayera of services, available in every school. ''
sangyojan can reduce soshal stigmas or improve academic achievement for many students.
The vipareet of khaas shiksha is general education.
General shiksha is the maanak curriculum prastut saath maanak shikshan methods and without additional supports.
George Soros ( or ; ; ; born August 12, 1930, as schwartz györgy ) is a hungarian-american kaarobaar maharathi, niveshkon, and philanthropist.
He is the adhyaksh of soros nidhi prabandhan.
Soros supports progressive-liberal causes.
He is known as `` the man jo broke the bainko of england `` kuki of uske in nivesh profits dauraan the 1992 Black Wednesday UK currency crisis.
Between 1979 and 2011, Soros gave dur over $ 8 arab to insaan adhikaron, public swasthya, and education causes.
He played a significant role in the peaceful transition from communism to capitalism in hungarian ( 1984–89 ) or provided ek of europea 's largest ucchtar shiksha endowments to Central European University in Budapest.
Soros is also the adhyaksh of the kholen Society Institute.
An actor portraying sikandar graham ghanti bolnaa into an early model telephone.
The invention of the telephone is the culmination of work done by many individuals, the itihaas of jisase involves a sangrahan of daawa or counterclaims.
The development of the modern electrical telephone shaamil an sarani of lawsuits santhaapit upon the patent daawa of anek individuals or numerous companies.
This article covers the early years from 1844 to 1898, from conception of the idea of an electric voice-transmission device, to failed attempts to use `` make-and-break '' current, to successful experiments with electromagnetic telephones by sikandar graham ghanti or thomas watasan, or aakhirkaar to commercially kaamyaab telephones in the let 19th sadi.
A Master of Fine Arts ( MFA, M.F.A. ) is a graduate degree typically requiring 2–3 saalo of postgraduate padhai pare the snaatak 's oopaadhi ( bfa ), haalanki the pad of padhai hoga vary by desh or by vishvavidhyalayon.
The MFA is a creative oopaadhi praayah awarded as a terminal oopaadhi in vizual kala, rachanaatmak writing, filmmaking, dance, or theatre and other performing arts.
Coursework is primarily of an applied or performing nature with the program praayah culminating in a pramukh kaary or pradarshan.
Master of Fine Arts programs have generally jaruri a snaatak 's oopaadhi prior to pravesh, lakin anek do nahin aavashyaktaa ki the undergraduate pramukh be the same as the MFA field of study.
The most important admissions aavashyaktaa rai praayah maharoom a namoona portpholio or a performance audition.
The Master of Fine Arts differs from the Master of Arts in that the MFA, while an academic program, centers around practice in the particular field, whereas kaarykram agrani to the ma praayah bich on the scholarly, academik, or najuk padhai of the field.
Additionally, in the United States, an MFA is recognized as a terminal degree for practitioners of vizual art, dizine, nrity, theatre, film/video, nai media, or rachanaatmak likhane - arth ki it is mana to be the ucchtam oopaadhi in iske field, or is prayukt as a nunatam yogyata to be samarth to lagu to become a full-time praadhyaapak shikshan at the vishvavidhyalayon level in these disciplines.
There are exceptions to this standard in the Arts, notably in the case of music pradarshan, jahaan the mfa is nahin dekhi as a terminal oopaadhi in the context of the more standardized DMA degree.
It is also critical to note that in the interest of extending the connection between creative production and continued academic research, some vishvavidhyalayon have sthapit practice-based ph.d kaarykram in field aise as rachanaatmak likhane, vizual kala, nai media, dizine and theater.
While this has had an effect in Creative Writing, and to a lesser extent in dizine or nai media, the influx of graduates isse practice-based phd kaarykram rai nahin appreciably badla the standard for the MFA as the terminal degree in most Arts disciplines yet.
This is an jari contentious topic, or is the barambar vishay of academik panels, especially at the annual College Art Association conference.
The CAA 2008 guidelines regarding the MFA strongly re-affirms that the phd is nahin jaruri as a terminal oopaadhi in the vizual arts.
The atomic bombings of the cities of Hiroshima and nagasaki in japani yahood conducted by the sanyukt rajya dauraan the final charan of sansar yuddh ii in 1945.
the do kaarykram hai the tabhi upyog of nabhikeey weapons in war to date.
following a firebombing abhiyaan ki nasht anek japani shaharon, the Allies prepared for a costly invasion of Japan.
The war in europea ended jab naaji germany hastakshrit iske yantra of aatmasamarpan on 8 may, but the Pacific War continued.
saath saath the sanyukt kingdom or the ganatantr of china, the sanyukt rajya pukaara liye a aatmasamarpan of japani in the Potsdam Declaration on 26 July 1945, threatening Japan with `` prompt and utter destruction ''.
The Japanese sarkari upekshit is ultimatum, or the sanyukt rajya tainaat do nuclear weapons developed by the Manhattan Project.
amareeki airmen dropped choti ladke on the nagar of hiroshima on 6 August 1945, followed by Fat Man over Nagasaki on 9 August.
Within the first two to four months of the bombings, the adhi prabhaav maare 90,000–166,000 logon in hiroshima or 60,000–80,000 in nagasaki, saath roughly half of the mauton in each city occurring on the first day.
The Hiroshima prefecture health department estimated that, of the people jo died on the din of the visphot, 60 % died isse flash or jwaala burns, 30 % isse falling debris and 10 % from other causes.
During the following months, large numbers died from the prabhaav of burns, vikiran beemaari, or anya choton, compounded by beemaari.
In a US estimate of the total taatkaalik or choti pad kaaran of maut, 15–20 % died isse vikiran beemaari, 20–30 % isse burns, or 50–60 % isse anya injuries, compounded by illness.
In both shaharon, sabase of the murde yahood nagarikon, haalanki hiroshima had a sizeable garrison.
On 15 August, six days baad the bombing of nagasaki, japani ghoshit iske aatmasamarpan to the allies, hastakshar the Instrument of Surrender on 2 September, officially ending World War II.
The bombings led, in part, to post-war Japan 's adopting Three non-nuclear siddhanth, forbidding the swadesh isse nabhikeey armament.
The role of the bombings in japani 's aatmasamarpan or unke naitik auchity are still debated.
Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi ( ; 2 October 1869 – 30 January 1948 ), commonly gyaat as mahatma gandhi, thi the preeminent netaa of bhartiya rashtrawaad in british-ruled India.
Employing non-violent civil disobedience, gandhi led india to swatantraaa or prerit andolanon liye non-violence, civil rights and freedom across the world.
The son of a senior government official, Gandhi was born and raised in a hindu bania jatiyaan in tateey gujarat, or prashikshit in vidhi in landan.
Gandhi became famous by fighting for the civil rights of Muslim and Hindu indiens in dakshin africa, using nai takneekon of non-violent civil disobedience that he developed.
returning to india in 1915, he niyat about organising peasants to protest excessive land-taxes.
A lifelong opponent of `` communalism `` ( i.e. basing raajnneeti on dharm ) he pahunche out widely to sab dharmik samooh.
he became a netaa of musalmaan protesting the declining status of the Caliphate.
Assuming leadership of the Indian neshnal congress in 1921, gandhi led deshbhar abhiyaan liye easing garibi, expanding mahilaon 's adhikaron, bhawan dharmik or jaateey sauhaard, samaapti asprishyata, increasing economic self-reliance, and above all for achieving Swaraj —the independence of India from British domination.
gandhi led indiens in protesting the neshnal namak kar saath the dandi namak kooch in 1930, or later in demanding the British to immediately Quit India in 1942, during World War II.
He was imprisoned for that or liye numerous anya rajnatik offenses over the saalo.
Gandhi sought to abhyaas non-violence or sachai in sab paristhitiyon, or advocated that others do the same.
He saw the villages as the kor of the sachcha india or prachaarit self-sufficiency ; he kiya nahin support the industrialization programs of his disciple Jawaharlal Nehru.
He lived modestly in a self-sufficient residential community and wore the paramparaagat bhartiya dhoti or chadar, woven saath dhaage he tha haath spun on a charkha.
His chief rajnatik dushman in britain thi winston churchill, jo ridiculed him as a `` half-naked fakir. ''
He was a dedicated shaakaahaari, or undertook long fasts as arthath of dono self-purification and political mobilization.
In his pichhlaa saal, aprasann at the vibhaajan of india, gandhi worked to roke the carnage between Muslims, Hindus and Sikhs that raged in the border area between India and Pakistan.
He was assassinated on 30 January 1948 by nathuram godse jo vichaar gandhi thi too sahanubhutipurna to India 's Muslims.
30 janvari is observed as shahido ' Day in India.
The honorific mahatma ( `` great aatma '' ) was applied to him by 1914.
In India he was also pukaara bapu ( `` pita '' ).
He is known in India as the Father of the Nation ; his janmdiwas, 2 aktubar, is commemorated vahin as gandhi jayanti, a neshnal avkaash, or world-wide as the antarrashtriya Day of Non-Violence.
Gandhi 's philosophy was not theoretical but one of vyaavhaariktawaad, ki is, practicing uske siddhanth in the moment.
Asked to give a sandesh to the logon, he hota respond, `` my jivan is my message. ''
Joan Crawford ( March 23, ca. 1904 – May 10, 1977 ), born lucille fay lesueur, thi an amareeki abhinetri in film, television and theatre.
Starting as a dancer in traveling natya companiyaan pehle debuting on broadway, crockerd thi hastakshrit to a gati chitra anubandh by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer in 1925.
initially kunthit by the aakaar or visheshta of uske bhaag, crockerd began a abhiyaan of self-publicity or became nationally known as a flapper by the end of the 1920s.
In the 1930s, Crawford 's fame rivaled, and later outlasted, mgm sahyogiyon norma cyrr or greta garbo.
crockerd praayah nibhaai mehnatee yang mahilaon who find romance and financial success.
These `` rags-to-riches '' stories were well received by avsaad -era audiyans or yahood lokapriy saath mahilaon.
Crawford became one of hollywood 's sabase prominent film sitaron or ek of the ucchtam sashulk mahilaon in the sanyukt rajya, lakin uske films began khone dhan or by the end of the 1930s she was labeled `` box office poison ''.
After an absence of nearly two years from the screen, crockerd manchan a vaapasi by abhinit in mildred piers ( 1945 ), for which she won the Academy Award for Best Actress.
In 1955, she became involved with the pepsi-cola company through uske vivaah to company adhyaksh alfred steel.
After uske maut in 1959, crockerd thi nirvaachit to bharan his vacancy on the board of directors but was forcibly retired in 1973.
She continued acting in filmi or television regularly through the 1960s, jab uske pradarshan became kam ; baad the relies of the angrejon horer filmi Trog in 1970, Crawford retired from the screen.
Following a public appearance in 1974, after which unflattering photographs were published, Crawford withdrew isse public jivan or became increasingly reclusive jabatak uske maut in 1977.
crockerd shaadishuda four times.
Her first three marriages ended in talaak ; the pichhlaa ended saath the maut of husband alfred Steele.
She adopted paanch children, ek of jisko thi reclaimed by his birth mother.
Crawford 's sambandh saath uske do puraani children, christina and Christopher, were acrimonious.
Crawford disinherited the two or, baad crockerd 's maut, christina likhaa a `` tell-all '' sansmaran, mommie dearest, in jisase she alleged a lifelong pattern of physical and emotional abuse perpetrated by Crawford.
She was voted the tenth greatest female star in the itihaas of amareeki cinema by the amareeki filmi santhaan.
1910 Buick tonneau bagaiyr tonneau cover
1903 ghat model a rear-door Tonneau
1903 lanchester rear-door tonneau
Tonneau cover ( or ) describes a hard or soft cover prayukt to protect unoccupied yatri site in a convertible or roadster, or the cargo bed in a pickup truck.
mushkil tonneau cover kholen by a hinging or folding yantriki while soft covers open by rolling up.
The tonneau cover is prayukt to chhipate cargo.
When the cover is pulled out, it keeps items out of the surya or provides atirikt suraksha by keeping nijee vasteen out of sight, as well as shielding the driver from view.
twitor is an online soshal netwarking seva or microblogging seva ki enables iske upayokta to bhejein or padhaa text-based messages of up to 140 characters, known as `` tweets ''.
Twitter was nirmit in kooch 2006 by joker dorsey or by july, the soshal netwarking site was launched.
The service rapidly gained worldwide popularity, saath over 500 lakh panjikrut upayokta as of 2012, generating over 340 lakh tweets rose and handling over 1.6 billion search queries per day.
Since its launch, twitor rai become ek of the ten sabase visited websiton on the Internet, and has been described as `` the SMS of the Internet. ''
Unregistered users can read tweets, while panjikrut upayokta can post tweets through the jalsthal interfes, SMS, or a range of apps for mobile devices.
Twitter Inc. is based in san francisco, saath atirikt sarwar or karyaalayon in nai york City, Boston, and San Antonio.
The Hangover is a 2009 American comedy filmi, co-produced or nirdeshit by tod phillips or likhaa by Jon Lucas and Scott Moore.
It is the first film of The Hangover franchise.The film stars Bradley kupar, ed helms, zach galifianakis, hethar graham, justin bartha, and Jeffrey Tambor.
The Hangover tells the story of Phil Wenneck, Stu Price and Alan Garner, who travel to las vegas liye a snaatak party to celebrate unke dost dag billings ' impending marriage.
However, Phil, Stu and Alan have no memory of the previous raatri 's kaarykram or jarur dhundhen dag pehle the wedding can take place.
Lucas and Moore wrote the script after executive producer Chris bender 's dost disappeared or tha a vishaal vidheyak baad hone bheja to a strip klbon.
baad lucas or moore bechi it to the studio liye $ 2 lakh, philips or jeremi garelick rewrote the script to shaamil a baagh as khub as a subplot involving a baby and a police cruiser, and also including boxer Mike Tyson.
Filming took place in newada liye 15 dinon, or dauraan filmakan, the teen pramukh abhinaytaon ( Cooper, Helms and Galifianakis ) formed a friendship.
The Hangover was released on june 5, 2009, banane a najuk and commercial success.
It became the tenth-highest-grossing filmi of 2009, saath a vishwavyaapee sakal of over US $ 467 million.
Critics praised the film 's comedic drushtikon lakin criticized it liye iske vulgarity.
The film won the Golden globe puraskaar liye behtareen gati chitra – musical or kamedi, or praapt multiple other accolades.
It is the tenth-highest-grossing filmi of 2009 in the sansar, as khub as the duusari highest-grossing r-rated kamedi kabhi in the sanyukt rajya, surpassing a ricard previously held by Beverly Hills Cop for almost 25 years and later being surpassed by Ted in 2012.
Out of all R-rated films, it is the third highest-grossing ever in the U.S., peeche tabhi the junun of the messiah or the metrics reloaded.
A sequel, the hangover bhaag ii, thi released in 2011, or a teesraa or final filmi, the hangover Part III, is set for release in 2013.
Events involving meiosis, prardashit chromosomal crossover
Meiosis ( ) is a special type of cell division jaruri liye yon janan in eukaryotes.
The cells utpaadit by meiosis hai gamit or spores.
In many organisms, sahit sab pashu or jameen paudhe ( lakin nahin kuch anya samooh aise as fungi ), gametes are called sperm and egg cells.
Whilst the process of meiosis bears a kramank of similarities saath the 'life-cycle ' cell division process of mitosis, it differs in two important respects:
the chromosomes in meiosis undergo a recombination which shuffles the genes producing a different genetic combination in each gamete, compared saath the co-existence of prayek of the do pruthak pairs of prayek chromosome ( ek praapt isse prayek janak ) in prayek koshika jisase parinaam from mitosis.
the outcome of meiosis is potentially four ( genetically adwitiya ) agunit koshikaayen, compared saath the do ( genetically ekasmaan ) dwiguneet cells produced from mitosis.
Meiosis begins with one diploid cell containing two copies of each chromosome —one isse the sajiv 's maan or ek isse iske pita.
The cell divides twice, potentially producing up to chaar agunit koshikaayen containing ek nakal of each chromosome.
( `` Potentially '' because in some cases, such as the gathan of oocytes in stanadhariyon, tabhi ek of the sambhavit chaar agunit koshikaayen survives. )
In animals the agunit koshika resulting isse meiosis is a purush or female gamete.
Each of the resulting chromosomes in the gamete koshikaayen is a adwitiya mishran of matra or paitruk diene, resulting in aulad ki hai genetically distinct from either parent.
This gives rise to genetic vividhta in sexually reproducing populations.
This genetic diversity can provide the variation of physical and behavioural gun ( phenotypes ) upon jisase prakritik chayan can adhinium, lakin, as varnit neeche in khand 6, utpatti or falan of meiosis, the genetic vividhta may be largely a by-product of the samajaat recombination ki is primarily employed for its DNA repair function during meiosis.
It is also noteworthy that during meiosis, specific genes are more atyadhik transcribed, or ye hai pukaara the meiome, the pad prayukt in kaaryaatmak jinomix liye the meiotic transcriptome.
Meiosis is a key feature for all sexually reproducing eukaryotes in jisase samajaat chromosome pairing, antargrathan or recombination occur.
In jod to damdaar meiotic stage-specific abhivyakti of mrna ( the meiome ), however, vahin hai bhi pervasive translational niyantran ( e.g. selective usage of preformed mRNA ), regulating the ultimate meiotic stage-specific protein expression of genes during meiosis.
Thus, both the meiome and translational niyantran determine the vyapak restructuring of meiotic koshikaayen needed to carry out meiosis.
Prior to the meiosis process the cell 's chromosomes are duplicated by a golakaar of diene replication, bananaa isse the matra or paitruk sanskaran of prayek chromosome ( homologs ) two exact copies, sister chromatids, attached at the centromere region.
in the shuruuaat of meiosis the matra or paitruk homologs pair to each other.
Then they typically exchange parts by samajaat recombination agrani to crossovers of diene between the matra and paternal versions of the chromosome.
Spindle fibers bind to the centromeres of prayek jodi of homologs or arrange the pairs at the spindle equator.
Then the fibers khincho the recombined homologs to vipareet poles of the cell.
As the chromosomes move dur isse the bich the koshika divides into do beti koshikaayen, prayek containing a haploid number of chromosomes composed of two chromatids.
After the recombined maternal and paternal homologs have alag into the do beti koshikaayen, a duusari golakaar of koshika prabhag occurs.
There meiosis ends as the two sister chromatids bananaa up prayek homolog hai alag or move into ek of the chaar resulting gamete cells.
Upon fertilization, for example when a shukranu enters an anda koshika, do gamete koshikaayen utpaadit by meiosis fuse.
The gamete from the mother and the gamete isse the pita prayek yogadan ek half of the niyat of gunasutron ki make up the new offspring 's genome.
Meiosis uses many of the vahi mechanisms as samasutran, a prakaar of koshika prabhag prayukt by eukaryotes jaise paudhe and animals to split one cell into two identical daughter cells.
In all plants and in many protists meiosis parinaam in the gathan of bijaanuon : agunit koshikaayen ki can divide vegetatively bagaiyr undergoing fertilization.
mukkebaazi ( pugilism, puraskaar lard, the mithi vigyaan or in unani pygmachia ) is a martial art or combat khel in jisase do logon engage in a contest of strength, speed, reflexes, endurance and will by throwing punches with gloved hands.
Amateur boxing is an olympic or rashtramandal khel or is a aam fixture in sabase of the pramukh antarrashtriya games - it also has its own World Championships.
Boxing is supervised by a referee over a series of one- to three-minute intervals pukaara rounds.
The result is decided when an pratidwandi is deemed incapable to continue by a referi, is disqualified liye todakar a niyam, resigns by phenkna in a tauliya, or is sunaaya the winner or loser based on the judges ' scorecards at the end of the contest.
the janam ghanta of mukkebaazi as a khel may be iske sweekruti by the ancient Greeks as an Olympic game as early as 688 BC.
Boxing evolved isse 16th- or 18th-century prizefights, largely in great britain, to the forerunner of aadhunik mukkebaazi in the mid-19th century, again initially in Great Britain and later in the United States.
In 2004, ESPN kramit mukkebaazi as the sabase mushkil khel in the world.
anubandh or concord happens jab a shabd parivartan rup depending on the other words to which it relates.
It is an instance of inflection, or praayah involves bananaa the maan of kuch vyakaranik shrenee ( aise as ling or vyakti ) `` agree '' between different words or parts of the sentence.
For example, in maanak angrezi, ek may kah i am or he is, lakin not `` I is '' or `` he am ''.
This is because the vyakaran of the bhashaa requires ki the kriya or iske vishay agree in person.
The pronouns i or he hai pehla or teesraa vyakti kramshah, as hai the verb forms am and is.
The verb rup jarur be chaynit so ki it rai the vahi vyakti as the subject.
The agreement based on overt vyakaranik shrenee as upar is aupchaarik anubandh, in contrast to notional agreement, which is based on meaning.
For instance, the phrase The United States is treated as ekvachan liye uddeshy of anubandh, bhi haalanki it is formally bahuvachan.
This is a list of places below ausat samudr str ki hai on jameen.
Places in tunnels, mines, basements, dug holes ( also saath kholen aasmaan ), antargat jal, antargat barf, or maujuuda temporarily as a parinaam of ebbing of sea tide etc. are not included.
sab aankade hai in meters below sea level:
Debbie Macomber ( born October 22, 1948 in yakima, washington ) is a best-selling amareeki lekhak of over 150 romance novels and contemporary women 's fiction.
Over 140 million copies of her kitabe hai in chapai throughout the sansar, or chaar have become made-for-TV-movies.
Macomber was the inaugural winner of the fan-voted Quill Award for romance in 2005 or rai maharoom awarded dono a romance lekhak of america reeta or a aaajeevan uplabdhi puraskaar by the romance lekhak of America.
Catonsville is a census-designated place ( cdp ) in balteemor County, Maryland, United States.
The janasankhyikee thi 41,567 at the 2010 census.
The community lies to the west of balteemor saath the nagar 's border.
catonsville is the ghar of the vishvavidhyalayon of maryland, balteemor county ( UMBC ), a public research university with over 12,000 students.
A lawyer, according to blike 's vidhi shabdkosh, is `` a vyakti siikhe in the vidhi ; as an attorney, counsel or solicitor ; a person who is practicing law. ''
Law is the pranali of niyam of conduct sthapit by the sovereign sarkari of a samaaj to correct wrongs, maintain the stability of political and social authority, and deliver justice.
Working as a lawyer involves the vyaavhaarik anuprayog of amoort vidhik theories or gyaan to solve vishisht individualized samasyaayein, or to agrim the ruchi of those jo retain ( i.e., hire ) lawyers to perform legal services.
The role of the vakil varies significantly aarpaar vidhik jurisdictions, and so it can be treated here in only the most general terms.
Vector Marketing is the domestic sales arm of cutco nigam, an olean, nai york aadhaarit cutlery nirmaataa.
The Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 ( FMLA ) is a sanyukt rajya sangheey vidhi requiring covered niyokta to provide karmchaaree job-protected or unpaid chhod liye yogya medical and family reasons.
Qualified medical and family reasons shaamil : nijee or parivaar beemaari, parivaar sainya chhod, garbhavastha, adoption, or the foster care placement of a child.
The FMLA is administered by the Wage and Hour Division of the sanyukt rajya vibhaag of majdoor.
The bill was a major part of adhyaksh vidheyak clinton 's kaarysoochee in his first term.
President Clinton signed the bill into law on February 5, 1993 ( ; 29 u.s.c. sek. 2601 ; 29 cfr 825 ) or it took prabhaav on agast 5, 1993, six months later.
The FMLA was intended `` to santulan the maange of the kaarysthal saath the needs of pariwaron. ''
The Act allows eligible employees to take up to 12 work weeks of unpaid chhod dauraan koi 12-month kaal to attend to the gambhir swasthya condishan of the karmchaaree, janak, jeevanasathi or child, or liye garbhavastha or parvaah of a navjaat child, or for adoption or foster care of a child.
In anukram to be yogya liye fmla chhod, an karmchaaree jarur have maharoom at the kaarobaar at tanik 12 maheene, or worked at tanik 1,250 ghanton over the past 12 maheene, and work at a location where the company employs 50 or more employees within 75 miles.
The fmla cover dono public- or private-sector karmchaaree, lakin nishchit shrenee of karmchaaree hai excluded, including elected officials and their personal staff members.
The Vietnam War ( ) was a Cold War -era military conflict ki occurred in vietnam, laos, or cambodia isse 1 navambar 1955 to the patan of sigon on 30 April 1975.
This yuddh followed the pehla indochyna yuddh or thi ladaa between uttar vietnam, samarthit by iske communist allies, or the sarkari of South Vietnam, supported by the United States and other anti-communist countries.
The Viet Cong ( also known as the National mukti saamne, or nlf ), a halake hathiyaarband dakshin vietnami communist aam saamne nirdeshit by the uttar, largely ladaa a chhapamar war against anti-communist forces in the region.
The Vietnam People 's Army ( North Vietnamese Army ) sagaai in a adhik conventional yuddh, at times committing large units into battle.
U.S. and South Vietnamese forces relied on air badppan or overwhelming firepower to conduct dhundhen or nasht parichaalan, involving ground forces, artillery, and airstrikes.
The U.S. government viewed bhagidaari in the yuddh as a rasta to prevent a communist kabza of dakshin Vietnam as part of their wider strategy of containment.
The North Vietnamese government and Viet cong yahood lard to reunify Vietnam under communist rule.
They viewed the conflict as a colonial war, fought initially against France, backed by the U.S., or baad viruddh dakshin vietnam, jisase it regarded as a u.S. puppet state.
American military advisors arrived in kayaa thi tab french indochyna beginning in 1950.
U.S. bhagidaari escalated in the jaldi 1960s, saath troop str tripling in 1961 and tripling again in 1962.
U.S. combat units yahood tainaat shuruuaat in 1965.
Operations spanned antarrashtriya simaayen, saath laos or cambodia heavily bombed.
amareeki bhagidaari in the yuddh peaked in 1968, at the time of the Tet Offensive.
After this, U.S. ground forces were gradually withdrawn as bhaag of a niti gyaat as vietnamization.
Despite the paris salaam accords, hastakshrit by sab partiyon in January 1973, fighting continued.
U.S. military involvement ended on 15 agast 1973 as a parinaam of the case–church amendment passed by the u.S. Congress.
The capture of Saigon by the vietnam logon 's fouj in april 1975 chihnit the samaapt of the yuddh, or uttar or dakshin vietnam were reunified the following year.
The war exacted a huge human cost in sharten of fatalities ( dekhie vietnam yuddh hataahat ).
Estimates of the kramank of vietnami sainiko or nagarikon maare vary from 800,000 to 3.1 million.
Some 200,000–300,000 cambodians, 20,000–200,000 laotians, or 58,220 U.S. service members also died in the conflict.
Cleveland Volcano in the Aleutian Islands of alaska photographed isse the antarrashtriya spes stesan, May 2006.
raakh plumes pahunche a oonchaai of 19 km dauraan the climactic fatna at Mount Pinatubo, Philippines in 1991.
A volcano is an opening, or rupture, in a planet 's sataha or crust, jisase allows hot megma, volcanic raakh or gaison to escape isse the megma kaksh below the surface.
Volcanoes are generally mila jahaan tectonic platon hai diverging or converging.
A mid-oceanic ridge, for example the Mid-Atlantic Ridge, has examples of volcanoes caused by divergent tectonic platon pulling alaava ; the prashanth ring of aag rai udhaaharan of volcanoes caused by convergent tectonic plates coming together.
By contrast, volcanoes are praayah nahin nirmit jahaan do tectonic platon slide past one another.
Volcanoes can also form where there is stretching and thinning of the Earth 's crust in the interiars of platon, e.g., in the east africa daraar, the kuen gray-clearwater volcanic field or the rio grandey daraar in uttar america.
This type of volcanism jalprapaat antargat the chhatariyaan of `` thali pariklpana '' volcanism.
Volcanism away from plate seemayen rai bhi maharoom samajhaayaa as mantle plumes.
These so-called `` hotspots ``, for udhaaharan hawaii, hai postulated to uthta isse upwelling diapirs saath megma isse the core–mantle boundary, 3,000 km gahan in the Earth.
erupting jwalamukhi can pos anek jokhimon, nahin tabhi in the immediate vicinity of the eruption.
Volcanic ash can be a threat to aircraft, in particular those with jet ingine jahaan raakh anu can be melted by the unchi oparating temperature.
Large eruptions can affect taapmaana as raakh or droplets of sulfuric acid aspasht the surya or kool the dharti 's nimnatar maahaul or kshobhamandal ; however, ve bhi avashoshit ooshmaa radiated up from the Earth, thereby warming the stratosphere.
Historically, so-called volcanic sardiyon have caused catastrophic famines.
A deep pothole on nai york nagar 's duusari Avenue
A pothole ( sometimes called a kettle and known in parts of the pashchimi sanyukt rajya as a chuckhole ) is a prakaar of disruption in the sataha of a roadway jahaan a portion of the sadak saamagree has broken away, leaving a hole.
Renal cell carcinoma ( RCC, also known as hypernephroma ) is a gurda karkat ki originates in the astr of the proximal convoluted tubule, the bahut choti tubes in the gurda ki hastantaran gf ( glomerular filtrate ) from the glomerulus to the descending limb of the nephron.
RCC is the sabase aam prakaar of gurda karkat in adults, responsible for approximately 80 % of cases.
It is also known to be the sabase lethal of sab the genitourinary tumors.
Initial treatment is sabase commonly a kattarpanthi or aanshik nephrectomy and remains the mainstay of curative treatment.
Where the tumor is confined to the renal parenchyma, the 5-year astitv rate is 60-70 %, lakin is is lowered considerably where metastases have spread.
It is relatively resistant to vikiran chikitsa or chemotherapy, haalanki kuch maamle respond to immunotherapy.
Targeted cancer therapies such as sunitinib, temsirolimus, bevacizumab, interferon-alpha, and sorafenib have improved the outlook for RCC.
Estée Lauder Companies, Inc. is a nirmaataa or marketer of pratishtha skincare, mechap, mahak and hair care products.
The company has its mukhyalay in midtown manahaton, nai york City.
The peritoneum ( ) is the serous membrane that forms the lining of the abdominal guha or the coelom —it cover sabase of the intra-abdominal ( or coelomic ) organs—in amniotes or kuch invertebrates ( annelids, for instance ).
It is composed of a layer of mesothelium samarthit by a patala parat of connective tissue.
The peritoneum both supports the abdominal angon or serves as a conduit liye unke rakt or lymph vessels and nerves.
The abdominal cavity ( the space bounded by the vertebrae, abdominal mansapeshiyaan, diaphragm or shroni manzil ) chahie nahin be uljhan saath the intraperitoneal space ( located within the abdominal cavity, but wrapped in peritoneum ).
The structures within the intraperitoneal space are called `` intraperitoneal '' ( e.g. the stomach ), the structures in the abdominal guha ki hai stith peeche the intraperitoneal spes hai pukaara `` retroperitoneal `` ( e.g. the gurde ), or those structures neeche the intraperitoneal space are called `` subperitoneal '' or `` infraperitoneal '' ( e.g. the bladder ).
Modern 2.5 '' SSD used in upabhokta laptop or desktop computers.
DDR sdram aadhaarit SSD.
adhiktam or.
PCI sanlagn io twarak SSD
PCI-E, DRAM, or nand aadhaarit ssd.
It uses an external shakti supplai to mek the dram non-volatile.
A solid-state drive ( SSD ) ( also known as a solid-state discs or electronic discs, haalanki it contains no vaastavik `` discs '' of koi dayaalu ) is a aankada bhandar yantra using ekikrut circuit assemblies as memory to store data persistently.
SSD technology uses electronic antarfalak sangat saath paramparaagat blaak input/output ( i/o ) hard disk drives.
SSDs have no chalati mechanical components, jisase fark unhen isse paramparaagat electromechanical chumbakeey discs aise as mushkil discs drive ( hdds ) or flopy discs, which contain spinning disks and movable read/write heads.
Compared with electromechanical discs, ssds hai typically kam susceptible to physical shock, much quieter, have lower access time, and less latency.
However, while the price of SSDs has continued to decline in 2012, ssds hai still parichay 7 to 8 times adhik mahangi prati ikai of bhandar than HDDs.
Many SSDs use I/O interfaces developed for hard disk drive, yun permitting saral badalanaa in aam anuprayog.
, most SSDs use nand-based flash memory, jisase retains aankada without power.
For applications requiring tej abhigam, lakin nahin necessarily aankada hath baad power loss, SSDs may be constructed from random-access memory ( RAM ).
Such divaais may employ pruthak shakti strot, aise as bydaree, to maintain data after power loss.
Hybrid drives or solid state hybrid drives ( SSHD ) combine the features of ssds or hdds in the vahi ikai, containing a vishaal mushkil discs drive or an ssd sanchay to improve pradarshan of frequently accessed data.
These devices may offer near-ssd pradarshan liye anek anuprayog.
Salmon roe ( baayein ) or sturgeon caviar ( sahi ) parosa saath maan of pearl caviar spoons to avoid tainting the taste of the caviar.
ossetra caviar, saaman creme fraiche, aalu shallot croquette, basil oil, egg whites and yolks
Caviar, according to the Food and Agriculture sanghathan, is a utpaada bana isse salt-cured fish-eggs of the acipenseridae parivaar.
The roe can be `` fresh '' ( non-pasteurized ) or pasteurized, saath pasteurization reducing iske culinary and economic value.
Traditionally the term caviar refers tabhi to roe isse junglee sturgeon in the caspian or blike samandar ( beluga, ossetra and Sevruga caviars ).
Depending on the country, caviar may also be used to describe the roe of anya machhlee aise as saaman, steelhead, trout, lumpfish, whitefish, and other species of sturgeon.
Caviar is mana a lakjri komalta or is khaaya as a garnish or a spread.
In 2012, caviar bechi liye $ 2,500 prati pound, or $ 3,000 to $ 5,500 prati kilo.
The SEC Network is a television syndication network featuring sajiv prasaaran of college footbaal or basket kaarykram isse the Southeastern Conference.
It is owned and operated by ESPN Plus and is shown in adhik than 50 pratishat of households in the sanyukt rajya, zyaadaatar southeastern sanyukt rajya markets.
The SEC sanjaal typically airs in the nun purvi slot ki thi purv ghar to the Raycom Sports SEC game of the week.
Games are shown locally on broadcast stesan, kshetreey khel sanjaal, as khub as on iespien gameplan, iespien Full Court, and ESPN3.com.
the sek sanjaal is bhi uplabdhiyaan in Canada via Atlanta 's WPCH-TV.
The SEC Network uses the same on-screen graphics philhal prayukt by iespien on abisi, a sanskaran of iespien 's graphics package.
SEC Network 's football programming still uses a title safe area because sabase of iske affiliates do nahin letterbox unke maanak paribhaasha feeds, jabaki iespien 's television sanjaal have anumat unke graphics to laaparvaahee the title safe, but letterbox for SD viewers.
starting saath the sek 2012 basket ritu, sek sanjaal 's graphics have been converted to a 16:9 Widescreen-only format.
This is also being prayukt liye the 2013 basket ritu, lakin tha still adapted the purv 4:3-safe graphics format for the 2012 SEC football season.
The 1990s, sunaaya or bhi gyaat as `` the nineteen-nineties '' or abbreviated as `` the nineties '' or `` the '90s '', was a decade that began on January 1, 1990, and ended on December 31, 1999.
it thi the 10th or pichhlaa dashak of the 20th sadi or the 100th and last decade of the 2nd millennium.
The decade is best known for the end of the Cold yuddh at the shuruuaat of the dashak or the vistaar or vyavsyeekaran of the antarjaal dauraan the second half of the decade.
In much of the West the 1990s is remembered as a kaal of unprecedented salaam or samruddhi, haalanki anek bhaag of the so-called teesraa sansar faced vibhinn samasyaayein sahit genocide, AIDS and new or continuing ethnic tensions and civil wars.
Culturally speaking the decade thi characterized by the vruddhi of bahusamskritwad and alternative media.
Movements such as grunge, the rave scene and hip hop spread around the world to young logon dauraan the dashak, aided by then-new praudyogiki aise as cabel television and the Internet.
A combination of factors, including the mass mobilization of puunji bazaar through neoliberalism, the shuruuaat of the faili aprasar of nai media aise as the antarjaal, or the viched of the soviet sangh led to a realignment or reconsolidation of economic and political power across the world, and within countries.
Income asamanta among deshon in the sansar rose sharply between the 1980s or the mid-1990s, before levelling off and then falling after 2000.
New ethnic conflicts emerged in Africa, the balkans or the kakeshas, the purv do jisase led to the rwandan genocide and Bosnian genocide, respectively.
The United States began its current military occupation of the Middle East dauraan the garmiyaan of 1990 saath marusthal shield baad it kaaten band a vishaal portion of the sansar 's petroleum supplai.
Signs of any resolution of tanaav between israel or the arab sansar remained elusive, haalanki the irish pareshaaniyon aae to a standstill in 1998 saath the shubh Friday Agreement after 30 years of violence.
The gray wolf or grey wolf ( Canis lupus ) is a prajati of canid deshi to the wilderness or remote kshetron of uttar america, Eurasia, and North Africa.
it is the largest sadsy of iske parivaar, saath males averaging, and females.
It is similar in general appearance and proportions to a germany gadriye, or sled shwaan, lakin rai a larger sir, narrower chaati, longer legs, straighter tail and bigger paws.
Its winter fur is long and bushy, and predominantly a mottled dhoosar in rang, haalanki nearly pure shwet, red, or brown to black also occur.
Within the genus Canis, the gray wolf represents a adhik specialised or pragatisheel rup than iske choti cousins ( the kyoti or sunahari jackal ), as demonstrated by iske morphological adaptations to shikaar vishaal shikaar, iske adhik gregarious nature and its highly advanced expressive behavior.
It is a social animal, travelling in nuclear families consisting of a pandrahaven jodi, accompanied by the jodi 's vayask offspring.
The gray wolf is typically an apex parabhakshi throughout iske dayera, saath only humans and tigers posing a serious threat to it.
It feeds primarily on vishaal ungulates, haalanki it bhi eats choti pashu, pashudhan, carrion, and garbage.
The gray wolf is one of the sansar 's sabase khub shodhakarya pashu, saath sambhawatah adhik kitabe likhaa parichay it than any other wildlife species.
It has a long itihaas of sangh saath insaano, having maharoom despised or hunted in sabase agricultural samudaayon due to its attacks on livestock, while conversely being respected by some Native American tribes.
It is the sole purvaj of the shwaan, jisase thi pehla domesticated in the Middle East.
Although the fear of wolves is prachlit in anek insaan samaajon, the bahumat of ankit hamale on logon have been attributed to animals suffering from rabies.
Non-rabid wolves have attacked and killed people, mainly children, but this is unusual, as bhediyon hai apekshaakrit few, sajiv dur isse logon, or have maharoom sikhaaya to bhay insaano by hunters and shepherds.
Hunting and trapping has reduced the species ' range to, though its still apekshaakrit faili dayera or stable janasankhyikee arthath ki the prajati is nahin threatened at a vaishvik str, or is isliye vargeekrut by the IUCN as Least Concern.
The Roman Empire ( ) was the post- Republican period of the ancient Roman sabhyataa, characterised by an nirankush rup of sarkari or vishaal territorial holdings around the bumadhyasagariya in Europe, Africa, and Asia.
The 500-year-old roman ganatantr, jisase preceded it, tha maharoom destabilized through a series of civil wars.
Several events marked the parivartan isse ganatantr to samrajya, sahit julius seizar 's niyukti as perpetual taanashaah ( 44 bc ) ; the battle of actium ( 31 BC ) ; and the granting of the honorific Augustus to Octavian by the Roman Senate ( 27 BC ).
The first two centuries of the samrajya yahood a kaal of unprecedented sthirataa or samruddhi gyaat as the pax Romana ( `` Roman Peace '' ).
It reached its greatest expanse dauraan the shasankaal of traajaan ( 98–117 AD ).
In the 3rd century, the Empire underwent a crisis that threatened its astitv, lakin thi reunified or stabilized antargat the emperors aurelian or diocletian.
Christians rose to power in the 4th sadi, dauraan jisase samay a pranali of dual niyam thi viksit in the Latin West and Greek East.
After the patan of central sarkari in the west in the 5th sadi, the purvi half continued as what would later be known as the Byzantine Empire.
kuki of the samrajya 's vishaal extent or long sahansheeltaa, the sansthaanon or samskruti of rome tha a profound or sthaayee influence on the vikaas of bhashaa, dharm, vaastukala, philosophy, law, and forms of government in the territory it governed, particularly Europe, and by means of European expansionism throughout the modern world.
Education in the sanyukt rajya is mukhyatah provided by the public sector, saath control or funding coming isse teen levels : local, state, and federal, in that order.
Child education is compulsory, and there are also a vishaal kramank or chaudee kismein of ucchtar shiksha sansthaanon throughout the desh ki ek can chune to attend, both publicly and privately administered.
Public shiksha is universally uplabdhiyaan.
skool curricula, funding, shikshan, niyukti, or anya nitiyon hai niyat through locally nirvaachit skool falak saath kshetradhikaar over school districts with many directives from state legislatures.
skool jile hai praayah pruthak isse anya local jurisdictions, with independent officials and budgets.
Educational standards and manakikrut pareekshan nirnay hai praayah bana by state governments.
The ages for anivaary shiksha vary by state.
It begins isse aayu paanch to aath or ends isse ages fourteen to eighteen.
Compulsory education requirements can generally be santusht by educating children in public skulon, state-certified nijee skulon, or an approved home school program.
In most public and private schools, education is divided into teen str : elementary skool, madhya skool ( sometimes pukaara junior unchi skool ), or unchi skool ( sometimes referred to as secondary education ).
In almost all skulon at ye str, children hai vibhajit by aayu samooh into grad, ranging isse kindergarton ( followed by pehla grad ) liye the youngest children in elementary school, up to twelfth grade, the final year of high school.
The exact age range of students in these grade levels varies thodaa isse kshetrafal to area.
post-secondary shiksha, behatar gyaat as `` college `` in the sanyukt rajya, is generally governed separately isse the elementary and high school system, and is described in a separate section below.
Government supported, free public schools for all prarambh hone sthapit baad the kranti, or vistaarit in the 19th sadi, as the parinaam of praytn of men like Horace Mann and Booker T. Washington.
By 1870, sab rajya tha free elementary schools, albeit only in urban centers.
As the 20th century drew nearer, rajya prarambh guzar kanoon to mek schooling anivaary, or by 1910, 72 percent of children attended school.
Private skulon jari to sprad dauraan is samay, as khub as collejon and—in the rural centers— land grant colleges.
The year of 1910 bhi dekhi the pehla sachcha unchi skulon.
During the baaki of the 20th sadi, shaikshanik praytn kendrit on reducing the inequality of the schooling system.
The landmark Supreme adaalat maamla bhura v. falak of shiksha bana the desegregation of elementary or unchi skulon a national priority, while the Pell Grant program helped poor minorities gain access to college.
Special shiksha thi bana into sangheey vidhi in 1975.
The Elementary and Secondary shiksha adhinium of 1965 bana manakikrut pareekshan a aavashyaktaa, or in 1983, a ayog thi sthapit to evaluate their results and propose a course of action.
The resulting No Child baayein peeche adhinium of 2001 thi vivaadaaspad or iske lakshya proved to be unrealistic.
A commission established in 2006 evaluated ucchtar shiksha, lakin iske suzav have yet to be fully implemented.
paul bragg ( farvari 6, 1895 – disambar 7, 1976 ), nutritionist, was a pioneer in America’s wellness movement.
Health spending prati capita, in $ us ppp-adjusted, saath the us or canada compared amongst other first world nations.
Comparison of the health care systems in canada or the sanyukt rajya hai praayah bana by sarkari, public swasthya or public niti analysts.
The two countries had similar swasthya parvaah pranaaliyon pehle canada reformed iske pranali in the 1960s and 1970s.
The United States spends much adhik dhan on swasthya parvaah than canada, on dono a per-capita aadhaar and as a percentage of GDP.
In 2006, per-capita bitaa liye swasthya parvaah in canada was US $ 3,678 ; in the U.S., US $ 6,714.
The U.S. spent 15.3 % of jidipi on swasthya parvaah in ki saal ; Canada spent 10.0 %.
In 2006, 70 % of swasthya parvaah bitaa in canada thi financed by sarkari, versus 46 % in the United States.
Total government spending per capita in the U.S. on health care was 23 % higher than Canadian government spending, and U.S. government vyay on swasthya parvaah thi bas antargat 83 % of kul canadai bitaa ( public or nijee ) haalanki ye aankde do n't lo into khaataa janasankhyikee matbhed.
Studies have aaiye to alag conclusions parichay the parinaam of is disparity in spending.
A 2007 review of all studies comparing health outcomes in Canada and the US in a Canadian peer-reviewed medical journal mila ki `` swasthya outcomes may be shreshth in marijon cared liye in canada banaam the United States, but differences are not consistent. ''
Life expectancy is longer in canada, or iske shishu mrityu rate is nimnatar than ki of the u.S., lakin there is debate about the underlying causes of these differences.
One commonly cited tulana, the 2000 sansar swasthya sanghathan 's darja of `` overall swasthya seva pradarshan '', jisase prayukt a `` compojit maap of uplabdhi in the str of swasthya, the vitaran of health, the level of responsiveness and fairness of financial contribution '', ranked Canada 30th and the US 37th among 191 member nations.
This padhai rated the us `` responsiveness '', or visheshta of seva liye individuals receiving treatment, as 1st, compared with 7th for Canada.
While the average life expectancy liye canadians thi 80.34 saalo compared saath 78.6 saalo liye nivaasiyon of the us, bas comparing the jivan pratyaasha of two groups with different racial makeup and different obesity rates is likely not an effective way of determining which healthcare system is superior.
The jo 's padhai vidhi yahood criticized by some analyses.
Although there is a measure of consensus ki life-expectancy or shishu mrityu chihnit the sabase vishwasaneey tareeke to compare nation-wide swasthya parvaah, assuming the population makeup is similar, a recent report by the Congressional Research Service carefully summarizes some recent data and notes the `` difficult research issues '' facing international comparisons.
The sound source has now broken through the dhwani gati avrodh, or is traveling at 1.4 times the gati of sound, ( Mach 1.4 ).
Since the sorce is chalati tej ( saath a gati ) than the dhwani lehren it creates, it actually leads the advancing wavefront.
The sound source will pass by a stationary nireekshak ( saath a gati ) pehle the nireekshak actually hears the sound it creates.
As a result, an nireekshak in saamne of the sorce hoga detect
and an observer peeche the sorce.
A sonic boom produced by an vayuyan chalati at m=2.92, gananaa isse the cone kone of 20 degree.
An observer hears the boom when the shock wave, on the kinare of the cone, crosses his or her location.
mach cone angle
A sonic boom is the dhwani sambhddha saath the shock lehren nirmit by an object traveling through the air faster than the speed of sound.
Sonic booms generate vishaal amounts of dhwani urja, sounding much like an explosion.
The crack of a supersonic goli guzar overhead is an udhaaharan of a sonic boom in miniature.
The Tonight Show with Jay Leno is an American late-night baat dikhaaen hosted by jay lino ki initially aired isse may 25, 1992 to may 29, 2009, or resumed utpaadan on March 1, 2010.
The fourth avatar of the tonight dikhaaen matadhikaar bana iske debyue on may 25, 1992, teen days following Johnny Carson 's retirement as host of the program.
The program originates from NBC Studios in Burbank, California, and is broadcast somvaar through shuukravaar at 11:35 pm in the purvi or prashanth samay zones ( 10:35 PM Central / Mountain time ).
Unlike Carson or his purvavarti joker paar, lino tabhi ekbar utilized a atithi mejabaan, preferring to mejabaan the shrenee by khud.
On April 26, 1999, the show began broadcasting in 1080i hdtv, banane the pehla amareeki nightly baat dikhaaen to be shot in high definition.
The dikhaaen is shot in 16:9 aspect ratio.
The series, which followed the same moulik swaroop as ki of uske purvavartiyon ( an kholane monologue followed by kamedi dincharya, saakshaatkaar and performances ), ran until May 29, 2009, after which Leno was succeeded by Conan O'Brien.
NBC signed Leno to a new saude liye a nightly baat dikhaaen in the 10:00 pm ET timeslot.
The primetime series, titled The Jay lino dikhaaen, debuted on sitambar 14, 2009, following a samaan swaroop to the Leno incarnation of Tonight.
Neither O'Brien 's version of the program, which premiered June 1, 2009, nor the jay lino dikhaaen utpann the darja ki NBC had expected.
The network decided to move a saghan 30-minute sanskaran of lino 's dikhaaen to o'brien 's samay slot, or o'brien 's Tonight Show a half-hour later.
This decision met saath vipaksh isse o'brien, jinaki karyavadhi on the tonight dikhaaen ended janvari 22, 2010, after which he began his own talk show on TBS.
The Tonight Show with jay lino tab began iske duusari or vartmaan avatar, the sixth of the franchise, on March 1, 2010.
RFID chip aglaa to a anaaj of rice.
This chip contains a radio-frequency electromagnetic field kundali ki modulates an bahya chumbakeey field to transafar a coded pahchaan number when queried by a reader device.
This small type is incorporated in upabhokta utpaada, or implanted in paalatu, liye pahchaan purposes.
Radio-frequency identification ( RFID ) is the betaar non-contact upyog of radio-frequency electromagnetic field to transafar aankada, liye the uddeshy of automatically identifying and tracking tags attached to objects.
The tags contain electronically bhandaarit soochna.
Some tags are sanchalit or padhaa at choti seemayen ( a few meter ) via chumbakeey fields ( electromagnetic induction ).
Others use a local power source such as a battery, or else have no battery but collect energy from the interrogating em field, or tab adhinium as a passive transponder to emit microwaves or uhf radio lehren ( i.e., electromagnetic vikiran at high frequencies ).
Battery powered tags may operate at sainkadon of meter.
Unlike a bar code, the tag does not necessarily need to be bheetar lakeer of sight of the reader, or may be antahsthapit in the tracked object.
RFID tags are prayukt in anek udyog.
An RFID tag attached to an automobile dauraan utpaadan can be prayukt to track iske pragati through the sabha line.
davaayen can be tracked through warehouses.
Livestock and pets may have tag injected, allowing dhanatmak pahchaan of the animal.
Since RFID tags can be sanlagn to kapadey, possessions, or bhi implanted bheetar logon, the sambhaavna of padhnaa personally-linked information without consent has raised privacy concerns.
id, ahankaar or super-ego hai the teen bhaag of the maansik apparatus paribhaashit in sigmund frid 's sanrachanaatmak model of the psyche ; ve hai the teen saidhantik constructs in terms of whose activity and interaction mental life is described.
According to this model of the psyche, the id is the set of uncoordinated instinctual trends ; the super-ego plays the najuk or moralizing bhoomika ; or the ahankaar is the vyavasthit, yathartwaadee bhaag ki mediates between the ichchhaaon of the id or the super-ego.
The super-ego can stop you from doing certain bate ki apana id may want tum to do.
Even though the model is sanrachanaatmak or makes sandarbh to an apparatus, the id, ahankaar or super-ego hai krityon of the mind rather than parts of the brain and do not correspond one-to-one with actual somatic structures of the kind dealt with by neuroscience.
The concepts themselves arose at a late stage in the development of Freud 's thought : the `` structural model '' ( which succeeded his `` economic model '' and `` topographical model '' ) thi pehla discussed in uske 1920 nibandh `` pare the kushi principle `` or thi formalized or elaborated upon teen saalo baad in uske `` The Ego and the Id ``.
Freud 's proposal was influenced by the ambiguity of the pad `` behosh `` or iske anek conflicting uses.
Air force rotc emblem
The Air Force Reserve Officer Training corps ( afrotc ) is ek of the teen praathmik commissioning strot liye adhikariyon in the sanyukt rajya air force, the anya do hone the sanyukt rajya air force academy ( usafa ) or air force adhikari Training School ( OTS ).
A subordinate command of the Air University within the Air Education and Training Command ( AETC ), afrotc is lakeer antargat the jeanne M. holm bich liye adhikari accessions or naagarik vikaas at maxwell AFB, Alabama.
The Holm Center, formerly gyaat as the air force adhikari accession or prashikshan Schools ( AFOATS ), retains direct responsibility for both AFROTC and OTS.
AFROTC is the largest or oldest sorce of commissioned adhikariyon for the U.S. Air Force.
afrotc 's stated mishan is to upaj visheshta netao liye the U.S. Air Force.
AFROTC units are located on 144 college and university campuses with 984 additional institutions of higher siikhnaa participating in cross-town samjhauton ki allow unke vidhyaarthee to attend afrotc varg at a aasapaas `` mejabaan '' college or university.
according to afoats hq, in 2006, afrotc commissioned 2,083 uaseef duusari lieutenants, saath afrotc namakan ranging isse 23,605 in 1985 to 10,231 in 1993, and around 13,000 enrolled today.
AFROTC units at colleges and universities are called `` detachments, '' and are typically headed by an active duty USAF officer in the rank of karnal or leftinent karnal jo krityon as dono the detachment commander liye uaseef uddeshy or saath the nammaatr sheershak of praadhyaapak of aerospace adhyayan ( pas ) bheetar the sanstha 's academic community.
Most colleges and universities hoga designate the afrotc detachment as the vibhaag of Aerospace Studies.
The PAS is assisted by three to four Assistant professors of aerospace adhyayan ( apas ), sab kriyasheel duty uaseef adhikariyon in the baandhane of pramukh or captain.
Three USAF non-commissioned officers and one senior non-commissioned officer will typically provide sainya prashasnic support or hai praayah augmented by ek to do civilian staff support karmchaaree of the academik sanstha.
Within AFROTC detachments, the vidhyaarthee ( referred to as `` cadets '' ) hai vyavasthit into wings, samooh, squadrons, or flights, mirroring the USAF functional wing structure.
The AFROTC detachment 's cadet wing or cadet group is separated into two divisions : the General Military Course ( GMC ) consisting of the pehla do saalo of prashikshan, or the peshewar adhikari course ( poc ) consisting of the pichhlaa do saalo of prashikshan.
The AFROTC program is also divided into two training functions : the Academic Classroom Program ( aerospace adhyayan varg ) or cadet kriyaayein ( i.e., netritv prayogshaala, shaareerik prashikshan, or anya prashikshan ).
Paper density ( also known as aadhaar vazan or grammage ) is a pad prayukt in the guda or paper udyog or bhi liye kapadaa udyog to denote a measure of mass of the product per unit of area for a type of fabric, paper or paperboard.
The term `` density '' is not used in its paramparaagat bhav of dravyaman prati ikai awaz.
`` Paper ghanatv '', balki, is a maap of the area density.
Paper products that let little or no lite pass through ( e.g. poster falak ) hai considered dense or heavy.
Paper utpaada ki allow kuch lite to pass through ( e.g. tissue paper ) are considered lightweight.
In the pulp and paper industry, it is common to niyat a vanijyik paper yantra to upaj paper to a nishaanaa paper density.
Paper density can also be used to distinguish paper from paperboard as the latter praayah rai a grammage vrihad than 134 g/m2.
Two ways of expressing paper ghanatv are commonly used:
Expressed in grams per vargakar meter ( g/m2 ), paper ghanatv is bhi known as grammage.
This is the measure prayukt in sabase bhaag of the world.
Expressed in terms of the mass ( expressed as vazan ) prati kramank of chaadaren, it is gyaat as aadhaar vazan.
The convention used in the United States and a few other deshon using us paper aakaar is pound of a ream of 500 ( or in kuch maamle 1000 ) chaadaren of a given ( raw, still uncut ) basis size.
japani paper is expressed as the vazan in kg of 1000 sheets.
Candace Nicole Parker ( born april 19, 1986 ) is an amareeki basket khilaadi liye the wnba 's Los Angeles Sparks and UMMC Ekaterinburg of Russia.
She is the younger sistar of enbie khilaadi anthoni Parker.
She attended the vishvavidhyalayon of tennesi or thi drafted by the Sparks in 2008.
She may be best known for being the first woman to dunk in an NCAA toornament khel or the pehla stri to dank twice in a college game—she niyat dono milastone as a redshirt freshman on March 19, 2006.
She also became tabhi the duusari khilaadi to dank in a wnba khel on June 22, 2008.
A versatile player, she is mukhyatah a aage, lakin thi soochibaddh on tennesi 's roster as a forward, center, and guard.
She was a prarambh on the mahila vols basket toli, winners of the 2007 and 2008 NCAA championships.
Parker won the 2009 niklodian bachche ' chunaav puraskaar as the pasandida maadaa khilaadi in the sports category.
And she was a atithi star on figure it Out.
A food guide pyramid is a pyramid shaped guide of healthy foods divided into bhaag to dikhaaen the anushansit seven liye prayek khaanaa samooh.
The pehla khaanaa pyramid thi published in Sweden in 1974.
The sabase widely gyaat khaanaa pyramid thi introduced by the sanyukt rajya vibhaag of Agriculture in the year 1992, was updated in 2005, and then replaced in 2011.
Over 25 other deshon or sanghathanon have bhi prakashit khaanaa pyramids.
Hans Christian Andersen ( ; often referred to in scandinavia as H. C. andersen ; april 2, 1805august 4, 1875 ) thi a danish lekhak or poet.
Although a prolific writer of plays, travelogues, novels, and poems, andersen is behtareen remembered liye uske pari kisse, a saahitiyik vidha he so mastered ki he khud rai become as mythical as the tales he wrote.
Andersen 's popularity is not limited to children ; his stories—called, or `` fantastic kisse '' —express vishaywastu ki transcend aayu or rashtriyata.
During uske aaajeevan he thi acclaimed liye having prasann children vishwavyaapee and was feted by royalty.
Andersen 's fairy tales, which have been translated into more than 125 languages, have become culturally antahsthapit in the west 's samuhik chetana, readily accessible to children, lakin pesh lessons of virtue and resilience in the face of adversity for mature readers as well.
They have prerit gati tasviren, plays, ballets, and animated films.
Two figures locking ankhen in caravaggio 's the saubhaahgya Teller
najar sampark occurs jab `` do logon dekh at prayek other 's eyes at the same time. ''
In human beings, eye contact is a form of nonverbal sanchaar or is vichaar to have a vishaal influence on soshal behavior.
Coined in the early to mid-1960s, the pad rai aaiye in the west to praayah define the adhinium as a sarthak or mahatvapurn chihn of vishwaas and social communication.
The customs and significance of najar sampark vary widely between samskritiyon, saath dharmik or soshal matbhed often altering its meaning greatly.
The study of najar sampark is sometimes gyaat as oculesics.
bed bag hai parasitic keet of the cimicid family that feed exclusively on blood.
The term most commonly refers to members of the genus Cimex of which cimex lectularius, the aam bed keedaa, is the behtareen gyaat as it prefers to feed on insaan rakt haalanki anya cimex prajati hai specialized to anya pashu, e.g., chamagadad bugs, C. pipistrelli ( Europe ), C. pilosellus ( western US ), and C. adjunctus ( entire eastern US ).
The name of the `` bed keedaa '' is niklaa isse the pasandida awaas of cimex lectularius : garam gharon or visheshkar nearby or inside of beds and bedding or other sleep areas.
Bed bugs are mainly active at raatri, lakin hai nahin exclusively nocturnal.
They praayah feed on unke host bagaiyr being noticed.
A number of pratikul swasthya prabhaav may parinaam isse bed keedaa bites, including skin rashes, psychological effects, and allergic symptoms.
Diagnosis involves both finding bed bag or the occurrence of sangat symptoms.
Bed bugs have been gyaat as insaan paraseete liye hazaron of years.
At a point in the jaldi 1940s, ve yahood zyaadaatar eradicated in the viksit sansar, lakin have increased in vyapaktaa since 1995.
Because infestation of insaan habitats rai maharoom on the increase, bed bug bites and related conditions have been on the rise as well.
The Book of Isaiah ( ) is the first of the Latter nabiyon in the yahudee bible, preceding ezekiel, Jeremiah and the Book of the Twelve.
( The order of the subsequent kitabe differs somewhat in the isai Old Testament ).
The pehla 39 adhyay prophesy yatnaa liye a gunaahagaar yahuda or liye sab the raashtra of the sansar ki oppose parameshwar, jabaki the pichhlaa 27 prophesy the bahaali of the swadesh of israel or a nai sristi in parameshwar 's gauravshaalee bhavishya kingdom ; this section includes the Songs of the Suffering Servant, four separate passages referring to the nation of Israel, interpreted by Christians as prefiguring the coming of Jesus Christ.
Tradition ascribes authorship of the kitaab to yashayah bete of amoz, lakin abhi vidwaanon widely sahamat ki the kitaab is the kaary of teen alag lekhak - few scholars deny this view, and those that do, do so for theological reasons.
The first, termed Proto-Isaiah ( chapters 1–39 ), contains the words of the 8th-century BCE prophet with 7th-century BCE expansions ; the second, Deutero-Isaiah ( chapters 40–55 ), is the work of a 6th-century BCE author likhane nikat the samaapt of the babylonian captivity ; or the teesraa, the kavy trito-isaiah ( adhyay 56–66 ), thi rachit in jerusalem shortly baad the vaapasi isse nirvaasan, sambhawatah by anek authors.
Oregon State vishvavidhyalayon ( osu ) is a coeducational, public shodh vishvavidhyalayon stith in corvallis, Oregon, United States.
The university offers undergraduate, graduate or doctoret degree or a multitude of research opportunities.
There are more than 200 academik oopaadhi kaarykram offered through the university.
OSU 's programs in sookshmjaiviki, nabhikeey abhiyantriki, paristhitiki, vaaniki, public swasthya, biochemistry, zoology, oceanography, khaanaa science and pharmacy are recognized nationally as top tier programs.
The OSU 's liberal arts programs have also grown significantly and the department is mana a `` cornerstone '' of the sanstha.
More than 200,000 logon have attended osu chunki iske founding.
The Carnegie Foundation classifies oregon rajya vishvavidhyalayon as bhaag of iske sheersh tear of shodh sansthaanon.
As of 2008, osu is ek of tabhi seventy-three land-grant universities.
The school is bhi pahachaanaa as a sea-grant, space-grant or sun-grant sanstha, bananaa it ek of tabhi do us sansthaanon to retain sab chaar designations or the tabhi public vishvavidhyalayon to do so ( Cornell is the only other with similar designations ).
As one of the two flagship vishvavidhyalayon of the oregon vishvavidhyalayon pranali, osu receives adhik funding liye shodh, annually, than sab other public higher education institutions in Oregon combined.
Female ejaculation is the expulsion of fluid by human females isse the paraurethral nalikaayen through or around the maadaa urethra dauraan or pehle an orgasm.
It is also gyaat colloquially as gushing or squirting, haalanki ye hai mana to be alag phenomena in some research publications.
The exact source and nature of the drav continue to be a topic of bahes among chikitsa peshewar, which is also related to doubts over the existence of the G-Spot.
The Kanab ambersnail, scientific name Oxyloma haydeni kanabensis or Oxyloma kanabense, is a critically endangered subspecies or prajati of choti, air-breathing jameen ghongha, a sthaliy pulmonate gastropod mollusc in the family Succineidae, the amber snails.
The common name of the amber snails is based on the shell, jisase is paardarshee or jab khaali praayah resembles ember in color.
This species is endemic to the United States, specifically the state of erizona or uta, jahaan it thi pehla ekatrit in the jaldi 20th century.
It has been listed as endangered on the sanyukt rajya machhlee or vanyajeev seva suchi of endangered prajati since 8 August 1991.
This snail lives in wetlands, springs, and seeps, and only two of its natural habitats are known to maujuud : teen jhiilon, a marg nikat kanab, uta, or vasey 's swarg, a vasant saath the colorado nadi bheetar grand Canyon National Park.
In its prakritik awaas it is balki polyphagous, feeding mukhyatah on bacteria, plants and fungi, and reproduces during the summer.
Now considered a Critically Endangered species on the aiusien red suchi of threatened prajati due to a shrenee of karkon ( sahit influence ), the kanab ambersnail rai maharoom reintroduced to teen sroton upar the aitihaasik unchi jal str along the Colorado River.
The Spanish language is the duusari sabase prayukt bhashaa in the sanyukt States.
There hai adhik spani adhyakshon in the sanyukt rajya than vahin hai adhyakshon of chinis, French, German, Italian, Hawaiian, and the Native American languages combined.
According to the 2010 American Community Survey conducted by the U.S. Census Bureau, spani is the praathmik bhashaa bolaa at ghar by lagbhag 37 lakh logon aged paanch or puraani, a figure adhik than double that of 1990.
There are 45 million Hispanophones who speak Spanish as a first or second language, as well as six million Spanish language students, composing the largest neshnal spanish-speaking jatiyaan baahar of mexico or bananaa spani the romance bhashaa or the indo-european bhashaa saath largest kramank of deshi adhyakshon in the world.
roughly half of sab u.S. spani adhyakshon bhi bolo English `` very well, '' based on the self-assessment Census question respondents.
The language came to the country since the 16th and 17th centuries with the arrival of Spanish colonists in areas ki hota baad become the rajya of florida, texas, colorado, nai mexico, erizona, newada, uta, or california or of the spani explorers - who explored areas of 42 states-.
Also west of Louisiana Territory was Spanish between 1763 - 1800 ( saal of the french recovery of territory ), baad the French and Indian War.
After of the incorporation of these states to the u.S. in pehla half of 19th sadi, the spani bhashaa thi baad reinforced by the adhigrahan of purto rico in 1898 or by baad lehren of the hispanic karanon, mularoop isse hispanic america, to the United States beginning in the second half of 19th century until today.
is a Latin word that means `` yun '' or, in likhane, `` it thi yun in the sorce saamagree ''.
Sic may bhi refer to:
Sic, Cluj, a commune in romania
sic, the kshetreey code for Sicily
Sic ( noise kalakaar ), styled as [ sic ], stage naam of jenifer morris, a canadai noise artist
Sic ( band ) is a modern hardcore/thrash metal band isse torshavn, the puunji of the fero Islands
`` ( sic ) '', a song by amareeki band slipknot on the album Slipknot
SIC, the aarambhik of marco Simoncelli.
sic as an echronim may stand for:
SiC, silicon carbide, a semiconducting saamagree, also used to make metalworking tools
SIC ( cyclecar ) ( società italiana cyclecars )
Standard Industrial Classification, a 20th-century u.S. pranali liye classifying industries
International maanak audyogic vargeekaran a un pranali liye aarthik activities
Shetland islands parishad
the swiss interbank Clearing system
San isidro klbon, an argentine rugby union club
Standing nirvachan cameti, a cameti samarpit to the nirvachan of international accounting standards IFRS
Schwarz information maandand in the field of aankde
second-in-command in the field of aviation
Sistema interconectado central shakti grid in chile
Sociedade Independente de comunicação ( sic ), a television channel in portugal
Sea oil nagar, nai jersey, a coastal town in the United States
segmented purnank counter vidhi, a vidhi of operation in cryptography
Sepang International Circuit, a high-end racetrack ki host the malaysian golakaar of sutara 1
shanghai antarrashtriya circuit, a motor racing sthaan in Shanghai, China
Simplified instructional computer, a kaalpanik computer used in systems programming
SIC ( Sons Idées Couleurs ), an jaldi twentieth-century art patrika utpaadit by French author Pierre Albert-Birot
Southeastern Illinois College, a two year junior college in harrisburg, illinois, sanyukt States
Specific inductive capacity, abbreviated to SIC, which is adhik commonly gyaat as the saapeksh vidyutshiltaa or the dielectric constant
St Ignatius ' College, Riverview, a jesuit skool in sidney, australia
alt=Five smiling young girls in various mudraayen wearing shwet smocks over thigh-length poshaak of samaan rang to their hair.
The Tokyo Mew Mew manga or dushmani shrenee suvidhaayen a daal of varna designed by mia Ikumi.
The series takes place in tokio, japani, jahaan paanch adolescent ladakiyon, pukaara mew mews, hai infused saath the diene of endangered prajati to combat aliens attempting to take over the Earth.
The manga series is followed by a short sequel series, tokio mew mew a la vidhi, jisase introduces a nai mew mew or a new threat.
The Mew Mews are led by the main akshar, ichigo momomiya, jinaki pehla kaary is to ekatrit the anya chaar mew mews : mint aizawa, salad midorikawa, Pudding Fong, and Zakuro Fujiwara.
As the series progresses, Ichigo goes from having a crush on Masaya Aoyama to banane uske garlfriend jabaki trying to chupa uske secret double life from him.
The series antagonists shaamil teen aliens, kish, pai, or tikhaa, and their leader, Deep Blue.
Originally from Earth, the aliens yahood majaboor to chhod long pehle due to ghaatak paryaavarniya parivartan.
They have returned to kill the insaano, jo ve mahasoos hai destroying unke grah, or reclaim the planet.
In a la Mode, middle school student Berry shirayuki is introduced as the chathe mew mew or, in the anupasthiti of ichigo, the asthai netaa of the Mew Mews.
A la Mode also introduces new set of antagonists, the sant rose crusaders, a samooh of insaan teenagers saath vibhinn psychic abilities with a desire to create their own utopia.
Led by Duke, they make anek koshishen to maar beri, aakhirkaar turning the local populace against the Mew Mews.
Ikumi 's initial vision for Tokyo Mew Mew was a story called Tokyo blike billi ladki ki pradarshit a cat-girl battling alien invaders.
After the story was transitioned to a more upbeat story of five female superheroes, the akshar dizin yahood redone to have a lighter, more colorful feel.
The main series characters were praised for being a purna anuroop liye the overall story, as khub as liye unke cute appearances.
The characters introduced in a la vidhi yahood bhi praised liye unke vizual dikhaave, lakin criticized as hone doharaav of the original series.
the akshar duk thi bhi criticized liye having a dizine reminiscent of the white supremacy group, the Ku Klux Klan.
Middle Triassic marginal marine sequence of siltstones ( neeche ) or limestones ( upar ), virgin gathan, southwestern uta, USA
Sedimentary rox hai prakaar of chattan ki hai formed by the deposition of saamagree at the Earth 's surface and within bodies of water.
Sedimentation is the collective name for processes that cause mineral and/or sashulk anu ( detritus ) to settle and accumulate or minerals to precipitate from a solution.
Particles that form a sedimentary rock by accumulating hai pukaara sediment.
pehle hone deposited, sediment thi formed by weathering or apradan in a sorce kshetrafal, or tab transported to the place of deposition by water, wind, ice, mass movement or glaciers which are called agents of denudation.
The sedimentary rock cover of the continents of the dharti 's crust is extensive, lakin the kul yogadan of sedimentary rox is anumaanit to be only 8 % of the total volume of the crust.
Sedimentary rocks are only a patala veneer over a crust consisting mukhyatah of igneous or metamorphic rocks.
Sedimentary rocks are deposited in paraton as strata, forming a structure called bedding.
The study of sedimentary rox or chattan strata provides soochna parichay the subsurface ki is upyogi liye civil abhiyantriki, liye udhaaharan in the nirmaan of sadaken, houses, tunnels, canals or other constructions.
Sedimentary rocks are also important strot of prakritik sansaadhan jaise koyale, chattan fuels, pine water or ores.
The study of the sequence of sedimentary rock strata is the main source liye vaigyanik gyaan parichay the dharti 's itihaas, sahit palaeogeography, paleoclimatology or the history of life.
The scientific discipline ki adhyayan the gun or utpatti of sedimentary rocks is called sedimentology.
Sedimentology is dono bhaag of bhuvigyaan or shaareerik bhugol or overlaps partly saath anya disciplines in the dharti sciences, aise as pedology, geomorphology, geochemistry or structural geology.
350px
Humans are born with over 270 bones, some of which fuse together into a anudairdhya aksh, the aksheeya kankal, to jisase the appendicular skeleton is attached.
Saint Patrick ( ; ; Modern ; ; c. 387 – 17 kooch c. 460 or c. 492 ) thi a romano-british isai missionary and bishop in Ireland.
Known as the `` Apostle of Ireland '', he is the praathmik sangrakshak sant of the dweep saath saath santo brigid or Columba.
Two pramanik akshar isse use jivit, isse jisase aaiye the tabhi generally accepted details of his life.
When he was about 16, he was captured from his home and taken as a slave to ireland, jahaan he jiya liye chah saalo pehle escaping or returning to uske family.
After becoming a cleric, he returned to uttari or pashchimi ireland as an ordained bishap, lakin choti is gyaat parichay the places where he worked.
By the saatvaan sadi, he tha already aaiye to be revered as the patron saint of Ireland.
Most available details of his life hai isse subsequent hagiographies, or ye hai abhi nahin sweekrut without detailed criticism.
the annals of ulster rajya ki he arrived in ireland in 432, ministered in Ulster around 443, and died in 457 or 461.
The text, however, distinguishes between `` Old Patrick '' ( thought to mean palladius ) or `` patric, archapostle of the scots, '' jo died in 492.
The actual dates of Patrick 's life can not be fixed with certainty but, on a faili nirvachan, he thi kriyasheel as a mishanri in ireland dauraan the duusari half of the 5th century.
He is generally credited saath hone the pehla bishap of armagh, Primate of All Ireland.
Saint Patrick 's Day is observed on kooch 17, the tithi of his death.
It is celebrated both inside and outside Ireland, as both a dharmik or, visheshkar baahar ireland, dharmanirpeksh holiday.
In the dioceses of ireland, it is dono a solemnity or a paavan din of daayitv ; baahar Ireland, it can be a celebration of Ireland itself.
Line khand in the golden ratio
A golden rectangle with longer side a or shorter paksh b, jab lagaai sata to a vargakar saath pahalu of length a, will produce a similar golden rectangle with longer side a + b and shorter side a.
is illustrates the sambandh.
in ganit or the kala, do quantities hai in the sunahari anupaat if the anupaat of the yoga of the quantities to the larger quantity is equal to the ratio of the larger quantity to the smaller one.
The figure on the sahi illustrates the jyamitiya sambandh.
Expressed algebraically:
where the unani akshar faai ( ) represents the golden ratio.
Its maan is:
The golden ratio is also called the sunahari khand ( latin : sectio oriya ) or sunahari mean.
Other names include extreme and mean anupaat, medial khand, daivi proportion, daivi khand ( latin : sectio divina ), sunahari proportion, golden cut, and golden number.
Many 20th century artists and architects have proportioned their works to sannikat the sunahari ratio—especially in the rup of the sunahari ytaakar, in jisase the anupaat of the longer paksh to the shorter is the sunahari ratio—believing this proportion to be aesthetically pleasing ( see Applications and observations below ).
Mathematicians since Euclid have studied the properties of the golden ratio, sahit iske rup in the aayam of a niyamit prastutikaran or in a sunahari ytaakar, jisase can be kaaten into a vargakar or a choti ytaakar with the same aspect ratio.
The golden ratio rai bhi maharoom prayukt to analyze the proportions of prakritik vastuen as khub as man-made pranaaliyon such as financial markets, in some cases based on dubious fits to data.
North Myrtle Beach is a tateey resort nagar in horry county, dakshin carolina, United States.
It was created in 1968 from four existing municipalities uttar of myrtle bich, or serves as ek of the praathmik paryatak kasbon saath the grand Strand.
The janasankhyikee thi 13,752 at the 2010 census.
World War i ( wwi ) thi a vaishvik yuddh kendrit in europea ki began on 28 July 1914 and lasted until 11 November 1918.
It thi predominantly pukaara the sansar yuddh or the great yuddh isse iske occurrence jabatak the start of World War II in 1939, and the First World War or World War I thereafter.
It involved all the world 's great powers, which were assembled in two opposing alliances : the Allies ( based on the Triple Entente of the United kingdom, frans or rus ) or the central shaktiyaan ( originally the tripal gathbandhan of germany, austria-hungary or italy ; lakin, as austria–hungary tha liya the apriy viruddh the anubandh, Italy did not enter into the war ).
These alliances yahood dono reorganised or vistaarit as adhik raashtra daalaa the yuddh : italy, japani or the sanyukt rajya joined the allies, and the Ottoman Empire and Bulgaria the Central Powers.
Ultimately, more than 70 million military personnel, including 60 lakh europeans, yahood mobilised in ek of the largest yudhon in itihaas.
More than 9 million combatants were killed, largely kuki of technological advancements ki led to vishaal increases in the lethality of hathiyaar bagaiyr sambandhit sudhaar in protection or mobility.
It was the fifth- deadliest conflict in world history, subsequently paving the rasta liye vibhinn rajnatik parivartan, aise as revolutions in many of the nations involved.
One of the long-term kalyankari of the yuddh thi the punarutthan of samrajyavad in the videshi nitiyon of the great powers of Europe.
More immediately, the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria, the heir to the throne of Austria-Hungary, on 28 june 1914 by yugoslav rashtravaadi gavrilo princip in sarajevo triggered a rajanyik sankat jab austria-hungary subsequently vitarit an ultimatum to the Kingdom of Serbia.
Several alliances formed over the pichhlaa dashakon yahood invoked.
Within weeks, the pramukh shaktiyaan yahood at yuddh or, via unke colonies, the virodh soon spread around the world.
On 28 july, the austro-hungarians fired the pehla goliyaan of the yuddh as taiyaari for the invasion of Serbia.
While the Russians mobilised, the Germans invaded neutral Belgium and Luxembourg on the way to frans, providing a casus belli liye britain 's ghoshnaa of yuddh viruddh germany.
After the German march on Paris was brought to a halt—the so-called chamatkaar of the marne —the pashchimi saamne settled into a sthir battle of apgharshan saath a gart lakeer that changed little until 1917.
On the purvi saamne, the roosi fouj thi kaamyaab viruddh the austro-hungarians, but was stopped in its invasion of East Prussia by the Germans.
In November the Ottoman samrajya joined the yuddh, kholane up fronts in the kakeshas, mesopotamia and the Sinai.
Italy and Bulgaria gai to yuddh in 1915 or romania in 1916.
In Russia, the tsar 's sarkari collapsed in kooch 1917 or a subsequent kranti in navambar brought the Russians to terms with the Central Powers.
After a 1918 German offensive along the pashchimi saamne, the allies drove waapas the germans in a shrenee of successful offensives and American forces began entering the trenches.
Germany, which had its apana trubal saath krantikariyon, sahamat to an armistice on 11 November 1918.
The yuddh ended in vijay liye the Allies.
Events on the home fronts yahood as ugr as on the battle fronts, as the bhagidaar aajamaaya to mobilize unke janashakti or aarthik sansaadhan to fight a total war.
By the end of the yuddh, chaar pramukh imperial powers—the germany, roosi, austro-hungarian and Ottoman empires—ceased to exist.
the successor rajya of the purv do khoyaa a great amount of territory, while the latter two were dismantled entirely.
The map of central europea thi redrawn into anek choti states.
The League of raashtra thi formed in the aashaa of preventing another such conflict.
The European nationalism spawned by the war or the brallep of empires, the parakhnaa of germany 's shikast or samasyaayein saath the sandhi of versailles hai sahamat to be factors contributing to World War II.
Camden is a city in camden county, nai jersey, sanyukt rajya.
It is the county seat, stith aarpaar the delaware nadi isse Philadelphia.
As of the 2010 United States Census the nagar tha a kul janasankhyikee of 77,344, representing a manaahi of 2,560 ( 3.2 % ) isse the 79,904 nivaasiyon enumerated dauraan the 2000 janasankhyikee, jisase tha in phere asweekrut by 7,588 ( 8.7 % ) from the 87,492 counted in the 1990 Census.
Camden kramit as the 12th-most populous nagarpalika in the rajya in 2010 baad having been ranked 10th in 2000.
Camden was originally incorporated as a city on February 13, 1828, isse portions of the now-defunct newton township, jabaki the kshetrafal thi still bhaag of gloucester County.
On March 13, 1844, Camden became bhaag of the newly formed Camden County.
haalanki ekbar a thriving bich liye nirmaan or udyog, camden is shaayad best known for its struggles with urban dysfunction.
Three Camden mayors have been jailed for bhrashtachar, the sabase haal hone milton milan in 2000.
Since 2005 the skool pranali or police vibhaag have maharoom sanchalit by the rajya of New Jersey ; the takeover expired in 2012.
In 2008, Camden had the highest crime rate in the U.S. with 2,333 violent aparaadhon prati 100,000 logon jabaki the neshnal ausat thi 455 prati 100,000.
Camden public schools spent $ 23,770 per student ( $ 19,118 on a budgetary per-pupil basis ) in the 2009–10 skool saal or two-thirds of the vidhyaarthee graduate.
Two out of every five residents hai neeche the neshnal poverty line.
Amitriptyline ( Tryptomer, elavil, tryptizol, laroxyl, saroten, sarotex, lentizol, endep ) is a tricyclic antidepressant ( TCA ).
It is the sabase widely prayukt tca or rai at tanik baraabar efficacy against depression as the newer class of SSRIs according to a study from early 2001.
As khub as reducing depressive lakshan, ye prakaar of tricyclics bhi aasaani migraines, tension headaches, anxiety attacks and some schizophrenic symptoms.
It is also known to reduce aakraamakata or hinsak behavior.
A computer is a general purpose device that can be programit to carry out a parimit niyat of arithmetic or logical operations.
Since a anukram of parichaalan can be readily badla, the computer can solve more than one kind of problem.
Conventionally, a computer consists of at tanik ek prasanskaran tatv, typically a central processing unit ( CPU ) and some form of memory.
The prasanskaran tatv carries out ganit or logic parichaalan, and a sequencing and control unit that can change the order of operations based on stored information.
paridhiy divaais allow soochna to be punarprapt isse an bahya sorce, or the parinaam of operations saved and retrieved.
The pehla electronic digital computer yahood viksit between 1940 and 1945 in the United Kingdom and United States.
Originally they were the size of a large room, consuming as much shakti as anek sau aadhunik personal computers ( PCs ).
in is era mechanical analog computer yahood used for military applications.
Modern computer aadhaarit on ekikrut circuits hai lakho to arabon of times adhik sakasham than the early machines, and occupy a fraction of the space.
Simple computers are small paryaapt to anuroop into mobile divaais, or mobile computer can be sanchalit by choti batteries.
Personal computers in unke vibhinn form hai pratik of the soochna aayu or are what most people think of as “computers.”
However, the antahsthapit computer mila in anek divaais isse mp3 khilaadi to senaanee vayuyan and from toys to industrial robots are the most numerous.
`` Barefoot and pregnant '' is a phrase most commonly associated with the vivaadaaspad vichaar ki mahilaon chahie nahin kaary baahar the ghar or chahie have anek children dauraan unke reproductive years.
it rai anek anya meanings as well.
It is a figure of speech.
The phrase `` barefoot or garbhvatee '' thi sambhawatah first used sometime before 1950.
An article from 1949 states, `` By early 1949, TWA was—in the shabd of iske nai adhyaksh, ralph S. damon—both 'barefoot and pregnant. ' ''
Its upyog may tithi as jaldi as the 1910s.
An aalekh prakashit in 1958 rajya the phrase thi pehla used by a `` Dr. Hertzler '' 40 years earlier.
`` Some forty years pehle, dr. hertzler unnat a pariklpana jisase yang mahilaon of aaj seem jhuki on proving correct. '
The tabhi rasta to rakhana a stri prasann, ' he kaha, 'is to keep her barefoot and pregnant. ' ''
oakhurst is a census-designated place or unincorporated jatiyaan bheetar Ocean Township, in Monmouth County, New Jersey, United States.
As of the 2010 United rajya janasankhyikee, the cdp 's janasankhyikee thi 3,995.
vishvavidhyalayon of phinics stadium, kholi agast 1, 2006, is a bahuuddeshiy footbaal stadium located in Glendale, Arizona.
It is the home of the erizona cardinals of the neshnal footbaal lig ( enegel ) and the annual Fiesta Bowl.
The stadium is located next door to the Jobing.com Arena and it features the first fully retractable prakritik grass playing sataha nirmit in the sanyukt rajya on sheersh of an airfield pranaaliyon naale pranali.
An opening on one side of the stadium allows the playing field to move to the exterior of the bhawan, allowing the sampurna prakritik turf playing surface to be exposed to daylight.
The stadium has hosted Super katori xlii, or the 2011 bcs neshnal championships khel, a khel ki it host prayek four years, which set the venue 's entertainment attendance record of 78,603 on January 11, 2011.
It will again mejabaan super katori xlix in 2015.
The University of Phoenix acquired the naming adhikaron in sitambar 2006, shortly baad the stadium had opened under the name Cardinals Stadium.
The `` University of Phoenix `` name is lagu as a corporate praayojak, or nahin as the ghar stadium of the vishvavidhyalayon ( jisase rai no intercollegiate athletics program ).
The stadium rai bhi hosted the dablyoodablyoo event resalmenia xxvi saath 72,219 prashansak in attendance.
the event thi yojit in the stadium on March 28th 2010.
Joshua Lawrence Chamberlain ( September 8, 1828 – February 24, 1914 ), born as Lawrence joshua chemberlen, thi an amareeki college praadhyaapak isse the rajya of maine, jo volunteered dauraan the amareeki civil yuddh to juden the Union Army.
Although having no earlier education in military strategies, he became a highly aadarneey or sajaa sangh adhikari, reaching the rank of brigadier saamaanya ( or brevet pramukh saamaanya ).
For uske gallantry at gettysburg, he was awarded the Medal of Honor.
He was given the honor of commanding the sangh sainikon at the aatmasamarpan rasm liye the infantry of robert E. lee 's fouj at appomattox, Virginia.
After the war, he daalaa raajnneeti as a republican or parosa chaar one-year terms of office as the 32nd Governor of Maine.
He served on the sankaay, or as adhyaksh, of uske alma meter, bowdoin college.
An inning, or innings, is a fixed-length khand of a khel in koi of a kismein of khel – sabase notably cricket or besabaal dauraan jisase ek toli koshishen to score jabaki the anya toli koshishen to prevent the first from scoring.
In cricket, the pad pari is dono ekvachan or bahuvachan or is sadaa spelled or sunaaya with the terminal `` s ''.
In besabaal or softball, the ekvachan rup is inning and only the plural takes an `` s ''.
In many other sports, the length of the khel is likhavai by a clock or tiimon swap apriy or rakshaatmak bhoomikaaye dynamically by taking possession of a ball or similar item.
In baseball and cricket, however, ek toli, kaha to be `` ballebaaji '', koshishen to score `` ranon '' —see chalaaen ( besabaal ) or chalaaen ( cricket ) —while the anya toli, kaha to be `` fielding '', attempts to prevent the scoring of runs and get members of the batting team out.
The teams switch places after the fielding toli rai succeeded in getting a phixd kramank of khilaadi out, bananaa a clock unnecessary.
In cricket, the pad pari is bhi prayukt to refer to the khel of ek particular player ( Smith had a poor innings, scoring only 12 ).
By extension, this term can be used in British English for lagbhag koi kaaryaklap jisase takes a kaal of samay ( the udaar sarkari tha a shubh pari, lakin aakhirkaar khoyaa daftar in 1972, or tum 've tha a mela pari, abhi it 's my phere, arth `` you have spoken for long enough, now let me speak '' ).
It is also used in sandarbh to kisi jo rai died at a reasonably boodha age or lived a rich and rewarding life ( Ah, well.
John thi 89.
At least he tha a shubh pari ).
The baseball-derived parallel to this in amareeki angrezi is the pad at chamagadad.
According to the Oxford English Dictionary, the term pari rai maharoom prayukt in sandarbh to cricket chunki at tanik 1735.
As cricket was a vayask, atyadhik vyavasthit khel in the 1600s in england, the term 's origin could well precede this first recorded usage.
The shabd inning arth 'a mehafil in ' is pehla recorded in 1522, and could be related.
Adenosine deaminase deficiency, bhi pukaara edie kamiyaan or ada-scid, is an autosomal recessive metabolic disorder that causes immunodeficiency.
It occurs in fewer than ek in 100,000 sajiv births vishwavyaapee.
It accounts for about 15 % of all cases of kathor sanyukt immunodeficiency ( scid ).
It is very rare, you have a 3 % mauka of getting is gene.
ADA deficiency may be present in infancy, balykaal, adolescense, or adulthood.
Age of onset and severity is sambandhit to kuch 29 gyaat genotypes sambhddha saath the vikaar.
An example of urban poverty in is slum in jakarta, Indonesia
Poverty is the state of ek jo lacks a nishchit raashi of saamagree possessions or money.
Absolute poverty or destitution refers to the deprivation of moulik insaan needs, jisase commonly shaamil khaanaa, jal, swatchta, kapadey, aashray, health care and education.
Relative poverty is defined contextually as aarthik asamanta in the sthaan or samaaj in which people live.
For much of itihaas, garibi thi mana largely aprihaary as paramparaagat mods of utpaadan yahood aparyaapt to de an entire population a comfortable standard of living.
After the industrial kranti, dravyaman utpaadan in kaarkaanon bana maal increasingly more inexpensive and accessible.
of adhik mahatv is the modernization of krishi, aise as fertilizers, in order to provide enough yield to feed the population.
The supply of basic needs can be pratibandhit by constraints on sarkari sevaayen aise as bhrashtachar, kar avoidance, karz or rin conditionalities and by the brain drain of health care and educational professionals.
Strategies of increasing aay to mek moulik needs adhik sasti typically shaamil welfare, economic freedoms, and providing financial services.
Poverty reduction is a major goal and issue for many antarrashtriya sanghathan aise as the sanyukt Nations and the World Bank.
The World Bank estimated 1.29 arab logon yahood jeena in nirpeksh garibi in 2008.
Of these, about 400 lakh logon in nirpeksh garibi jiya in india and 173 million people in China.
In USA 1 in 5 children jeevandaan in garibi.
In terms of percentage of regional populations, sub-Saharan africa at 47 % tha the ucchtam incidence rate of nirpeksh poverty in 2008.
Between 1990 or 2010, parichay 663 lakh logon sthanantarit above the absolute poverty level.
Still, charam garibi is a vaishvik chunauti ; it is observed in sab bhaag of the sansar, sahit the developed economies.
Mushroom poisoning ( also known as mycetism ) refers to nuksaandeh prabhaav isse ingestion of vishakt substances upasthit in a mushroom.
These lakshan can vary isse patala jathrantra takalif to death.
the toxins upasthit hai dwitiyak metabolites utpaadit in specific biochemical pathways in the fungal cells.
Mushroom poisoning is praayah the parinaam of ingestion of junglee mashroom baad misidentification of a vishakt mushroom as an edible species.
The most common reason for this misidentification is band praturup in sharten of rang or saamaanya morphology of the toxic mushrooms species with edible species.
Even very experienced wild mushroom gatherers are upon rare avasar poisoned by khaane vishakt prajati, despite hone khub aware of the risks, through carelessness.
To prevent mushroom poisoning, mashroom gatherers need to be bahut parichit saath the mashroom ve intend to collect as well as with any similar-looking toxic species.
In addition, edibility of mashroom may nirbhar on vidhi of taiyaari for cooking.
collectors bhi need to be khub jaagruk ki edibility or toxicity of some species varies with geographic location.
Human height is the distance from the neeche of the feet to the sheersh of the sir in a insaan deh, khadaa erect.
When populations share genetic prishthbhumi or paryaavarniya karkon, ausat oonchaai is aksar characteristic bheetar the group.
Exceptional oonchaai vibhinnata ( around 20 % vichlan isse ausat ) bheetar aise a janasankhyikee is sometimes due to gigantism or dwarfism, which are medical conditions caused by specific genes or endocrine abnormalities.
In regions of extreme poverty or prolonged warfare, environmental karkon jaise dirghakaalik kuposhan dauraan balykaal or kishoravastha may khaataa liye vilambit vikaas and/or ( in kathor maamle ) chihnit reductions in vayask stature even without the presence of any of these medical conditions.
Apollo 11 was the spaceflight ki utraa the pehla insaano, america neil armastrang or baz elderin, on the chandramaa on july 20, 1969, at 20:18 UTC.
Armstrong became the pehla to kadam onto the chandra sataha 6 ghanton later on July 21 at 02:56 UTC.
Armstrong spent about two and a half ghanton baahar the spacecraft, elderin thodaa kam ; or saath ve ekatrit of lunar material for return to Earth.
A third sadsy of the mishan, maaikel colins, piloted the cmand spacecraft alon in chandra kaksha jabatak armastrang and Aldrin returned to it just under a day later for the trip back to Earth.
Launched by a Saturn V rocket from kennedy spes bich in merritt dweep, florida on july 16, apollo 11 thi the paanchvaan maanavyukt mishan of NASA 's Apollo program.
The Apollo spacecraft had three parts : a Command Module with a cabin for the three astronauts which was the only part which utraa waapas on dharti ; a seva modul jisase samarthit the cmand modul saath nodan, vidyut shakti, oxigen or jal ; or a Lunar Module for landing on the Moon.
After being sent to the Moon by the Saturn V 's apper stage, the astronauts alag the spacecraft isse it or travelled liye teen days until they entered into lunar orbit.
Armstrong and Aldrin then moved into the chandra modul or utraa in the samudr of Tranquility.
They stayed a kul of parichay 21 or a half hours on the lunar surface.
baad uthaane band in the apper bhaag of the chandra modul or rejoining Collins in the Command Module, they returned to Earth and landed in the Pacific Ocean on July 24.
Broadcast on live TV to a world-wide audience, Armstrong stepped onto the chandra sataha or varnit the event as `` ek choti kadam liye [ a ] man, ek daanav chalaang liye mankind. ''
Apollo 11 effectively ended the spes res or fulfilled a neshnal lakshya prastaavit in 1961 by the let u.S. adhyaksh jon F. Kennedy in a speech before the United States Congress, `` before this decade is out, of landing a man on the Moon and returning him safely to the Earth. ''
The FIFA World Cup, often simply the World Cup, is an international association football competition lade by the varisht main 's neshnal tiimon of the sadasyon of fédération internationale de footbaal sangh ( fifa ), the sport 's global governing body.
The championship has been awarded every four years chunki the inaugural toornament in 1930, magar in 1942 or 1946 jab it thi nahin yojit kuki of the Second World War.
the vartmaan champions hai spain, jo won the 2010 tournament.
The vartmaan swaroop of the toornament involves 32 tiimon spardhaa liye the sheershak at venues bheetar the mejabaan swadesh ( s ) over a period of about a month ; this phase is often called the World Cup Finals.
A qualification phase, which currently takes place over the preceding three years, is prayukt to determine jisase tiimon qualify liye the toornament saath saath the host nation ( s ).
The 19 World Cup tournaments have maharoom jiti by aath alag neshnal teams.
brazil have jiti paanch times, or ve hai the only team to have played in every tournament.
The other World Cup winners are Italy, with four titles ; Germany, with three sheershak ; argentina or inaugural vijeta urugve, saath do sheershak prayek ; or england, frans, or spain, saath ek title each.
the sansar cap is the sansar 's sabase widely viewed sporting event ; an anumaanit 715.1 lakh people watched the final match of the 2006 FIFA World Cup held in Germany.
The aglaa teen sansar cups hoga be hosted by brazil in 2014, rus in 2018, and Qatar in 2022.
Genocide is a pad coined in 1944 by rafel lemkin to describe the deliberate or vyavasthit vinaash, in puure or in part, of an ethnic, racial, religious, or national group.
It is defined in Article 2 of the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide ( CPPCG ) of 1948 as `` any of the following acts committed with intent to destroy, in whole or in part, a national, ethnical, racial or dharmik samooh, as aise : hatya sadasyon of the samooh ; causing gambhir bodily or dimagi nuqasaan to sadasyon of the samooh ; deliberately inflicting on the samooh sharten of jivan, gananaa to lao parichay iske shaareerik vinaash in puure or in bhaag ; imposing measures intended to prevent births within the group ; [ and ] forcibly transferring children of the group to another group. ''
Skulls of peediton of the rwandan narsanhaar
the prastaavna to the cppcg nahin tabhi rajya ki `` narsanhaar is a aparaadhon antargat antarrashtriya vidhi, contrary to the spirit or aims of the sanyukt raashtra or condemned by the civilized world '', but also that `` at all periods of history genocide has inflicted great losses on humanity ''.
Determining what historical kaarykram constitute a narsanhaar or jisase hai merely dand or amanviya behavior is not a clear-cut matter.
in nearly prayek maamla jahaan aaropon of narsanhaar have parichaalit, partisans of vibhinn pahalu have fiercely disputed the interpretation and details of the event, often to the point of promoting wildly different versions of the facts.
an accusation of narsanhaar is katai nahin liya lightly and will almost always be controversial.
The following list of genocides or kathith genocides chahie be samajha in is context or can nahin be regarded as the final word on these subjects.
A timing belt is a non-slipping mechanical drive belt or the term may refer to either:
Toothed belt, a lacheelee belt saath daant moulded onto iske inner surface
Timing belt ( camshaft ), a toothed belt prayukt to drive the camshaft ( s ) bheetar an aatanrik combustion engine
The culture of the United States is primarily a pashchimi samskruti, lakin is bhi bahekaave by deshi amareeki, africa, asian, polinesian, or latin amareeki cultures.
American culture started its formation over 10,000 years ago saath the migration of paleo-indians isse asia into the pradesh ki is aaj the mahadwipiya sanyukt rajya.
It has iske apana adwitiya soshal or saanskrithik visheshtaayen aise as dialect, music, arts, social habits, cuisine, and folklore.
The United States of America is an ethnically and racially diverse country as a parinaam of large-scale avrajan isse anek alag deshon throughout iske itihaas.
Its chief early European prabhaav aae isse angrezi, scottish, welsh or irish settlers of colonial America during British rule.
British culture, due to colonial ties with Britain that sprad the angrezi bhashaa, vidhik pranali or anya saanskrithik inheritances, tha a formative influence.
Other important prabhaav aae isse anya bhaag of pashchimi europea, visheshkar Germany, France, and Italy.
asli tatv bhi khel a damdaar bhoomika, such as the invention of Jeffersonian democracy.
Thomas Jefferson 's Notes on the State of Virginia was perhaps the first influential domestic cultural critique by an amareeki or a pratikriyaavaadi tukdaa to the prachlit europea sarvasammati ki america 's gharelu moulikta thi vikrut.
Prevalent ideas and ideals that evolved domestically, such as national holidays, uniquely American sports, military tradition, and innovations in the arts and entertainment give a damdaar bhav of neshnal abhimaan among the janasankhyikee as a puure.
American culture includes both conservative and liberal elements, scientific and religious pratispardhaatmakataa, rajnatik structures, risk lene or free abhivyakti, bhautikwaadi or moral tatv.
Despite nishchit satat vaicharik siddhanth ( e.g. vyaktigat, samtawaad, or aasthaa in swatantraaa or loktantr ), amareeki culture has a variety of expressions due to its geographical scale and demographic diversity.
The flexibility of U.S. culture and its highly symbolic nature lead some shodhakartaaon to categorize amareeki samskruti as a mythic pahchaan ; anya see it as American exceptionalism.
It also shaamil tatv ki viksit isse swadeshi america, or anya jaateey cultures—most prominently the culture of African Americans, cultures from Latin America, and Asian American cultures.
Many American cultural tatv, visheshkar isse lokapriy samskruti, have sprad aarpaar the globe through modern mass media.
The United States rai praayah maharoom vichaar of as a melting ghat, lakin shuruuaat in the let 1990s or jaldi 2000s, it rujhaan towards saanskrithik diversity, pluralism and the image of a salad bowl instead.
Due to the extent of American culture, there are many integrated but adwitiya soshal subcultures bheetar the sanyukt rajya.
The cultural affiliations an individual in the United States may have commonly depend on social class, rajnatik abhivinyas or a multitude of janasankhyikee visheshtaayen aise as dharmik prishthbhumi, occupation or jaateey samooh membership.
samoan ( gagana fa'a sāmoa or gagana sāmoa — ipie : ) is the bhashaa of the samoan islands, comprising the swatantra country of Samoa and the United States territory of American Samoa.
It is an official language—alongside angrezi —in dono jurisdictions.
Samoan, a Polynesian language, is the pehla bhashaa liye sabase of the samoa islands ' janasankhyikee of about 246,000.
With many samoan logon jeena in anya deshon, the kul kramank of speakers worldwide is estimated at 370,000.
The language is notable for the phonological matbhed between aupchaarik or anaupchaarik vaak as khub as a ceremonial rup used in Samoan oratory.
A glucose tolerance test is a chikitsa pareekshan in jisase glucose is die or rakt namoonay liya afterward to determine kaisaa jaldi it is cleared from the blood.
The test is usually prayukt to pareekshan liye madhumeh, insulin pratirodh, or sometimes pratikriya hypoglycemia or acromegaly, or rarer vikaar of carbohydrate metabolism.
In the most commonly performed version of the pareekshan, an maukhik glucose sahishnutaa pareekshan ( ogtt ), a maanak khuraaq of glucose is ingested by munh and blood levels are checked two hours later.
Many variations of the GTT have been devised over the saalo liye vibhinn uddeshy, saath alag maanak doses of glucose, alag root of prashasan, alag intervals or durations of sampling, and various substances measured in addition to blood glucose.
`` What About Me '' is a song likhaa by gairi tushaar or frances swan, pehla ankit by australian rock band Moving Pictures from their album Days of Innocence.
It was the band 's first number-one single in australia bitaa chah lagaataar saptaah on the sheersh ; vahin, it thi the second-highest selling single of 1982.
The success of the song led unhen to america jahaan it became a hit, reaching # 29 on the u.s. billboard Hot 100 chart.
The song stayed in the U.S. charts for such a long time that it prabandhit to mek billboards sheersh 100 pop singles of 1983, at # 88, a viral feat liye a single saath aise a kam shikhar position.
The song made an asaamaanya vaapasi in 1989, peaking at # 46.
On the left a murga anda, the anda sabase commonly khaaya by humans, and on the right two quail eggs
Eggs are laid by females of many different species, including birds, sarisrupon, amphibians, or machhlee, or have maharoom khaaya by mankind for thousands of years.
Bird and reptile eggs consist of a protective eggshell, albumen ( egg white ), or vitellus ( anda yolk ), contained bheetar vibhinn patala membranes.
Popular choices for egg consumption are chicken, batakh, bater, roe, or caviar, lakin the anda sabase praayah khapat by insaano is the murga anda, by a wide margin.
Egg yolks or puure andey store significant amounts of protein and choline, and are widely used in cookery.
Due to their protein saamagree, the sanyukt rajya vibhaag of krishi ( usd ) categorizes andey as meats within the Food Guide Pyramid.
Despite the nutritional maan of andey, vahin hai kuch sambhavit swasthya mudde arising isse egg quality, storage, and individual allergies.
Chickens or anya egg-laying jeev hai widely rakhaa throughout the sansar, and mass production of chicken eggs is a global industry.
In 2009, an estimated 62.1 lakh metric ton of andey yahood utpaadit vishwavyaapee isse a kul leta jhund of approximately 6.4 billion hens.
There are issues of regional variation in demand and apeksha, as khub as vartmaan debates concerning vidhi of dravyaman utpaadan, saath the europea sangh 's ban on battery farming of chickens.
Major League Soccer ( MLS ) is a peshewar soker lig representing the sport 's highest level in the United States and Canada.
Sanctioned by the United States Soccer sangh ( u.S. soker ), the lig is rachit of 19 teams — 16 in the U.S. and 3 in Canada.
Seasons presently run from March to disambar, saath prayek toli playing 34 khel in the niyamit ritu.
Ten teams compete in the postseason mls cap playoffs culminating in the championships game, the MLS Cup.
Major lig soker thi santhaapit in 1993 as bhaag of the United States ' bid to host the 1994 FIFA World Cup.
The first season took place in 1996 shuruuaat saath ten tiimon.
Instead of oparating as an sangh of independently swaamitv tiimon, mls is a single entity where each team is owned and controlled by the league 's investors.
The league 's closed sadsyta makes it ek of the sansar 's few soker lig nahin using pramotion and relegation.
The legality of canbis varies isse desh to desh.
Possession of cannabis is illegal in sabase deshon or rai maharoom chunki the shuruuaat of widespread cannabis prohibition in the late 1930s.
However, many countries have decriminalized the kabza of choti quantities of canbis, visheshkar in uttar america, South America and Europe.
Furthermore, possession is legal or effectively vidhik in the netherlands, uttar korian or hota be in the u.S. rajya of colorado or washington if it yahood nahin for federal law, which governs persons in all states.
The aushadhiy upyog of canbis is vidhik in a kramank of deshon, sahit Canada, the Czech Republic and Israel.
While federal law in the United States bans all sale and possession of cannabis, enforcement varies widely at the rajya str or kuch rajya have sthapit aushadhiy marijuana kaarykram in ki khandan sangheey vidhi ; do rajya ( colorado or washington ) have repealed unke kanoon prohibiting the recreational use of cannabis and replaced them with a regulatory regime, also contrary to federal statute.
Some countries have laws that are not as vigorously prosecuted as others but, alaava isse the deshon ki prastaav abhigam to chikitsa marijuana, sabase deshon have vibhinn dand ranging from lenient to very severe.
Some infractions hai liya adhik seriously in kuch deshon than anya in lihaaz to the cultivation, use, possession or transfer of cannabis for recreational use.
A few jurisdictions have lessened dand liye kabza of choti quantities of canbis, bananaa it dandaneey by confiscation and a fine, rather than imprisonment.
Some jurisdictions/ drug courts upyog anivaary upachaar kaarykram liye yang or barambar upayokta, saath swatantraaa isse narcotic davaayen as the lakshya or a few jurisdictions permit cannabis use for medicinal purposes.
There are also changes in a adhik pratibandhak disha as in canada.
Drug tests to detect cannabis are increasingly common in anek deshon or have resulted in karawas vaakya or logon khone unke kaary.
However, simple possession can carry long jail sentences in some countries, particularly in parts of East asia or southeast asia jahaan the bikri of canbis may sise to a vaakya of jivan in thana or bhi nishpaadan.
In cardiovascular physiology, ejection bhinn ( ef ) represents the aaytani bhinn of rakt uttejit out of the ventricle ( dil ) saath prayek dil taal or cardiac cycle.
It can be applied to either the right ventricle which ejects via the pulmonary valve into the pulmonary parisancharan or the baayein ventricle jisase ejects via the aortic valve into the pranaligat parisancharan.
imaging of the physiology of the mammalian dil is the art that allows meaningful mathematical expression defining EF.
Noninvasive cardiac imaging has become a vishwavyaapee utility enabling padhai of hriday pradarshan reproducibly and inexpensively.
Simplified, Ejection bhinn is a ganitiya utpaada anumat by hriday imaging.
As a mathematical term, ejection bhinn is an ekstansion of the kaary of adalph Fick in cardiac output.
Dedicated technology such as Echocardiography, Computed Tomography, chumbakeey anunaad imaging or muga scanning have definitively anumat clinically praasangik ganit regarding ischemia, janmajaat dil Disease and Heart Failure.
State Route 14 ( SR 14 ) is a north–south rajya rajmarg in the u.S. rajya of california, largely in the Mojave Desert.
The southern portion of the rajmarg is hastakshrit as the antelope ghati Freeway.
The route connects antarraji 5, or sunahari rajya frive, nikat santa clarita or saath u.S. Route 395 near Inyokern.
Legislatively, the root extends dakshin of i-5 to rajya root 1 in the prashanth palisades kshetrafal of los angeles, however the portion south of the junction with I-5 has not been constructed.
The southern part of the constructed route is a busy commuter freeway sevarat or connecting the samudaayon of santa clarita, palmdale or lancaster saath the rest of the Greater Los Angeles area.
The uttari portion, isse vincent ( dakshin of palmdale ) to root 395, is legislatively namit the Aerospace Highway, as the highway serves Edwards Air Force Base, once one of the primary landing strips for NASA 's Space Shuttle.
This section is rural, following the line between the hot mojave marusthal or the forming Sierra Nevada mountain range.
Most of Route 14 is loosely paralleled by a main line of the Southern Pacific Railroad, used liye the antelope ghati lakeer of the metrolink commuter rail pranali as khub as a conection between los angeles or the california Central Valley via Tehachapi Pass.
Linked with US 395, is sadak connects los angeles saath aise sthaan as maimath pahaad, Mono Lake, Yosemite National Park and Reno, Nevada.
Route 14 thi bhaag of u.S. root 6 prior to truncation in 1964, jab u.S. 6 thi a coast-to-coast route from Long Beach to Provincetown, Massachusetts.
The non-freeway segment of SR 14 from Silver Queen Road north of Rosamond to Mojave is gyaat as sierra rajmarg, as is the boodha rooting between antarraji 5 or chaandi maharani sadak where SR 14 has been moved to a newer freeway alignment.
Portions of Route 14 remain signed with names associated saath us 6, sahit midland trail, theodor rujvelt rajmarg or grand fouj of the ganatantr rajmarg.
This route is part of the california frive or expresve pranali.
Blindness is the condishan of lacking vizual bodh due to physiological or neurological factors.
Various scales have been developed to describe the extent of drushti ghaataa or define drishtiheenta.
Total drishtiheenta is the puraa kami of rup or vizual lite bodh or is clinically recorded as NLP, an abbreviation for `` no light perception. ''
Blindness is frequently used to describe kathor vizual putliyon with vision.
Those described as having only light bodh have no adhik sight than the kshamta to bataanaa lite isse andhera or the saamaanya disha of a light source.
To determine which people may need khaas sahaayta kuki of unke vizual disabilities, vibhinn sarkari jurisdictions have pratipaadit adhik jatil paribhaashaayen referred to as legal blindness.
In North America and most of europea, vidhik drishtiheenta is paribhaashit as vizual tikshnata ( drushti ) of 20/200 ( 6/60 ) or less in the better eye with best correction possible.
This means that a legally blind individual would have to stand isse an object to dekhie it—with corrective lenses —with the vahi oopaadhi of spashtataa as a saamanytah sighted person could from.
In many areas, logon saath ausat tikshnata jo nonetheless have a vizual field of kam than 20 degree ( the norm being 180 degrees ) are also classified as being legally blind.
Approximately ten percent of those deemed legally andha, by koi maap, have no vision.
The baaki have kuch drushti, isse lite bodh alone to relatively good acuity.
kam drushti is sometimes prayukt to describe vizual acuities from 20/70 to 20/200.
By the 10th Revision of the WHO International Statistical Classification of Diseases, Injuries and Causes of Death, low vision is defined as visual acuity of less than 20/60 ( 6/18 ), lakin baraabar to or behatar than 20/200 ( 6/60 ), or sambandhit vizual field ghaataa to kam than 20 degree, in the better eye with best possible correction.
Blindness is defined as visual acuity of less than 20/400 ( 6/120 ), or sambandhit vizual field ghaataa to kam than 10 degree, in the behatar najar saath behtareen sambhavit sudhaar.
Blind people with undamaged eyes may still register lite non-visually liye the purpose of circadian entrainment to the 24-hour light/dark cycle.
Light signal liye is purpose safar through the retinohypothalamic tract or hai nahin prabhavit by optic nerve damage beyond where the retinohypothalamic tract exits.
Earl Simmons ( born December 18, 1970 ), better known by his stage names dmx or andhera man x, is an amareeki rapper or actor.
In 1999, DMX released uske best-selling album... or tab vahin thi x, jisase featured the hit single `` Party Up ( Up in Here ) ``.
He has acted in films aise as pet, romeo jarur die, nikaas wounds, Cradle 2 The Grave, and Last Hour.
In 2006, he starred in the reality television series, which was primarily aired on the shart cabel television sanjaal.
In 2003, DMX published a book of uske memoirs hakdaar, e.a.r.l. : the aatmakatha of DMX.
DMX released a mixtape the taul in as a prelude/promotion towards uske album Undisputed ( 2012 ).
DMX has sold over 30 lakh record vishwavyaapee, bananaa use ek of the best-selling hip-hop kalakaaron of sab time.
Professional certification, trade certification, or peshewar namakan, praayah pukaara bas pramann or yogyata, is a namakan arjeet by a vyakti to assure yogyata to perform a job or task.
Not all certifications that upyog post-nominal akshar hai an sweekruti of shaikshanik uplabdhi, or an agency niyukt to safeguard the public interest.
bag bani is a mjedaar animal cartoon akshar, behtareen remembered liye uske abhinit bhoomikaaye in the looney dhune or merrie melodies series of theatrical short films produced by Warner Bros. during the Golden age of American animation.
His popularity dauraan is era led to uske banane a corporate mascot of Warner Bros. Entertainment.
Bugs is an anthropomorphic gray hare or rabbit who is famous for his flippant, vyaktitv, a sunaaya nai york accent, uske portrayal as a trickster, and his catch phrase `` Eh...
What 's up, dastauez ? ''
( praayah kaha jabaki chabane a carrot ).
Bugs has appeared in more films than any other cartoon akshar or is the naveen sabase portrayed filmi vyaktitv in the world.
According to his 1990 `` jeevani '' bag bani : 50 saalo or tabhi ek dhoosar hare, bag thi born on July 27, 1940 in Brooklyn, New York in a warren under Ebbets Field, home of the Brooklyn Dodgers.
In vaastaviktaa, he thi brought to jivan by the animators or staff of leone schlesinger productions ( baad warner bhaius. cartoons ) : sahit tex every, jo nirdeshit bag ' jaldi nirnaayak choti A Wild Hare ( 1940 ) ; Robert McKimson, who created Bugs ' definitive character design ; and Mel Blanc, who originated the voice of Bugs.
The mucous membranes ( or mucosae or mucosas ; ekvachan mucosa ) hai linings of zyaadaatar endodermal utpatti, covered in epithelium, which are involved in absorption and secretion.
They line cavities that are exposed to the external paryaavaran or aatanrik angon.
They are at several places contiguous saath skin : at the nathunon, the hoth of the munh, the eyelids, the kaanon, the genital area, and the anus.
The sticky, thick drav sravit by the shlesmak jhilliyon and glands is termed mucus.
The term mucous jhilli refers to jahaan ve hai mila in the deh and not every mucous membrane secretes mucus.
The glans clitoridis, glans penis ( head of the shishn ), saath saath the andar of the agratvachaa or the clitoral hud, are mucous membranes.
The urethra is bhi a shlesmak jhilli.
the sravit mucus fanda the pathogens in the deh, preventing any further activities of diseases.
A master sergeant is the sainya rank liye a varisht non-commissioned adhikari in kuch hathiyaarband forces.
Cake is a rup of bread or bread-like khaanaa.
In its aadhunik form, it is typically a mithi baked mithai.
In its oldest form, cakes yahood saamanytah fried breads or cheesecakes, or saamanytah had a disk shape.
Determining whether a die khaanaa chahie be vargeekrut as bread, kek, or pastery can be difficult.
Modern cake, visheshkar parat cakes, saamanytah contain a sangyojan of aataa, sugar, andey, or makkhan or aayal, saath kuch kismein bhi requiring liquid ( typically milk or water ) and leavening agents ( such as yeast or baking powder ).
Flavorful ingredients like fruit purées, nuts, dried or candied fruit, or extracts hai praayah added, or numerous substitutions liye the primary ingredients are possible.
Cakes are often filled with fruit preserves or mithai sauces ( jaise pastery malai ), iced saath buttercream or anya icings, or sajaa saath marzipan, piped borders or candied fruit.
kek is praayah the mithai of chunaav liye meals at ceremonial avasaron, visheshkar weddings, anniversaries, and birthdays.
There are countless cake recipes ; kuch hai bread-like, kuch samrudh or vistrut, or anek hai sadiyaan old.
Cake making is no longer a complicated procedure ; while at one time considerable labor gai into kek bananaa ( visheshkar the whisking of anda foams ), baking upkaran or dishanirdesh have maharoom sarlikrut so ki bhi the sabase amateur cook may bake a cake.
Tamara Faye LaValley Bakker Messner ( March 7, 1942 – July 20, 2007 ) thi an amareeki isai singer, enjeelwaadi, udyogon, lekhak, baat dikhaaen mejabaan, or television personality.
She was shaadishuda isse 1961 to 1992 to televangelist, or baad convicted felon, Jim Bakker.
She co-hosted saath use on the PTL Club ( 1976–1987 ).
She was a participant in the 2004 ritu of the vaastaviktaa dikhaaen the surreal Life.
Cambria is a village in Columbia county, visconsin, sanyukt rajya.
The population was 767 at the 2010 janasankhyikee.
It is bhaag of the medisson mahanagar sankhyikeey Area.
Public policy is the principled guide to karrwai liya by the prashasnic karypalika shakhaon of the rajya saath lihaaz to a class of mudde in a manner consistent with law and institutional customs.
In general, the foundation is the pertinent national or substantial sanvaidhanik vidhi or implementing vidhaan aise as the US Federal code.
Further substrates shaamil dono nyaayik interpretations or regulations jisase hai generally authorized by legislation.
Other scholars define it as a system of `` courses of action, niamak upayon, kanoon, or funding praathamiktaayen concerning a die topic promulgated by a governmental entity or its representatives. ''
Public policy is commonly samavisht `` in constitutions, vidhaan acts, and judicial decisions. ''
in the sanyukt rajya, is avadharana refers nahin tabhi to the parinaam of nitiyon, lakin adhik broadly to the decision-making and analysis of governmental decisions.
As an academic discipline, public niti is padhai by professors or vidhyaarthee at public niti skulon of major universities throughout the country.
The U.S. professional association of public policy practitioners, shodhakartaaon, vidwaanon, or vidhyaarthee is the sangh liye public niti vishleshan and Management.
Digestion is the mechanical or rasinic vishleshan of khaanaa into choti components ki hai adhik easily avashoshit into a blood stream, for instance.
Digestion is a form of catabolism : a vishleshan of vishaal khaanaa anuon to choti ones.
When food enters the munh, pachan of the khaanaa starts by the karrwai of mastication, a rup of mechanical digestion, and the wetting contact of saliva.
laar, a drav sravit by the salivary grathiyon, contains salivary amylase, an enzyme which starts the digestion of starch in the food.
After undergoing mastication or mand pachan, the khaanaa hoga be in the form of a small, round slurry mass called a bolus.
It will then travel bas the grasanal or into the pet by the karrwai of peristalsis.
Gastric juice in the pet starts protein pachan.
Gastric juice mukhyatah contains hydrochloric acid or pepsin.
As these two chemicals may damage the stomach wall, mucus is sravit by the pet, providing a slimy parat ki adhiniyamon as a shield viruddh the damaging prabhaav of the rasayan.
At the same time protein digestion is occurring, mechanical mixing occurs by peristalsis, jisase hai lehren of muscular contractions ki move saath the pet wall.
This allows the dravyaman of khaanaa to further mix with the digestive enzymes.
After some time ( typically an hour or two in insaano, 4–6 ghanton in kutto, somewhat shorter avadhi in house billiyon ), the resulting motaa drav is called chyme.
When the pyloric sphincter valve opens, chyme enters the duodenum jahaan it mixes saath digestive anzimon isse the pancreas, and then passes through the small intestine, in which digestion continues.
When the chyme is fully pachataa, it is avashoshit into the blood.
95 % of avasorana of nutrients occurs in the choti intestine.
Water and minerals are reabsorbed waapas into the rakt in the colon ( vishaal aant ) jahaan the ph is thodaa amleey parichay 5.6 ~ 6.9.
Some vitamins, such as biotin or vitamin k ( k2mk7 ) utpaadit by jeevanu in the colon are also absorbed into the blood in the colon.
Waste material is eliminated isse the malashay during defecation.
Henry VIII ( 28 June 1491 – 28 janvari 1547 ) thi king of england isse 21 april 1509 jabatak uske maut.
He was lord, and later king, of Ireland, as well as continuing the nammaatr arji by the angrezi monarchs to the kingdom of frans.
henry thi the duusari monarch of the tuder rajvansh, succeeding his father, Henry VII.
Besides his six marriages, Henry VIII is gyaat liye uske bhoomika in the virah of the girijaghar of england isse the roman catholic Church.
henry 's struggles saath rome led to the virah of the girijaghar of england isse papal praadhikaar, the viched of the Monasteries, and his own establishment as the Supreme Head of the Church of England.
Yet he remained a aastik in kor catholic theological shikshaaon, bhi baad uske excommunication from the Roman Catholic Church.
Henry oversaw the vidhik sangh of england or wales saath the Laws in Wales Acts 1535 and 1542.
In 1513, the new king allied with the Holy Roman Emperor, Maximillian i, or invaded frans in 1513 saath a vishaal, well-equipped fouj, lakin hasil choti at a considerable vittiya cost.
Maximillian, for his part, prayukt the angrezi akraman to uske apana ends, or is prejudiced england 's ability to defeat the French.
This foray would prove the start of an obsession liye henry, jo invaded again in 1544.
This time, Henry 's forces captured the mahatvapurn nagar of boulogne, lakin again the paavan roman samraat, charles v, samarthit henry only as long as he needed to and England, strained by the enormous cost of the war, ransomed the city back for peace.
His contemporaries considered Henry in his prime to be an attractive, educated and sampannataa king, or he rai maharoom varnit as `` ek of the sabase charismatic shaskaon to baithna on the angrezi singhaasana ''.
Besides ruling with nirpeksh shakti, he bhi sagaai khud as an lekhak and composer.
His desire to provide England with a male heir – which stemmed partly from personal vanity and partly because he believed a beti hota be asamarth to consolidate the tuder rajvansh or the najuk salaam ki existed following the yudhon of the gulab – led to the do bate liye jisase henry is most remembered : his six marriages and the English Reformation.
Henry became rugn mote or uske swasthya suffered, contributing to his death in 1547.
He is aksar characterised in uske baad jivan as a lustful, egotistical, harsh, and insecure king.
Bongos ( Spanish : bongó ) hai an afro-cuban percussion instrument.
The drums are of alag aakaar : the larger dhol is pukaara in spani the hembra ( maadaa ) and the smaller the macho ( male ).
They are membranophones, or yantra ki banaaen dhwani by a vibration of a stretched membrane.
Different religious groups include different kitabe in unke biblical canons, in varying aadesh, or sometimes divide or combine kitabe, or charitaarth atirikt material into canonical books.
Christian Bibles range from the sixty-six kitabe of the protostant canon to the eighty-one kitabe of the ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church canon.
The Hebrew Bible, or Tanakh, contains twenty-four kitabe vibhajit into teen bhaag ; the paanch kitabe of the tora ( `` shikshan '' or `` law '' ), the Nevi'im ( `` prophets '' ), and the Ketuvim ( `` writings '' ).
The first part of Christian Bibles is the Old vasiyat, jisase contains, at nunatam, the twenty-four kitabe of the yahudee bible vibhajit into thirty-nine kitabe or ordered differently from the Hebrew Bible.
The Catholic Church and Eastern Christian churches bhi tham nishchit deuterocanonical kitabe or passages to be bhaag of the boodha vasiyat canon.
The second part is the New Testament, containing twenty-seven books ; the chaar canonical gospels, adhiniyamon of the rasulon, twenty-one epistles or akshar or the kitaab of Revelation.
The Eastern Orthodox, Oriental Orthodox or purvi catholic carch may have naaballig differences in their lists of accepted books.
The suchi die yahan liye ye carch is the sabase samaveshi : if at tanik ek purvi church accepts the book it is included here.
The national flag of the United States of America, often simply referred to as the American flag, consists of thirteen baraabar aadaa dhaariyaan of red ( sheersh or neeche ) prayavarti saath shwet, saath a blue ytaakar in the canton ( referred to specifically as the `` sangh '' ) bearing pachaas choti, shwet, five-pointed sitaron arranged in nau ofaset aadaa pankti of chah sitaron ( sheersh or neeche ) prayavarti saath pankti of five stars.
The 50 stars on the flag represent the 50 rajya of the sanyukt rajya of america or the 13 dhaariyaan represent the teraa angrejon colonies ki ghoshit swatantraaa from the Kingdom of Great Britain and became the first states in the Union.
Nicknames for the flag shaamil the `` sitaron or dhaariyaan '', `` boodha mahima ``, and `` The Star-Spangled Banner. ''
Dred Scott v. sandford,, bhi gyaat as the dred scot nirnay, thi a landmark decision by the U.S. Supreme Court.
It made do pramukh rulings.
The first ruling was ki african-americans yahood nahin nagarikon, or isliye tha no khadaa to sue in federal court.
The second ruling was that the sangheey sarkari tha no shakti to viniyamit gulaami in koi territory acquired subsequent to the creation of the United States.
Given the first ruling, most scholars and anek samakaleen rajnatik aankade ( sahit the netritv of the then-new republican party ) mana ki the duusari sattadhari was not binding precedent, but mere dictum.
The rationale of the Supreme Court regarding the jurisdictional sattadhari implied ki logon of africa descent ( dono slave or free ) yahood nahin surakshit by the samvidhan or yahood not U.S. citizens.
Since dyodhi of the 14th amendment to the u.S. samvidhan, dono rulings hai superseded and no longer valid precedent.
Nonetheless, the case retains aitihaasik significance as it is widely regarded as the worst nirnay ever made by the Supreme Court.
The opinion of the adaalat, likhaa by mukhya insaaf roger B. taney, stirred debate.
The decision was 7–2, and every insaaf besides taney likhaa a pruthak concurrence or dissent.
For the first time chunki marbury v. medisson, the adaalat yojit an adhinium of congress to be unconstitutional.
Dred scot, an african-american slave, tha poocha a sanyukt rajya circuit adaalat to puraskaar use uske swatantraaa kuki he or uske nipun tha resided in a rajya ( illinois ) and a territory ( Wisconsin Territory ) where slavery had been banned.
Chief Justice Roger Taney, writing for the court, yojit ki scot, as a vyakti of africa ancestry, thi nahin a naagarik of the sanyukt rajya or isliye tha no right to sue in federal court.
This holding was contrary to the abhyaas of numerous rajya at the samay, visheshkar free rajya, jahaan free ashweton did in fact enjoy the rights of citizens, such as the right to vote and hold public office.
In what is sometimes considered mere obiter dictum, the Court went on to hold that Congress had no authority to prohibit gulaami in sangheey territories kuki slave hai nijee property or the paanchvaan amendment to the samvidhan protects property swami viruddh pichhade of unke property without due process of law.
in reaching is nirnay, taney tha hoped to settle the growing controversy surrounding slavery in the United States, but it had the opposite effect.
The decision was fiercely debated aarpaar the desh, as shaayad best exemplified by the Lincoln–Douglas debates of 1858.
Abraham Lincoln, the second-ever republican nominee liye adhyaksh, thi samarth to jeet the adhyakshiya chunaav in 1860 ; the stopping of the further expansion of slavery was a key Republican party plank.
the nirnay nibhaai an mahatvapurn bhoomika in the samay of rajya secession or the civil yuddh, haalanki it is charam to say the decision `` caused '' the war.
The decision is acknowledged for the influential bhoomika it nibhaai in altering the neshnal rajnatik landscape : it is credited saath shubharambh abraham lincoln’s neshnal political career and ultimately allowing for his election.
Although the Supreme Court has never explicitly overruled the Dred Scott case, the Court stated in the slaughter-house maamle ki at tanik ek bhaag of it tha already maharoom overruled by the fourteenth amendment in 1868, jisase begins by stating, `` sab vyaktiyon born or deshikrut in the sanyukt rajya, or vishay to the kshetradhikaar thereof, are citizens of the United States and of the State wherein they reside. ''
To jisase the adaalat noted:
The first observation we have to make on this clause is, ki it puts at baaki dono the sawaal jisase we stated to have been the subject of differences of opinion.
It declares that persons may be nagarikon of the sanyukt rajya bagaiyr lihaaz to unke naagarikta of a particular rajya, or it overturns the dred scot nirnay by making all persons born within the United States and subject to its jurisdiction citizens of the United States.
vahin hai darjanon of pados in Columbus, Ohio.
Some hai mushkil to define, as ve encompass vishaal kshetron viksit at alag times—often with sub-neighborhoods within them.
Borders can also change based on lokapriy samajhnaa of the kshetrafal, as khub as the whims of the nivaasiyon.
This aalekh upyog aankada isse the datasourcecolumbus web sait, spotcrime.com, HelloColumbus.com, as well as the various Columbus Area Commissions to define the various areas.
Excerpts and border information are drawn directly isse the pramukh aalekh.
A biologist is a scientist jo adhyayan jeena jeevon or unke relationship to their environment.
Biologists shaamil in moulik shodh attempt to discover underlying mechanisms ki govern how organisms work.
Biologists involved in applied research attempt to develop or improve chikitsa, audyogic or agricultural prakriyaaon.
Martinus wilem beijerinck, a vanaspatishastri or microbiologist
Base kud isse a chattan in a wingsuit.
BASE jumping, also sometimes written as B.A.S.E. jumping, is an activity where bhagidaar jamp isse phixd vastuen or upyog a parachute to brake unke patan.
`` BASE '' is an acronym that stands for four shrenee of phixd vastuen isse jisase ek can jamp : imaaraten, antena, spans ( pulon ), and earth ( cliffs ).
The angrejon shorthair is a domesticated billi jinaki suvidhaayen make it a popular breed in cat shows.
It has been the most popular breed of cat registered by the UK 's shaasi parishad of the billi fansy ( gccf ) chunki 2001, jab it overtook the Persian breed.
The USA Basketball Men 's Senior National Team, commonly gyaat as the sanyukt rajya main 's neshnal basket toli, represents the sanyukt rajya of America in international men 's basketball.
The USA is the most successful toli in antarrashtriya pratiyogita, jeetna medals in sab satraa olympic tournaments it has entered, coming away with fourteen golds.
Two of its gold medal-winning squads were inducted to the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame as tiimon in agast 2010—the 1960 toli, jisase pradarshit chah haul of famers ( 4 khilaadi, 2 coach ), or the 1992 `` sapana toli '', featuring 14 haul of famers ( 11 khilaadi, 3 coaches ).
the sanyukt rajya is philhal kramit pehla in the FIBA World Rankings.
Traditionally composed of amateur khilaadi, a 1989 niyam badalen by fiba anumat uese basket to field tiimon with professional players.
The pehla aise toli, gyaat as the `` sapana toli '', jiti the gold medal at the 1992 Summer Olympics in Barcelona, Spain, playing in the final against Croatia.
With the parichay of peshewar, the toli thi samarth to chingaari a duusari run of dominance after capturing only a bronze medal in 1988.
A team of professional khilaadi competed at the 1994 fiba sansar championships, finishing pehla.
In 1996, 2000, 2008, or 2012 the uese again captured sunaharaa medals.
Facing increased competition, the USA vifal to jeet a padak at the 2002 fiba sansar championships, finishing sixth.
The 2004 Summer Olympic team lost three games on its way to a bronze medal, a record that represented more nuksaan in a single saal than the desh 's olympic tiimon tha suffered in sab pichhlaa olympiads sanyukt.
Determined to put an samaapt to ye asafalataaon, uese basket initiated a long-term project aimed at creating better, more cohesive teams.
The USA won its first seven khel at the 2006 fiba sansar championships in japani pehle khone viruddh unaniyon in the semi-finals, samaapti the pratiyogita with the bronze medal.
The USA won gold two years baad, haalanki, at the 2008 garmiyaan olympic saath a prabal pradarshan.
This success was followed up at the 2010 FIBA sansar championships, jahaan despite kshetrarakshan a roster featuring no khilaadi isse the 2008 olympic toli, the uese kiya not lose a single game en route to defeating host Turkey for the gold medal.
The USA continued this streak of dominance by going aparajit or capturing sunaharaa ekbar adhik at the 2012 garmiyaan Olympics.
the stilers super Bowl XL ring
Joe Theismann 's super katori ring ( sahi )
The Super Bowl ring is an puraskaar in the neshnal footbaal lig die to the vijeta of the lig 's salanaa World Championship game, the Super Bowl.
Since only one Vince Lombardi Trophy is awarded to the team ( ownership ) itself, the super katori ring offers a collectible memento liye the vaastavik khilaadi or toli sadasyon to rakhana liye themselves to symbolize the vijay.
chitra prardashit the chah sabase aam speleothems with labels.
to drishy labals.
The Witch 's ungali in the carlsbad caverns
A stalagmite ( or ; from the Greek σταλαγμίτης - stalagmitês, from σταλαγμίας - stalagmias, `` chhodane, trickling '' ) is a prakaar of speleothem ki udai isse the manzil of a chuunaa gupha due to the tapakataa of mineralized solutions and the deposition of calcium carbonate.
This stalagmite formation occurs tabhi antargat nishchit ph sharten bheetar the bhumigat cavern.
The corresponding formation on the chat of a gupha is gyaat as a stalactite.
If ye formations grow saath, the result is known as a column.
The haul of diggaj in the carlsbad Caverns
stalagmites chahie saamanytah nahin be chuaa, chunki the chattan buildup is formed by khanij precipitating out of the jal samaadhaan onto the old surface ; skin oils can alter the surface where the mineral water will cling, thus affecting the growth of the formation.
Oils and dirt from human sampark can bhi daag the gathan or badalen iske rang permanently.
Similar structures can also form in lava tubes, sambhddha saath kuch prakaar of lavacicles, haalanki the yantriki of gathan is very different.
Stalactites and stalagmites can bhi rup on kancreet ceilings or floors, haalanki ve rup much adhik rapidly there than in the natural cave environment.
The largest stalagmite in the sansar is unchi or is stith in the gupha of cueva martin Infierno, Cuba.
In the Zagros Mountains of south Iran, approximately from the ancient city of Bishapur, in the shapur gupha on the chauthi of paanch baramada stand the 3rd sadi ce pratimaa of Shapur I, second ruler of the Sassanid Empire.
The statue, carved from ek stalagmite, is nearly unchi.
How I mili apana maan is an amareeki sitcom ki premiered on CBS on September 19, 2005.
The show was nirmit by craig thomas or carter Bays.
How I Met Your Mother is framed by the year 2030, jab ted mosby ( voiced by bob saget ) gathers uske beti ( lyndsy fonseca ) or son ( David Henrie ) to tell them the story of how he met their mother.
We flashback to where it begins in 2005 with Ted Mosby ( Josh Radnor ) as a single, 27-year-old architect living with his two best friends from wesleyan vishvavidhyalayon, marshall eriksen ( jesan segal ), a vidhi chaatr, or lily elderin ( alyson haningan ), a kindergarton teacher, jo have maharoom dating for almost nine years when Marshall proposes.
Their engagement causes Ted to socho parichay dhundhna uske apana aatma mate, much to the disgust of uske dost barni stinson ( neil patric haris ), a womanizer with an unnamed corporate job.
And thus, Ted begins his dhundhen liye uske purna mate, or meets robin scherbatsky ( kobi smalders ), whom he also befriends.
The 100th episode of kaisaa i mili apana maan aired on janvari 11, 2010.
On December 21, 2012, the shrenee was renewed for a ninth season.
On January 30, 2013, it thi ghoshit ki ritu 9 hoga be iske final ritu.
Gringo (,, ) is a slang Spanish or portugali shabd prayukt in ibero-america, to denote videshiyon, praayah isse the United States.
The term can be lagu to kisi jo is darasal a foreigner, or it can denote a strong association or assimilation into foreign ( particularly US ) society and culture.
In Spanish it does nahin have a rinatmak connotation.
Roger axtell, a safar tahazeeb visheshgy, tip ki `` [ t ] he word gringo is not necessarily a bad word.
It is kathboli lakin is apmanjanak tabhi in its use and context. ''
The word was prayukt in spain long pehle it crossed the atlantic to denote videshi, non-native speakers of Spanish.
The great white shark, Carcharodon carcharias, also known as the great white, shwet suchak, shwet shark, or shwet maut, is a prajati of vishaal lamniform shark jisase can be mila in the tateey sataha waters of sab the major oceans.
The great white shark is mukhyatah gyaat liye iske aakaar, saath the largest individuals gyaat to have approached or exceeded in length, and in weight.
This shark pahunch iske paripakvata around 15 saalo of aayu or can have a life span of over 30 years.
The great white shark is arguably the sansar 's largest gyaat extant macropredatory machhlee, or is ek of the primary predators of marine mammals.
It is also gyaat to shikaar upon a kismein of anya samudri pashu, including fish and seabirds.
It is the only known surviving prajati of iske genus carcharodon, or is kramit pehla in having the most attacks on humans.
The IUCN list the great white shark as a vulnerable species, jabaki it is shaamil in parishisht ii of cites.
The bestselling novel Jaws by Peter Benchley and the subsequent blockbster filmi by steven spilberg chitrit the great shwet shark as a `` ferocious man eater ``.
In vaastaviktaa, insaano hai nahin the pasandida shikaar of the great white shark.
The sanyukt rajya hathiyaarband shaktiyaan hai the sainya shaktiyaan of the United States of America.
They consist of the fouj, navy, samudri corps, air force, or Coast Guard.
The U.S. has a strong parampara of civilian control of the military.
The President is the military 's overall head, and helps form military policy saath the u.S. vibhaag of raksha ( dod ), a sangheey karypalika vibhaag, acting as the principal ang by which military policy is carried out.
The DoD is headed by the sachiv of raksha, jo is a civilian or Cabinet member.
The Defense Secretary is second in the sainya 's kadi of cmand, bas neeche the adhyaksh, or serves as the principal sahaayak to the President in all DoD-related matters.
To coordinate military action with diplomacy, the adhyaksh rai an salaahkaar neshnal suraksha parishad headed by a National Security Advisor.
Both the President and Secretary of Defense are advised by a seven-member Joint Chiefs of staff, jisase shaamil the sir of prayek of the raksha vibhaag 's seva shakhaon as khub as the mukhya of the National Guard Bureau.
Leadership is provided by the adhyaksh of the sanyukt chiefs of Staff and the Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
The commandent of the coast guard is nahin a sadsy of the sanyukt Chiefs of Staff.
All of the branches work together during operations and joint missions, under the ekikrut combatant cmand, antargat the praadhikaar of the sachiv of raksha saath the exception of the Coast Guard.
The coast guard jalprapaat antargat the prashasan of the vibhaag of mathrubhumi suraksha or receives its operational orders from the Secretary of Homeland Security.
The Coast Guard may be transferred to the vibhaag of the navy by the adhyaksh or congress dauraan a samay of war.
All five armed sevaayen hai among the saat uniformed sevaayen of the sanyukt rajya ; the anya hai the u.S. public swasthya seva commissioned corps and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Commissioned Corps.
From the time of its inception, the military nibhaai a nirnaayak bhoomika in the itihaas of the United States.
A sense of national unity and identity was forged as a parinaam of vijay in the pehla barbary yuddh or the duusari barbary War.
Even so, the Founders were suspicious of a permanent military force and not until the outbreak of sansar yuddh ii kiya a vishaal khadaa fouj become officially sthapit.
The National Security Act of 1947, adopted following World War II and during the Cold War 's onset, created the aadhunik u.S. sainya fremawork ; the adhinium milaayaa previously cabinet-level vibhaag of yuddh or the vibhaag of the navy into the neshnal sainya sthapana ( renamed the vibhaag of raksha in 1949 ), headed by the sachiv of raksha ; or nirmit the vibhaag of the Air Force and National Security Council.
The U.S. military is one of the largest militaries in sharten of kramank of karmiyon.
It draws its manpower from a large pool of sashulk swayamsevak ; haalanki conscription rai maharoom prayukt in the past in vibhinn times of both war and peace, it has not been used since 1972.
As of 2013, the u.S. kharch parichay $ 554.2 arab annually to nidhi iske sainya shaktiyaan, or appropriates approximately $ 88.5 billion to fund Overseas Contingency Operations.
Put together, the U.S. constitutes roughly 43 pratishat of the sansar 's sainya expenditures.
The U.S. Armed Forces as a whole possess large quantities of advanced and shaktishaalee upkaran, saath saath faili avasthiti of shaktiyaan around the sansar, giving unhen significant samarthy in both defense and power projection.
Freedom of speech is the political right to communicate one 's raay or vichaar using ek 's deh or property to anyone jo is willing to praapt unhen.
The term freedom of expression is sometimes used synonymously, lakin shaamil koi adhinium of seeking, receiving or imparting soochna or vichaar, regardless of the medium used.
In practice, the right to freedom of vaak is nahin nirpeksh in koi desh or the sahi is commonly vishay to simaaen, as saath manahani, badanaami, obscenity, rajdroh ( sahit, liye udhaaharan inciting ethnic hatred ), copyright violation, revelation of information that is classified or otherwise.
The right to freedom of abhivyakti is pahachaanaa as a insaan sahi antargat aalekh 19 of the saarvbhaumik ghoshnaa of insaan adhikaron or pahachaanaa in antarrashtriya insaan adhikaron vidhi in the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights ( ICCPR ).
Article 19 of the ICCPR states that `` [ e ] veryone shall have the right to hold opinions without interference '' and `` everyone shall have the sahi to swatantraaa of abhivyakti ; is sahi shall shaamil swatantraaa to talash, praapt or impart soochna or vichaar of sab kinds, regardless of frontiers, either orally, in likhane or in print, in the form of art, or through any other media of his choice ''.
Article 19 goes on to say that the exercise of these rights carries `` khaas kartavya or jimmedaariyon `` or may `` isliye be vishay to nishchit pratibandh '' jab jaruri `` [ f ] or aadar of the adhikaron or pratishtha of anya '' or `` [ f ] or the protection of national security or of public order ( order public ), or of public health or morals ''.
Freedom of speech may be legally curtailed in some religious legal systems and in dharmanirpeksh jurisdictions jahaan it is mila to kaaran dharmik thokar, aise as the angrejon jatigat or dharmik Hatred Act 2006.
The big bang siddhanth logo.
The Big Bang Theory is an amareeki kamedi television shrenee nirmit or karypalika utpaadit by chak lorre or Bill Prady.
Like the name of the shrenee itself, saath the excepshan of the pehla episode— '' payalat '' —episode sheershak of the big bang siddhanth sadaa prarambh saath `` the '' or resemble the naam of a vaigyanik principle, siddhanth or experiment, whimsically referencing a plot point or quirk.
, 133 apisod have aired.
The Big Bang Theory has been navinikrut liye a saatvaan ritu.
Dwight David `` Ike '' ijanhavar ( sunaaya, ; aktubar 14, 1890 – kooch 28, 1969 ) was the 34th President of the United States from 1953 until 1961.
He had previously been a five-star general in the United rajya fouj dauraan sansar yuddh ii or parosa as param commander of the alide shaktiyaan in europea ; he tha jimmedaari liye niyojan or supervising the akraman of uttar africa in aaparishan mashaal in 1942–43 and the successful invasion of France and Germany in 1944–45 from the Western Front.
In 1951, he became the first param commander of nato.
ijanhavar thi of pencilvenia dach ancestry or thi reared in a vishaal parivaar in kansas by abhibhavak saath a robust work ethic and religious background.
As one of six sons, he was conditioned by a pratispardhi maahaul jisase instilled self-reliance.
He attended or graduate isse west point or baad shaadishuda and had two sons.
After World War II, ijanhavar parosa as fouj mukhya of staff antargat adhyaksh harry S. truman, tab assumed the post of adhyaksh at Columbia University.
Eisenhower entered the 1952 adhyakshiya res as a republican to counter the non-interventionism of Senator Robert A. Taft and to crusade against `` Communism, Korea and corruption ''.
He won by a bhuskhalan, defeating democrate adlai stevenson or samaapti do decades of the New Deal Coalition.
In the first year of his presidency, Eisenhower apdasth the netaa of iraan in the 1953 irani takhtapalat d'état or prayukt nabhikeey threats to conclude the Korean War with China.
His New Look policy of nuclear deterrence gave priority to inexpensive nuclear weapons while reducing the funding for conventional military shaktiyaan ; the lakshya thi to rakhana dabaav on the soviet sangh or reduce sangheey deficits.
In 1954, Eisenhower first articulated the domino siddhanth in uske varnan of the threat prastut by the spread of communism.
The Congress agreed to his nivedan in 1955 liye the formosa rezolution, jisase sakriy use to prevent chinis communist aakraamakata viruddh chinis rashtravaadiyon or sthapit the u.S. policy of defending Taiwan.
When the Soviets shubharambh sputnik in 1957, he tha to khel catch-up in the space race.
Eisenhower forced Israel, the uk, or frans to samaapt unke akraman of mishra dauraan the suez sankat of 1956.
In 1958, he bheja 15,000 us sainikon to lebanon to prevent the pro-western government from falling to a Nasser -inspired revolution.
Near the end of his term, his efforts to set up a summit baithak saath the soviets collapsed kuki of the u-2 ghatana.
On the domestic front, he covertly opposed Joseph McCarthy and contributed to the end of mccarthyism by khulkar invoking the aadhunik vistaarit sanskaran of karypalika privilege.
he varanaa baayein sabase rajnatik kaaryaklap to his Vice President, Richard Nixon.
He was a moderate roodhiwaadee jo jari nai saude agenciyon and expanded Social Security.
Among his enduring innovations, he launched the Interstate Highway System ; the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency ( DARPA ), which led to the internet, among many invaluable output ; the neshnal aeronautics or spes prashasan ( nasa ), driving shantipurna discovery in spes ; the sthapana of damdaar vigyaan shiksha via the neshnal raksha shiksha adhinium ; or protsaahit shantipurna upyog of nabhikeey shakti via amendments to the Atomic Energy Act.
In social policy, he bheja sangheey sainikon to choti chattan, arkansaas, liye the pehla samay chunki punarnirmaan to enforce sangheey adaalat orders to desegregate public schools.
He also signed civil rights legislation in 1957 or 1960 to protect the sahi to vote.
He implemented desegregation of the hathiyaarband shaktiyaan in do saalo or made five appointments to the Supreme Court.
He was the first term-limited adhyaksh in accordance saath the 22nd amendment.
Eisenhower 's two terms were peaceful ones for the most part and dekhi considerable aarthik samruddhi magar liye a sharp mandi in 1958–59.
Eisenhower is praayah kramit atyadhik among the u.S. Presidents.
Air Force One is the official air traffic control call chihn of a sanyukt rajya air force vayuyan carrying the adhyaksh of the United States.
In common parlance the pad refers to those air force vayuyan specifically designed, nirmit, or prayukt liye the purpose of transporting the president.
The adhyakshiya vayuyan is a prominent pratik of the amareeki presidency and its power.
The idea of designating specific military aircraft to transport the President arose in 1943, jab officials of the sanyukt rajya fouj air shaktiyaan – the purvavarti to the u.S. air force – became chintit saath relying on vanijyik airlines to transport the President.
A C-87 Liberator Express was reconfigured liye upyog as a adhyakshiya hastantaran ; however, it thi asweekrut by the rahasy seva amid chintaaen over the aircraft 's safety record.
a c-54 skymaster thi tab parivartit liye adhyakshiya upyog ; is vayuyan, utaavle the pavitra gaay, transported adhyaksh franklin D. rujvelt to the Yalta Conference in February 1945, and was subsequently used for another two years by President Harry S. Truman.
the `` air force ek '' kol chihn thi nirmit baad a 1953 ghatana dauraan jisase a udaan carrying adhyaksh Dwight D. Eisenhower entered the same airspace as a commercial airline flight using the same call sign.
Several aircraft have been used as Air Force One since the creation of the presidential fleet, sahit do bowing 707s introduced in the 1960s or 1970s, kramshah ; chunki 1990, the adhyakshiya bede rai consisted of do bowing vc-25as – specifically vinyast, highly customized Boeing 747-200B series aircraft.
The Air Force is looking into replacing the do vc-25 vayuyan saath teen badalanaa vayuyan beginning in 2017.
A wedding anniversary is the varshganth of the tithi a vivaah took place.
Traditional names maujuud liye sabase of unhen : liye udhaaharan, 50 saalo of vivaah is pukaara a `` sunahari wedding anniversary '' or simply a `` golden anniversary ''.
a scinar saath duplexing swachaalit Document Feeder.
In multifunction or all-in-one mudrak, fax mashine, photocopiers or scanners, an swachaalit dastauez feader or adf is a visheshta jisase takes anek prishthon or feeds the paper one page at a time into a scanner or copier, allowing the user to scan, and thereby copy, print, or fax, multiple-page documents without having to manually replace each page.
sabase copiers allow scanning on the flatsbed or platen ( the `` glass '' ) or through a document feeder.
The vast majority of fax mashine have an adf, allowing the unattended sending of multi-page faxes.
Due to the ubiquity of ADF in fax machines, some fax yantra swami upyog the fax yantra as a scinar, faxing multi-page documents to themselves.
Document feeders are described by gati, in prishthon prati minute or ppm, or kshamta, praayah in a dayera from 10 sheets to 200.
There are two kinds of document feeders capable of two-sided ( duplex ) scanning : a reversing swachaalit dastauez feader or radf scans ek paksh of a pej, tab flips it or scans the anya paksh.
A duplexing swachaalit dastauez feader or dadf scans dono pahalu in one pass.
The advantage of the dadf is tej gati liye two-sided originals.
radfs or dadfs hai rated in bimb prati minute ( ipm ), the kramank of pahalu they can scan each minute.
Fair Park is a recreational or shaikshanik jatil located in Dallas, Texas ( USA ).
The complex is panjikrut as a dalas landmark, neshnal aitihaasik landmark or is ghar to nau sangrahalay, chah pradarshan suvidhaayen, a lagoon, or the largest Ferris wheel in North America.
Many of the buildings on the complex were constructed liye the texas centennial exposition in 1936 jisase khinchaa over six million visitors.
Most of the buildings built for the exposition still jivit or it is pahachaanaa as a significant udhaaharan of Art Deco architecture.
Fair park rai maharoom designated a great place in america by the American Planning Association.
The American Planning Association ( APA ) “is an swatantra, not-for-profit shaikshanik sanghathan that provides leadership in the development of vital communities.”
the great sthaan in amareeki kaarykram helps to celebrate kshetron with “exemplary character, quality, and planning.”
hone designated as a great place in america, Fair Park was one of only ten cities chosen in 2011.
san jose ( ; spani : st. joseph ) is the third-largest nagar in california, the tenth-largest in the u.S., or the county seat of santa clara county which is located at the southern end of San Francisco Bay.
San Jose is the largest nagar bheetar silicon ghati, jisase is a pramukh ghatak of the vrihad san francisco khadi kshetrafal, a pradesh of 8.4 million people and the fifth largest metropolitan area ( CSA ) in the United States.
It is the largest nagar in uttari california.
San Jose was founded on November 29, 1777, as el pueblo de san jose de guadalupe, the pehla civilian kasbaa in the spani upnivesh of nueva California, which later became Alta California.
The city served as a farming community to support spani sainya sansthapana at san francisco and Monterey.
When California gained statehood in 1850, san jose parosa as iske pehla capital.
After more than 150 years as a small farming city, San Jose and the surrounding santa clara ghati became the pichhlaa ( or largest ) sanlagn kshetrafal of aviksit jameen surrounding the San Francisco Bay.
San Jose experienced increased maang liye awaas isse sainiko or diggajon returning from World War II.
San jose tab jari iske aakraamak vistaar dauraan the 1950s and 1960s by annexing more land area.
The rapid growth of the high-technology or electronics udyog further twarit the parivartan isse an agricultural center, to an urbanized metropolitan area.
By the 1990s, San Jose 's location within the booming local praudyogiki udyog arjeet the nagar iske upnaam, puunji of silicon Valley.
San Jose now maintains vaishvik nagar aukaat or is the largest nagar in the san francisco khadi kshetrafal in sharten of janasankhyikee, jameen kshetrafal, or audyogic development.
The U.S. janasankhyikee beuro reported the janasankhyikee of the nagar to be 945,942 as of the 2010 Census.
As of April 2013, the anumaanit janasankhyikee of San Jose was 984,000.
San Jose, along with the Santa clara ghati, anbhavi parichay half a sadi of spectacular suburban sprawl, saath visheshtaayen of teevr shahari similar to the Los Angeles area of Southern California.
The city has taken definite kadam to avoid banane `` l.A. uttar ''.
However, the sprawl in San Jose is worse than in Los Angeles by upayon aise as janasankhyikee ghanatv or public pargaman suraksha, nivesh, and ridership.
Europe depicted by Antwerp cartographer abraham ortelius in 1595
The history of Europe covers the people inhabiting the European continent chunki it thi pehla aabaadi in pragaitihaasik times to upasthit, saath the pehla homo sapiens arriving between 45,000 and 25,000 BC.
The earliest settlers to pragaitihaasik europea came during the paleolithic era.
the aagaman of krishi around 7000 BC ushered in the neolithic age.
Neolithic Europe lasted liye 4000 saalo, ativyapee saath metal-using samskritiyon ki dhire sprad throughout the continent.
technological agrim dauraan the pragaitihaasik aayu tended to arrive isse the Middle East, spreading gradually to the northwest.
Some of the best-known sabhyataaon of pragaitihaasik europea yahood minoai or misinian, jisase flourished dauraan the Bronze Age until they collapsed in a short period of time around 1200 BC.
The period known as shastreey pracheenta began saath the vruddhi of the city-states of Ancient Greece.
Greek influence reached iske zenith antargat the expansive samrajya of sikandar the Great, spreading throughout Asia.
Northern and western europea yahood varchasv by the la tène samskruti, a precursor to the Celts.
Rome, a small city-state traditionally founded in 753 BC, would grow to become the roman ganatantr in 509 bc or hota safal unani samskruti as the prabal bumadhyasagariya civilization.
The events of the rule of Julius Caesar led to reorganization of the ganatantr into the roman samrajya.
The empire thi baad vibhajit by the samraat diocletian into the Western and Eastern empires.
During the later years of the Roman Empire, the Germanic peoples of uttari europea grew in shakti or doharaaya hamale led to the patan of the pashchimi roman samrajya in ad 476, a tithi jisase traditionally marks the samaapt of the classical period and the start of the Middle Ages.
During the madhya aayu, the purvi roman samrajya batch, haalanki aadhunik itihaaskaaron refer to this state as the Byzantine Empire.
In Western Europe, Germanic peoples moved into positions of power in the remnants of the purv pashchimi roman samrajya or sthapit kingdoms or empires of unke own.
Of all of the germanic peoples, the franks hota vruddhi to a sthiti of aadhipaty over pashchimi europea, the frankish Empire reaching its peak under Charlemagne around AD 800.
Francia was divided into several parts ; West francia hota evolve into the kingdom of frans, jabaki east francia hota evolve into the paavan roman Empire, a precursor to modern Germany.
The British Isles were the sait of anek large-scale migrations.
Native Celtic peoples had been marginalized during the kaal of roman britain, or jab the romans abandoned the angrejon isles dauraan the 400s, lehren of germanic anglo-saxons migrated to dakshini britain or sthapit a shrenee of petty kingdoms in what would eventually develop into the Kingdom of England by AD 927.
During this kaal, the kingdom of candal or kingdom of hungarian ( 1000–1945 ) yahood vyavasthit as well.
The viking aayu, a kaal of migrations of scandinavian peoples, varchasv the period from the late 700s to the middle 1000s.
Chief among the Viking states was the samrajya of cnut the great, a danish netaa jo hota become king of england, denmark, and Norway.
The Normans, a Viking people who settled in Northern France and founded the Duchy of normandy, hota have a significant prabhaav on anek bhaag of europea, isse the Norman conquest of England to Southern Italy and Sicily.
Another Scandinavian people, the Rus ' people, would go on to mila kievan rus ', an jaldi rajya jisase thi a precursor liye the aadhunik desh of Russia.
As the viking aayu khinchaa to a band, the kaal gyaat as the crossed, a shrenee of religiously-motivated sainya expeditions originally intended to bring the Levant back into Christian rule, began.
Several Crusader rajya yahood santhaapit in the purvi bumadhyasagariya.
These were sab short-lived.
The Crusaders hota have a profound prabhaav on anek bhaag of europea.
unke bori of kustutuniya in 1204 brought an abrupt end to the Byzantine Empire.
Extinct dog breeds is a compilation of shwaan breeds ki have become vilupt.
Wii Speak is a microphone accessory liye nintendo 's ve video khel console.
Connected to the console via USB, the device can be placed nikat the video pradarshak, allowing awaz gapshap to be conducted saath the sampurna room.
The device suvidhaayen an led to indicate jab the microphone is active.
Wii Speak was ghoshit at nintendo 's 2008 e3 media drug.
It was released separately and bundled with Animal Crossing : City lok on navambar 16, 2008, in uttar america, or thi released on disambar 5, 2008, in Europe.
the ve bolo accessory is succeeded by the embedded microphone on the Wii U 's GamePad controller.
nisaan budhimaan Key®
A smart key is an electronic access and praadhikaran pranali jisase is uplabdhiyaan as an vikalp or standard in several cars.
It was first developed by siemens in the mid-1990s or introduced by mercedes-benz antargat the naam `` keyless go '' in 1998 on the w220 s-class following its design patent filed by Daimler-Benz on May 17, 1997.
Univisión ( ) is a spanish-language television sanjaal in the United States.
The network is primarily dedicated for Latin amareeki pariwaron jo reside in the sanyukt rajya.
It has the largest audience of spanish-language television darshak in the sansar according to nielsen darja.
Randy Falco, ( CEO as of June 29, 2011 ) COO, rai maharoom in charge of the company chunki the prasthaan of univision sanchaar adhyaksh or siio Joe Uva in April 2010.
In recent years the network has reached parity with the U.S. 's five major English-language television sanjaal, or is praayah a damdaar paanchvaan, outranking the cw, saath kuch fourth-place saptahik placings, or as of 2012, even first place rankings for individual programs over all five English networks due to the network 's consistent schedule of new telenovelas all 52 weeks of the year.
Univisión is headquartered in nai york, or rai iske pramukh studios, utpaadan suvidhaayen, or parichaalan in doral, Florida, a suburb of Miami.
In 2009, another television studio thi ghoshit, Univision Studios, to be built in Doral.
Univision is available on cable and satellite in sabase of the desh, saath local stesan in over 50 bazaar saath vishaal hispanic or laathini populations or a neshnal cabel sanjaal feed distributed in markets without either the availability or the demand for a locally-based station.
Most of these stations air full local news and other local programming in addition to network shows, and in pramukh bazaar aise as los angeles, nai york, or miami the local newscasts carried by the sanjaal 's owned-and-operated stesan ( o & o ) stesan are equally competitive with their English-language counterparts ratings-wise.
Univisión was acquired on March 29, 2007 by a consortium led by Haim Saban 's Saban Capital Group ( who had previously owned the entity Saban Entertainment ), tpg puunji, l.P., vidhaataa equity saajhedaar, medisson dearborn saajhedaar, or thomas H. lee saajhedaar liye $ 13.7 arab or $ 36.25 prati share plus $ 1.4 billion in acquired debt.
The buyout left the company with a debt str of baarah times iske salanaa nakadi pravaah, jisase thi twice the norm in buyouts done over the previous two years.
Artist 's dharna of a aadigrah disk
The formation and of the Solar System is anumaanit to have begun 4.6 arab saalo pehle saath the gurutvkarshak patan of a choti part of a giant molecular cloud.
Most of the collapsing mass collected in the centre, forming the Sun, while the rest flattened into a aadigrah discs out of jisase the grah, moons, kshudragrah, or anya choti saura pranali laashen formed.
This widely sweekrut model, gyaat as the nebular pariklpana, thi pehla viksit in the 18th century by Emanuel Swedenborg, Immanuel Kant, and Pierre-Simon Laplace.
Its subsequent development has interwoven a kismein of vaigyanik disciplines sahit khagolashastra, bhautikee, bhuvigyaan, or planetary science.
Since the dawn of the space age in the 1950s and the discovery of extrasolar grah in the 1990s, the model rai maharoom dono challenged or parishkrut to account for new observations.
The saura pranali rai viksit considerably chunki its initial formation.
Many moons have formed from circling discs of gas or dhul around unke janak grah, jabaki anya moons hai vichaar to have formed independently and later been captured by their planets.
Still others, as the Earth 's Moon, may be the parinaam of daanav takkaron.
Collisions between bodies have occurred continually up to the upasthit din or have maharoom central to the evolution of the Solar System.
The sthitiyaan of the grah praayah shifted, or grah have switched places.
This planetary migration is now thought to have maharoom jimmedaar liye much of the saura pranali 's jaldi evolution.
In roughly 5 billion years, the surya hoga kool or vistaar outward anek times iske vartmaan vyas ( banane a red daanav ), pehle dhalaai band iske bahari paraton as a grahiy nebula and leaving behind a stellar remnant known as a white dwarf.
In the far distant future, the gambheertha of guzar sitaron hoga dhire reduce the surya 's retinue of grah.
kuch grah hoga be nasht, anya ejected into interstellar space.
ultimately, over the course of tens of arabon of saalo, it is likely that the Sun will be left with none of the original bodies in orbit around it.
The Trial ( kafka 's asli germany sheershak :, baad as, or ) is a anokhaa likhaa by franj kafka in 1914 or 1915 lakin nahin published until 1925.
One of Kafka 's best-known works, it tells the story of a man giraftaar or prosecuted by a remote, abhigamya praadhikaar, saath the prakruti of his crime revealed to neither him nor the reader.
Like Kafka 's other novels, The Trial was never completed, haalanki it karata shaamil a adhyay jisase brings the story to an end.
Because of this there are certain inconsistencies which exist within the novel, aise as asamantaaon in samay in jod to anya discontinuities in narration.
After Kafka 's death in 1924 his dost or saahitiyik executor adhiktam brod sampadit the text liye prakaashan by verlag Die Schmiede.
The original manuscript is held at the sangrahalay of aadhunik sahitya, marbach am neckar, Germany.
In 1999, the book was listed in Le Mondes 100 Books of the Century and as No. 2 of the behtareen germany novels of the beesvin sadi.
Lisa Anne Loeb ( born March 11, 1968 ) is an amareeki singer-songwriter or abhinetri.
She launched her career in 1994 saath the song, `` raho ( i chhuti tum ) ``, jisase thi shaamil in the film Reality Bites.
She was the first artist to have a number ek single in the sanyukt rajya jabaki nahin hastakshrit to a recording contract.
Her five studio CDs shaamil uske pramukh label debyue, the gold-selling tails or iske follow-up, the grammy-nominated, gold-selling Firecracker.
Loeb has also worked in filmi, television, voice-over kaary or children’s recordings.
Loeb rai appeared in do television shrenee, dweezil & lisa, a saptahik culinary adventure liye the khaanaa sanjaal or Number 1 Single, a reality show on the E !
Network in 2006 kendrit on uske quest liye prem, kamyaabi, kariyar, and family.
Her children 's music shaamil the album kaich the chandramaa ( 2003 ), or shivi lisa ( 2008 ).
Her first joint children 's book and album lisa loeb 's pagali sing-along : the niraashajanak pancek and Other Zany Songs was published in 2011.
In 2010 she santhaapit the lisa loeb chashma sangrahan, jisase is aadhaarit on uske own designs.
The Coat of arms of the rajya of New Jersey includes:
A shield with three plows emblazoned, pratinidhi of nai jersey 's agricultural tradition.
A forward-facing nit 's helmet.
A horse 's head as the crest of the helmet.
The female figures Liberty or ceres, pratinidhi of the rajya 's motto ( dekhie next item ).
Liberty is holding a staff supporting a `` swatantraaa cap `` ; ceres is pakadakar an overflowing cornucopia.
The streamer at the pair of the emblem contains the rajya motto of New Jersey, `` Liberty and Prosperity '', and the year of statehood, 1776.
It was originally designed by piyare ujin du simitiere in 1777 or thi parivardhit slightly in 1928.
The seal is the central motiff in the dhvaj of nai jersey or the great muhar of the rajya of nai Jersey.
The Coat of arms contains a ghoda 's sir.
A helmet showing that New Jersey governs itself accordingly and three plows on a shield referring to the rajya 's krishi parampara, giving it the upnaam `` Garden State ''.
The two Goddesses represent the State motto, `` swatantraaa or samruddhi ''.
swatantraaa is on the baayein.
She is holding a staff with a liberty cap on it, or the shabd swatantraaa underneath uske.
The goddess on the sahi is ceres, devi of krishi.
She is holding a cornucopia saath samruddhi likhaa neeche her.
According to the minutes of the New Jersey General Assembly for March 11, 1896, the tithi in jisase the sabha officially sweekrut the dhvaj as the rajya emblem, the buff rang is due indirectly to george washington, jo tha ordered on aktubar 2, 1779, ki the vardi coats of the New Jersey Continental Line be dark ( Jersey ) blue, with buff facings.
Buff-colored facings had until then been surakshit tabhi liye uske apana vardi or those of anya mahadwipiya senapatiyon or their aides.
Then, on February 28, 1780, the mahadwipiya yuddh adhikariyon in philadelphia nirdeshit ki the vardi kot facings of sab regiments yahood to be the same as the background color of the regiments ' state flag.
The seal is varnit in nai jersey statute Title 52, §2-1:
`` We Can Work It Out '' is a song by the betals, likhaa by paul mccartney and John Lennon.
It was released as a `` double a-sided `` single saath `` din tripper ``, the pehla samay dono pahalu of a single were so designated in an initial release.
Both songs were recorded dauraan the rabar aatma satr.
The song is an example of lennon–mccartney sahyog at a gaharaai ki happened tabhi rarely baad ve likhaa the hit singles of 1963.
This song, `` A Day in the Life ``, `` Baby, You 're a Rich Man `` and `` i 've mila a ahsaas ``, hai among the notable exceptions.
as a chikitsa nidaan, pedophilia or paedophilia is a manorog vikaar in vyaktiyon 16 saalo of aayu or puraani typically characterized by a praathmik or vishesh yon byaaj toward prepubescent children ( generally age 11 years or younger, though specific diagnosis criteria for the disorder extends the cut-off point for prepubescence to age 13 ).
An adolescent who is 16 years of age or puraani jarur be at tanik paanch saalo puraani than the prepubescent child pehle the aakarshan can be diagnosed as pedophilia.
The term has a range of paribhaashaayen, as mila in psychiatry, manovigyaan, the vernacular, and law enforcement.
The International Classification of Diseases ( ICD ) defines pedophilia as a `` vikaar of vayask vyaktitv or aacharan '' in jisase vahin is a yon variyata liye children of prepubertal or early pubertal age.
According to the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders ( DSM ), it is a paraphilia in which adults or adolescents 16 years of age or older have intense and recurrent sexual preranaayen towards or kalpanaaon parichay prepubescent children ki ve have either acted on or jisase kaaran unhen takalif or interpersonal pareshaani.
In popular usage, pedophilia means any yon byaaj in children or the adhinium of child yon gaali, praayah termed `` pedophilic behavior ''.
For example, The American Heritage Stedman 's Medical Dictionary states, `` pedophilia is the adhinium or kaalpanik on the bhaag of an vayask of engaging in yon kaaryaklap saath a child or children. ''
This common use application also extends to the yon byaaj in or yon sampark saath romil or post-pubescent minors.
Researchers recommend that these imprecise uses be avoided kuki haalanki logon jo commit child yon gaali commonly pradarshnee the vikaar, kuch aparaadhiyon do not meet the clinical diagnosis standards for pedophilia and these standards pertain to prepubescents.
Additionally, nahin sab pedophiles darasal commit such abuse.
Pedophilia was first formally pahachaanaa or namit in the let 19th century.
A significant amount of shodh in the kshetrafal rai liya place chunki the 1980s.
Although mostly documented in men, there are also women who pradarshnee the vikaar, or shodhakartaaon assume uplabdhiyaan estimates underrepresent the sachcha kramank of female pedophiles.
No cure for pedophilia rai maharoom viksit, lakin vahin hai therapies ki can reduce the incidence of a person committing child sexual abuse.
In the United rajya, following kansas v. hendricks, sex aparaadhiyon jo hai diagnosed saath nishchit dimagi vikaar, visheshkar pedophilia, can be vishay to indefinite civil commitment, under various state laws ( generically called SVP laws ) and the federal Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act of 2006.
At present, the sateek kalyankari of pedophilia have nahin maharoom conclusively established.
Research suggests that pedophilia may be correlated saath anek alag neurological abnormalities, or praayah co-exists saath anya vyaktitv disorders and psychological pathologies.
In the contexts of forensic psychology and law enforcement, a variety of typologies have been sujhaayaa to categorize pedophiles according to bartaav or motivations.
Julio César Chávez ( born julio césar chávez gonzález on july 12, 1962 ) is a ritred mexican peshewar boxer.
Chávez is mana by anek logon liye unke khel aankde the mahanatam fighter ever to come out of Mexico.
He is a six-time world champion in teen vazan vibhaajan, or liye anek saalo he thi mana ek of the best pound-for-pound boxer in the world.
In a career that spanned over 25 years, Chávez won five world titles in three weight divisions : wbc super featherweight in 1984, wba lightweight in 1987, wbc lightweight in 1988, wbc lite welterweight in 1989, ibf lite welterweight in 1990, or wbc Light Welterweight in 1994.
He holds records for sabase kaamyaab lagaataar defenses of sansar sheershak ( 27 ), sabase sheershak jhagade ( 37 ), sabase title-fight victories ( 31 ) and he is after Joe Louis with ( 23 ) for most title defenses won by knockout ( 21 ).
Chávez also has the longest aparajit streak in mukkebaazi itihaas, 13 saalo.
His record was 89-0-1 going into uske pehla ghaataa to frenki randel or tha an 87 lado win streak until his `` draw '' with Whitaker.
Julio César Chávez was known for his outstanding punching power, vinaashkari deh akraman, remarkably damdaar chin or the athak stalking of his opponents.
He baandhane # 24 on iespien 's 50 mahanatam mukkebaaz Of All Time.
On disambar 7, 2010, he thi inducted in the prestigious antarrashtriya mukkebaazi haul of Fame for the Class of 2011.
He is the father of prospect Omar chávez or purv wbc middleweight champion julio César Chávez, Jr.
`` selektion `` on the judenrampe, auschwitz, may/june 1944.
To be sent to the right meant slave majdoor ; to the baayein, the gas kaksh.
This image shows the aagaman of hungarian yahudiyon isse carpatho-ruthenia, many of them from the Berehov ghetto.
The photographer was Ernst hofmann or bernahard walter of the ss. chitra saujany of Yad Vashem
The Holocaust ( from the Greek ' : hólos, `` whole '' and kaustós, `` burnt '' ) also known as the Shoah ( yahudee :, hashoah, `` pralay '' ; yahudee :, churben or hurban, isse the yahudee liye `` vinaash '' ), thi the dravyaman hatya or narsanhaar of lagbhag chah lakh yahudiyon dauraan sansar yuddh ii, a kaarykram of vyavasthit state-sponsored hatya by naaji germany, led by adolf hitler or the naaji party, throughout German-occupied territory.
Of the nine million Jews who had resided in europea pehle the holocaust, lagbhag two-thirds yahood maare.
Over one million Jewish children were killed in the Holocaust, as yahood lagbhag do lakh yahudee mahilaon or teen lakh yahudee main.
A network of over 40,000 facilities in Germany and German-occupied territory yahood prayukt to concentrate, tham, or maar yahudiyon or anya peediton.
Some scholars argue that the mass murder of the Romani and people with disabilities should be included in the definition, and kuch upyog the aam sangya `` holocaust '' to describe anya naaji dravyaman hatyaein, sahit those of soviet bandiyon of yuddh, polish or soviet civilians, and homosexuals.
Recent estimates based on figures obtained since the fall of the Soviet Union indicates kuch ten to gyaarah lakh nagarikon or bandiyon of yuddh yahood intentionally murdered by the Nazi regime.
The persecution and narsanhaar yahood carried out in stages.
Various laws to remove the Jews from civil society, sabase prominently the nuremberg kanoon, yahood enacted in germany saalo pehle the outbreak of World War II.
visheshgyata shiviron yahood sthapit in jisase inmates yahood vasheebhoot to slave majdoor jabatak ve died of exhaustion or disease.
Where Germany conquered new territory in purvi europea, specialized ikai pukaara einsatzgruppen murdered yahudiyon and political opponents in mass shootings.
the occupiers jaruri yahudiyon or romani to be confined in overcrowded ghettos pehle hone transported by freight train to extermination camps where, if they survived the journey, most were systematically killed in gas chambers.
Every arm of Germany 's bureaucracy was involved in the logistics that led to the genocides, turning the teesraa reich into kayaa one Holocaust scholar has called `` a genocidal state ''.
4-H in the United States is a yuvavastha sanghathan administered by the neshnal santhaan of khaanaa or krishi of the sanyukt rajya vibhaag of krishi ( usd ), saath the mishan of `` engaging youth to reach their fullest potential while advancing the field of youth development. ''
The name represents chaar nijee vikaas kshetron of fokas liye the sanghathan : head, heart, hands, and health.
The organization has over 6.5 million sadasyon in the sanyukt rajya, isse aayu paanch to twenty-one, in lagbhag 90,000 clubs.
The goal of 4-H is to develop citizenship, leadership, responsibility and life skills of yuvavastha through experiential siikhnaa kaarykram or a dhanatmak yuvavastha development approach.
Though typically thought of as an agriculturally focused sanghathan as a parinaam of iske itihaas, 4-h aaj focuses on naagarikta, swasth jeena, vigyaan, engineering, and technology programs.
Today, 4-H and related programs exist in over assi deshon around the sansar ; the sanghathan or prashasan varies isse country to country.
prayek of ye kaarykram operates independently, lakin cooperatively through antarrashtriya exchanges, global education programs, and communications.
The 4-h motto is `` to mek the behtareen behatar '', jabaki iske slogan is `` sikh by doing '' ( sometimes written as `` Learn to do by doing '' ).
The neshnal dhvaj of chile, consists of do gairbarabari aadaa bands of shwet or red or a blue vargakar the same height as the white band in the canton, which bears a white five-pointed star in the center.
It thi apanaaya on 18 aktubar 1817.
The Chilean flag is bhi gyaat in spani as la estrella Solitaria ( The Lone Star ).
The star represents a guide to progress and honor ; blue symbolizes the aasmaan or the prashanth samandar, shwet is liye the snow-covered andes, or red stand liye the rakt spilled to achieve swatantraaa.
According to the epic poem La Araucana, the colors yahood niklaa isse those isse the dhvaj flown by the mapuche dauraan the Arauco War.
`` dhvaj din '' is yojit prayek saal on the naveen of july to commemorate the 77 sainiko who died in the 1882 Battle of La Concepción.
Generation Y, also known as the antardrushtiyon peedhee, is the janasankhyikee dal following Generation X.
There are no precise dates for jab peedhee y starts or ends.
Commentators use beginning birth tithiyaan isse the latter 1970s, or isse the jaldi 1980s to the jaldi 2000s.
The torches of nero, by henryk Siemiradzki.
According to tacitus, nero targeted isaayiyon as those responsible for the fire.
The Great Fire of rome ( ) thi an shahari aag ki occurred shuruuaat 19 July AD 64.
Virginia ( ), officially the rashtramandal of virginia, is a u.S. rajya stith in the South Atlantic region of the United States.
Virginia is nicknamed the `` Old Dominion '' and the `` maan of raashtrapatiyon '' baad the aath u.S. raashtrapatiyon born vahin.
The bhugol or jalwaayu of the rashtramandal hai taraasha by the blue lakeeren kyu or the Chesapeake Bay, which provide habitat for much of its flora and fauna.
The capital of the rashtramandal is richmond ; or virginia bich is the most populous city.
Fairfax county is the sabase populous rajnatik subdivision.
the wealthiest is Loudoun County.
The Commonwealth 's janasankhyikee is over aath lakh.
The area 's history begins saath anek swadeshi samooh, sahit the Powhatan.
In 1607 the London Company sthapit the upnivesh of virginia as the first permanent New World English colony.
Slave labor or the jameen acquired isse visthapit deshi amareeki janajatiyon prayek nibhaai a significant bhoomika in the upnivesh 's jaldi politics and plantation economy.
Virginia was one of the 13 Colonies in the American Revolution and joined the confederacy in the amareeki civil yuddh, dauraan jisase richmond thi bana the confederate puunji or virginia 's northwestern county seceded to rup the state of West Virginia.
Although the Commonwealth was under conservative single-party rule for nearly a sadi following punarnirmaan, dono pramukh neshnal partiyon hai pratispardhi in aadhunik virginia.
The Virginia General Assembly is the oldest vidhanmandal in the pashchimi golardh.
The state government has been repeatedly kramit sabase prabhavi by the pew bich on the States.
It is unique in how it treats shaharon or county baraabar, manages local sadaken, or prohibits its governors from serving consecutive terms.
Virginia 's economy has many sectors : agriculture in the Shenandoah Valley ; federal agencies in uttari virginia, sahit the mukhyalay of the vibhaag of raksha or siie ; or sainya suvidhaayen in Hampton Roads, the site of the region 's main seaport.
virginia 's public skulon or anek collejon or vishvavidhyalayon have contributed to growing media and technology sectors.
As a parinaam, computer chips have become the rajya 's agrani export.
Windows Movie Maker ( formerly known as Windows Live Movie mekar, codenamed sundance ) is a freevare video sampadan software by Microsoft.
It is a part of Windows Essentials software suite and offers the ability to create and sampadan video as khub as to prakashit unhen on skydrive, fasebuk, youtube, or flikar.
`` Brenda 's Got A Baby '' is the solo debut single by tupak shakur, or dasavaan track isse uske debyue album, 2Pacalypse Now.
The song, jisase suvidhaayen r & b singer dev hollister, is parichay a baarah year-old ladki named Brenda who lives in a ghetto, has a baby, and is incapable of supporting it.
The song explores the samasya of tin garbhavastha or iske prabhaav on the yang mothers and their families.
Like many of shakur 's geeton, `` brenda 's mila a baby '' draws from the plight of the impoverished.
using brenda to represent yang maataaon in saamaanya, shakur criticises the kam str of support from the baby 's father, the government, and society in general.
Shakur wrote the song jab he padhaa a samachaarpatr aalekh parichay a twelve-year-old ladki jo mila garbhvatee isse uske cousin or, because she did not want her parents to know about the baby, threw it in a trash can.
The official logo of pokimon liye iske antarrashtriya relies ; `` pokimon '' is choti liye the asli japani title of `` Pocket Monsters ''.
is a media matadhikaar prakashit or swaamitv by japani video khel company Nintendo and created by Satoshi Tajiri in 1996.
Originally released as a jodi of interlinkable khel ladke role-playing video khel viksit by khel freak, pokimon rai chunki become the second-most kaamyaab and lucrative video game-based media franchise in the world, behind only Nintendo 's own Mario franchise.
Pokémon gun have chunki maharoom merchandised into dushmani, manga, vyapaar cards, toys, books, and other media.
The franchise celebrated in 2006, and, cumulative sales of the video khel ( sahit ghar consol sanskaran, aise as the `` pikachu '' nintendo 64 ) have pahunche adhik than 200 lakh nakal.
In November 2005, 4Kids Entertainment, which had managed the non-game sambandhit licencing of pokimon, ghoshit ki it tha sahamat nahin to navinikrut the pokimon representation agreement.
Pokémon USA Inc. ( abhi the pokimon company antarrashtriya ), a subsidiary of japani 's pokimon Co., now oversees all Pokémon licensing outside of Asia.
The name Pokémon is the romanized sankuchan of the Japanese brand.
The term Pokémon, in addition to referring to the Pokémon franchise itself, also collectively refers to the 649 fictional species that have made appearances in Pokémon media as of the release of the fifth generation titles Pokémon Black 2 or shwet 2 ; saath the aagaamee relies of pokimon x or y, 6 nai pokimon have maharoom pradarshit in promotions for the games.
`` Pokémon '' is identical in both the ekvachan or bahuvachan, as is prayek vyaktigat prajati naam ; it is grammatically sahi to kah `` ek pokimon '' or `` anek Pokémon '', as well as `` one Pikachu `` and `` many Pikachu ''.
Cover of the first sanskaran of the prakaashan dada by tristan tzara ; Zurich, 1917
Dada ( ) or Dadaism was an art gati of the europea avant-garde in the early 20th century.
Many claim Dada began in Zurich, Switzerland in 1916, spreading to berlin shortly thereafter lakin the oonchaai of nai york dada thi the saal pehle in 1915.
To quote Dona Budd 's The Language of Art gyaan, dada thi born out of rinatmak pratikriya to the horrors of sansar yuddh I.
This antarrashtriya gati thi begun by a samooh of kalakaar and poets associated with the Cabaret Voltaire in Zurich.
Dada asweekrut kaaran or logic, prizing bakawaas, irrationality and intuition.
The origin of the naam dada is unclear ; kuch maananaa ki it is a nonsensical word.
Others maintain ki it originates isse the romanian kalakaaron tristan tzara or marsal Janco 's frequent use of the words da, da, meaning yes, yes in the Romanian language.
Another theory says that the name `` Dada '' came during a baithak of the samooh jab a paper chaaku stuck into a french-german shabdkosh happened to point to 'daday ', a french shabd liye 'hobbyhorse '.
The gati primarily shaamil vizual kala, sahitya, kavy, art manifestoes, art siddhanth, theatre, or graphic dizine, or concentrated iske anti-war politics through a rejection of the prevailing standards in art through anti-art cultural works.
In jod to hone anti-war, dada thi bhi anti- burjua or tha rajnatik affinities with the radical left.
Dada activities included public gatherings, demonstrations, or prakaashan of art/literary jarnals ; passionate kawarej of art, raajnneeti, or samskruti yahood vishay praayah discussed in a variety of media.
Key figures in the movement included Hugo Ball, Emmy Hennings, hans arp, raoul hausmann, hanna höch, yohaness baader, tristan tzara, francis picabia, richard huelsenbeck, georg grosz, jon heartfield, marsal duchamp, beatrice lakdi, court schwitters, and Hans Richter, among others.
the gati bahekaave baad sheliyaan jaise the avant-garde or shahar music andolanon, or samooh sahit surrealism, Nouveau réalisme, pop art and Fluxus.
Dada is the groundwork to abstract art and sound kavy, a starting point liye pradarshan art, a prelude to postmodernism, an influence on pop art, a jashn of antiart to be baad embraced liye anarcho-political uses in the 1960s and the movement that lay the foundation for Surrealism.
First trophic str.
The paudhe in is chitra, or the shaiwal or phytoplankton in the jhil, hai praathmik producers.
They take nutrients from the soil or the water, or manufacture unke apana khaanaa by photosynthesis, using urja isse the sun.
The trophic level of an sajiv is the sthiti it occupies in a food chain.
The word trophic garbhashayi isse the unani τροφή ( trophē ) referring to food or feeding.
A food chain represents a succession of jeevon ki kha another sajiv or hai, in phere, khaaya themselves.
The number of steps an sajiv is isse the prarambh of the kadi is a maap of iske trophic level.
Food chains start at trophic level 1 with primary producers such as paudhe, move to herbivores at str 2, parabhakshi at str 3 or typically samaapt saath carnivores or apex predators at level 4 or 5.
The path along the kadi can rup either a one-way pravaah, or a food `` web. ''
Ecological communities with ucchtar biodiversity rup adhik jatil trophic paths.
Four of the sabase mahatvapurn domesticated silk moths.
Top to bottom : Bombyx mori, Hyalophora cecropia, antheraea pernyi, samia sinthia.
From Meyers konversations-lexikon ( 1885-1892 )
A silk-producing raspy cricket.
Silk is a natural protein fibre, kuch form of jisase can be woven into vastra.
The protein fibre of silk is rachit mukhyatah of fibroin or utpaadit by certain insect larvae to form cocoons.
The best-known type of silk is praapt isse the cocoons of the larve of the shahatut silkworm bombyx mori reared in captivity ( sericulture ).
The shimmering rup of resha is due to the triangular prism -like dhaancha of the resha fibre, which allows silk cloth to refract incoming light at different angles, thus producing different colors.
Silks are produced by several other keet, lakin generally tabhi the resha of shalab caterpillars rai maharoom used for textile manufacturing.
There has maharoom kuch shodh into anya silks, jisase differ at the molecular level.
Many silks are mainly produced by the larve of keet undergoing puraa metamorphosis, lakin kuch vayask keet aise as webspinners upaj resha, or kuch insects such as raspy crickets produce silk throughout their lives.
Silk utpaadan bhi occurs in kalapaksh ( madhumakhiyon, wasps, or chintiyon ), silverfish, mayflies, thrips, leafhoppers, beetles, lacewings, fleas, flies and midges.
Other types of arthropod produce silk, most notably vibhinn arachnids aise as makadiyon ( dekhie makadi silk ).
Late Show saath daud letterman is an amareeki late-night baat dikhaaen hosted by David Letterman on CBS.
The show debuted on August 30, 1993, or is utpaadit by letterman 's utpaadan company, Worldwide Pants Incorporated.
The dikhaaen 's music nideshak or band-leader of the house band, the sibies orcestra, is paul Shaffer.
the sir lekhak is mat roberts or the announcer is Alan Kalter.
Of the major U.S. late-night programs, Late Show baandhane duusari in sanchayi ausat darshak over samay or teesraa in number of episodes over time.
The dikhaaen lead anya let raatri shows in ad aay with $ 271 million in 2009.
In most U.S. markets the dikhaaen airs at 11:35 p.m. eastern/pacific samay, lakin is ankit somvaar through buudhvaar at 4:30 p.m., or guuruuvaar at 3:30 p.m and 6:00 p.m.
The second guuruuvaar apisod praayah airs on shuukravaar of that week.
In 2002, Late Show with daud letterman thi kramit no. 7 on tv maargdarshika 's 50 mahanatam tv shows of sab samay.
CBS has a contract with Worldwide Pants to continue the show through 2014 ; by tab, letterman hoga surpass johny carsan as the longest tenured late-night baat dikhaaen mejabaan.
The Real Housewives of Orange County is an American reality vruttchitr television kaarykram on braavo, niyat in naarangi County, California.
It was the first The real housewives kaarykram in the series.
The series is a voyeuristic look into the dhanwaan jeevandaan of ye housewives, as ve duukaan, milengi plastic surgery, gossip, fight and live lavishly.
The financial crisis, the beginning of which coincided almost exactly saath the pehla ritu 's broadcast, rai chunki trimmed the housewives ' lifestyles saath job nuksaan, evictions, bandhak moolbhoot, foreclosures, or vaivaahik stress—all recorded in progressive seasons of the show.
Cyberstalking is the use of the antarjaal or anya electronic arthath to stalk or harass an vyaktigat, a group of individuals, or an organization.
It may include the making of false accusations or kathan of fact ( as in manahani ), nigaraanee, bananaa khatre, pahchaan chori, kshati to aankada or upkaran, the solicitation of naaballig liye sex, or gathering information that may be used to harass.
The definition of `` harassment '' must meet the criterion that a reasonable vyakti, in kabza of the vahi soochna, hota lihaaz it as sufficient to cause another reasonable person distress.
Cyberstalking is different from sthanik or ofline stalking in ki it occurs through the upyog of electronic sanchaar praudyogiki aise as the antarjaal.
However, it sometimes lead to it, or is accompanied by it.
Both hai dand offenses.
Cyberstalking shares mahatvapurn visheshtaayen saath offline stalking.
Many stalkers – online or band – hai prerit by a khwaahish to control their victims.
A cyberstalker may be an online ajanabi or a vyakti whom the target knows.
A cyberstalker may be anonymous and may solicit bhagidaari of anya logon online jo do nahin bhi jaan the nishaanaa.
Cyberstalking is a criminal offense that comes into play antargat rajya anti-stalking kanoon, badanaami kanoon, or utpeedan kanoon.
A cyberstalking conviction can parinaam in a restraining anukram, pariviksha, or bhi dand dand against the assailant, including jail.
A business letter is usually used when writing from one company to another, or for patrachaar between aise sanghathan or unke graahak, client or anya external parties.
The overall style of letter will depend on the sambandh between the partiyon chintit.
There are many kaaran to likhen a kaarobaar akshar.
It could be to nivedan sidhaa soochna or karrwai isse another party, to anukram aapurtiyan isse a pradaayak, to pahachaano a galati ki thi vachanabaddh, to jawaab directly to a request, to apologize for a wrong or simply to convey goodwill.
Even today, the business letter is still very useful because it produces a sthai ricard, is gopneey, aupchaarik or delivers persuasive, well-considered messages.
Tilapia ( ) is the common name for nearly a sau prajati of cichlid machhlee isse the tilapiine cichlid janajati.
tilapia hai mukhyatah freshwater machhlee, inhabiting uthle stream, talabon, rivers and lakes, and less commonly found living in brackish water.
Historically, they have been of major importance in karigar fishing in africa or the levant, or hai of increasing mahatv in aquaculture.
Tilapia can become samasyapurna hridayrog prajati in nai warm-water habitats, whether deliberately or accidentally introduced, but generally not in temperate climates due to their inability to survive in cooler waters below about.
Turner & Hooch is a 1989 comedy naatak aparaadhon filmi abhinit tom hanks or beasley the shwaan as the eponymous varna, Turner and Hooch respectively.
The film also stars ghodi winningham, craig T. nelson, or reginald VelJohnson.
It was directed by Roger Spottiswoode ; the film thi originally slated to be nirdeshit by henry winkler, lakin he thi terminated due to `` rachanaatmak differences ''.
It was co-written by maaikel blodgett isse pare the Valley of the Dolls fame.
Although K-9 ( with James belushi ) thi released prior to is filmi ( exactly teen maheene pehle ), turnar & hooch became adhik lokapriy or seemingly nishprabh iske vrihad kamyaabi, bhi haalanki K-9 had a very similar plot.
A pilot for a Turner & hooch tv shrenee thi bana or bhaaga as a bhaag of the jaadui World of Disney.
This is a list of israeli airport, sorted by location.
pravesh to ovda Airport
terminal 3 at ben Gurion
Plane landing at be'er sheva ( teyman )
eilat vimaanashetra
Adolf hitler ( ; 20 april 1889 – 30 april 1945 ) thi an austria -born germany rajaneta or the netaa of the naaji party ( ( nsdap ) ; National Socialist German Workers Party ).
He was chancellor of Germany from 1933 to 1945 and dictator of naaji germany ( as führer und reichskanzler ) isse 1934 to 1945.
Hitler was at the kendra of naaji germany, sansar yuddh ii in europea, and the Holocaust.
Hitler was a decorated diggaj of sansar yuddh I.
He joined the germany majdoor ' party ( precursor of the nsdap ) in 1919, and became leader of the NSDAP in 1921.
in 1923, he attempted a takhtapalat d'état in munich, known as the Beer Hall Putsch.
The failed coup resulted in Hitler 's imprisonment, during jisase samay he likhaa uske sansmaran, mein kemff ( my sangharsh ).
After his relies in 1924, hitler gained lokapriy support by attacking the sandhi of versailles or promoting pan-germanism, antisemitism, and anti-communism with charismatic oratory and Nazi propaganda.
After his niyukti as chancelar in 1933, he roopantarit the wimer ganatantr into the teesraa reich, a single-party taanaashaahee aadhaarit on the adhinayakawadi or autocratic ideology of Nazism.
Hitler 's aim was to establish a nai anukram of nirpeksh naaji germany aadhipaty in continental Europe.
To this end, his foreign and domestic policies had the uddeshy of seizing lebensraum ( `` jeena spes '' ) for the Germanic people.
He directed the rearmament of germany or the akraman of candal by the wehrmacht in sitambar 1939, resulting in the outbreak of World War II in Europe.
Under Hitler 's rule, in 1941 German forces and their europea allies occupied sabase of europea or uttar africa.
in 1943, germany tha maharoom majaboor onto the rakshaatmak or suffered a series of escalating defeats.
In the final dinon of the yuddh, dauraan the battle of berlin in 1945, hitler shaadishuda his long-time partner, Eva Braun.
On 30 April 1945, less than two dinon baad, the do vachanabaddh aatmahatya to avoid capchar by the red fouj, and their corpses were burned.
Hitler 's aggressive foreign policy is considered the main cause of the outbreak of sansar yuddh ii in europea.
His antisemitic nitiyon or racially prerit vichaardhaara resulted in the mauton of at tanik 5.5 lakh Jews, and millions of other people deemed racially inferior.
angootha
a domen naam is an pahchaan string ki defines a frem of prashasnic swaittata, authority, or control on the Internet.
Domain names are formed by the niyam or prakriyaaon of the domen naam System ( DNS ).
Technically, koi naam panjikrut in the dnes is a domen name.
Domain names are used in various networking contexts and application-specific namakaran or sambodhit uddeshy.
In general, a domain name represents an antarjaal protocol ( ip ) sansaadhan, aise as a nijee computer prayukt to abhigam the antarjaal, a sarwar computer hosting a web site, or the web site itself or any other service communicated via the Internet.
Domain names are organized in subordinate levels ( subdomains ) of the dnes root domen, jisase is nameless.
The first-level set of domen names hai the top-level domen ( tlds ), sahit the generik top-level domen ( gtlds ), aise as the prominent domen com, soochna, jaal and org, and the country code top-level domains ( ccTLDs ).
Below these top-level domains in the DNS hierarchy are the second-level and third-level domain names that are typically open for reservation by end-users jo kaash to conect local kshetrafal sanjaal to the antarjaal, banaaen anya saream accessible antarjaal sansaadhan or run web sites.
The registration of ye domen names is praayah administered by domen naam registrars jo bechein their services to the public.
A fully yogya domen naam ( fqdn ) is a domen naam ki is completely specified in the hierarchy of the DNS, having no omitted parts.
Domain names are usually written in lowercase, haalanki labals in the domen naam pranali hai case-insensitive.
Nitrate is a polyatomic aayan saath the aanvik sutara no3− or a aanvik dravyaman of 62.0049 g/mol. Nitrates also describe the organic functional group RONO2.
These nitrate esters are a specialized class of visphotak.
A wheat kataai in Idaho
This photo from a 1921 gyanakosh shows a tractor ploughing a crop field.
Agriculture is a major udyog in the sanyukt rajya or the desh is a net exporter of food.
As of the last census of krishi in 2007, vahin yahood 2.2 lakh kheto, covering an kshetrafal of, an ausat of prati farm.
Although agricultural kaaryaklap occurs in sabase rajya, it is visheshkar concentrated in the vishaal expanse of chapata, arable jameen gyaat as the Great Plains, which encompasses the central region of the nation.
The Mpemba effect, namit baad tanzanian chaatr erasto mpemba, is the assertion ki warmer jal can freeze faster than colder water.
Although there is anecdotal support for the prabhaav, vahin is no anubandh on exactly kayaa the prabhaav is and under what circumstances it occurs.
There have been reports of similar phenomena chunki pracheen times, haalanki saath aparyaapt vivaran liye the claims to be replicated.
The ghatana seems contrary to ooshmaagatiki, lakin a number of possible explanations for the effect have been proposed.
Further investigations hoga need to decide on a precise paribhaasha of `` jamane '' or control a vishaal kramank of starting paramiters in order to confirm or explain the effect.
The Siamese (, ) is one of the first distinctly pahachaanaa breeds of Oriental cat.
The nasl originated in thailand ( formerly gyaat as siam ), jahaan ve hai ek of anek deshi breeds and are called Wichian Mat ( วิเชียรมาศ, a name meaning `` moon diamond '' ).
In the 20th century the Siamese cat became ek of the sabase lokapriy breeds in europea or uttar america.
Quality Food centers ( qfc ) is a supermarket kadi aadhaarit in bellevue, washington, saath 64 stores in the puget dhwani pradesh of Washington state and in the Portland, Oregon metropolitan area.
in arthshaastra, the dhan supplai or dhan bhandar, is the total amount of monetary assets available in an economy at a specific time.
There are anek tareeke to define `` dhan, '' lakin maanak upayon praayah shaamil karency in parisancharan or maang jamaa ( jamakartaon ' easily accessed assets on the books of financial institutions ).
Money supply data hai ankit or prakashit, praayah by the sarkari or the central bank of the country.
Public and private sector analysts have long monitored parivartan in dhan supplai kuki of iske prabhaav on the daam str, mahangaai, the exchange rate and the business cycle.
That relation between dhan or keemten is historically sambhddha saath the quantity theory of money.
There is strong empirical evidence of a direct sambandh between money-supply vikaas or long-term daam mahangaai, at tanik liye rapid increases in the raashi of money in the economy.
That is, a country such as Zimbabwe which saw rapid increases in iske dhan supplai bhi dekhi rapid increases in keemten ( hyperinflation ).
This is one reason for the reliance on maudrik niti as a arthath of controlling inflation.
The nature of is causal kadi is the vishay of contention.
kuch shaast arthshaastriyon argue ki the dhan supplai is endogenous ( sankalpit by the workings of the arthvyavastha, not by the central bank ) and that the sources of inflation must be found in the distributional structure of the economy.
In addition, those economists seeing the central bank 's control over the dhan supplai as feeble kah ki vahin hai do kamjor kadi between the vikaas of the dhan supply and the inflation rate.
First, in the aftermath of a recession, when many resources are underutilized, an badhayen in the dhan supplai can kaaran a sustained badhayen in real utpaadan bajaay of mahangaai.
Second, if the velocity of money, i.e., the anupaat between nammaatr jidipi or dhan supplai, parivartan, an badhayen in the dhan supplai could have either no prabhaav, an exaggerated effect, or an unpredictable effect on the growth of nominal GDP.
logo liye imax.
Warren theatre imax cinema, wichita, kansas, USA, 601 seats.
A tulana between 35 mm or 15/70 mm negative areas.
IMAX ( an abbreviation for Image Maximum ) is a motion chitra filmi swaroop or a niyat of cinema prakshep maanakon nirmit by the canadai company IMAX Corporation.
IMAX has the capacity to record or pradarshak bimb of dur vrihad aakaar or rezolution than conventional film systems.
Since 2002, some feature films have been parivartit ( or upgraded ) into imax swaroop liye pradarshak in imax theatre or kuch have bhi maharoom partially shot in IMAX.
IMAX is the most widely prayukt pranali liye special-venue filmi prastutiyon.
, vahin hai 697 imax theatre in 52 countries.
Today 's Special is a canadai children 's television dikhaaen utpaadit by clive vanderburgh at TVOntario from 1981 to 1987.
It also ran on Nickelodeon and the Faith and maan channel/odyssey ( abhi the hallmark channel ) as khub as many PBS stations throughout the United States.
It was set in a vibhaag store, aadhaarit on the flagship sthaan of the now defunct Simpson 's in Toronto.
Many sequences for it were shot at the maharani gali west or yonge gali store baad ghanton.
Constitutionalism, in its most general meaning, is `` a jatil of vichaar, attitudes, or pattern of bartaav elaborating the principle ki the praadhikaar of government derives from and is limited by a body of fundamental law ''.
A political organization is constitutional to the extent ki it `` contain [ s ] institutionalized mechanisms of shakti control liye the suraksha of the ruchi or liberties of the citizenry, including those that may be in the minority ``.
As described by rajnatik vaigyanik or sanvaidhanik vidwaan daud Fellman :
An ice-cream headache, also known as brain freeze, cold-stimulus sirdard, or iske die vaigyanik naam sphenopalatine ganglioneuralgia ( arth `` tantrika pidaa of the sphenopalatine gandika `` ), is a rup of bread cranial pidaa or sirdard commonly sambhddha with consumption ( particularly quick consumption ) of cold beverages or foods such as ice cream and ice pops.
It is caused by having kuch thanda tach the chat of the munh ( taalu ), or is believed to parinaam isse a tantrika jawaab causing rapid constriction and swelling of blood vessels or a `` referring `` of pain from the roof of the mouth to the head.
The rate of seven liye thanda bhojan rai maharoom padhai as a contributing factor.
There hai logon jo can nahin anubhav `` dimag fries '' or similar symptoms.
The term ice-cream sirdard rai maharoom in upyog chunki at tanik 31 janvari 1937, contained in a jarnal pravishti by rebeka timbres published in the 1939 book We did n't ask Utopia : a Quaker family in Soviet Russia.
The first published use of the term brain freeze, as it pertains to cold-induced headaches, thi on 27 May 1991.
`` Auld Lang Syne '' ( : note `` s '' rather than `` z '' ) is a scots kavita likhaa by robert burns in 1788 or niyat to the dhun of a paramparaagat lok song ( Roud # 6294 ).
It is well known in anek deshon, visheshkar in the english-speaking sansar ; iske paramparaagat upyog hone to celebrate the prarambh of the nai saal at the stroke of midnight.
By extension, it is bhi sung at antyeshti, graduations or as a vidaai or ending to other occasions.
The antarrashtriya ladke scout yuvavastha gati, in anek deshon, uses it as a close to jamborees and other functions.
The song 's Scots title may be translated into English literally as `` old long since '', or adhik idiomatically, `` long long pehle '', `` dinon gaye by '' or `` old times ''.
Consequently `` For auld lang syne '', as it appears in the first line of the kores, might be loosely anudit as `` liye ( the khatir of ) old times ''.
The phrase `` Auld Lang Syne '' is also prayukt in samaan kavitaayen by robert ayton ( 1570–1638 ), allan ramsay ( 1686–1757 ), or james watasan ( 1711 ) as well as older folk songs predating Burns.
Matthew Fitt uses the phrase `` In the dinon of auld laing syne '' as the samatuly of `` ekbar upon a samay...
`` in his retelling of pari kisse in the scots bhashaa.
Ben schulz, khilaadi of leeroy Jenkins at BlizzCon 2007
Leeroy Jenkins, sometimes misspelled Leroy Jenkins or praayah elongated saath numerous atirikt akshar, is an antarjaal mim namit liye a khilaadi akshar nirmit by ben schulz in blizzard entertainment 's MMORPG, World of Warcraft.
The character became lokapriy due to a video of the khel that circulated around the Internet.
The phenomenon has chunki sprad pare the seemayen of the gaming jatiyaan into anya online and mainstream media.
Oscar Grant was fatally shot by BART police officer Johannes Mehserle in ockland, california, sanyukt rajya, in the jaldi morning ghanton of nai saal 's Day 2009.
Responding to reports of a fight on a crowded Bay Area Rapid Transit tren returning isse san francisco, bart police adhikariyon detained auskar grant or anek anya yatri on the manch at the Fruitvale BART Station.
adhikari yohaness mehserle or another adhikari yahood restraining Grant, who was prostrate and allegedly resisting arrest.
Officer Mehserle stood or, according to gavaah, kaha : `` milengi waapas, I 'm gon na tase him. ''
Then Mehserle drew his gun and shot Grant once in the waapas ; mehserle appeared dang, put uske hands to uske sir and exclaimed, `` Oh, my God ! ''
During his court testimony, Mehserle said ki grant tab exclaimed, `` tum shot me ! ''
Grant turned out to be unarmed ; he thi sunaaya murde the aglaa morning at highland hospital in Oakland.
The events were captured on anek digital video or koshika phone camere.
The footage was disseminated to media outlet or to vibhinn websiton, jahaan it was watched millions of times.
the following dinon dekhi dono shantipurna or hinsak protests.
the shooting rai maharoom variously labeled an involuntary manslaughter and a summary execution.
On January 13, alameda county prosecutors charge mehserle saath hatya liye the shooting.
He resigned his sthiti or pleaded nahin apradhi.
The trial began on june 10, 2010.
Michael Rains, Mehserle 's criminal defense attorney, argued that Mehserle mistakenly shot grant saath uske pistal, intending to upyog uske taasir jab he dekhi grant reaching for his waistband.
pretrial filings argue ki uske claayent kiya nahin commit first-degree hatya or poocha a los angeles nyaayadhish to instruct the jury to limit its deliberations to either second-degree murder or acquittal.
Oakland civil adhikaron attorney jon burris daayar a $ 25 lakh wrongful maut arji viruddh BART on behalf of Grant 's family.
On July 8, 2010, the juri laute iske verdict : mehserle thi mila apradhi of involuntary manslaughter or nahin guilty of second-degree murder and voluntary manslaughter.
Initial virodh viruddh the sattadhari yahood shantipurvak vyavasthit ; luutane, aagjanee, vinaash of property, and small riots broke out after dark.
Nearly 80 logon yahood aakhirkaar giraftaar.
On Friday, July 9, 2010, the U.S. Justice Department opened a civil rights case viruddh mehserle ; the sangheey sarkari can prosecute use independently liye the vahi adhinium antargat the pruthak adhipati excepshan to double jeopardy.
The vibhaag of insaaf hoga be working saath the u.S. attorney 's office in San Francisco and the FBI.
On November 5, 2010, mehserle thi sentenced to do saalo, rin time served.
He served his time in the los angeles county karawas, occupying a nijee cell away from other prisoners.
He was released on June 13, 2011 or is abhi on parole.
Major representatives of the harlem punarjagran.
The Harlem punarjagran thi a saanskrithik gati ki spanned the 1920s.
At the time, it was known as the `` nai nigro gati '', namit baad the 1925 anthology by Alain Locke.
Though it was centered in the Harlem neighborhood of nai york nagar, anek french-speaking blike lekhak isse africa or caribbean colonies jo jiya in paris yahood bhi bahekaave by the harlem punarjagran.
The Harlem Renaissance is unofficially pahachaanaa to have spanned isse parichay 1919 jabatak the jaldi or mid-1930s.
anek of iske vichaar jiya on much longer.
The zenith of this `` flowering of Negro literature '', as James Weldon Johnson preferred to call the Harlem Renaissance, was placed between 1924 ( the year that Opportunity : A Journal of nigro jivan hosted a party liye blike lekhak jahaan anek shwet prakaashak yahood in upasthiti ) or 1929 ( the saal of the bhandar market krash or the shuruuaat of the great Depression ).
African States between 500 bce or 1500 CE
obelisk at temple of luxsar, Egypt.
c. 1200 bce.
africa nit of baguirmi in puraa padded armour suit.
The history of Africa begins with the praagitihaas of africa or the emergence of homo sapiens in east africa, continuing into the upasthit as a patchwork of diverse and politically developing nation states.
Some jaldi pramaan of krishi in africa tithiyaan isse 16,000 bce, and metallurgy from about 4000 BCE.
The recorded history of early sabhyataa arose in mishra, or baad in nubia, the magarib or the Horn of Africa.
During the madhya aayu, islam sprad through the regions.
crossing the magarib or the sahel, a major center of Muslim culture was Timbuktu.
Some notable pre-colonial states and societies in Africa include the Nok culture, Mali Empire, Ashanti Empire, kingdom of mapungubwe, kingdom of jya, kingdom of saloum, kingdom of baol, kingdom of zimbabwe, kingdom of kongo, pracheen karthej, numidia, mauretania, the Aksumite Empire, the Ajuuraan State and the Adal Sultanate.
From the late 15th century, Europeans and arabs took slave isse west, central or southeast africa videshi in the African slave trade.
European colonization of africa viksit rapidly in the hathapayee liye africa of the let 19th and early 20th centuries.
Following struggles liye swatantraaa in anek bhaag of the mahadweep, as khub as a weakened Europe after the Second World War ; decolonization took place.
Africa 's history has been challenging liye shodhakartaaon in the field of africa adhyayan kuki of the killat of written sources in large parts of sub-Saharan Africa.
Scholarly techniques aise as the recording of maukhik itihaas, aitihaasik bhashavigyaan, puraatatv and genetics have been crucial.
Curry Foley was the first khilaadi in pramukh lig besabaal itihaas to hit for the cycle.
In baseball, hitting liye the saikil is the accomplishment of ek batter hitting a single, a double, a triple, and a home run in the same game.
Collecting the hits in ki anukram is gyaat as a `` natural cycle ''.
Cycles are uncommon in Major League Baseball ( MLB ), and have occurred 294 times chunki the pehla by curry foli in 1882.
The cycle is roughly as common as a no-hitter ( 279 occurrences in MLB history ) ; it has been pukaara `` ek of the rarest '' or `` sabase mushkil feats '' in besabaal.
Based on 2009 offensive levels, the probability of an average MLB player hitting for a cycle against an average toli in a khel is lagbhag 0.00590 % ; is corresponds to parichay 2.5 chakra in a 162-game ritu saath 30 teams.
In other baseball leagues, the saikil is hasil kam aksar.
Through September 4, 2008, 62 players in Nippon Professional Baseball ( npb ), the top-level besabaal sanghathan in japani, have hit liye the saikil, the sabase haal hone michihiro Ogasawara.
Two players have hit liye the saikil on the vahi din ekbar in npb itihaas ; this has occurred twice in MLB history.
ek npb khilaadi rai bhi hit liye the saikil in an NPB All-Star game.
No player has ever hit liye the saikil in the emelbi all-star khel or the postseason.
The main slave root in madhyakaalin Africa.
This aalekh discusses pranaaliyon, itihaas, or prabhaav of slavery within Africa.
See arab slave vyapaar, atlantic slave vyapaar, maafa, and Slavery in contemporary Africa for other discussions.
`` slave hastantaran in africa ''.
Europeans usually kiya nahin daalen the aantarik regions.
Slavery in africa rai existed throughout the mahadweep liye anek sadiyaan, and continues in the current day.
Systems of servitude and slavery were common in anek bhaag of the mahadweep, as ve yahood in much of the ancient world.
In most African samaajon jahaan gulaami thi prachlit, the enslaved logon yahood largely treated as indentured servants and not treated as chattel slaves.
When the Arab slave trade and Atlantic slave vyapaar began, anek of the local slave pranaaliyon badla or began supplying captives liye slave markets outside of Africa.
Slavery in historical Africa was practiced in anek alag form or kuch of ye do nahin clearly anuroop the paribhaashaayen of gulaami elsewhere in the world.
Debt slavery, enslavement of yuddh captives, sainya gulaami, or dand gulaami were all practiced in various parts of Africa.
Although there had been some trans-Saharan trade from the interior of Sub-Saharan Africa to other regions, gulaami thi a choti bhaag of the aarthik jivan of anek samaajon in africa jabatak the parichay of transcontinental slave trade ( Arab and Atlantic ).
Slave practices were again transformed with europea colonization of africa or the aupchaarik abolition of gulaami in the early 1900s.
Windows Task Manager is a task manager or System monitor application included with the Microsoft Windows NT family of operating systems that provides limited information about computer performance and running applications, processes and CPU usage, commit charge and memory information, network activity and statistics, logged-in users, and system services ( and as praayah is the maamla saath tantra tuls provided by microsoft liye khidkiyaan, 3rd party tantra is uplabdhiyaan jisase bharta the aavashyaktaayen adhik thoroughly, e.g, `` prakram explorer '', `` vistaarit kaary manager '', `` Anvir Task Manager '', `` Process Hacker '', and `` System Explorer '' ).
The Task manager can bhi be prayukt to niyat prakram praathamiktaayen, procesar apnaapan, forcibly terminate prakriyaaon, and shut down, restart, hibernate or log off from Windows.
khidkiyaan kaary manager thi introduced with Windows NT 4.0.
Previous sanskaran of khidkiyaan nt shaamil the kaary suchi anuprayog, which had far fewer features.
The task list was capable of listing currently running prakriyaaon or hatya unhen, or bananaa a nai prakram.
In Windows XP tabhi, a shutdown menu is bhi upasthit ki allows abhigam to standby, hibernate, phere band, restart, Log Off and Switch User.
Earlier versions of Microsoft khidkiyaan ( microsoft khidkiyaan 3.x, khidkiyaan 95, khidkiyaan 98 ) tha a kaarykram gyaat as kaary to pradarshak the programs currently running.
This file was executed by kaaryshil the taskman.exe sanchika isse the c : \khidkinus directory.
The Troop is an american-canadian live-action, single camera kamedi -adventure television shrenee parichay a tikdi of teenagers who fight and capture monsters and other supernatural phenomena that invade the fictional town of Lakewood.
nirmit or karypalika utpaadit by adhiktam burnett, greg kulij or kris morgan, the shrenee premiered on Nickelodeon on September 18, 2009.
The second season premiered on june 25, 2011 or niklodian radd the shrenee midway through it 's second season.
The remaining episodes of season 2 yahood aired on nicktoons magar the last 3..
Sparsely populated in relation to its area, the Democratic Republic of the Congo ( DRC ) is ghar to a vishaal sambhavit of prakritik sansaadhan or khanij maal, iske untapped jamaa of kaccha khanij hai anumaanit to be laayak in excess of us $ 24 kharab, yet the arthvyavastha of the drc rai asweekrut drastically since the mid-1980s.
At the time of its independence in 1960, DRC was the second most industrialized desh in africa baad dakshin africa ; it boasted a thriving khanan sector or iske krishi sector was relatively productive.
If the darshak stares at is chitra liye 20–60 second or stares at a shwet object, a negative afterimage will appear ( in this case, it will be cyan on magenta ).
This can bhi be hasil by the darshak closing his/her ankhen or tilting their head up.
An afterimage or ghost image or image burn-in is an optical bhram ki refers to an chitra continuing to appear in ek 's drushti baad the expozar to the asli chitra rai ceased.
One of the most aam afterimages is the ujjwal glow ki seems to flash pehle ek 's ankhen baad looking into a light source for a few seconds.
Closing the eye can sahaayta achieve a behatar bhav of the color in its own aspect.
Afterimages come in two forms, rinatmak ( ulat ) or dhanatmak ( retaining asli color ).
The process behind positive afterimages is anjaan, haalanki vichaar to be sambandhit to neural adaptation.
On the other hand, negative afterimages are a retinal ghatana or hai khub samajha.
Lost is an American serial drama television series that premiered on sitambar 22, 2004 on the amareeki prasaaran Company ( ABC ).
The series was nirmit by J. J. abrams or daiman lindelof, aadhaarit upon an asli payalat script titled Nowhere written by Jeffrey Lieber.
Six seasons of the show aired, in addition to numerous kaaten shows to purvavlokan pichhlaa episodes.
ABC announced that khoyaa hota samaapt baad chah sizan, having utpaadit a kul of 121 apisod.
The series follows the past, present, and future experience ( s ) of the survivors of a plane krash on a yatri jet, oceanic udaan 815, udati isse sidney to los angeles baad it krash on a tropical island in the South Pacific.
The series also shaamil kahaniyaan of the jeevandaan of logon already jeena on the dweep — ve shaamil the `` anya ``, jo initially antagonize the survivors, as well as a group of people who arrive on the freighter Kahana.
Each episode typically suvidhaayen karrwai on the dweep as khub as a dwitiyak kathanak isse another point in a character 's life.
Season 6 suvidhaayen a detailing of the jeevandaan of the survivors in a different reality, as if the flight had never crashed.
In the following suchi, the pad `` pradarshit akshar ( s ) '' refers to the akshar or varna jo hai pradarshit in the secondary storyline of each episode.
`` no.
in series '' refers to the apisod 's kramank in the overall shrenee, whereas `` No.
in season '' refers to the apisod 's kramank in prayek particular ritu.
`` U.S. viewers ( lakh ) '' refers to the kramank of america in millions who watched the episode live.
A total of 121 episodes of Lost yahood utpaadit, the pichhlaa of jisase aired on May 23, 2010.
All seasons are uplabdhiyaan on dvd in regions 1–4 or on blu-ray in regions A and B.
Flat feet ( also called pes planus or fallen arches ) is a aupchaarik sandarbh to a chikitsa condishan in jisase the mehrab of the pair collapses, saath the sampurna ekmaatr of the foot coming into complete or near-complete contact with the ground.
In some individuals ( an anumaanit 20–30 % of the saamaanya janasankhyikee ) the arch simply never develops in one foot ( unilaterally ) or both feet ( bilaterally ).
Three studies ( see citations below in military section ) of military recruits have shown no evidence of baad increased chot, or pair samasyaayein, due to chapata feet, in a janasankhyikee of logon jo pahunchein sainya seva aayu bagaiyr prior foot problems.
however, ye adhyayan can nahin be prayukt to nyaayadhish sambhavit bhavishya damage from this condition when diagnosed at younger ages.
They also can not be applied to persons whose flat feet hai sambhddha saath pair lakshan, or nishchit lakshan in anya bhaag of the deh ( such as the leg or back ) possibly referable to the foot.
Generation X, commonly abbreviated to gen x, is the peedhee born baad the pashchimi post-world War II baby boom.
Demographers, historians and commentators use beginning birth tithiyaan isse the jaldi 1960s to the early 1980s.
The term was popularized by Douglas Coupland 's 1991 anokhaa peedhee x : kisse liye an twarit samskruti.
Before that, it had maharoom prayukt liye vibhinn subcultures or countercultures after the 1950s.
Pressure ulcers, also known as decubitus ulcers or bedsores, hai sthaniyakrut choton to the skin and/or underlying utak praayah over a boni prominence, as a parinaam of dabaav, or pressure in combination with shear and/or friction.
sabase commonly is hoga be the sacrum, coccyx, ediyon or the kulhon, lakin anya site aise as the elbows, knees, ankles or the back of the cranium can be affected.
The kaaran of dabaav chhaale is dabaav lagu to naram utak so ki rakt pravaah to the naram utak is completely or partially obstructed.
Shear is also a cause ; shear khinchataa on rakt baratan ki feed the skin.
Pressure ulcers most commonly develop in vyaktiyon jo hai nahin chalati parichay or hai confined to wheelchairs.
It is widely believed ki anya karkon can influence the sahishnutaa of skin liye dabaav and shear thereby increasing the risk of pressure ulcer development.
These factors are protein-calorie kuposhan, microclimate ( skin wetness caused by sweating or incontinence ), rogon ki reduce rakt pravaah to the skin, aise as arteriosclerosis or rogon ki reduce the feeling in the skin, such as paralysis or neuropathy.
The healing of pressure ulcers may be slowed by the age of the person, chikitsa sharten ( aise as arteriosclerosis, madhumeh or sankraman ), smoking or medications such as antiinflammatory drugs.
Although often prevented and treatable if found early, pressure chhaale can be bahut mushkil to prevent in critically biimaar marijon, frail bado, wheelchair upayokta ( visheshkar jahaan spinal chot is shaamil ) and terminally ill patients.
praathmik rokthaam is to redistribute dabaav by turning the patient regularly.
the laabh of turning to avoid further sores is khub pralekhith since at least the 19th century.
In addition to turning and re-positioning the patient in bed or wheelchair, khaane a santulit aahaar saath paryaapt protein or keeping the skin free isse expozar to mutr or stool is very important.
The prevalence of pressure ulcers in hospital jamaavat is unchi, lakin sudhaar hai hone bana.
According to the 2010 IPUP ( International Pressure ulcer vyapaktaa surveykshan ) conducted in canada, vahin thi a significant ghati in the overall facility-acquired vyapaktaa of dabaav ulcers from 2009-2010.
Ulcers were most commonly pahachaanaa at the sacral/coccyx ulcer sthaan ; however, edi chhaale yahood the sabase aam facility-acquired location in the survey.
overboard is a 1987 amareeki romantic kamedi filmi starring Goldie Hawn and Kurt Russell.
It was nirdeshit by gairi marshall, utpaadit by roddy mcdowell, or loosely prerit by the 1974 Italian film Swept Away.
In turn, overboard thi adapted into the 2006 dakshin korian television series, Couple or Trouble.
Green Bay is a nagar in or the county seat of bhura county in the u.S. rajya of visconsin, stith at the sir of green khadi, a sub-basin of Lake Michigan, at the mouth of the Fox River.
It has an elevation of upar samudr str or is stith uttar of milvowki.
The population was 104,057 at the 2010 janasankhyikee.
It is the third-largest city in the state of visconsin, baad milvowki or Madison.
It is also the third-largest nagar on the west shore of jhil michigan, after Chicago and Milwaukee.
Green Bay is home to the green khadi pakars of the neshnal footbaal lig, bananaa it by dur the smallest mahanagar area in the USA to host a major professional sports franchise.
Green Bay is the principal city of the Green Bay Metropolitan Statistical Area, which covers Brown, kewaunee, or oconto county or tha a sanyukt janasankhyikee of 282,599 at the 2000 janasankhyikee.
Green Bay is an industrial city with anek meatpacking or paper paudhe, or a bandargahon on green khadi, an bhujaa of jhil michigan that locals call the Bay of Green Bay, to avoid conflating it with the eponymous city.
It is home to the National Railroad Museum ; the Neville public sangrahalay, saath pradarshaniyon of art, itihaas, or vigyaan ; and the University of Wisconsin–Green Bay.
Luteinizing hormone ( LH, also known as lutropin and sometimes lutrophin ) is a hormone produced by gonadotroph koshikaayen in the agravarti pituitary granthi.
In females, an acute vruddhi of lh ( `` lh surge '' ) triggers ovulation or vikaas of the corpus luteum.
In males, where LH tha bhi maharoom pukaara antaraleey cell-stimulating hormone ( icsh ), it stimulates leydig koshika production of testosterone.
It acts synergistically saath fsh.
Selena quintanilla-pérez ( april 16, 1971 – kooch 31, 1995 ), gyaat bas as selina, was an American singer-songwriter.
She was named the `` top Latin artist of the '90s '' and `` Best selling latin kalakaar of the dashak '' by billboard liye uske chaudaa top-ten singles in the sheersh latin geeton chart, sahit saat number-one hits.
Selena had the most successful singles of 1994 or 1995, `` amor prohibido `` or `` no me queda más ``.
wo thi pukaara `` the maharani of tejano music `` or the mexican equivalent of Madonna.
Selena released uske pehla album, selina y los Dinos, at the age of twelve.
She won Female Vocalist of the Year at the 1987 Tejano Music Awards or utraa a recording anubandh saath emi a few saalo baad.
Her fame grew throughout the jaldi 1990s, visheshkar in spanish-speaking deshon, and she had begun recording in English as well.
Selena was murdered at the aayu of 23 on kooch 31, 1995 by yolanda Saldívar, the former president of her fan club.
On April 12, 1995, two saptaah baad uske maut, george W. bush, rajyapal of texas at the time, declared her birthday `` Selena Day '' in Texas.
Warner bhaius. utpaadit selina, a filmi aadhaarit on uske jivan abhinit Jennifer Lopez, in 1997.
Selena 's jivan thi bhi the aadhaar of the musical selina forever abhinit Veronica Vazquez as Selena.
In June 2006 Selena was commemorated saath a life-sized kaansya pratimaa ( mirador de la flor in corpus christi, texas ) or a selina museum opened there.
She has sold over 60 lakh album vishwavyaapee, bananaa uske ek of the best-selling artists of all time.
wo is bhi the tabhi maadaa kalakaar to have five albums in U.S. Billboard 200 at the same time.
German stahlhelm isse sansar yuddh II
Insignia of the Bolivian fouj colorados regiment, prardashit a stahlhelm and two crossed bayonets
Stahlhelm ( bahuvachan, stahlhelme ) is germany liye `` steel helmet ''.
The imperial germany fouj began to badalen the paramparaagat boiled-leather pickelhaube ( spiked combat helmet ) with the Stahlhelm during World War I in 1916.
The term Stahlhelm refers dono to a generik steel helmet, or adhik specifically to the distinctive ( and iconic ) German design.
The Stahlhelm, with its distinctive `` coal scuttle `` shape, was an instantly recognizable pratik liye sainya imagery or became a aam tatv of sainya prachaar on dono pahalu, just like the Pickelhaube before it.
Its name thi bhi prayukt by the stahlhelm, a ardhsainik rashtravaadi sanghathan sthapit at the end of 1918.
glow-in-the-dark may refer to:
jeevadipti, the utpaadan or utsarjan of light by a living organism
Chemiluminescence, is the utsarjan of lite ( sandipti ) bagaiyr emission of heat
Phosphorescence, a vishisht prakaar of photoluminescence related to fluorescence
Radioluminescence, production of sandipti in a saamagree by the bambaari of inkaree radiation
Glow in the Dark daure, a 2008 concert daure by Kanye West
Frankfurt Airport serves as a hub city liye lufthansa or receives flite isse star gathbandhan vaahak.
Airline hubs are airports ranked as large, medium, choti, or non-hubs as ek of the faa vimaanashetra shrenee jisase hai re-evaluated prayek saal aadhaarit on kramank of vanijyik passengers.
The more common but informal use for the phrase airline hub is an airport ki an airline upyog as a transafar point to milengi yatri to unke intended destination.
It is part of a hub or spoke model, jahaan travelers chalati between airport nahin parosa by sidhaa flite change planes en route to their destinations.
This is as opposed to the point to point model.
Many hubs of the airlines hai bhi situated at airport in the cities of the respective head offices.
Some airlines may use only a single hub, jabaki anya airlines upyog anek hubs.
Hubs are used liye dono yatri flite as khub as cargo flights.
Many airlines bhi upyog fokas shaharon, jisase falan much the same as hubs.
Airlines may also use dwitiyak hubs, a non-technical pad liye vishaal fokas cities.
A hub in the middle of a route is more effective than at either samaapt as connecting trekkic adhik easily bharta the plane - yatri prefer a one-stop ( two-leg ) route over a two-stop ( three-leg ) route.
khokhla lacedaemon.
Site of the Menelaion, the shrine to Helen and Menelaus constructed anciently in the Bronze Age city ki stood on the hill of therapne on the baayein bainko of the eurotas River overlooking the future site of Dorian Sparta.
Across the ghati the successive ridges of mount taygetus are in evidence.
Sparta ( Doric Greek : ; Attic Greek : ), or Lacedaemon, was a prominent city-state in ancient unaniyon, situated on the bainko of the eurotas nadi in laconia, in south-eastern Peloponnese.
It emerged as a political entity around the 10th sadi bc, jab the akramanakari dorians subjugated the local, non-dorian population.
Around 650 BC, it rose to become the prabal sainya land-power in pracheen Greece.
Given its sainya pre-eminence, sparta thi pahachaanaa as the overall netaa of the sanyukt Greek forces during the Greco-Persian Wars.
Between 431 and 404 BC, Sparta thi the principal dushman of athens dauraan the peloponnesian yuddh, isse jisase it ubhara vijayi, though at great cost.
Sparta 's defeat by thebes in the battle of leuctra in 371 bc ended sparta 's prominent role in Greece.
However, it maintained iske rajnatik swatantraaa jabatak the roman conquest of unaniyon in 146 BC.
It then underwent a long period of decline, visheshkar in the madhya aayu, jab anek spartans sthanantarit to sajiv in mystras.
Modern sparta is the puunji of the unani kshetreey ikai of laconia or a bich liye the prasanskaran of goods such as citrus and olives.
Sparta was unique in ancient Greece for its soshal pranali or samvidhan, jisase completely kendrit on sainya prashikshan or excellence.
Its inhabitants were classified as spartiates ( spartan nagarikon, jo enjoyed puraa adhikaron ), mothakes ( non-spartan free main uthaaya as spartans ), perioikoi ( freedmen ), and Helots ( state-owned serfs, enslaved non-Spartan local population ).
Spartiates underwent the rigorous agoge training and shiksha regimen, or spartan phalanges yahood widely mana to be among the best in battle.
Spartan women enjoyed considerably adhik adhikaron or samta to main than elsewhere in the shastreey world.
Sparta was the subject of fascination in iske apana din, as khub as in the west following the punaruddhar of shastreey learning.
This prem or admiration of sparta is known as Laconism or Laconophilia.
Fantasy football is an interactive competition in which upayokta compete viruddh prayek anya as saamaanya managers of virtual teams.
The players that an individual is able to manage hai peshewar amareeki footbaal khilaadi in the neshnal footbaal lig.
The alag kriyaayein logon hai samarth to mek hai drafting, vyapaar, adding or dropping players, and changing rosters.
Due to the growth of the antarjaal, kaalpanik footbaal rai vastly increased in lokapriyata, visheshkar kuki kaalpanik footbaal pradaataaon aise as iespien, yahuu, sibies, or the enegel itself hai samarth to keep track of statistics entirely online, eliminating the need to check box scores and newspapers regularly to keep track of players.
sabase lig have a single saptaah championships in Week 16 of the NFL season.
World population estimates from 1800 to 2100, aadhaarit on un 2010 projections ( red, naarangi, green ) or us janasankhyikee beuro aitihaasik estimates ( black ).
Actual recorded janasankhyikee aankade hai in blue.
According to the ucchtam anumaan, the sansar janasankhyikee may vruddhi to 16 arab by 2100 ; according to the lowest estimate, it may decline to 6 billion.
The world population is the kul kramank of jeena insaano on Earth.
As of aaj, it is anumaanit to kramank arab by the sanyukt States Census Bureau ( USCB ).
The USCB estimates that the sansar janasankhyikee exceeded 7 arab on March 12, 2012.
According to a separate anumaan by the sanyukt raashtra janasankhyikee nidhi, it pahunche is milestone on October 31, 2011.
The world population has anbhavi nirantar vikaas chunki the samaapt of the great akaal or the Black Death in 1350, when it stood at around 370 million.
The highest rates of growth – global janasankhyikee increases upar 1.8 % prati saal – yahood dekhi briefly dauraan the 1950s, or liye a longer kaal dauraan the 1960s and 1970s.
The vikaas rate peaked at 2.2 % in 1963, or tha asweekrut to 1.1 % by 2011.
Total annual births were highest in the late 1980s at about 138 million, and are now expected to remain essentially nirantar at unke 2011 str of 134 lakh, jabaki mauton kramank 56 lakh prati saal, or hai apekshit to badhayen to 80 million per year by 2040.
Current projections show a continued increase in population in the near future ( but a sthir manaahi in the janasankhyikee vikaas rate ), saath the vaishvik janasankhyikee apekshit to pahunchein between 7.5 or 10.5 arab by 2050.
Various longer-term estimates bhavishyavaanee further vikaas, stagnation, or bhi overall decline in the global population by 2150.
Some analysts have questioned the sustainability of further world population vikaas, citing the growing pressures on the paryaavaran, vaishvik khaanaa aapurtiyan, or urja sansaadhan.
skeletal mansapeshiyaan homo sapiens
This is a talika of mansapeshiyaan of the insaan anatomy.
There are approximately 642 skeletal mansapeshiyaan bheetar the theth insaan, or lagbhag prayek mansapeshi constitutes ek bhaag of a jodi of ekasmaan dwipaksheeya mansapeshiyaan, mila on dono sides, resulting in approximately 320 pairs of muscles, as presented in this article.
Nevertheless, the exact number is difficult to define because alag strot samooh mansapeshiyaan differently, e.g. regarding kayaa is paribhaashit as alag bhaag of a single mansapeshi or as several muscles.
udhaaharan dayera isse 640 to 850.
The muscles of the insaan deh can be categorized into a kramank of samooh jisase shaamil mansapeshiyaan relating to the sir or gardan, mansapeshiyaan of the dhad or trunk, muscles of the upper limbs, and muscles of the lower limbs.
The action refers to the karrwai of prayek mansapeshi isse the maanak anatomical position.
In other positions, anya kriyaayein may be performed.
A gold baar is a maatra of parishkrut dhatvik sunaharaa of koi aakaar ki is bana by a baar nirmaataa baithak maanak sharten of manufacture, labeling, and record keeping.
Larger gold bars that are utpaadit by pouring the molten metal into molds hai pukaara ingots.
Smaller bars may be manufactured by minting or stamping isse appropriately lipte sunaharaa sheets.
The standard gold bar held as gold reserves by central bainko or traded among bullion dealer is the 400-troy-ounce ( 12.4 kg or 438.9 ounce ) Good Delivery gold bar.
The kilobar, jisase is to kah 1000 gamma in dravyaman, is the baar ki is adhik manageable or is used extensively for trading and investment.
The premium on these bars jab traded is bahut kam over the spot maan of the sunaharaa bananaa it adarsh liye choti hastantaran between banks and traders.
Most kilobars are flat, although some investors, visheshkar in europea, prefer the eenton aakaar.
Elisha archibald `` archi '' manning iii ( born may 19, 1949 ) is a purv amareeki footbaal quarterbaque in the National Football League, playing for the New Orleans Saints from 1971 to 1982, then for the Houston Oilers and Minnesota Vikings.
He is the father of current Denver Broncos quarterback Peyton Manning, vartmaan nai york diggaj starting quarterbaque eli manning, or purv Ole Miss receiver Cooper Manning.
Advocacy is a political process by an vyaktigat or samooh jisase aims to influence public-policy or sansaadhan aavanton nirnay bheetar rajnatik, economic, and social systems and institutions.
Advocacy can include many kriyaayein ki a vyakti or sanghathan undertakes sahit media abhiyaan, public bolnaa, commissioning or prakaashan shodh or polls or the filing of an amicus brief.
Lobbying ( often by lobby samooh ) is a rup of vakaalat jahaan a sidhaa drushtikon is bana to vidhayak on an issue which plays a significant role in modern politics.
Research is beginning to explore how advocacy samooh in the u.S. or canada hai using soshal media to sukar naagarik sagaai and collective action.
The flag of Mexico ( Spanish : Bandera de México ) is a lambavat tirangaa of green, shwet, or red saath the neshnal kot of bahen charge in the center of the white stripe.
While the meaning of the colors has changed over time, these three colors yahood apanaaya by mexico following swatantraaa isse spain dauraan the desh 's yuddh of Independence, and subsequent First Mexican Empire.
The current flag was adopted in 1968, but the overall dizine rai maharoom prayukt chunki 1821, jab the pehla neshnal dhvaj thi nirmit.
The current law of national symbols, vidhi on the neshnal bahen, dhvaj, or gaan, ki governs the upyog of the neshnal dhvaj rai been in place since 1984.
red, shwet, or green hai the rangon of the national liberation army in Mexico.
The central emblem is the azetek pictogram liye tenochtitlan ( abhi mexico nagar ), the center of their empire.
It recalls the legend ki prerit the aztecs to settle on what was originally a lake-island.
The rup of the kot of bahen thi sabase recently sanshodhit in 1968.
A riban in the neshnal rangon is at the neeche of the coat of arms.
throughout itihaas, the dhvaj rai badla chaar times, as the dizine of the kot of bahen or the length-width ratios of the flag have been modified.
However, the coat of arms has had the same features throughout : an eagle, holding a serpent in its talon, is perched on sheersh of a prickly naashpati cactus ; the cactus is situated on a rock that rises above a lake.
The coat of arms is niklaa isse an azetek legend ki unke devataaon bataai unhen to nirmaan a nagar jahaan ve spot an tribhuj on a nopal eating a serpent, which is now Mexico City.
The current national flag, the chauthi neshnal dhvaj, is bhi prayukt as the mexican naval ensign by ships registered in Mexico.
A destination marketing organization or convention and visitor beuro promotes a kasbaa, nagar, pradesh, or desh in anukram to badhayen the number of visitors.
It promotes the development and vipanan of a gantavy, focusing on sammelan bikri, paryaton vipanan, or services.
Such organizations promote economic development of a destination by increasing vizit isse paryatakon or kaarobaar travelers, jisase generates overnight awaas liye a gantavy, vizit to restaraan, and shopping revenues.
Convention and visitor bureaus are the most important tourism vipanan sanghathan in unke sambandhit paryatak gantavyon, as ve hai sidhe jimmedaar liye vipanan the gantavy brands through safar or paryaton `` product awareness '' to visitors.
dmos upaj arabon of dollar in sidhaa or apratyaksh aay or kar liye unke gantavyon ' economies with their marketing and sales expertise.
Destination marketing organizations are often pukaara safar, sammelan, vizitor, or paryaton bureaux, welcome centers, information centers and more.
Regardless of the naam, ye sanghathan prastaav anek services to the traveling public.
The elk or wapiti ( Cervus canadensis ) is one of the largest prajati of hiran in the sansar, or ek of the largest jameen stanadhariyon in uttar america or purvi asia.
It was long believed to be a subspecies of the European red hiran ( cervus elaphus ), lakin pramaan isse a 2004 padhai of the mitochondrial diene indicates ki the two are distinct species.
This animal should not be confused with the larger moose ( alces alces ), to jisase the naam `` nilgai '' applies in Eurasia.
alaava isse the moose, the tabhi anya sadsy of the hiran parivaar to pratidwandvi the nilgai in aakaar is the south Asian sambar ( Rusa unicolor ).
nilgai dayera in van or forest-edge awaas, feeding on grasses, paudhe, pattey, and bark.
Although native to North America and eastern Asia, ve have adapted khub to deshon jahaan ve have maharoom introduced, sahit argentina, Australia, and New Zealand.
Their great adaptability may threaten endemic prajati or ecosystems into jisase they have been introduced.
Male elk have large antlers jisase hai shed prayek saal.
males bhi engage in ritualized samagam vyavhaar dauraan the rut, sahit posturing, antler kushti ( sparring ), or bugling, a laud shrenee of vocalizations which establishes dominance over other males and attracts females.
Elk are susceptible to a kramank of sankramak rogon, kuch of jisase can be transmitted to livestock.
Efforts to eliminate sankramak rogon isse nilgai populations, largely through tikaakaran, have had mixed success.
Some samskritiyon aadar the nilgai as a spiritual force.
In parts of Asia, antlers and unke makhmal hai prayukt in traditional medicines.
Elk are hunted as a khel prajati ; the maance is leaner or ucchtar in protein than beef or chicken.
The George Washington University ( GW, GWU, or George washington ) is a vyapak nijee, coeducational shodh vishvavidhyalayon located in Washington, D.C..
It awards certificates, snaatak degree, masters degree, or phds aarpaar anek dozen disciplines.
The vishvavidhyalayon thi chartered by an adhinium of congress on farvari 9, 1821 as the Columbian College in the District of Columbia.
The lion ( Panthera leo ) is one of the four big billiyon in the genus penthera or a sadsy of the parivaar felidaye.
With some males exceeding in vazan, it is the second-largest jeena cat after the tiger.
Wild lions currently exist in sub-Saharan Africa and in asia ( jahaan an endangered remnant janasankhyikee resides in gir van neshnal park in india ) jabaki anya prakaar of sher have disappeared from North Africa and Southwest Asia in historic times.
Until the late pleistocene, parichay 10,000 saalo pehle, the sher thi the sabase faili vishaal jameen mammal after humans.
They were found in most of Africa, across uresia isse pashchimi europea to india, or in the americas isse the yukon to Peru.
The lion is a vulnerable species, having seen a pramukh janasankhyikee manaahi of 30–50 % over the past do dashakon in iske African range.
sher populations hai untenable outside designated reserves and national parks.
Although the cause of the manaahi is nahin fully samajha, awaas ghaataa or virodh saath insaano hai philhal the mahanatam causes of concern.
Within africa, the west africa sher janasankhyikee is visheshkar endangered.
Lions live liye 10–14 saalo in the junglee, jabaki in captivity they can live longer than 20 years.
In the wild, males seldom live longer than 10 years, as choton sustained isse continual lard saath pratidwandvi males greatly reduce unke aayu.
They typically inhabit savana or ghasbhumi, haalanki they may take to bush and forest.
Lions are unusually soshal compared to other cats.
A pride of lions consists of sambandhit mahilaon or aulad and a small number of adult males.
samooh of maadaa sher typically hunt saath, preying mostly on large ungulates.
Lions are apex and keystone parabhakshi, haalanki ve scavenge as avasar allows.
While sher do nahin typically hunt insaano, kuch have maharoom gyaat to do so.
Sleeping mainly dauraan the din, sher hai primarily nocturnal, haalanki bordering on crepuscular in nature.
Highly distinctive, the male lion is easily recognised by iske maane, or iske phase is ek of the sabase widely recognised animal pratikon in insaan culture.
Depictions have existed from the Upper Paleolithic period, saath utkeernan or paintings isse the lascaux or chauvet gufaaen, through vastutah sab pracheen or madhyakaalin samskritiyon where they once occurred.
It has been extensively chitrit in sculptures, in paintings, on neshnal flags, and in contemporary films and literature.
Lions have been kept in menageries chunki the samay of the roman samrajya, or have maharoom a kunjee prajati sought liye exhibition in zoos over the world since the late 18th century.
Zoos are cooperating vishwavyaapee in prajnan kaarykram liye the endangered Asiatic subspecies.
In the history of video games, the saatvaan peedhee of consoles is the pichhlaa peedhee, or shaamil consoles released chunki let by Nintendo, Microsoft, and Sony.
For ghar consoles, the saatvaan peedhee began on 22 navambar 2005 saath the relies of exbox 360 and continued with the release of PlayStation 3 on 11 November 2006, and Wii on 19 November 2006.
prayek nai consol introduced a new type of breakthrough in technology.
The Xbox 360 offered games rendered natively at hd rizolution, the plastesan 3 offered, in jod to fhd gaming, hd film plabac via a built-in 3d blu-ray discs khilaadi, and the Wii focused on integrating controllers with movement sensors as well as joysticks.
Joining nintendo in the gati market, soni released the PlayStation Move in September 2010.
The PlayStation Move suvidhaayen gati samvedan gaming, samaan to that of the Wii.
Microsoft bhi joined soni or nintendo, with its Kinect.
Unlike the anya do pranaaliyon ( plastesan 3 or ve ), kinect karata nahin upyog koi parirakshak of koi sort and makes the users the `` controller. ''
having bechi 8 lakh ikai in iske pehla 60 dinon on the market, kinect rai claimed the Guinness World Record of being the `` fastest selling consumer electronics device ''.
While the Xbox 360 offers taar parirakshak as a staneylon utpaada, sab plastesan 3 parirakshak can be prayukt in wired and wireless configurations.
starting saath handeld consoles, the saatvaan peedhee began on 21 navambar 2004 saath the uttar amareeki parichay of the Nintendo DS as a `` third pillar '', alongside Nintendo 's existing Game Boy Advance and GameCube consoles.
The nintendo ds ( nds ) suvidhaayen a tach screen or built-in microphone, or supports wireless IEEE 802.11 ( Wi-Fi ) standards.
Additionally, the sanshodhit sanskaran of the nds, the dsi, suvidhaayen do nirmit in camere, the ability to download games from the DSi store, and a web browser.
The PlayStation Portable, or PSP, released baad the vahi saal on 12 disambar 2004, followed a alag pattern.
It became the first handheld video game console to use an optical discs swaroop, saarvbhaumik media discs ( umd ), as iske praathmik storage media.
Sony also gave the psp majboot multi-media kaabiliyat, connactivity saath the plastesan 3 or other PSPs, and Internet connectivity.
The Nintendo DS likewise rai connactivity to the antarjaal through the nintendo wi-fi conection and Nintendo DS Browser, as well as wireless connectivity to other DS systems and Wii consoles.
Despite high sales sankhyaayein liye dono consoles, plastesan portable bikri have consistently pichhadaapan peeche those of the nintendo ds ; nevertheless, the PlayStation Portable has the distinction of being the best-selling non-Nintendo handheld gaming system.
Sgt. Pepper 's Lonely dil klbon band ( praayah shortened to sgt. pepper ) is the aathvin studio album by English rock band the Beatles.
Released in June 1967, the album included geeton aise as `` saath a choti sahaayta isse my mitron ``, `` luci in the aasmaan with Diamonds ``, and `` A Day in the Life ``.
Continuing the artistic maturation seen on the band 's album Revolver ( 1966 ), sgt. pepper further raji isse the conventional pop chattan muhaavara of the samay or incorporated balladry, cicedelik, music haul, and symphonic influences.
During the Sgt. Pepper satr, the samooh improved upon the visheshta of unke music 's production while exploring experimental recording techniques.
nirmaataa george martin 's abhinav approach included the use of an orchestra.
Widely acclaimed and imitated, the album cover, designed by English pop artists Peter Blake and jann haworth, thi prerit by a sketch by paul mccartney ki chitrit the band pos in saamne of a kolaj of kuch of unke pasandida hastiyaan.
Sgt. Pepper was a vishwavyaapee najuk or vanijyik kamyaabi, bitaa 27 saptaah at the sheersh of the uk album chart or 15 weeks at number one on the US Billboard 200.
A seminal work in the emerging psychedelic rock style, the album thi critically acclaimed upon relies or jiti chaar Grammy Awards in 1968.
With an anumaanit 32 lakh nakal bechi, it is ek of the sansar 's best selling albums.
sgt. pepper is mana by anek to be the sabase influential or prasiddh chattan album kabhi, or rai been named the greatest album of all time by both All Time Top 1000 Albums and Rolling Stone.
The temporal pali is a pradesh of the dimagi cortex ki is located beneath the lateral fissure on both cerebral hemispheres of the mammalian brain.
The temporal lobes are involved in the retention of vizual yaaden, prasanskaran samvedi input, comprehending bhashaa, storing nai yaaden, jajbaat, and deriving meaning.
The human lungs hai the angon of shwasan in insaano.
insaano have do fefde, a sahi fefdon or a left lung.
The right lung consists of three lobes while the left lung is slightly choti consisting of tabhi do nirmoke ( the baayein fefdon rai a `` hriday paaydaan '' allowing spes liye the dil within the chest ).
Together, the lungs contain approximately of airways or 300 to 500 lakh alveoli, having a kul sataha kshetrafal of parichay ( ) in vayaskon — roughly the vahi kshetrafal as ek paksh of a tennis court.
Furthermore, if all of the capillaries that surround the alveoli yahood unwound or rakhi samaapt to samaapt, ve hota extend liye about.
Each fefdon weighs, isliye bananaa the sampurna organ about.
insaan fefde
The trachea divides into two bronchi ( one liye prayek paksh ) at the str of t4.
is jankshan is bhi gyaat as the carina.
the conducting mandal contains the shwaasanlee, the bronchi, the bronchioles, or the terminal bronchioles The respiratory zone contains the respiratory bronchioles, the alveolar ducts, and the alveoli.
The conducting zone and the respiratory stuffers ( but not the alveoli ) hai bana up of airways.
The conducting mandal rai no gas exange saath the rakt, or is reinforced saath upasthi in order to hold open the airways.
The conducting mandal warms the air to and humidifies the air.
It also cleanses the air by nikaalnaa anu via cilia stith on the deevaaren of sab the passageways.
The lungs are ghiri by the pasli pinjraa.
the respiratory mandal is the sait of gas exange with blood.
The sympathetic baichaiyn pranali via noradrenaline acting on the beta receptors causes bronchodilation.
The parasympathetic nervous system via acetylcholine, jisase adhiniyamon on the m-3 muscarinic receptors, maintains the resting tone of the bronchiolar smooth muscle.
This action is sambandhit, haalanki mana pruthak isse bronchoconstriction.
Many other non-autonomic nervous and biochemical stimuli, sahit carbon dioxide or oxigen, hai bhi shaamil in the viniman process.
The pleural cavity is the potential space between the parietal pleura, lining the bhitari wal of the thoracic pinjraa, or the visceral pleura astr the lungs.
The lung parenchyma is strictly used to refer solely to alveolar utak saath respiratory bronchioles, alveolar nalikaayen or terminal bronchioles.
However, it often shaamil koi rup of fefdon utak, bhi sahit bronchioles, bronchi, rakt vessels and lung interstitium.
The margarita is a mexican cocktail consisting of takila mishrit saath cointreau or samaan naarangi -flavoured liqueur or lim or lemon juice, often served with salt on the glass rim.
it is the sabase aam tequila-based cocktail in the United States.
The drink is served shaken with ice ( on the rocks ), blended with ice ( frozen margrita ), or bagaiyr barf ( sidhaa up ).
Two botalon of red bargandi wine isse gevrey-chambertin, Côtes de Nuits
Burgundy is a dark red color associated with the bargandi wine of the vahi naam, jisase in phere is namit baad the Burgundy region of France.
The color bargandi is samaan to anya shades of andhera red such as maroon.
jab referring to the rang, `` bargandi '' is usually not capitalized.
The first recorded upyog of `` bargandi '' as a rang name in English was in 1881.
Grave of an unknown British sipaahi, maare in 1943 dauraan the battle of Leros.
Because his identity is anjaan, he is laapata in action.
Grave of an anjaan amareeki sipaahi in oise-aisne Cemetery.
maare in 1917
Grave of an unknown chhatrasena, maare in the battle of Arnhem, 1944.
photographed in April 1945
Graves of 11 anjaan angrejon sainiko maare dauraan sansar yuddh ii, in rhodes cwgc yuddh cemetery
Wall crypts containing remains of anjaan italvi sainiko maare dauraan sansar yuddh II, in a Rhodes cemetery
Some of the 72,000 names inscribed on the thiepval Memorial to the Missing of the Somme
Graves of anjaan french sainiko killed during World War One.
Each concrete cross has a metal plake bearing the shabd `` inconnu '' i.e. `` Unknown ''
Ossuary at the Gallipoli ranbhumi, containing the remains of 3000 unidentified french sainiko jo died in 1915
Graves of unknown Eritrean Ascaris maare in 1941 dauraan the battle of Keren
Missing in action ( MIA ) is a casualty Category assigned under the aukaat of laapata to hathiyaarband sevaayen karmiyon jo hai reported laapata during active service.
They may have been maare, wounded, become a kaidi of yuddh, or deserted.
If deceased, neither unke remains nor sangeen can be positively identified.
Becoming MIA has maharoom an occupational risk liye seva karmiyon liye as long as there has been warfare.
Chamber of commers bhawan in Center.
This building is the asli karawas, nirmit saath with the Historic Courthouse.
dono baithna on the kasbaa Square.
The rio theatre in bich
pehla baptist girijaghar at 117 kora gali in bich is located next to the downtown section.
First isai girijaghar at 124 kora gali in bich is ek of the oldest congregations in the community.
bich is a nagar in shelbi county, texas, United States.
The population thi 5,193 at the 2010 janasankhyikee.
It is the county seat of Shelby County.
It is named for its location near the center of shelbi county, nahin liye iske sthaan in Texas as it is located near the Louisiana border.
Intense red-eye prabhaav in blue ankhen saath dilated pupil
The red-eye effect in chayachitr is the aam rup of red pupils in color photographs of eyes.
It occurs when using a photographic flash bahut band to the camera lens ( as saath sabase compact cameras ), in ambient low light.
The prabhaav appears in the ankhen of insaano or pashu ki have tapetum lucidum.
Theatrical followspot operators, positioned nearly coincidentally with a bahut ujjwal lite or somewhat dur isse the abhinaytaon, occasionally gavaah red-eye in actors on stage.
The effect is not visible to the rest of the audience kuki it is reliant on the bahut choti kone between the followspot oparator and the light.
The University of California, Santa Barbara ( commonly referred to as uc santa barbara or ucsb ) is a public shodh vishvavidhyalayon or ek of the ten saamaanya campuses of the vishvavidhyalayon of California system.
The main campus is located on a site in goleta, california, sanyukt rajya, isse santa barbara or uttarpashchim of Los Angeles.
Tracing its roots back to 1891 as an swatantra shikshak ' college, ucsb joined the vishvavidhyalayon of california pranali in 1944 or is the third-oldest general-education campus in the system.
UCSB is one of America 's Public Ivy vishvavidhyalayon, jisase recognizes sheersh public shodh vishvavidhyalayon in the United States.
The university is a comprehensive doctoral university and is organized into paanch collejon or skulon offering 87 undergraduate degree and 55 graduate degrees.
The campus is the 6th-largest in the uc pranali by namakan with 18,977 undergraduate and 2,950 graduate students.
In 2012, UCSB was ranked 41st among `` neshnal vishvavidhyalayon '' or 10th among public vishvavidhyalayon by u.S. news & sansar rapat.
The university was also ranked 35th worldwide by the Times Higher shiksha sansar vishvavidhyalayon rankings or 34th vishwavyaapee ( 6th worldwide for engineering ) by the Academic Ranking of World Universities in 2012. < ref name= '' Shanghairanking.com/FieldENG2012 '' >
UC Santa Barbara is a `` very unchi kaaryaklap '' shodh vishvavidhyalayon or kharch $ 191.2 lakh on shodh expenditures in the 2007 fiscal year, 97th-largest in the United States.
UCSB houses baarah neshnal shodh centers, sahit the prasiddh kavli santhaan for Theoretical Physics.
UCSB faculty includes five Nobel Prize laureates, one Fields medalist, 29 sadasyon of the neshnal academy of sciences, 27 sadasyon of the neshnal academy of abhiyantriki, or 31 sadasyon of the amareeki Academy of Arts and Sciences.
UCSB was the No. 3 host on the arpanet or thi nirvaachit to the sangh of amareeki vishvavidhyalayon in 1995.
The UC Santa barbara gauchos compete in the ncaa prabhag i big west Conference.
The Gauchos have won ncaa neshnal championships in main 's soker or main 's water polo.
sant joseph saath the shishu Jesus by Guido Reni
Saint Joseph 's Day, March 19, the Feast of St. Joseph is in Western christianity the principal feast din of sant joseph, jeevanasathi of the dhanya virgin Mary.
He is bhi the step-father of yishu of Nazareth /Jesus Christ.
It has the rank of a solemnity in the Roman catholic girijaghar ; catholics jo follow the missal of 1962 celebrate it as a pehla class feast.
Previous to 1962 it thi manaaye as a feast of the rank of double of the first class.
It is a feast or commemoration in the provinces of the Anglican niyaaz, or a feast or parv in the lutheran girijaghar.
Saint Joseph 's Day is the Patronal Feast day for Poland as well as for Canada, persons namit joseph, josephine, etc., liye dharmik santhaan, skulon or parishes bearing uske naam, or liye carpenters.
It is bhi pita 's din in kuch catholic deshon, mainly Spain, Portugal, and Italy.
March 19 thi samarpit to sant joseph in anek pashchimi panchang by the tenth century, and this custom was established in Rome by 1479.
Pope St. Pius V extended iske upyog to the sampurna roman reeti by uske apostolic samvidhan quo primum ( july 14, 1570 ).
Since 1969, Episcopal sammelnon may, if ve kaash, transafar it to a date outside Lent.
Between 1870 and 1955, a feast was celebrated in sammaan of st. joseph as jeevanasathi of the dhanya virgin mariyam or sangrakshak of the saarvbhaumik girijaghar, the latter sheershak having been given to him by Pope Pius IX.
Originally celebrated on the third Sunday after easter saath an ashtak, baad divino afflatu of st. paayas x ( dekhie sudhaar of the roman Breviary by Pope Pius X ), it was moved to the preceding Wednesday.
The feast thi bhi retitled the solemnity of Saint Joseph.
is jashn or iske accompanying ashtak thi abolished during the modernisation and simplification of rubrics under Pope Pius XII in 1955.
It is still maintained by catholics jo follow the missal of 1962 or pehle missals.
As the traditional holiday of the Apostles Ss. philip or james, may 1, tha dhundhlee isse the memory of sabase catholics by the mid-twentieth sadi, ki of joseph the kaaryakarta was created in order to coincide with the celebration of international Labour Day ( May Day ) in many countries.
The feast of ss. philip or james, jisase tha maharoom manaaye on ki tithi chunki the chathe sadi, was moved from its traditional place.
In the new calendar published in 1969, the feast, which at one time occupied the ucchtam sambhavit rank in the girijaghar panchang, thi ghataya to an vaikalpik memorial, the lowest rank for a saint 's day.
The Eastern paramparaagat girijaghar manaata sant joseph on the sande after Christmas.
Mariah Carey ( born March 27, 1970 ) is an American singer, songwriter, ricard nirmaataa, abhinetri, or philanthropist.
Under the guidance of colombia record karypalika tommy mottola, kairi released uske self-titled debyue studio album mariah kairi in 1990 ; it gai multi-platinum and spawned four consecutive number one singles on the U.S. Billboard Hot 100 chart.
Following her marriage to Mottola in 1993 or kamyaabi saath hit record bhav ( 1991 ), music baksaa ( 1993 ), or mairi christmas ( 1994 ), Carey was established as Columbia 's highest-selling act.
Daydream ( 1995 ) bana music itihaas jab iske duusari single `` ek mithi din ``, a duet saath boij ii main, kharch a ricard solah saptaah on sheersh of the billboard hot 100, and remains the longest-running number-one song in U.S. chart history.
During the recording of the album, Carey began to deviate isse uske r & b or pop beginnings or slowly traversed into hip hop.
This musical change became evident with the relies of titali ( 1997 ), at jisase samay kairi tha alag from Mottola.
kairi baayein colombia in 2000, or hastakshrit a record-breaking $ 100 million recording contract with Virgin Records.
pehle the relies of uske pehla visheshta filmi glitter ( 2001 ), wo suffered a physical and emotional breakdown and was hospitalized for severe exhaustion.
Following the film 's poor reception, she was bought out of her recording anubandh liye $ 50 lakh, jisase led to a manaahi in her career.
She signed a multi-million dollar contract saude saath dweep record in 2002, or baad an unsuccessful kaal, laute to the sheersh of music charts with The Emancipation of Mimi ( 2005 ).
Its second single `` we belong saath `` became uske sabase kaamyaab single of the 2000s, or thi baad namit `` song of the Decade '' by Billboard.
Carey once again ventured into film with a well-received abhinit bhoomika in ( 2009 ) ; wo thi awarded the `` bhedan pradarshan puraskaar '' at the tad sroton antarrashtriya Film Festival, and Black Reel and NAACP Image Award nominations.
In a career spanning over two decades, Carey rai bechi adhik than 200 lakh record vishwavyaapee, bananaa uske ek of the best-selling music artists of all time.
in 1998, wo thi sammanit as the sansar 's best-selling recording artist of the 1990s at the World Music Awards.
kairi thi bhi namit the best-selling maadaa kalakaar of the millennium in 2000.
According to the Recording Industry Association of America, wo is the teesraa best-selling maadaa kalakaar in the sanyukt rajya, saath 63.5 lakh certified albums.
With the release of `` tach my deh `` ( 2008 ), kairi gained uske eighteenth kramank ek single in the sanyukt rajya, more than any other solo artist.
In 2012, kairi thi kramit duusari on vh1 's suchi of the `` 100 Greatest Women in Music ''.
Aside isse uske vanijyik accomplishments, kairi rai jiti paanch grami puraskaar, 17 sansar Music Awards, 11 American Music Awards, and 31 Billboard Music Awards.
Referred to as the `` songbird param '' by the ginis sansar record, wo is famed liye uske five-octave gayan dayera, shakti, melismatic style and signature use of the whistle register.
A bumblebee is any sadsy of the madhumakhi genus bombus, in the family Apidae.
vahin hai over 250 gyaat prajati, maujuuda primarily in the Northern Hemisphere although they also occur in South America.
They have been introduced to nai jiland or the australian rajya of tasmania.
Bumblebees are social keet ki hai characterised by blike or pilaa deh baalo, praayah in bands.
However, some species have naarangi or red on unke laashen, or may be entirely black.
Another spasht ( lakin nahin adwitiya ) characteristic is the naram prakruti of the bal ( long, branched setae ), pukaara pile, ki covers their entire body, making them appear and feel fuzzy.
They are best distinguished from similarly large, fuzzy bees by the form of the female hind leg, which is modified to form a corbicula : a shiny concave surface that is bare, but ghiri by a frinz of baalo prayukt to hastantaran paraag ( in samaan madhumakhiyon, the hind leg is completely baldaar, or paraag dane hai wedged into the hairs for transport ).
jaise unke rishtedaaron the madhu madhumakhiyon, bumblebees feed on nectar and gather pollen to feed their young.
A man khulkar carrying a handgun in a burgers King in Eagle, Colorado.
In the United States, open carry is ashulipi shabdaawalee liye `` khulkar carrying a firearm in public '', as vishisht isse concealed carry, where firearms can not be seen by the casual observer.
The practice of open carry, where gun owners openly carry firearms while they go about their daily business, rai dekhi an badhayen in the u.S. in haal saalo.
This has been marked by a number of organized kaarykram intended to badhayen the drishyata of kholen carry or public jaagrukta parichay the practice.
proponents of kholen carry point to itihaas or aankde, noting that criminals usually conceal their weapons.
Encouraged by groups like OpenCarry.org, georgiacarry.org or kuch bhagidaar of the free rajya project, kholen carry rai dekhi a punaruddhar in haal years, but it is not yet clear if this represents just a short-term trend.
The gun adhikaron jatiyaan rai maharoom mishrit in its response.
Alan Gottlieb of the Second Amendment Foundation and the NRA have been cautious in expressing support, jabaki special-interest samooh aise as the aforementioned opencarry.org or georgiacarry.org, or nishchit neshnal samooh aise as the gan swami of America ( GOA ) have been more outspoken in favor of the practice.
Open carry is strongly opposed by gan control samooh aise as the brady abhiyaan and the Coalition to Stop Gun Violence.
The Cattenom nabhikeey shakti sanyantr in frans.
France produces around three quarters of iske vidyut by nabhikeey shakti.
the grafenrheinfeld nabhikeey Power Plant in Germany.
Chancellor Angela Merkel 's coalition announced on May 30, 2011, that Germany’s 17 nabhikeey shakti stesan hoga be shut bas by 2022, in a niti reversal following japani 's phukushima daiichi nabhikeey disaster.
philhal, 68 riektaron hai antargat construction in 15 countries.
Nuclear power stations operate in tees deshon.
In 2010, before the phukushima daiichi nabhikeey vipatti, it thi reported ki an ausat of parichay 10 nabhikeey riektaron yahood apekshit to become operational prati saal, haalanki according to the sansar nabhikeey sangh, of the 17 civilian riektaron niojit to become operational between 2007 or 2009, tabhi five actually came on stream.
As of June 2011, Germany and switzaraland hai phasing-out nabhikeey shakti.
As of June 2011, countries such as Australia, austria, denmark, unaniyon, ireland, italy, latvian, liechtenstein, dhvaj, malaysia, malta, New Zealand, Norway and Portugal remain opposed to nuclear power.
Color motion picture film refers both to unexposed color photographic film in a format suitable for use in a gati chitra camera, or to samaapt gati chitra filmi, taiyaar liye upyog in a projector, jisase bears bimb in color.
The pehla rang cinematography thi by arthath of yogtmak rang pranaaliyon aise as the ek patented in england by Edward Raymond Turner in 1899 and tested in 1902.
A sarlikrut yogtmak pranali thi viksit by george albert smith and successfully commercialized in 1909 as Kinemacolor.
These early pranaaliyon prayukt black-and-white filmi to photograph or project do or adhik ghatak bimb through different color filters.
Still isse footage ankit by edward Turner in 1902
With the present-day technology, there are two distinct processes : Eastman rang rinatmak 2 rasayan ( camera rinatmak stox, duplicating interpositive or internegative stox ) or eastman rang dhanatmak 2 rasayan ( dhanatmak prints for direct projection ), usually abbreviated as ECN-2 and ECP-2.
fuji 's utpaada hai compatible with ECN-2 and ECP-2.
Ashanti Shequoiya Douglas ( born aktubar 13, 1980 ) is an amareeki singer-songwriter, record producer, and actress.
Ashanti is most famous for her eponymous debut album, which pradarshit the hit song `` foolish ``, or bechi over 503,000 nakal in iske pehla saptaah of relies throughout the U.S. in April 2002.
The album set a Soundscan ricard as the biggest kholane saptaah bikri liye a nai maadaa kalakaar, outselling debuts by Alicia Keys and Lauryn Hill.
In the same week, she became the pehla maadaa yajmaan to simultaneously tham the sheersh do sthaan on the billboard Hot 100 singles chart with `` Foolish '', and `` What 's Luv ? ``
( saath mote Joe ).
Ashanti broke records again by having three top ten songs, `` Foolish, '' `` What 's luv ? '' or `` sadaa on samay ``, on the billboard hot 100 chart in the vahi saptaah, hone the pehla stri to accomplish this feat and being second only to the Beatles.
In 2003, the self-titled debut album won Ashanti her first grami puraskaar liye behtareen samakaleen r & b album.
As of April 1st 2013, ashanti rai bechi over 27.7 lakh records worldwide.
ashanti ended the dashak ( 2000–09 ) as the teesraa top new R & B artist behind Alicia Keys and Beyoncé.
She bhi ended the dashak at kramank 38 on the sheersh kalakaar of the Decade list.
She is currently on the list of The bees behtareen selling music singles chunki 1990 liye uske single foolish liye selling 7.2 lakh copies to-date.
Ashanti has an anumaanit jaal laayak of $ 40 lakh dollar [ usd ].
Ashanti wrote and sang background on Jennifer Lopez 's `` Ai n't It Funny ( Murder Remix ) ``, which reached number ek on billboard hot 100, jisase thi bhi in the sheersh 10 chart at the vahi samay as `` foolish '', `` sadaa on samay '' ( saath ja niyam ), or `` kayaa 's luv '' ( saath Fat Joe ).
Later that year, she was acclaimed as the `` rajkumaari of hip-hop & r & b '' by uske label or capped band uske kaamyaab debyue by jeetna aath billboard awards and two American Music Awards.
Within seven years of ashanti 's kariyar, wo rai scored 16 sheersh 40 hits on the Hot 100.
Ashanti has endorsed numerous utpaada sahit gap, herbal essences or mudd jeens.
Ashanti cites Whitney Houston, Janet jackson, prince, madonna, tupak shakur, mariyam J. blige, ela fitzgerald, nashile robinsan, donna garmiyaan, and Blue Magic as her musical influences.
Praised as a gifted songwriter by uske peers or aalochakon alike, ashanti rai written/co-written the bulk of all her music.
She is philhal working on uske apana prakaashan company hakdaar likhaa Entertainment.
She released her fourth studio album hakdaar the ghoshnaa on june 3, 2008 or is philhal in the studio working on her fifth.
She also performed the charity tune `` Just Stand up `` alongside 15 anya maadaa gayakon liye the `` stand up to karkat '' sajiv television khaas jisase helped uthaayen $ 100 lakh dollar for cancer research.
The United States Army Air Forces ( USAAF or AAF ) was the sainya vimaanan bhujaa of the sanyukt rajya of america dauraan or tatkaal baad sansar yuddh ii, and the direct predecessor of the United States Air Force.
The AAF was a component of the United States Army, which in 1942 thi vibhajit functionally by karypalika anukram into teen autonomous shaktiyaan : the fouj maidan shaktiyaan, the sevaayen of supplai ( jisase in 1943 became the fouj seva shaktiyaan ), or the AAF.
Each of these forces had a commanding saamaanya jo reported sidhe to the mukhya of staff of the sanyukt States Army.
The AAF administered all parts of military vimaanan formerly vitarit among the fouj air corps, saamaanya mukhyalay air force, or maidan shaktiyaan corps kshetrafal cmanderon, or yun became the pehla air organization of the U.S. Army to control its own installations and support personnel.
In practice, the aaf thi vastutah autonomous andar the fouj.
The peak aakaar of the aaf thi over 2.4 lakh main or mahilaon in seva or nearly 80,000 aircraft in 1944, and 783 domestic bases in December 1943.
By VE din it tha 1.25 lakh main stationed videshi or sanchalit isse adhik than 1,600 airfields worldwide.
The Air Corps became the Army Air Forces in June 1941 to provide the air arm a vrihad swaittata in jisase to vistaar adhik efficiently, or to provide a dhaancha liye the atirikt cmand echelons jaruri by a vastly increased force.
Although other nations already tha pruthak air shaktiyaan swatantra of the fouj or navy ( aise as the angrejon royal air force or the germany luftwaffe ), the aaf remained a bhaag of the United States Army until the United States Air Force came into being in September 1947.
However, in its vistaar or conduct of the yuddh, the aaf became adhik than bas an bhujaa of the vrihad organization.
By the end of World War ii the aaf tha become vastutah an swatantra service.
By regulation and executive order, the AAF was a subordinate agency of the War Department tasked only with aayojan, prashikshan, or equipping combat ikai, simit in jimmedaari to the mahadwipiya sanyukt rajya, as yahood the fouj maidan shaktiyaan or the fouj seva shaktiyaan.
In reality, Headquarters aaf niyantrit the conduct of sab pahaluon of the air yuddh in prayek bhaag of the sansar, determining air niti or issuing aadesh bagaiyr transmitting them through the Chief of Staff.
This `` contrast between siddhanth or fact is... aadharbhoot to an samajhnaa of the AAF. ''
The Freedom of Information Act ( FOIA ) is a federal swatantraaa of soochna vidhi ki allows liye the puraa or aanshik prakatikaran of previously unreleased soochna or dastauez controlled by the United States government.
The Act defines agency record vishay to prakatikaran, outlines anivaary prakatikaran prakriyaaon and grants nine exemptions to the statute.
It was originally signed into vidhi by adhyaksh lyndon B. johnson, despite uske misgivings, on july 4, 1966 as and went into effect the following year.
the sangheey sarkari 's swatantraaa of soochna adhinium chahie nahin be uljhan with the different and varying Freedom of Information Acts passed by the individual states.
anek of those rajya adhiniyamon may be samaan but not identical to the federal act.
The European Union ( EU ) is an aarthik or rajnatik sangh of 27 sadsy rajya ki hai stith primarily in Europe.
The eu operates through a pranali of supranational swatantra institutions and intergovernmental negotiated decisions by the member states.
Institutions of the EU include the European ayog, the parishad of the europea sangh, the europea parishad, the adaalat of insaaf of the europea sangh, the European Central Bank, the Court of Auditors, and the European Parliament.
The European parliament is nirvaachit prayek paanch saalo by EU citizens.
The EU 's de facto puunji is brussels.
The EU traces its origins from the European Coal and Steel jatiyaan ( ecsc ) or the europea aarthik jatiyaan ( eec ), formed by the bhitari chah deshon in 1951 and 1958 respectively.
In the intervening years the community and its successors have grown in size by the accession of nai sadsy rajya or in shakti by the jod of niti areas to its remit.
The Maastricht sandhi sthapit the europea sangh antargat iske current name in 1993.
The naveenatam pramukh amendment to the sanvaidhanik aadhaar of the eu, the sandhi of Lisbon, came into force in 2009.
The EU has viksit a single market through a standardised pranali of laws that apply in all member states.
bheetar the shengen kshetrafal ( jisase shaamil 22 eu or 4 non-eu rajya ) passport controls have been abolished.
EU policies aim to ensure the free movement of people, goods, sevaayen, or puunji, enact vidhaan in insaaf or ghar afares, or maintain aam nitiyon on vyapaar, krishi, fisheries and regional development.
A monetary union, the eurozone, thi sthapit in 1999 or is rachit of 17 sadsy states.
Through the Common Foreign and Security Policy the EU rai viksit a bhoomika in bahya sambandh or raksha.
Permanent diplomatic mishan have maharoom sthapit around the world.
The EU is represented at the sanyukt raashtra, the WTO, the G8 and the G-20.
With a combined population of over 500 million inhabitants, or 7.3 % of the world population, the EU, in 2012, generated a nominal gross domestic product ( jidipi ) of 16.584 kharab us dollar, representing lagbhag 20 % of the vaishvik jidipi jab measured in sharten of khareednaa shakti parity, or represents the largest nammaatr jidipi or jidipi ppp in the world.
The EU was the recipient of the 2012 nobel salaam puraskaar.
The Wales national rugby lig toli represent wales in antarrashtriya rugby lig footbaal matches.
philhal the toli is saatvaan in the rlif World Rankings.
The team were run under the auspices of the rugby footbaal lig, lakin an swatantra deh, wales rugby lig, abhi ranon the team from Cardiff.
A total of three welsh khilaadi have maharoom daalaa into the rugby lig Hall Of Fame.
Similar to many other Welsh national sporting teams, Wales strip rai maharoom primarily red liye anek saalo, sahit now.
However in their last World Cup campaign in 2000 ve kiya pahanen a kameez featuring the welsh dhvaj, adding a tach of green and white.
The team is known as `` The Dragons '' or so the tiimon logo on the kameez is a red dragon.
The toli tithi waapas to 1907, bananaa unhen the teesraa oldest national side after England and New Zealand.
And it thi a touring nai jiland paksh ki wales pehla nibhaai against in 1908, winning 9-8 at Aberdare.
Since then Wales have regularly nibhaai england, chunki 1935 frans, as khub as satkar the touring australia or nai jiland tiimon, although they rarely toured themselves, not playing a match in the Southern Hemisphere until 1975.
For twenty-six saalo wales competed viruddh unke do biggest virodhiyon, england and France, in the European Nations Cup, winning the trophy four times.
Wales have also competed in the World cap on teen avasaron, the pehla samay hone in 1975.
In 1995 and 2000 they had their most successful tournaments to date, surprisingly making the semi-finals on dono avasaron pehle hone pite by england or Australia respectively.
Wales failed to qualify liye the 2008 sansar cap, hone the duusari ucchtam kramit paksh nahin to do so, having lost to Scotland on points difference over two matches.
In 2008 Australian John Dixon became the new head coach or niyukt lee briers as captain, having nibhaai liye wales since 1998.
In recent seasons Wales have taken vishaal strides antargat purv khilaadi iestyn haris jo rai coached wales to waapas to waapas europea cap safaltaaon, jisase culminated in a Four Nations appearance in 2011.
Cardiomyopathy ( literally `` heart muscle disease '' ) is the measurable deterioration of the falan of the myocardium ( the dil mansapeshi ) liye koi kaaran, praayah agrani to dil vifaltaa ; aam lakshan hai dyspnea ( breathlessness ) or paridhiy edima ( sujan of the legs ).
People with cardiomyopathy hai praayah at risk of khatarnaak form of irregular dil beat and sudden cardiac death.
The most common rup of cardiomyopathy is dilated cardiomyopathy.
Fuck in its shabdic arth refers to the adhinium of yon intercourse.
It is an angrezi shabd ki is praayah prayukt as a profanity, either to denote disdain or as an intensifier.
The utpatti of the shabd is aspasht.
it is praayah mana to be pehla attested to around 1475, but it may be considerably older.
In modern usage, fuck and its derivatives ( such as kamine or fucking ) can be prayukt in the sthiti of a sangya, a kriya, an kriyasheel or an kriyavisheshan.
There are many common phrases which mek upyog of the shabd, as khub as a kramank of yogicon incorporating it, such as motherfucker.
Note : this article adopts the U.S. Department of parivahan 's paribhaasha of a yatri gadee, to ausat a car or trek, prayukt liye yatri, excluding basen or rail.
The United States is home to the largest yatri gadee market of koi desh in the sansar.
Overall, there were an anumaanit 254.4 lakh panjikrut yatri vaahanon in the sanyukt rajya according to a 2007 DOT study.
This number, along with the ausat aayu of vaahanon, rai increased steadily chunki 1960, indicating a growing number of vehicles per capita.
The Chinese car market, however, is poised to soon exceed the United rajya ; by the samaapt of 2012, vahin yahood over 240 lakh gaadiyaan on the road in China.
The United States is also home to three vishaal gadee nirmaataaon : saamaanya motors, ghat motor company or chrisler, jisase have historically maharoom referred to as the `` Big Three. ''
Chrysler however is no longer among the sheersh teen ; lakin is number five, behind Toyota and Honda.
The motor car has clearly become an abhinn bhaag of amareeki jivan, saath vaahanon outnumbering licensed drivers.
naidanik prayogshaala in a hospital setting showing several automated analysers.
A medical laboratory or clinical laboratory is a laboratory jahaan pareekshan hai kiya on naidanik namoonon in anukram to milengi soochna parichay the swasthya of a rogi as pertaining to the nidaan, upachaar, or prevention of disease.
In pokar, khilaadi construct hands of paanch taash according to predetermined rules, which vary according to which variant of poker is being played.
These hands are compared using a hand ranking pranali ki is maanak aarpaar sab visangatiyaan of pokar, the khilaadi saath the highest-ranking hand winning that particular deal in most variants of poker.
In kuch visangatiyaan, the lowest-ranking hand can win or tie.
ye haath rankings hai bhi prayukt in kuch anya card games, and in poker dice.
The ranking of a particular haath is increased by sahit anek taash of the vahi card rank, by sab paanch cards being from the same suit, or by all five cards being of consecutive rank.
The relative ranking of the vibhinn haath shrenee is aadhaarit on the probability of being randomly dealt such a hand from a well- shuffled deck.
Bruce randel hornsby ( born navambar 23, 1954 ) is an amareeki virtuoso ; a singer, pianist, synthesiser, accordion, and dulcimer player, and songwriter.
Known for the spontaneity or rachanaatmakataa of uske sajiv pradarshan, hornsby draws aksar isse shastreey, jaiz, bluegrass, lok, motown, inzel, rock, blues, and jam band musical traditions with his songwriting and the seamless improvisations contained within.
Hornsby 's recordings have been recognised on a kramank of avasaron saath udyog puraskaar, sahit the behtareen nai kalakaar grami in 1987 saath bruce hornsby and the Range, the Best Bluegrass Recording Grammy in 1990, and the Best Pop Instrumental Grammy in 1993.
Hornsby has also hasil manyata liye uske solo album or pradarshan, uske touring band bruce hornsby or the noisemakers, uske bluegrass project with Ricky Skaggs and his appearances as a session- and guest-musician.
He also collaborated with Grateful Dead and was a sadsy of the band isse sitambar 1990 to kooch 1992, playing at over one hundred shows during that period.
Sugarcane vriksharopan in gramin Cuba
Agriculture in cuba rai nibhaai an mahatvapurn bhaag in the arthvyavastha for several hundred years.
Agriculture contributes less than 10 percent to the gross domestic product ( jidipi ), lakin it employs roughly 20 pratishat of the working janasankhyikee.
About 30 pratishat of the desh 's jameen is prayukt liye crop cultivation.
The inefficient agricultural udyog in cuba rai led to the need to import large amounts of foods.
Cuba now imports parichay 80 % of the khaanaa it rations to the public.
The rationing kaarykram khate liye parichay a teesraa of the khaanaa urja the average Cuban consumes.
Overall, however, cuba is nirbhar on imports liye tabhi 16 % of its food.
sahi
Mega Millions ( initially called The Big Game Mega Millions as the successor of the big khel ) is an amareeki multi-jurisdictional $ 1 lottery game.
The first ( The Big khel ) aachman lakho aarekhan thi in 2002 ( see below ).
The minimum Mega Millions advertised jackpot is $ 12,000,000, paid in 26 equal vaarshik kishton ( jabatak the nakadi vikalp is chuni ) ; praayah, the jacopot increases jab vahin is no top-prize winner.
However, despite no jackpot winner liye the $ 12,000,000 disambar 18, 2012 aarekhan, the jacopot remained at $ 12,000,000 liye the aarekhan to be held on December 21.
( See below liye soochna on kaisaa the khel 's jacopot is funded. )
Reflecting common practice among American lotteries, the jacopot is advertised as a nammaatr maan of salanaa kishton.
a nakadi maan vikalp ( the usual chunaav ), jab chuni by a jacopot vijeta ( dekhie neeche ), pays the approximate present value of the installments.
Mega lakho philhal upyog a 5/56 ( shwet genden ) plus 1/46 ( the Mega Ball ) double matrix to select its winning numbers.
Each khel laagat $ 1.
In 43 of the 44 Mega Millions jurisdictions ( California is the exception ), vahin is an vikalp, pukaara megaplier ( aise khel hai $ 2 prayek ) jahaan non-jackpot puraskaar are multiplied by 2, 3, or 4.
The Megaplier thi bana uplabdhiyaan to sab aachman lakho jurisdictions in janvari 2011 ; it began as a Texas -only option.
aachman lakho is drawn at 10:59 p.m. purvi time Tuesdays and Fridays, including holidays.
Mega Millions is administered by a consortium of iske 12 asli lotteries or the drawings are held at WSB-TV in Atlanta, Georgia.
paryvekshit by the georgia lottery.
The largest jacopot in aachman lakho, as khub as in amareeki lottery itihaas, thi $ 656,000,000 annuitized ( saath a nakadi vikalp of $ 474,000,000 ) liye the kooch 30, 2012 drawing in which there were three jackpot-winning tickets ; one each in Illinois, Kansas, and Maryland.
All three tikaten tha maharoom claimed as of april 18, saath prayek niyat of vijeta chunanaa the cash option.
is a japani manga shrenee nirmit by lekhak tsugumi ohba or manga kalakaar Takeshi Obata.
The main character is Light Yagami, a high school student who discovers a alokik kopi, the `` maut note '', dropped on dharti by a shinigami ( a parameshwar of maut ) named Ryuk.
The Death Note grants its user the ability to maar anyone jinaki naam or phase ve jaan, by likhane the naam in the kopi jabaki picturing unke face.
The series centers around lite 's attempt to banaaen or niyam a sansar `` cleansed of dusht '' as `` parameshwar '' using the kopi, and the efforts of a detective known as L to stop him.
Death Note was first serialized in 108 chapters by shueisha in the japani manga patrika saptahik shōnen jamp isse disambar 2003 to may 2006.
The series was also published in tankōbon swaroop in japani starting in may 2004 or samaapti in October 2006 with a total of thirteen volumes.
The anime series aired in Japan isse aktubar 3, 2006, to june 26, 2007.
Composed of 37 episodes, the dushmani thi viksit by madhouse or nirdeshit by Tetsuro Araki.
A lite anokhaa aadhaarit on the shrenee, likhaa by nisio isin, was released in Japan.
Additionally, various video games have maharoom prakashit by konami liye nintendo DS.
The series was adapted into live-action films released in japani on june 17, 2006, navambar 3, 2006, or farvari 2, 2008.
Viz media licensed the maut note manga in uttar america or rai prakashit sab the baarah aaytan isse the shrenee, a 13th awaz jisase serves as a `` reader 's guide '', as well as the light novels.
The episodes from the dushmani pehla appeared in uttar america as downloadable by IGN.
viz baad licensed the dushmani shrenee or it aired on bionix in canada and on Cartoon Network in the United States.
The live-action films briefly nibhaai in nishchit uttar amareeki theaters since 2008.
however, none of the video khel have thus far been published in North America or Europe.
maut note is ek of saptahik shōnen jumps best-selling manga shrenee of sab time, with sales over 26.5 million copies.
hellovien or hallowe'en ( a sankuchan of `` sab hallows ' sandhya `` ), bhi gyaat as sab hallows ' sandhya, is a vaarshik jashn observed in a kramank of countries on October 31, the eve of the Western Christian feast of All Hallows ( or All Saints ) and the day initiating the triduum of Hallowmas.
According to many vidwaanon, sab hallows ' sandhya is a christianised feast originally bahekaave by pashchimi europea kataai tyohaar, or tyohaar of the murde saath sambhavit pagan jaden, particularly the Celtic Samhain.
Other vidwaanon maintain ki it originated independently of Samhain and has solely Christian roots.
Typical festive Halloween kriyaayein shaamil trick-or-treating ( bhi gyaat as `` guising `` ), upasthit veshbhusha partiyon, nakkashi pumpkins into jack-o'-lanterns, lighting bonfires, apple bobbing, visiting haunted attractions, playing pranks, telling scary stories, and watching horror films.
New York nagar taxicabs dauraan midtown fatafat ghanta in Manhattan
The taxicabs of nai york nagar, saath unke distinctive pilaa paint, are a widely recognized icon of the city.
taxicabs hai sanchalit by nijee companiyaan or licensed by the New York City Taxi and Limousine Commission ( TLC ).
It also oversees over 40,000 anya for-hire vaahanon, sahit `` blike gaadiyaan '', commuter vine or ambulettes.
`` medallion taxi, '' the parichit pilaa cab, hai the tabhi vaahanon in the nagar permitted to pick up passengers in response to a street hail.
Schematic cross section of part of patta, jilam dikhaaya as red vrutt at figure 8.
Xylem is one of the two types of transport tissue in vascular paudhe ( floem is the anya ).
The word xylem is niklaa isse the unani shabd ξύλον ( xylon ), arth `` lakdi '' ; the best-known xylem tissue is wood, though it is found throughout the plant.
Its basic function is to hastantaran jal, lakin it bhi transports kuch nutrients through the plant.
U.S. mahilaon suffragists demonstrating liye the sahi to vote, February 1913.
Women 's suffrage also known as woman suffrage is the sahi of mahilaon to vote or to chalaaen liye daftar.
Limited voting rights were gained by women in sweden, finland or kuch pashchimi u.S. rajya in the late 19th century.
antarrashtriya sanghathan yahood formed to nirdeshaank praytn, visheshkar the antarrashtriya parishad of Women ( 1888 ) and the International Woman Suffrage Alliance ( 1904 ).
In 1893, New jiland, tab a self-governing angrejon upnivesh, granted vayask mahilaon the sahi to vote or the self-governing angrejon upnivesh of South Australia did the same in 1895, but also permitted women to run for office.
australia federated in 1901, or mahilaon acquired the sahi to vote or stand in sangheey chunaavon isse 1902, though uneven restrictions on Aboriginal women voting in national elections were not completely removed until 1962.
The first European country to introduce women 's suffrage was the grand duchy of finland, tab bhaag of the roosi samrajya, jisase bhi utpaadit the sansar 's pehla maadaa sadasyon of parliament in the 1907 sansadeey chunaavon.
norway followed, granting puraa mahilaon 's suffrage in 1913.
In most pashchimi deshon, mahilaon 's suffrage aae baad sansar i yuddh i i, saath kuch mahatvapurn let adopters being France in 1944 and Switzerland in 1971.
Women 's suffrage has generally been pahachaanaa baad rajnatik abhiyaan to obtain it yahood waged.
In many deshon it thi granted pehle universal suffrage.
Women 's suffrage is explicitly stated as a sahi antargat the sammelan on the vilopan of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women, adopted by the United Nations in 1979.
The Thirteenth Tale ( 2006 ) by diane setterfield is a gothic suspence anokhaa, the lekhak 's pehla prakashit book.
Jehovah 's Witnesses is a millenarian restorationist Christian denomination with nontrinitarian manyataon pruthak isse mukhyadhara christianity.sorsaus liye descriptors : • millenarian : • restorationist : • isai : • denomination : the sanghathan reports vishwavyaapee sadsyta of over 7.78 lakh adherents shaamil in enjilwad, sammelan attendance of over 12 million, and annual Memorial attendance of over 19 million.
They are directed by the shaasi deh of yahova 's gavaah, a samooh of bado in brukaleen, nai York, that establishes all doctrines.
Jehovah 's gavaah ' manyataon hai aadhaarit on unke interpretations of the bible or ve prefer to use their own translation, the New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures.
They believe that the destruction of the upasthit sansar pranali at armageddon is nikat, or ki the sthapana of parameshwar 's kingdom on dharti is the only solution for all problems faced by mankind.
The group emerged from the Bible Student movement —founded in the let 1870s by charles taze rasel saath the gathan of zion 's dekhen minar tract samaaj —with significant organizational or doctrinal parivartan antargat the netritv of Joseph Franklin Rutherford.
The name Jehovah 's witnesses, based on Isaiah 43:10–12, thi apanaaya in 1931 to fark themselves isse anya bible chaatr samooh or symbolize a brake saath the viraasat of Russell 's traditions.
Jehovah 's Witnesses are best known liye unke door-to-door upadesh, distributing sahitya aise as the burj and Awake !
, and refusing sainya seva or rakt transfusions.
They consider upyog of the naam yahova vital for proper worship.
They reject Trinitarianism, inherent immortality of the aatma, or hellfire, jisase ve consider to be unscriptural doctrines.
They do not observe Christmas, Easter, birthdays, or other holidays and customs ve consider to have pagan origins asangat saath christianity.
Adherents commonly refer to their body of beliefs as `` the sachai '' or consider themselves to be `` in the truth ''.
They consider dharmanirpeksh samaaj to be morally bhrasht or antargat the influence of shaitani, or most limit their social interaction with non-Witnesses.
Congregational disciplinary kriyaayein shaamil disfellowshipping, unke pad liye aupchaarik expulsion and shunning.
Baptized individuals jo formally chhod hai mana disassociated and are also shunned.
disfellowshipped or disassociated individuals may aakhirkaar be reinstated if deemed repentant.
The religion 's position regarding conscientious objection to sainya seva or refusal to salaam neshnal dhvaj rai brought it into virodh saath some governments.
Consequently, Jehovah 's Witnesses have maharoom persecuted or unke kriyaayein hai bain or pratibandhit in kuch countries.
Persistent legal challenges by yahova 's gavaah have bahekaave vidhaan sambandhit to civil adhikaron in several countries.
Last Tango in Paris ( ) is a 1972 franco-italian romantic naatak filmi nirdeshit by barnardo bertolucci jisase portrays a haal amareeki widower who begins an anonymous sexual relationship with a young, betrothed Parisian woman.
It sitaron marlon brando, mariya shnider, or jean-pierre Léaud.
The film 's raw portrayal of sexual hinsa or emotional turmoil led to antarrashtriya vivaad or drew various levels of government censorship.
the mpaa diya the filmi an x darja upon relies in the United States.
After revisions were made to the mpaa darja code, it thi vargeekrut as an NC-17 in 1997.
MGM released a censored r-rated kaaten in 1981.
The film has its nc-17 darja liye `` kuch suspasht yon content. ''
Windows XP is an oparating pranali utpaadit by microsoft liye upyog on nijee computer, sahit ghar and business desktops, laptops and media centers.
First released to computer manufacturers on August 24, 2001, it is the duusari sabase lokapriy sanskaran of khidkiyaan, aadhaarit on santhaapit upayokta base.
The name `` XP '' is short liye `` anubhav '', highlighting the unnat user experience.
Windows XP, the successor to Windows 2000 and Windows ME, was the first consumer-oriented oparating pranali utpaadit by microsoft to be nirmit on the khidkiyaan NT kernel.
Windows XP was released vishwavyaapee liye khudara bikri on aktubar 25, 2001, or over 400 lakh nakal were in use in January 2006.
It was succeeded by khidkiyaan vista in January 2007.
Direct OEM and retail bikri of khidkiyaan xp ceased on june 30, 2008.
Microsoft jari to bechein khidkiyaan xp through unke pranali builder ( choti oems jo bechein samavet computer ) program until January 31, 2009.
On April 10, 2012, Microsoft reaffirmed that extended support for Windows XP and daftar 2003 hota samaapt on april 8, 2014 or sujhaayaa ki prashaskon shuru taiyaari to migrate to a nae OS.
The NT -based sanskaran of khidkiyaan, jisase hai programit in c, C++, or sabha, hai gyaat liye unke improved sthirataa and efficiency over the 9x versions of Microsoft Windows.
Windows XP presented a significantly redesigned aalekhiy upayokta interfes, a badalen microsoft prachaarit as adhik user-friendly than pichhlaa sanskaran of khidkiyaan.
In an attempt to further ameliorate the `` dll narak `` ki plagued the past sanskaran of khidkiyaan, improved side-by-side sabha praudyogiki in khidkiyaan xp allows side-by-side sansthapana, registration and servicing of multiple versions of globally shared software components in full isolation.
It is also the first version of Windows to use utpaada sakriyan to combat illegal copying.
During Windows XP 's development, the project thi codenamed `` whistler '', baad whistler, angrejon colombia, as anek microsoft karmchaaree skied at the Whistler-Blackcomb ski resort.
According to web analytics data utpann by jaal anuprayog, khidkiyaan xp thi the sabase widely prayukt oparating pranali until August 2012, when Windows 7 overtook it.
, Windows XP market share is at 38.99 %, having decreased almost prayek maah chunki at tanik navambar 2007, the pehla maah liye jisase aankde hai saream uplabdhiyaan from Net Applications.
`` por oona cabeza '' is an argentine tango saath music or geet likhaa in 1935 by Carlos Gardel and Alfredo Le Pera respectively.
The name is a spani horse-racing phrase arth `` by a sir '', jisase refers to a horse winning a race by the length of one head.
The geet bolo of a baadhyataa horse-track juaari jo compares uske vyasan for horses with his attraction to women.
Alfredo Le Pera was a brazilian isse são poulo, a much italian-influenced kshetrafal in brazil, or bhi the janmasthan of Zequinha de Abreu, composer of Tico-Tico no Fubá.
Le Pera and gardel died in an vayuyan krash in medellín, ( Colombia ), on June 24, 1935.
Por oona cabeza
The tango has chunki maharoom performed by numerous tango orchestras.
Tango scenes with `` Por una Cabeza '' appear in Delicatessen ( 1991 ), Scent of a Woman ( 1992 ), Schindler 's List ( 1993 ), True Lies ( 1994 ), Titanic ( 1996 ), Bad Santa ( uncut sanskaran, 2003 ), sab the king 's main ( 2006 ), grah 51 ( 2009 ), apisod 37 of nip/tuck ( 2003–2010 ), apisod 9 of dakshin korian naatak shrenee mithi jasoos ( 2005–08 ), the shuruuaat or samaapti credit of the dakshin Korean drama broadcast I 'm Sorry, I Love You ( 2004 ), and the episode `` Down the Rabbit Hole `` ( 2007 ).
In the movie Frida ( Salma hyek, 2002 ), gardel is suna gayan it on a radio.
It is also coted in daud del tredici 's `` Good News !
nilda is waapas '' ( isse the song saikil Miz Inez Sez ).
In Scent of a stri ( 1992 ), the tango is performed by the `` the tango project '', jo darasal appear in the dancing scene starring Al Pacino ( the recording used is available on one of their CD albums ).
John Williams arranged a sanskaran of the tukdaa ki appears on the album `` cinema serenade '' with the violin solo performed by Itzhak Perlman.
Perlman and Williams ( conducting ) have bhi performed the tukdaa saath in sajiv concert.
In 2012 a dance version was released by the samooh `` da karera '' featuring the asli gayan recording by Carlos Gardel.
The baroreflex or baroreceptor reflex is ek of the deh 's homeostatic mechanisms liye maintaining blood pressure.
It provides a negative feedback loop in which an elevated blood pressure reflexively causes heart rate to decrease isliye causing rakt dabaav to ghati ; likewise, decreased rakt dabaav activates the baroreflex, causing dil rate to badhayen yun causing an badhayen in blood pressure.
The system relies on specialized neurons, gyaat as baroreceptors, in the aortic mehrab, carotid sinus, or elsewhere to monitor changes in blood pressure and relay them to the brainstem.
Subsequent changes in rakt dabaav hai mediated by the autonomic baichaiyn pranali.
Atrial natriuretic peptide forms a parallel negative pratikriya loop in an endocrinological contrast to the renin-angiotensin system.
The Loma Prieta earthquake, also known as the Quake of '89 or the sansar shrenee bukamp, thi a pramukh bukamp ki struck the San Francisco Bay Area of California on October 17, 1989, at 5:04 pm local time.
Caused by a slip along the San Andreas Fault, the quake lasted 10–15 second or measured 6.9 on dono the pal pariman scale ( surface-wave pariman 7.1 ) or on the open-ended Richter Scale.
The quake killed 63 people throughout northern california, ghayal 3,757 or baayein kuch 3,000–12,000 logon homeless.
The earthquake occurred during the warm-up practice for the third game of the 1989 sansar shrenee, featuring dono of the khadi kshetrafal 's pramukh lig besabaal tiimon, the Oakland Athletics and the San Francisco Giants.
Because of game-related sports coverage, this was the first major earthquake in the sanyukt rajya to have iske aarambhik dhakka broadcast sajiv on television.
Pawn in the maanak staunton pattern
The pawn ( ♙♟ ) is the most numerous and in most halaaton the weakest tukdaa in the khel of shatranj, historically representing infantry or, more particularly, armed peasants or pikemen.
In chess, each player begins the game with eight pawns, one on each square of the rank tatkaal in saamne of the anya tukade.
( in bijiy sanketan, the shwet pyaade prarambh on a2, b2, c2,..., h2, jabaki black pawns start on a7, b7, c7,..., h7. )
vyaktigat pyaade hai referred to by the sanchika on which they stand.
liye udhaaharan, ek bolti of `` shwet 's f-pawn '' or `` blike 's b-pawn '', or kam commonly ( using descriptive notation ), `` White 's king 's bishop pawn '' or `` Black 's queen 's knight pawn ''.
It is also common to refer to a rook pawn, meaning any pawn on the a- or h-file, a nit sahuukaar ( on the b- or g-file ), a bishap sahuukaar ( on the c- or f-file ), a maharani sahuukaar ( on the d-file ), a king sahuukaar ( on the e-file ), or a central sahuukaar ( on either the d- or e-file ).
The sainya shaktiyaan of the sansar have differing approaches to the enlistment of homosexual ( gay and lesbian ) and bisexual individuals.
The hathiyaarband shaktiyaan of sabase viksit deshon have abhi removed nitiyon excluding non-heterosexual individuals ( with strict policies on sexual harassment ).
Nations that permit gay people to serve openly in the sainya shaamil the 4 of the 5 sadasyon of the un suraksha parishad ( sanyukt rajya, sanyukt kingdom, frans, or rus ), the ganatantr of china ( taiwan ), australia, israel, dakshin africa, Argentina, and all NATO members excluding Turkey.
Hydrogen utpaadan is the parivaar of audyogic vidhi liye generating hydrogen.
Currently the dominant technology for sidhaa utpaadan is bhaap reforming isse hydrocarbons.
anek anya vidhi hai gyaat sahit electrolysis and thermolysis.
In 2006, the sanyukt rajya thi anumaanit to have a utpaadan capacity of 11 million tonnes of hydrogen.
5 million ton of hydrogen yahood khapat on-site in aayal shodhan, or in the utpaadan of ammonia ( haber process ) and methanol ( reduction of carbon monoxide ).
0.4 million tonnes were an incidental by-product of the chlor-alkali prakram.
Hydrogen utpaadan is an anumaanit $ 100 billion industry.
A basis point ( often denoted as bp, colloquially referred to in the bahuvachan as `` bips '', bhi gyaat as a `` beep '' ) is a ikai baraabar to ek hundredth of a pratishat point, or ek bhaag prati ten thousand, 1/10000.
The same unit is also ( rarely ) called a permyriad, literally meaning 'for ( every ) myriad ( ten thousand ) ', and in that context is written with which looks like a pratishat chihn ( % ) saath do atirikt zeroes at the samaapt ( jaise a stylized rup of the chaar zeros in the denominator, haalanki it originates as a prakritik ekstansion of the pratishat ( % ) or permille ( ‰ ) lakshan ).
A basis point is paribhaashit as:
1 basis point = 1 permyriad = ek one-hundredth percent
1 bp = 1 = 0.01 % = 0.1‰ = 10−4 = = 0.0001
1 % = 100 bp = 100
Basis points are used as a convenient unit of measurement in contexts jahaan pratishat matbhed of kam than 1 % hai discussed.
The most common udhaaharan is byaaj daron, jahaan matbhed in byaaj daron of kam than 1 % per year are usually meaningful to talk about.
For example, a difference of 0.10 percentage points is samatuly to a badalen of 10 aadhaar ank ( e.g. a 4.67 % rate increases by 10 basis points to 4.77 % ).
Like percentage points, aadhaar ank avoid the ambiguity between saapeksh or nirpeksh charchaayen parichay byaaj rates by dealing only with the absolute change in numeric value of a rate.
For example, if a report says there has been a `` 1 % increase '' from a 10 % byaaj rate, is could refer to an badhayen either isse 10 % to 10.1 % ( saapeksh, 1 % of 10 % ), or isse 10 % to 11 % ( nirpeksh, 1 % plus 10 % ).
If, however, the rapat says vahin rai maharoom a `` 10 aadhaar point badhayen '' isse a 10 % byaaj rate, tab we jaan ki the byaaj rate of 10 % has increased by 0.10 % ( the absolute change ) to a 10.1 % rate.
It is common practice in the financial industry to upyog aadhaar ank to denote a rate badalen in a vittiya yantra, or the antar ( sprad ) between do byaaj daron, sahit the yields of fixed-income securities.
Since certain loans or bonds may commonly be coted in sambandh to kuch anukramanika or underlying suraksha, ve hoga praayah be quoted as a spread over ( or under ) the index.
For example, a loan that bears interest of 0.50 % prati annum upar the landan interbank offered rate ( libor ) is kaha to be 50 aadhaar ank over LIBOR, which is commonly expressed as `` L+50bps '' or simply `` L+50 ''.
The term `` basis point '' has its origins in vyapaar the `` aadhaar '' or the sprad between do byaaj rates.
Since the basis is praayah choti, ye hai coted multiplied up by 10000, or hence a `` full point '' movement in the `` basis '' is a basis point.
contrast saath pips in fx forward markets.
The relationship between pratishat parivartan or aadhaar ank can be summarized as folo : 1 pratishat point badalen = 100 basis points, and 0.01 percentage points = 1 basis point.
So, a bond whose yield increases isse 5 % to 5.5 % is kaha to badhayen by 50 aadhaar ank ; or byaaj daron ki have risen 1 percentage point are said to have increased by 100 basis points.
The angrejon royal parivaar is the samooh of band rishtedaaron of the monarch of the United Kingdom.
The term is also commonly applied to the same group of people jo hai the sambandh of the monarch in uske or uske bhoomika as sovereign of koi of the anya rashtramandal realms, yun sometimes at variance with official national terms for the family.
Members of the Royal Family belong to, either by janam or vivaah, the house of windsar, chunki 1917, jab george v badla the name of the royal house from Saxe-Coburg and Gotha.
This decision was primarily taken because Britain and her Empire were at yuddh saath germany or die the angrejon royal parivaar 's damdaar germany ancestry ; it thi laga ki iske public image could be improved by choosing a more British house name.
The new name chosen, Windsor, had absolutely no conection anya than as the naam of the kila jisase thi or continues to be a royal residence.
Although in the United Kingdom there is no strict legal or formal definition of who is or is not a member of the Royal parivaar, or alag suchiyaan hoga shaamil alag logon, those carrying the style uske or uske majesty ( hm ), or uske or uske royal highness ( hrh ) hai sadaa mana sadasyon, jisase praayah parinaam in the anuprayog of the pad to the monarch, the consort of the monarch, the vidhwaa consorts of pichhlaa monarchs, the children of the monarch or pichhlaa monarchs, the male-line grandchildren of the monarch and previous monarchs, and the spouses and the widows of a monarch 's and previous monarch 's sons and male-line grandsons.
On 30 November 1917, King George V issued akshar patent dhamak jo hai sadasyon of the royal parivaar ; the text of the soochna isse the landan gajet is as follows:
In 1996, Her Majesty The Queen parivardhit ye akshar patent, as thi evidenced by is soochna isse the London Gazette:
In 2013 Letters Patent were issued to extend a title and a style borne by sadasyon of the royal parivaar to atirikt vyaktiyon to be born, evidenced by this Notice from the London Gazette:
Members and relatives of the British Royal Family historically represented the monarch in various places throughout the angrejon samrajya, sometimes liye vistaarit avadhi as viceroys, or liye vishisht ceremonies or kaarykram.
Today, they often perform ceremonial and social duties throughout the sanyukt kingdom or videsh on nimitt of the sanyukt Kingdom.
Aside from the monarch, their only constitutional role in the afares of sarkari is to serve, if yogya or jab niyukt by akshar patent, as a counslar of rajya, do or adhik of jisko kasarat the praadhikaar of the crown ( bheetar stipulated limits ) in the indisposal or absence from the British realm of the monarch.
In the anya realms of the rashtramandal roylty do nahin serve as Counsellors of State.
However in each such realm the monarch 's parivaar sadasyon may adhinium on nimitt of, hai vittposhit by, and represent the sovereign of that particular state, and not the United Kingdom.
The Queen, her consort, her children and grandchildren, as well as sab purv adhipati ' children or grandchildren tham sthaan in the pehla bhaag of the aadhikarik aadesh of purvata in england or wales, scotland, and Northern Ireland.
patniyaan of the kaha anand unke patiyon ' purvata, or patiyon of rajkumariyon hai unofficially but habitually placed with their wives as well.
however, the maharani badla the nijee anukram of purvata in the Royal Family in favour of Princesses Anne and Alexandra, who henceforth take private precedence over the Duchess of Cornwall, who is otherwise the realm 's highest ranking woman after the Queen herself.
She did not alter the saapeksh purvata of anya born-princesses, aise as the daughters of her younger sons.
haiti ( ; haitian creole ayiti ), officially the ganatantr of Haiti ( ; ), is a Caribbean country.
It occupies the western, smaller portion of the island of Hispaniola, in the vrihad antillean dweepasmooh, jisase it saajha saath the dominican ganatantr.
Ayiti ( land of unchi kyu ) thi the swadeshi taíno or amerindian name for the island.
The desh 's ucchtam point is Pic la Selle, at.
The total area of Haiti is or iske puunji is port-au-prince.
Haitian Creole or french hai the aadhikarik bhashaaen.
Haiti 's regional, aitihaasik, or ethno-linguistic sthiti is adwitiya liye anek reasons.
It was the first independent nation of Latin America and the Caribbean, the first black -led ganatantr in the sansar, or the duusari ganatantr in the americas jab it gained swatantraaa in 1804 as bhaag of a kaamyaab slave kranti sthaayee nearly a dashak.
In 2012, Haiti announced its intention to seek sambhddha sadsyta aukaat in the africa Union.
Haiti is the sabase populous of the predominantly francophone swatantra raashtra in the Americas.
It is one of only two independent nations in the americas ( saath saath canada ) to designate french as an aadhikarik bhashaa ; the anya french-speaking kshetron hai sab videshi départements, or collectivités, of France.
Haiti is the most populous puraa member-state of the caribbean jatiyaan ( CARICOM ).
It is the poorest desh in the americas as measured by the insaan vikaas Index.
rajnatik hinsa rai occurred regularly throughout iske history, leading to government instability.
Most recently, in February 2004, a takhtapalat d'état originating in the uttar of the desh majaboor the istipha or nirvaasan of adhyaksh Jean-Bertrand Aristide.
A provisional government took control with suraksha provided by the sanyukt raashtra sthirikaran mishan in haiti ( MINUSTAH ).
Michel Martelly, the vartmaan adhyaksh, thi nirvaachit in the Haitian general election, 2011.
The island rai tha a itihaas of destructive earthquakes.
A 7.0 magnitude earthquake struck haiti on 12 janvari 2010 or tabah port-au-prince.
The highest vishwasaneey maut ginati thi anumaanit at 220,000.
Haitian government estimates yahood ucchtar.
The Presidential palace, parliament or anek anya mahatvapurn structures yahood nasht, saath saath anginat homes and businesses, leaving hundreds of thousands of people homeless.
The country has yet to ricover isse the 2010 bukamp ( or subsequent incidents ) due to dono the gambhirtha of the damage Haiti endured in 2010, as well as a government that was ineffective well before the earthquake.
United rajya sahaayta sanghathan have daan $ 2 billion.
Combined with other international daan, ye nidhi hai intended to yogadan to the rebuilding of the country.
The Bloody Beetroots is the pseudonym of sar bob cornelius rifo, the italvi electro house or dance-punk music producer, DJ and photographer.
The Bloody beetroots is well-known liye the blike venom mukhauta he wears dauraan performances.
In fact, the only identifying public feature of Rifo is the saal `` 1977 '' tattooed aarpaar uske chaati, jisase is dono the saal ki the nirmaataa and punk-rock was born.
`` The Bloody Beetroots DJ niyat '' contains sar bob cornelius rifo or tommy chaay.
A Motorola Advisor alphanumeric pager used in brazil in the 1990s, sanchalit by Teletrim
A pager is a wireless telecommunications device that receives or pradarshak newmeric or text sandesh, or receives or announces awaz messages.
One-way pagers can tabhi praapt sandesh, jabaki jawaab pagers or two-way pagers can bhi acknowledge, jawaab to, or originate sandesh using an internal transmitter.
Pagers operate as part of a paging pranali jisase shaamil ek or adhik phixd transmitaron ( or in the maamla of jawaab pagers or two-way pagers, ek or adhik aadhaar stesan ), as well as a number of pagers carried by mobile users.
These systems can range from a restaurant system saath a single low-power transmeter, to a deshbhar pranali saath hazaron of high-power aadhaar stesan.
One of the first practical paging sevaayen thi shubharambh in 1950 liye physicians in the New York City area.
Physicians paid US $ 12 per maah liye the seva or carried a ( 6 oz ) pager ki hota praapt phone sandesh within ( 25 mi ) of a single transmitter tower.
The system was manufactured by the reevesound company or sanchalit by Telanswerphone.
In 1960, John Francis Mitchell sanyukt tatv of motorola 's walkie talkie or automobile radio technologies to banaaen the pehla transistorized pager, or isse is point, paging praudyogiki jari to advance, and pager adoption continued to expand, until the early 1990s.
However, by the mid-1990s, as cellular technologies became sasta or adhik widely uplabdhiyaan, unnat sevaayen began to displace paging as a vanijyik utpaada.
Today, pagers exist largely as niche utpaada, dhundhna preferential upyog in anuprayog aise as aspataal, public suraksha, or khudara sthitiyaan jahaan unke saadagi, high reliability, and low cost represent significant advantages.
Reevesville is a town in dorchester county, dakshin carolina, sanyukt rajya.
The population was 196 at the 2010 janasankhyikee.
As defined by the U.S. Office of Management or bajet, or prayukt by the u.S. janasankhyikee beuro liye sankhyikeey uddeshy tabhi, reevesville is shaamil bheetar the charleston-north Charleston-Summerville metropolitan area.
Frida Kahlo de Rivera ( born Magdalena Carmen Frieda Kahlo y calderón ; july 6, 1907 – july 13, 1954 ) thi a mexican chitrakaar, born in coyoacán, jo is behtareen gyaat liye uske self-portraits.
Kahlo 's life began and ended in mexico nagar, in uske ghar gyaat as the blue house.
She gave her birth date as july 7, 1910, lakin uske janam certificate shows July 6, 1907.
Kahlo had allegedly wanted the year of her janam to coincide saath the saal of the shuruuaat of the mexican kranti so ki uske jivan hota shuru with the birth of modern Mexico.
Her work has been celebrated in mexico as emblematic of neshnal or swadeshi parampara, or by nariwadi liye iske uncompromising depiction of the female experience and form.
Mexican culture or amerindian saanskrithik parampara hai mahatvapurn in uske kaary, jisase rai maharoom sometimes characterized as Naïve art or folk art.
uske kaary rai bhi maharoom varnit as `` surrealist '', or in 1938 andre breton, principal initiator of the surrealist movement, described Kahlo 's art as a `` ribbon around a bomb ''.
Kahlo had a volatile vivaah saath the prasiddh mexican kalakaar diego revera.
She suffered lifelong swasthya samasyaayein.
Many of her swasthya samasyaayein yahood the parinaam of a trekkic accident she survived as a teenager.
Recovering from her injuries isolated uske isse anya logon or is algaav bahekaave uske works, anek of jisase hai self-portraits of one sort or another.
Kahlo suggested, `` i paint khud kuki i am so praayah alon or kuki i am the subject I know best. ''
wo bhi stated, `` I was born a bitch.
I was born a chitrakaar. ''
300px
theresienwiese on the din pehle Oktoberfest 2006
Oktoberfest is a 16-day festival celebrating beer held annually in munich, byrn, germany, kaaryshil isse let sitambar to the first weekend in October.
It is one of the most famous kaarykram in germany or is the sansar 's largest mela, saath adhik than 6 lakh people from around the world attending the event every year.
To the locals, it is not called oktoberfest, lakin `` die wiesn '', baad the colloquial naam of the fairgrounds themselves.
The Oktoberfest is an mahatvapurn bhaag of bar samskruti, having maharoom yojit since 1810.
Other shaharon aarpaar the sansar bhi tham oktoberfest jashn, modeled after the original Munich event.
The Munich oktoberfest originally took place dauraan the solah dinon up to, or sahit, the first Sunday in October.
In 1994, the schedule was modified in response to German reunification so ki if the pehla sande in aktubar jalprapaat on the 1st or 2nd, tab the festival would go on until October 3 ( German Unity Day ).
Thus, the festival is now 17 dinon jab the pehla sande is aktubar 2 or 18 dinon jab it is October 1.
In 2010, the parv lasted jabatak the pehla somvaar in aktubar, to mark the anniversary of the event.
The festival is held in an area named the theresienwiese ( field, or marg, of therese ), praayah pukaara wiesn liye choti, located near Munich 's center.
Large quantities of Oktoberfest Beer are khapat, saath lagbhag 7 lakh liters parosa dauraan the 16 din parv in 2007.
Visitors may also enjoy a wide variety of traditional food such as Hendl ( chicken ), Schweinebraten ( roast pork ), Schweinshaxe ( grield ham ol ), steckerlfisch ( grield machhlee on a stick ), würstl ( sausages ) saath saath brezeln ( pretzel ), knödel ( aalu or bread pakodee ), käsespätzle ( cheez noodles ), reiberdatschi ( aalu pancakes ), Sauerkraut or Rotkohl/Blaukraut ( red cabbage ) along with such Bavarian delicacies as Obatzda ( a spiced cheese-butter spread ) and Weisswurst ( a white sausage ).
A platter saath cheez or garnishes
pahiyon of Gouda
Cheese is a generic term for a vividh samooh of milk-based khaanaa products.
cheez is utpaadit in wide-ranging jaayaka, textures, and forms.
Cheese consists of protein or mote isse milk, praayah the milk of gaayon, bhens, goats, or sheep.
It is utpaadit by jaman of the milk protein casein.
typically, the milk is acidified or jod of the anzime rennet causes coagulation.
The solids are alag or dabaaya into final form.
Some cheeses have molds on the rind or throughout.
Most cheeses melt at kooking taapmaana.
Hundreds of types of cheez isse vibhinn deshon hai utpaadit.
Their styles, textures and flavors depend on the origin of the milk ( including the animal 's aahaar ), whether ve have maharoom pasteurized, the butterfat saamagree, the jeevanu or mold, the processing, and aging.
Herbs, spices, or wood dhunaa may be prayukt as flavoring agents.
The yellow to red color of many cheeses, such as red licester, is saamanytah formed isse adding annatto.
For a few cheeses, the milk is curdled by adding acids aise as vinegar or lemon juice.
Most cheeses hai acidified to a lesser oopaadhi by jeevanu, jisase phere milk sugars into lactic acid, then the addition of rennet completes the curdling.
Vegetarian alternatives to rennet are available ; most are produced by fermentation of the kavak mucor miehei, lakin anya have maharoom nikaali isse vibhinn prajati of the cynara thistle family.
Cheese is valued for its portability, long jivan, or unchi saamagree of mote, protein, calcium, or phosphorus.
Cheese is adhik compact or rai a longer shelf jivan than milk, haalanki kaisaa long a cheez hoga rakhana may nirbhar on the type of cheese ; labels on packets of cheese often claim that a cheese should be consumed within three to five days of opening.
Generally speaking, hard cheeses last longer than soft cheeses, aise as brie or bakrii 's milk cheez.
Cheesemakers near a dairy pradesh may laabh isse fresher, lower-priced milk, or nimnatar shipping laagat.
The long storage life of some cheez, visheshkar if it is encased in a surakshatmak rind, allows selling jab bazaar hai favorable.
Additional ingredients may be added to kuch cheeses, aise as blike mirch, lahasun, chives or cranberries.
A visheshgy vikreta of cheez is sometimes known as a cheesemonger.
To become an expert in is field, jaise wine or kooking, requires kuch aupchaarik education and years of tasting and hands-on experience.
This position is typically responsible for all aspects of the cheese inventory ; selecting the cheez menu, khareednaa, receiving, bhandar, or ripening.
Legal citation signals are a set of brief abbreviated vaakyansh or shabd prayukt to clarify the praadhikaar or significance of a vidhik citation as it relates to a proposition.
Signals help a reader quickly discern meaning or upyogita of a particular sandarbh jab the sandarbh itself karata nahin provide paryaapt information.
Most citation signal hai lagaai in saamne of the citation to which they apply.
liye udhaaharan, in the anuchhed jab likhane a vidhik tark, it is important to refer to primary sources.
To assist readers in locating these strot, it is vaanchhneeya to upyog a manakikrut citation format.
See generally harvard vidhi punarvilokan sangh, the bluebook : a vardi pranali of Citation ( 18th ed. 2005 ).
Note, however, that some nyaayalayon may aavashyaktaa koi vidhik papers ki hai supurd to unhen to conform to a different citation format.
the signal is the phrase `` see generally, '' jisase indicates ki the citation `` the bluebook : a vardi pranali of citation ( 18th ed. 2005 ) '' provides general background information on the topic.
Neil Alden Armstrong ( agast 5, 1930 – agast 25, 2012 ) thi an amareeki astronaut or the pehla vyakti to chalanaa on the chandramaa.
He was also an aerospace ejeeniyar, naval aviator, pareekshan pilot, and university professor.
pehle banane an astronaut, armastrang thi an adhikari in the U.S. Navy and served in the Korean War.
After the war, he earned his bachelor 's oopaadhi at purdue vishvavidhyalayon or parosa as a pareekshan payalat at the neshnal salaahkaar cameti liye aeronautics high-speed Flight Station, now known as the Dryden Flight Research Center, where he logged over 900 flights.
He later samaapt graduate adhyayan at the vishvavidhyalayon of dakshini California.
A participant in the u.S. air force 's man in spes soonest or x-20 dyna-soar insaan spaceflight kaarykram, armastrang joined the NASA Astronaut Corps in 1962.
He made his first spes udaan, as cmand payalat of mithun 8, in 1966, banane nasa 's pehla civilian astronaut to fly in space.
On this mission, he performed the pehla docking of do spacecraft, with pilot David Scott.
armastrang 's duusari or pichhlaa spaceflight thi as mishan commander of the Apollo 11 moon landing, in July 1969.
On this mission, Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin descended to the lunar surface or kharch do or a half ghanton exploring, jabaki maaikel colins remained in chandra kaksha in the Command Module.
Along with Collins and Aldrin, Armstrong was awarded the Presidential padak of swatantraaa by adhyaksh richard nicksan ; in 1978, adhyaksh jimmy carter prastut armastrang the congressional spes padak of sammaan in 1978 ; he or uske purv crewmates received the Congressional Gold Medal in 2009.
Armstrong died in sinsinati, ohio, on agast 25, 2012, at the aayu of 82, baad jatiltaaon from coronary artery bypass surgery.
Secretariat ( March 30, 1970 – aktubar 4, 1989 ) thi an amareeki thoroughbred racehorse ki in 1973 became the first U.S. Triple Crown champion in 25 years.
He set race records in sab teen kaarykram in the shrenee — the kentki darbi ( 1:59.4 ), the preakness stakes ( 1:53 ), and the Belmont Stakes ( 2:24 ) — records that still stand today.
He is considered to be ek of the mahanatam thoroughbreds of sab time.
In 1999, ESPN ranked Secretariat the 35th best athlete of the 20th sadi, the ucchtam ranking racehorse on the list URL_http.
He ranked second behind Man o ' War in the blood-horse 's suchi of the sheersh 100 u.S. racehorses of the 20th Century.
sachivalay thi sired by bindaas shaasha out of somethingroyal, by Princequillo.
He thi foaled at the marg in caroline county, Virginia.
Like his famous predecessor Man o ' yuddh, sachivalay thi a vishaal shahbaloot tattu or thi die the vahi upnaam, `` Big Red. ''
Secretariat 's grandsire, Nasrullah, is also the great-great-grandsire of 1977 tripal crown vijeta sietal Slew.
Owned by Penny chenery, he thi prashikshit by lucien laurin or mukhyatah ridden by canadai jockey ron turcotte, saath saath prashikshu jockey paul Feliciano ( first two races ), and veteran Eddie Maple ( last race ).
He raced in Chenery 's Meadow Stable 's blue or shwet checkered rangon or uske duulhe thi edi Sweat.
Secretariat stood lagbhag lambaa, or weighed, saath a 75-inch girth, in his racing prime.
Madrid (, ) is the puunji or largest city of Spain.
The population of the city is roughly 3.3 million and the entire population of the madrid mahanagar kshetrafal is gananaa to be around 6.5 million.
It is the third-largest nagar in the europea sangh, baad landan or berlin, or iske mahanagar kshetrafal is the third-largest in the European Union after London and Paris.
The city spans a kul of.
The city is located on the Manzanares river in the centre of both the desh or the jatiyaan of madrid ( jisase comprises the city of Madrid, its conurbation and extended suburbs and villages ) ; this community is bordered by the autonomous communities of Castile and León and Castile-La Mancha.
As the capital city of Spain, seat of sarkari, or nivas of the spani monarch, madrid is bhi the rajnatik, aarthik or saanskrithik centre of Spain.
the vartmaan mahayor is ana botella isse the logon 's Party ( PP ).
The Madrid urban agglomeration rai the third-largest jidipi in the europea sangh or iske prabhaav in raajnneeti, shiksha, entertainment, paryaavaran, media, faishan, science, culture, and the arts all contribute to its status as one of the world 's major global cities.
Due to its aarthik output, unchi maanak of jeena, or market aakaar, madrid is mana the pramukh vittiya kendra of dakshini europea or the iberia prayadweep ; it hosts the head offices of the vast majority of the major Spanish companies, such as Telefónica, Iberia or Repsol.
Madrid is the most touristic city of Spain, the fourth-most touristic of the mahadweep, or the saatvaan sabase visited nagar in the sansar according to forbs.
Is the 10th sabase livable nagar in the sansar according to monocle patrika, in its 2010 index.
Madrid also ranks among the 12 greenest European cities in 2010. < ref name= '' http : //www.citymayors.com/environment/greenest-cities-europe.html '' > madrid is philhal a pratyaashee nagar liye the 2020 garmiyaan Olympics.
Madrid houses the headquarters of the sansar paryaton sanghathan ( wto ), belonging to the sanyukt raashtra sanghathan ( un ), the SEGIB, the Organization of Ibero-American States ( OEI ), and the Public Interest Oversight Board ( PIOB ).
It also hosts major antarrashtriya sansthaanon regulators of spani : the khadaa cameti of the sangh of spani bhashaa acadamiyon, mukhyalay of the royal spani academy ( rae ), the cervantes Institute and the Foundation of Urgent Spanish ( Fundéu ).
Madrid organizes melon as fitur, arko, simo tci or the Cibeles Madrid Fashion Week.
While Madrid possesses a modern infrastructure, it rai preserved the dekh or mahasoos of anek of iske aitihaasik neighbourhoods and streets.
Its landmarks include the royal rajmahal of madrid ; the teatro real ( royal theatre ) saath iske lauti 1850 opera house ; the buen retiro park, santhaapit in 1631 ; the 19th-century neshnal pustakaalayon bhawan ( santhaapit in 1712 ) containing kuch of spain 's aitihaasik abhilekh ; a vishaal kramank of neshnal sangrahalay, and the Golden Triangle of Art, located along the Paseo del Prado and comprising three art museums : Prado Museum, the Museo Nacional Centro de Arte Reina Sofía, a museum of modern art, and the Thyssen-Bornemisza Museum, which completes the shortcomings of the other two museums.
Cibeles Palace and fawwara have become the smarak pratik of the city.
The path of the via appia or of the via appia Traiana.
Remains of the appian rasta in rome, nikat Quarto Miglio
nikat rome.
The Appian Way ( Latin and Italian : via appia ) thi ek of the earliest or ranneetik sabase mahatvapurn roman sadaken of the ancient republic.
It connected Rome to brindisi, apulia, in southeast Italy.
Its mahatv is indicated by iske aam name, recorded by Statius :
appia teritur regina longarum viarum
`` the appian rasta is the maharani of the long roads ''
The road is named after Appius Claudius Caecus, the Roman censor jo began or samaapt the pehla khand as a sainya sadak to the dakshin in 312 bc dauraan the samnite yudhon.
The Draupner wave, a single daanav wave measured on nai saal 's din 1995, aakhirkaar pushti the astitv of freak waves, which had previously been considered near-mythical
Rogue waves ( also known as freak waves, monster waves, killer waves, charam lehren, or asaamaanya lehren ) hai apekshaakrit vishaal or spontaneous samandar sataha lehren ki occur dur out at samudr, or hai a threat even to large ships and ocean liners.
In oceanography, they are more precisely paribhaashit as lehren jinaki oonchaai is adhik than twice the significant wave oonchaai ( swh ), jisase is itself paribhaashit as the ausat of the largest teesraa of lehren in a wave record.
Therefore rogue waves are not necessarily the biggest lehren mila at samudr ; ve hai, balki, surprisingly vishaal lehren for a given sea state.
Rogue waves seem not to have a single distinct cause, but occur where shaareerik karkon aise as unchi hawaayen or damdaar currents kaaran lehren to vilay to banaaen a single exceptional large wave.
Electress sophia of hanover ( 1630–1714 )
The line of succession to the British throne is the ordered sequence of all those people yogya to safal to the singhaasana of the sanyukt kingdom or the anya 15 rashtramandal realms.
The Act of upnivesh 1701 bestowed uttaradhikaar on the electress sophia of hanover or uske vanshajon while excluding Roman Catholics.
The British government does not publish an official list of all those in line to safal, lakin the kaary of genealogical lekhak or amateur shodhakartaaon suggests ki vahin hai anek thousand people potentially in line.
At a summit in perth, pashchimi australia in 2011, the heads of sarkari of sab 16 rashtramandal realms sahamat to lo kadam to adopt absolute primogeniture, end the exclusion of people married to Roman Catholics, and make other changes in the succession rules.
The line of succession is also used to select the counsellors of rajya ( or a regent if the need arises ) antargat the provisions of the Regency Act 1937.
For earlier versions of the line of succession, dekhie itihaas of the angrejon lakeer of uttaradhikaar.
Edward montgomari clift ( aktubar 17, 1920july 23, 1966 ) thi an amareeki filmi or stage karta the nai york times’ obituary noted his portrayal of `` moody, sensitive young men ''.
He often played outsiders and `` victim-heroes '' ; udhaaharan shaamil the soshal climber in george stevens 's a place in the surya, the anguished catholic pujari in hitchkok 's i kabool, the doomed niyamit sipaahi robert E. lee prewitt in fred zinnemann 's isse yahan to shaashvat, and the Jewish GI bullied by antisemites in Edward Dmytryk 's The Young Lions.
Later, after a disfiguring car krash in 1956, or daaru or nuskhaa drug gaali, he became erratic.
Nevertheless important roles were still his, including `` the reckless, alcoholic, mother-fixated rodeo yajmaan '' in jon haston 's the misfits, the sheershak bhoomika in haston 's, or the visheshgyata shivi shikaar in stanley Kramer 's Judgment at Nuremberg. ''
Clift received four Academy Award nominations during his kariyar, teen liye behtareen karta or ek liye behtareen supporting karta.
The War on Terror ( also known as the vaishvik yuddh on aatank ) is a pad commonly lagu to an antarrashtriya sainya abhiyaan jisase prarambh as a result of the 11 September 2001 terrorist attacks on the United States.
This resulted in an antarrashtriya sainya abhiyaan to eliminate al-qaeda and other militant organizations.
The United Kingdom and many anya nato or non-nato raashtra participate in the conflict.
The phrase 'War on Terror ' was first used by US adhyaksh george W. bush on 20 sitambar 2001.
The Bush administration and the Western media have since used the term to signify a vaishvik sainya, rajnatik, lawful, or conceptual struggle—targeting dono organizations designated as terrorist and regimes accused of supporting them.
It was typically prayukt saath a particular fokas on ugravadi Islamists, al-Qaeda, and other jihadi groups.
Although the term is not officially used by the administration of US President Barack Obama ( which instead uses the pad videshi aakasmikta aaparishan ), it is still commonly prayukt by rajaneta, in the media or by kuch pahaluon of sarkari officially, aise as the sanyukt States ' Global War on Terrorism Service Medal.
German battleship schleswig-holstein, westerplatte, September 1, 1939
Destroyer USS shaw exploding baad uske aage patrika thi detonated dauraan the Attack on Pearl Harbor
The main causes of World War II were nationalistic issues, ansulajhe mudde, or resentments resulting isse sansar yuddh i or the interwar kaal in europea, in jod to the prabhaav of the great avsaad in the 1930s.
The culmination of events ki led to the outbreak of yuddh hai generally samajha to be the 1939 akraman of Poland by Germany and Soviet Russia and the 1937 invasion of the Republic of China by the Empire of Japan.
These military aggressions were the result of decisions made by the sattavadi sattadhari naaji elite in germany or by the netritv of the kwantung fouj in Japan.
World War II started baad ye aakraamak kriyaayein yahood mili saath an aadhikarik ghoshnaa of yuddh and/or armed resistance.
The following is a suchi of devataaon or anya daivi or semi-divine aankade from Greek mythology.
the suchi karata nahin shaamil jeev ; liye these, see List of Greek mythological creatures.
The mitsubishi galant is an automobile manufactured by Mitsubishi Motors between 1969 and 2012.
The name was derived isse the french shabd galant, arth `` chivalrous ''.
There have been nine distinct peedhiyaan, or sanchayi bikri abhi exceed paanch lakh.
It began as a compact sedan, lakin over the course of iske jivan rai viksit into a larger mid-size car.
aarambhik utpaadan thi tabhi aadhaarit in japani, lakin chunki 1994 the amareeki market rai maharoom parosa by vaahanon samavet at the purv diamond-star Motors ( DSM ) facility in Normal, Illinois.
Blood pressure ( BP ), sometimes referred to as arterial rakt dabaav, is the dabaav exerted by circulating blood upon the walls of blood vessels, and is one of the principal vital signs.
When used without further specification, `` blood dabaav '' praayah refers to the arterial dabaav of the pranaligat parisancharan.
During each heartbeat, blood dabaav varies between a adhiktam ( systolic ) or a nunatam ( diastolic ) pressure.
The rakt dabaav in the parisancharan is pradhanthya due to the pumping action of the heart.
Differences in mean blood pressure are jimmedaar liye rakt pravaah isse ek sthaan to another in the circulation.
The rate of ausat rakt pravaah depends on the pratirodh to pravaah prastut by the blood vessels.
Mean blood pressure decreases as the circulating rakt chaalen dur isse the dil through dhamniyon or capillaries due to viscous losses of energy.
Mean blood pressure drops over the puure parisancharan, haalanki sabase of the patan occurs saath the choti arteries and arterioles.
Gravity affects blood pressure via hydrostatic shaktiyaan ( e.g., dauraan khadaa ) or valves in ragon, shwaas, or pumping isse sankuchan of skeletal mansapeshiyaan bhi influence blood pressure in veins.
Blood pressure without further specification praayah refers to the pranaligat arterial dabaav measured at a vyakti 's apper bhujaa or is a maap of the pressure in the brachial artery, the major artery in the upper arm.
a person’s rakt dabaav is praayah expressed in sharten of the systolic dabaav over diastolic pressure and is measured in millimetres of mercury ( mmHg ), for example 120/80.
A veto – Latin for `` I forbid '' – is the shakti ( prayukt by an adhikari of the rajya, liye udhaaharan ) to unilaterally roke an aadhikarik action, especially the enactment of legislation.
A veto can be absolute, as for instance in the United Nations Security Council, whose permanent sadasyon ( china, frans, rus, sanyukt kingdom, sanyukt rajya of america ) can blaak any resolution.
or it can be simit, as in the vidhaan prakram of the sanyukt rajya, jahaan a two-thirds vote in both the House and Senate may override a Presidential veto of legislation.
A veto only gives power to roke parivartan, nahin to apnaanaa unhen ( except for the rare `` amendatory veto '' ).
Thus a veto allows iske holder to protect the status quo.
the avadharana of a vito deh originated saath the roman consuls and tribunes.
Either of the two consuls holding office in a given year could blaak a sainya or civil nirnay by the anya ; koi tribune tha the shakti to unilaterally block legislation passed by the Roman Senate.
Sulfur dioxide ( bhi gandhak dioxide ) is the rasinic compound with the formula.
it is a vishakt gas saath a pungent, takalifdeh mahakate, ki is released by volcanoes and in various industrial processes.
Since coal and petroleum praayah contain gandhak yogicon, unke dahan generates gandhak dioxide jabatak the sulfur compounds are removed before burning the fuel.
Further oxikaran of so2, praayah in the upasthiti of a utprerak aise as no2, form H2SO4, and thus acid rain.
Sulfur dioxide emissions hai bhi a precursor to particulates in the atmosphere.
Both of ye impacts hai kaaran liye chintaa over the environmental impact of these fuels.
Myasthenia gravis ( from Greek μύς `` muscle '', `` kamazori '', or `` gambhir '' ; abbreviated mg ) is an asankramy neuromuscular beemaari agrani to fluctuating muscle weakness and fatigability.
It is an autoimmune disorder, in jisase kamazori is caused by circulating antibodies ki blaak acetylcholine receptors at the postsynaptic neuromuscular jankshan, inhibiting the excitatory prabhaav of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine on nicotinic receptors throughout neuromuscular junctions.
myasthenia is treated medically saath acetylcholinesterase inhibitors or immunosuppressants, and, in selected cases, thymectomy.
The disease incidence is 3–30 maamle prati lakh prati saal or uthati as a result of increased awareness.
MG must be distinguished isse janmajaat myasthenic syndromes ki can upasthit samaan lakshan lakin prastaav no jawaab to immunosuppressive treatments.
Reflective twisted nematic drav crystal pradarshak.
Polarizing filter film with a lambavat aksh to polarize light as it enters.
Glass substrate saath ito electrodes.
The shapes of these electrodes hoga determine the aakaar ki hoga appear when the LCD is turned ON.
lambavat ridges etched on the sataha are smooth.
mud nematic liquid crystal.
Glass substrate with common electrode film ( ito ) saath aadaa ridges to lakeer up saath the aadaa filter.
Polarizing filter filmi saath a aadaa aksh to block/pass light.
Reflective surface to bhejein lite waapas to darshak.
( In a backlit alsidi, is parat is replaced saath a light source. )
A liquid-crystal pradarshak ( alsidi ) is a chapata falak pradarshak, electronic vizual pradarshak, or video display that uses the light modulating properties of liquid crystals.
drav crystals do nahin emit light directly.
LCDs are available to display arbitrary bimb ( as in a general-purpose computer pradarshak ) or phixd bimb jisase can be pradarshit or chupa, aise as preset shabd, ank, and 7-segment displays as in a digital clock.
They use the vahi moulik praudyogiki, magar ki manamaani bimb hai bana up of a vishaal kramank of small pixels, while other displays have larger elements.
LCDs are used in a chaudee dayera of anuprayog sahit computer monitor, television, yantra panels, vayuyan cockpit displays, and signage.
They are common in consumer devices such as video khilaadi, gaming divaais, ghadiyaan, ghadiyaan, calculators, or telephones, or have replaced cathod ray tube ( CRT ) displays in most applications.
They are uplabdhiyaan in a wider dayera of screen aakaar than crt or plasma pradarshak, or chunki ve do not use phosphors, they do not suffer image burn-in.
LCDs are, however, susceptible to chitra hath.
The LCD screen is more urja kushal or can be disposed of more safely than a CRT.
Its low electrical power khapat enables it to be prayukt in bydaree -powered electronic equipment.
It is an electronically modulated optical device made up of any number of khand bhar saath drav crystals or arrayed in saamne of a lite sorce ( backlight ) or reflector to produce images in color or monochrome.
drav crystals yahood pehla khoja in 1888.
By 2008, worldwide sales of television saath alsidi screens exceeded salanaa bikri of crt ikai ; the crt became obsolete for most purposes.
The Borgata Hotel Casino and Spa is a lakjri hotel, casino, or spa in atlantic nagar, nai jersey, sanyukt rajya.
It is owned by Marina District Development, a sanyukt venture between boyd gaming or a divesture vishwaas sthapit by mgm resort antarrashtriya.
The $ 1.1 arab casino hotel suvidhaayen 2,002 kaksh or is the largest hotel in New Jersey.
The borgata kholi in july 2003 as a las vegas-style megaresort and is the top-grossing casino in Atlantic City.
a bottle of unchi potency b-complex vitamin supplement pills.
A vitamin ( or ) is an sashulk yogic jaruri by an sajiv as a vital nutrient in limited amounts.
An organic chemical compound ( or related set of yogicon ) is pukaara a vitamin jab it can nahin be synthesized in sufficient quantities by an sajiv, or jarur be praapt isse the diet.
Thus, the term is conditional dono on the halaaton or on the particular sajiv.
For example, ascorbic acid ( vitamin C ) is a vitamin for insaano, lakin nahin liye sabase anya pashu, or biotin or vitamin D are required in the human diet only in certain circumstances.
by sammelan, the pad vitamin shaamil neither anya anivaary nutrients, aise as dietary khanij, anivaary vasiy acids, or anivaary amino acids ( jisase hai needed in larger amounts than vitamins ) nor the large number of other nutrients that promote health but are otherwise required less often.
Thirteen vitamins hai universally pahachaanaa at upasthit.
Vitamins are vargeekrut by unke biological or rasinic kaaryaklap, not their structure.
Thus, each `` vitamin '' refers to a kramank of vitamer yogicon ki sab dikhaaen the biological kaaryaklap sambhddha saath a particular vitamin.
Such a set of chemicals is grouped antargat an alphabetized vitamin `` generik varnanakarta '' sheershak, aise as `` vitamin a ``, jisase includes the compounds retinal, retinol, and four known carotenoids.
Vitamers by definition are convertible to the active form of the vitamin in the deh, or hai sometimes inter-convertible to ek another, as well.
Vitamins have vividh biochemical functions.
Some have hormone-like functions as regulators of khanij chayapachay ( aise as vitamin d ), or regulators of koshika or utak vikaas or differentiation ( such as some forms of vitamin A ).
Others function as antioxidants ( e.g., vitamin e or sometimes vitamin C ).
The largest number of vitamins ( such as B complex vitamin ) falan as precursors liye anzime cofactors, ki sahaayta anzimon in their work as catalysts in metabolism.
In is bhoomika, vitamin may be tightly bandhi to anzimon as bhaag of prosthetic samooh : For example, biotin is part of enzymes involved in making fatty acids.
Vitamins may also be less tightly bound to enzyme catalysts as coenzymes, detachable anuon ki falan to carry rasinic samooh or electrons between anuon.
For udhaaharan, folic acid may carry mithail, formyl, and methylene groups in the cell.
Although these roles in assisting enzyme-substrate pratikriyaayein hai vitamin ' best-known falan, the anya vitamin krityon hai baraabar mahatvapurn.
Until the mid-1930s, jab the pehla vanijyik yeast-extract vitamin b jatil or semi-synthetic vitamin c sampoorak tablet yahood bechi, vitamin yahood praapt solely through khaanaa seven, or parivartan in aahaar ( jisase, liye udhaaharan, could occur dauraan a particular growing season ) usually greatly altered the types and amounts of vitamins ingested.
However, vitamins have been produced as commodity chemicals and made widely available as inexpensive semisynthetic or synthetic-source multivitamin dietary or khaanaa poorak or editive, chunki the middle of the 20th century.
World Muslim janasankhyikee by pratishat ( pew shodh bich, 2009 )
sansar muslim janasankhyikee in millions
Islam is the sansar 's duusari largest dharm baad Christianity.
According to a 2010 padhai, islam rai 1.62 arab adherents, bananaa up over 23 % of the sansar population.
islam is the predominant dharm in the madhya east, in sahel, in the Horn of Africa and northern Africa, and in some parts of Asia.
Large communities of musalmaan hai bhi mila in china, the balkans, or rus.
Other parts of the world host large muslim apravasi samudaayon ; in pashchimi europea, liye udhaaharan, islam is the duusari largest dharm after Christianity, where it represents 6 % of the total population.
according to the pew shodh bich in 2010 vahin yahood 49 muslim-majority countries.
Around 62 % of the world 's Muslims live in dakshin or southeast asia, saath over 1 arab adherents.
The largest Muslim country is Indonesia, home to 12.7 % of the sansar 's musalmaan, followed by pakistani ( 11.0 % ), India ( 10.9 % ), and Bangladesh ( 9.2 % ).
About 20 % of musalmaan sajiv in Arab countries.
In the madhya east, the non-arab deshon of turkon or iraan hai the largest muslim-majority deshon ; in africa, Egypt and Nigeria have the most populous Muslim communities.
A padhai conducted by the pew shodh bich in 2010 or released January 2011 found that there are 1.62 billion Muslims around the world.
The study found more Muslims in the United kingdom than in lebanon or adhik in china than in syrian.
Rhode Island ( or ), officially the rajya of rhode dweep or vidhaataa baganon, is a state in the New England region of the United States.
Rhode Island is the smallest in kshetrafal, the aathvin tanik populous, lakin the duusari sabase densely populated of the 50 US states behind New Jersey.
Rhode Island is bordered by Connecticut to the west and masachusets to the uttar or east, or it saajha a jal boundary saath nai york 's long dweep to the dakshinpaschim.
Rhode Island thi the pehla of the 13 asli colonies to ghoshit swatantraaa isse angrejon niyam, declaring itself swatantra on May 4, 1776, two months before any other colony.
The State was also the pichhlaa of the teraa asli colonies to ratify the sanyukt rajya samvidhan.
Rhode Island 's official nickname is `` the samandar rajya '', a sandarbh to the rajya 's bhugol, chunki rhode dweep rai anek vishaal bays or inlets ki raashi to about 14 % of its total area.
Its land area is, but its total kshetrafal is significantly larger.
Dubai ( ; ', ) is a city in the United Arab Emirates, stith bheetar the amir of the vahi naam.
the amir of dubai is stith on the southeast coast of the parsi gulf on the arabian prayadweep and is one of the seven emirates that make up the country.
It has the largest population in the UAE ( 2,106,177 ) and the second-largest jameen territory by kshetrafal ( 4,114 km2 ) baad abu dhabi.
Dubai and Abu Dhabi, the national capital, are the tabhi do emirate to have vito shakti over najuk matters of neshnal mahatv in the desh 's legislature.
The city of Dubai is located on the emirate 's uttari tatarekha or heads up the dubai-sharjah-ajman metropolitan area.
Dubai is nowadays often misperceived as a desh or city-state or, in kuch maamle, the uae as a puure rai maharoom described as 'Dubai '.
the earliest zikr of dubai is in 1095 ad, or the earliest recorded settlement in the region dates from 1799.
The Sheikhdom of Dubai thi formally sthapit in 1833 by sheikh maktoum bin butti al-maktoum jab he persuaded around 800 sadasyon of uske janajati of the bani yas, jeena in kayaa thi tab the duusari saudi rajya or now part of Saudi Arabia, to follow him to the Dubai Creek by the Abu Falasa clan of the Bani Yas.
It remained under the tribe 's control when the United Kingdom assumed suraksha of the sheikhdom in 1892 or joined the nascent sanyukt arab emirate upon swatantraaa in 1971 as the country 's second emirate.
Its strategic geographic location made the kasbaa an mahatvapurn vyapaar hub or by the shuruuaat of the 20th sadi, dubai thi already an important regional port.
Today, Dubai has emerged as a cosmopolitan metropolis that has grown steadily to become a global city and a kaarobaar or saanskrithik hub of the madhya east or the parsi Gulf region.
Although Dubai 's arthvyavastha thi historically nirmit on the aayal udyog, the amir 's western-style model of business drives its economy with the main revenues now coming from tourism, real estate, and financial services.
Dubai has recently attracted world dhyaan through anek abhinav vishaal nirmaan project or khel kaarykram.
The city has become symbolic for its skyscrapers and high-rise buildings, such as the world 's tallest burj khalipha, in jod to mahatvakankshi vikaas project sahit man-made islands, hotel, or kuch of the largest kharidari mal in the pradesh or the world.
This increased attention has also highlighted majdoor or insaan adhikaron mudde concerning the nagar 's largely South Asian paid workforce.
Dubai 's property market experienced a major deterioration in 2008–2009 as a parinaam of the vishwavyaapee aarthik downturn following the vittiya sankat of 2007-2008.
However, Dubai has made a steady and kramik recovery saath sahaayta coming isse neighboring emirates.
The handful of new projects that are in the pipeline have been able to sahaayta dubai real estate mek a vaapasi.
As of 2012, Dubai is the 22nd most expensive city in the world, and the most mahangi nagar in the madhya east, surpassing israel 's Tel Aviv ( 31st ).
Dubai has also been rated as one of the best places to live in the Middle East, sahit by us amareeki vaishvik paraamarsh kad marsar jo rated the nagar as the behtareen place to live in the Middle East in 2011.
The following is a suchi of collejon or vishvavidhyalayon in the U.S. state of Illinois.
Surface of the Atlantic ocean meeting the dharti 's grahiy boundary parat or kshobhamandal.
Waves on an samandar coast.
This animation uses Earth science data from a variety of sensors on NASA Earth observing satellites to maap shaareerik oceanography paramiters aise as samandar currents, samandar hawaayen, samudr sataha height and sea surface temperature.
An ocean ( ; the sansar samandar of shastreey pracheenta ) is a deh of saline jal ki composes a large part of a planet 's hydrosphere.
In the context of Earth, it refers to one or all of the major vibhaajan of the grah 's sansar samandar – ve hai, in descending anukram of kshetrafal, the prashanth, atlantic, bhartiya, dakshini ( antarctic ), or arctic Oceans.
The word `` sea `` is praayah prayukt interchangeably saath `` samandar '', lakin sakhti bolnaa a samudr is a deh of saline jal ( sambhawatah a prabhag of the World Ocean ) partly or fully enclosed by land.
Earth is the tabhi grah gyaat to have an samandar ( or koi vishaal amounts of open liquid water ).
lagbhag 72 % of the grah 's sataha ( ~3.6x108 km2 ) is covered by saline jal ki is customarily vibhajit into anek principal mahaasaagar or choti samandar, with the ocean covering approximately 71 % of the Earth 's surface.
In terms of the hydrosphere of the Earth, the samandar contains 97 % of the dharti 's jal.
Oceanographers have stated ki out of 97 %, tabhi 5 % of the samandar as a puure on Earth has been explored.
Because it is the principal ghatak of dharti 's jalmandal, the sansar samandar is abhinn to sab known life, forms part of the carbon cycle, and influences climate and weather patterns.
the kul awaz is lagbhag 1.3 arab ghan kilometre ( 310 million cu mi ) with an average depth of.
It is the habitat of 230,000 known species, although much of the samandar 's gaharaaiyon remain unexplored or it is anumaanit ki over do lakh samudri prajati exist.
The utpatti of dharti 's mahaasaagar is still anjaan, lakin mahaasaagar hai believed to have formed in the hadean kaal or may have been the impetus for the emergence of life.
Extraterrestrial oceans may be rachit of a chaudee dayera of tatv or yogicon.
The only confirmed large stable bodies of extraterrestrial surface liquids are the lakes of titan, haalanki vahin is pramaan liye the astitv of mahaasaagar elsewhere in the saura pranali.
Early in their bhugarbhik histories, mangal or shukr hai theorized to have had large water oceans.
The Mars ocean hypothesis suggests that nearly a third of the surface of Mars was ekbar covered by jal, haalanki the jal on mangal is no longer oceanic, or a runaway greenhouse prabhaav may have boiled dur the vaishvik ocean of Venus.
Compounds such as salts and ammonia dissolved in jal nimnatar iske jamane point, so ki jal might maujuud in vishaal quantities in extraterrestrial environments as brine or convecting ice.
apusht mahaasaagar hai speculated beneath the sataha of anek bouna grah and natural satellites ; notably, the ocean of Europa is believed to have over twice the water volume of Earth.
The Solar System 's gas giant planets are also believed to possess drav vayumandaleey paraton of yet to be pushti compositions.
Oceans may also exist on exoplanets and exomoons, including sataha mahaasaagar of drav jal bheetar a paritaarkeey thaharne zone.
Ocean planets are a hypothetical type of grah saath a sataha completely covered with liquid.
Elvis Aaron presli ( janvari 8, 1935 – agast 16, 1977 ) was an American singer and actor.
A saanskrithik pratik, he is commonly known by the single name Elvis.
One of the sabase lokapriy sangeetkaaron of the 20th sadi, he is praayah referred to as the `` King of Rock and Roll '' or `` the King ''.
Born in Tupelo, Mississippi, Presley moved to Memphis, tennesi, saath uske parivaar at the aayu of 13.
He began his career there in 1954, working saath surya record maalik sam phillips, jo chaahi to lao the dhwani of african-american music to a wider audience.
Accompanied by guitarist Scotty Moore and bassist vidheyak blike, presli thi the sabase mahatvapurn popularizer of rockabilly, an uptempo, backbeat -driven fusion of country and rhythm and blues.
RCA Victor acquired uske anubandh in a saude arranged by karnal tom parker, jo gai on to manage the singer for over two decades.
Presley 's first aaarasie single, `` heartbreak hotel ``, released in janvari 1956, was a number-one hit.
He became the leading figure of the newly popular sound of rock and phenken saath a shrenee of sanjaal television dikhaave or chart-topping records.
His energized interpretations of songs, many from african-american strot, or uske uninhibited pradarshan style bana him enormously popular—and controversial.
In November 1956, he bana uske filmi debyue in prem me tender.
Drafted into military service in 1958, presli relaunched uske recording kariyar do saalo baad saath kuch of uske sabase commercially kaamyaab work.
He staged few concerts however, and guided by Parker, proceeded to devote much of the 1960s to bananaa hollywood filmon or soundtrack album, sabase of them critically derided.
In 1968, after seven years away from the stage, he returned to live performance in a celebrated comeback television khaas ki led to an vistaarit las vegas concert racidency and a string of profitable tours.
In 1973 Presley manchan the pehla concert broadcast globally via satellite, Aloha from Hawaii.
nuskhaa drug gaali severely deteriorated uske swasthya, or he died suddenly in 1977 at the age of 42.
Presley is regarded as ek of the sabase mahatvapurn aankade of 20th-century lokapriy culture.
He had a versatile voice and unusually wide kamyaabi encompassing anek jati, sahit desh, pop ballads, inzel, or blues.
he is the best-selling solo kalakaar in the itihaas of popular music.
Nominated for 14 competitive Grammys, he jiti teen, or praapt the grami aaajeevan uplabdhi puraskaar at age 36.
He has maharoom inducted into anek music halls of fame.
A glass of root bear saath jhaag
root bear is a carbonated, sweetened peya, originally bana using the root of a sassafras plant ( or the bark of a sassafras tree ) as the primary flavor.
Root bear, popularized in uttar america, aata in do forms : alcoholic and soft drink.
The historical root beer was analogous to choti bear in ki the prakram provided a peya saath a bahut kam daaru saamagree.
Although roots are used as the source of many naram peya throughout the sansar, praayah alag names are used.
Fluorescent minerals emit drishy lite jab ujagar to parabangnee light
pratidipti is the utsarjan of lite by a padaarth ki rai avashoshit lite or other electromagnetic radiation.
It is a rup of sandipti.
In sabase maamle, the utsarjit lite rai a longer wavelength, or isliye nimnatar energy, than the absorbed radiation.
However, when the absorbed electromagnetic radiation is intense, it is sambhavit liye ek electron to avashoshit do photons ; is two-photon avasorana can sise to utsarjan of vikiran having a shorter wavelength than the absorbed radiation.
The emitted vikiran may bhi be of the vahi wavelength as the avashoshit vikiran, termed `` anunaad fluorescence ''.
The most striking examples of fluorescence occur when the absorbed radiation is in the ultraviolet region of the varnakram, or yun adrishy to the insaan najar, or the utsarjit lite is in the visible region.
Fluorescence has many practical applications, including mineralogy, gemology, chemical sensors ( pratidipti spectrumiki ), fluorescent labling, dyes, biological detectaron, or, sabase commonly, fluorescent diye.
Informal logic, intuitively, refers to the siddhanth of logic or logical vichaar baahar of a formal setting.
However, perhaps because of the informal in the sheershak, the precise paribhaasha of anaupchaarik logic is a padaarth of kuch vivaad.
Ralph H. johnson or J. anthoni blair define anaupchaarik logic as `` a shakha of logic jinaki kaary is to develop non-formal maanakon, maapdand, prakriyaaon for the analysis, interpretation, evaluation, criticism and construction of argumentation. ''
This paribhaasha reflects kayaa tha maharoom avyakt in unke abhyaas or kayaa anya yahood doing in their informal logic texts.
Informal logic is sambhddha saath ( anaupchaarik ) fallacies, najuk soch, the soch kaushal gati or the interdisciplinary inquiry known as argumentation theory.
Frans H. van Eemeren writes that the label `` informal logic '' covers a `` collection of normative approaches to the padhai of tark in ordinary bhashaa ki remain kareeb to the abhyaas of argumentation than aupchaarik logic. ''
USA annual real GDP 1910–60, saath the saalo of the great avsaad ( 1929–1939 ) highlighted.
Unemployment rate in the US 1910–1960, saath the saalo of the great avsaad ( 1929–1939 ) highlighted.
the great avsaad began in agast of 1929, jab the sanyukt States economy first went into an economic recession.
Although the country spent do maheene saath ghatati jidipi, it thi nahin jabatak the wal gali krash of aktubar, 1929 ki the prabhaav of a declining economy were felt, and a major worldwide economic downturn ensued.
The market krash chihnit the shuruuaat of a dashak of unchi berogari, garibi, kam profits, apsfiti, plunging farm incomes, and lost opportunities for economic growth and personal advancement.
Although its kalyankari hai still anishchit or vivaadaaspad, the jaal prabhaav thi a achaanak or saamaanya ghaataa of confidence in the economic future.
The usual explanations include numerous karkon, visheshkar unchi upabhokta karz, ill-regulated bazaar ki permitted overoptimistic lone by bainko or niveshkon, or the kami of high-growth nai udyog, sab interacting to banaaen a downward aarthik sarpil of reduced spending, falling confidence, and lowered production.
udyog ki suffered the sabase shaamil nirmaan, krishi as dust-bowl sharten persisted in the agricultural heartland, shipping, khanan, and logging as well as durable goods like automobiles and appliances that could be postponed.
the arthvyavastha pahunche neeche in the sheet of 1932–33 ; tab aae chaar saalo of bahut rapid vikaas until 1937, when the Recession of 1937 brought back 1934 levels of unemployment.
The Depression caused pramukh rajnatik parivartan in America.
Three years into the depression, Herbert Hoover khoyaa the 1932 adhyakshiya chunaav to franklin Delano Roosevelt in a sweeping landslide.
Roosevelt 's aarthik recovery yojana, the nai saude, instituted unprecedented kaarykram liye raahat, recovery and reform, and brought about a major realignment of American politics.
The Depression also resulted in an badhayen of karanon of logon to anya deshon liye the first time in American history.
For example, some apravasiyon gai waapas to unke deshi deshon, or kuch deshi us nagarikon went to Canada, Australia, and South Africa.
It also resulted in the mass migration of people from badly hit areas in the Great maidan or the dakshin to sthaan aise as california or the uttar, kramshah ( dekhie okies or the great migration of africa america ).
jatigat tanaav bhi increased during this time.
By the 1940s immigration had laute waapas to saamaanya, or karanon declined.
A well-known example of an emigrant thi frank mccourt, jo gai to ireland, as recounted in his book Angela 's Ashes.
The memory of the Depression also shaped modern theories of arthshaastra or resulted in anek parivartan in kaisaa the sarkari dealt saath aarthik downturns, aise as the use of stimulus packages, Keynesian economics, and Social Security.
It also shaped modern American sahitya, resulting in prasiddh novels aise as jon steinbeck 's `` the angoor of prakope `` or `` Of Mice and Men ``.
The Great avsaad of the 1930s prarambh saath the bhandar market crash of October 1929.
Turkey ( ), officially the ganatantr of turkon, is a transcontinental desh, stith zyaadaatar on Anatolia in Western Asia and on East Thrace in Southeastern Europe.
Turkey is bordered by eight countries : bulgaria to the uttarpashchim ; unaniyon to the west ; georgia to the purvottar ; armenia, iraan or the azarbaijani exclave of Nakhchivan to the east ; and Iraq and Syria to the southeast.
The Mediterranean Sea is to the south ; the igian samudr is to the west ; or the blike samudr is to the uttar.
The Sea of Marmara, the bosphorus or the dardanelles ( jisase saath rup the turki straits ) demarcate the boundary between Thrace and Anatolia ; they also separate Europe and Asia.
turkon 's sthaan at the crossrods of europea or asia makes it a desh of significant geostrategic importance.
The country 's aadhikarik bhashaa is turki, a turkic bhashaa, jisase is bolaa by lagbhag 85 % of the population as mother tongue.
The most numerous ethnic group is the Turks, jo constitute between 70 % or 75 % of the janasankhyikee according to the sansar Factbook.
Kurds are the largest ethnic minority and, according to the same source, kramank around 18 % of the janasankhyikee jabaki anya jaateey alpsankhyakon hai anumaanit to be at 7–12 %.
The vishaal bahumat of the population is Muslim.
The area now called Turkey has been inhabited chunki the paleolithic, sahit vibhinn pracheen anatolian sabhyataaon or thracian peoples.
After sikandar the great 's conquest, the kshetrafal thi hellenized, jisase continued with the Roman rule and the transition into the Byzantine Empire.
The Seljuk Turks began migrating into the kshetrafal in the 11th sadi, starting the prakram of turkification, jisase thi greatly twarit by the Seljuk victory over the Byzantines at the Battle of Manzikert in 1071.
The Seljuk sultanate of rûm shasit anatolia jabatak the mongol akraman in 1243, upon which it disintegrated into several small Turkish beyliks.
Starting from the late 13th century, the Ottoman beylik united anatolia or nirmit an samrajya encompassing much of southeastern europea, pashchimi asia or uttar Africa.
After the Ottoman Empire collapsed following iske shikast in sansar yuddh i, bhaag of it yahood occupied by the vijayi allies.
A cadre of young military officers, led by Mustafa Kemal Atatürk and his sahyogiyon, vyavasthit a kaamyaab pratirodh to the allies ; in 1923 ve sthapit the aadhunik ganatantr of turkon, saath ataturk as iske pehla adhyaksh.
Turkey is a loktantric, dharmanirpeksh, ekaatmak, sanvaidhanik republic with a diverse cultural heritage.
Turkey has become increasingly ekikrut saath the west through sadsyta in organisations such as the Council of Europe, NATO, OECD, OSCE and the G-20 major economies.
turkon began puraa sadsyta negotiations saath the europea sangh in 2005, having maharoom an sambhddha sadsy of the European Economic Community since 1963 and having joined the EU Customs Union in 1995.
Turkey has also fostered close cultural, rajnatik or aarthik sambandh saath the madhya east, kakeshas, the turkic rajya of central asia or the africa deshon through sadsyta in organisations such as the Turkic Council, Joint Administration of Turkic Arts and Culture, Organisation of Islamic Cooperation and the Economic Cooperation Organisation.
Turkey 's growing economy and diplomatic pahalon have led to iske manyata as a kshetreey power.
Turkey is the sansar 's 17th largest arthvyavastha by nammaatr jidipi or the 16th largest by purchasing power parity.
Caryn Elaine Johnson, best known as Whoopi Goldberg (, ( born navambar 13, 1955 ) is an amareeki comedienne, abhinetri, singer-songwriter, political activist, author and talk show host.
Goldberg made her film debut in The Color Purple ( 1985 ), playing celie, a mistreated blike stri in the gahan dakshin.
wo praapt a namakan liye the academy puraskaar liye behtareen abhinetri or won her first Golden Globe Award for her role in the film.
In 1990, she played oda mae bhura, a wacky maansik helping a slain man ( patric swayze ) sahejen uske premi ( Demi Moore ) in the blockbuster Ghost.
This pradarshan jiti uske a duusari sunahari globe or an academy puraskaar liye behtareen supporting abhinetri ; is bana goldberg tabhi the duusari blike stri in the itihaas of the academy Awards to win an acting Oscar—the first being Hattie McDaniel who won for Gone With the Wind in 1939.
Notable baad films shaamil sistar adhinium or sistar adhinium 2, the khilaadi, bana in america, kaisaa stela Got Her Groove Back, Girl, Interrupted and Rat Race.
She is also acclaimed for her roles as the bartender guinan in star treks : the aglaa peedhee, as terry doolittle in jumpin ' joker flash, or as carmen tibideaux in gli, as well as the voice of Shenzi the hyena in The Lion King.
Goldberg rai maharoom manonith liye 13 emi puraskaar for her work in television.
She was co-producer of the lokapriy khel dikhaaen hollywood virgon from 1998 to 2004.
She has maharoom the moderator of the din talk show The View since 2007.
Goldberg has a Grammy, two din emmys, do sunahari globs, a tony ( liye utpaadan, not acting ), and an Oscar.
In addition, Goldberg has a British academy filmi puraskaar, chaar logon 's chunaav puraskaar, or rai maharoom honored with a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame.
She is ek of the few manoranjankarta jo have won an Emmy, Grammy, Oscar, and Tony Award.
augusta is a sanchit nagar in the u.S. rajya of georgia, located at the fall line of the Savannah River, at the head of its navigable portion.
As of the 2010 census, the augusta– richmond county janasankhyikee thi 195,844 nahin ginati the unconsolidated cities of Hephzibah and Blythe.
Augusta is the principal city of the Augusta – Richmond County Metropolitan Statistical Area, which as of 2010 had an estimated population of 556,877, making it both the second-largest nagar or the second-largest metro kshetrafal in the rajya baad atlanta.
It is the 116th-largest nagar in the sanyukt States.
Internationally, augusta is behtareen gyaat liye hosting the masters toornament in golf each spring.
A CD-ROM ( ) is a pre-pressed compact discs jisase contains data.
The name is an echronim jisase stand liye `` compact discs read-only memory ``.
computer can padhaa cd-roms, but can not write on them.
CD-ROMs are popularly prayukt to vitarit computer tantra, sahit video khel or multimedia anuprayog, haalanki any data can be stored ( up to the capacity limit of a disc ).
Some CDs, called enhanced CDs, hold both computer aankada or audio saath the latter sakasham of hone nibhaai on a cd khilaadi, jabaki aankada ( aise as tantra or digital video ) is only usable on a computer ( such as ISO 9660 format PC CD-ROMs ).
The pilaa kitaab is the takneekee maanak that defines the format of CD-ROMs.
One of a set of color-bound kitabe ki contain the takneekee visheshtaayen liye sab cd swarup, the pilaa kitaab, nirmit by soni or philips, was the first extension of Compact Disc Digital Audio.
It adapted the swaroop to tham koi form of data.
The Chicago Blackhawks ( spelled as blike chilon pehle 1986, or gyaat colloquially as the chilon ) hai a peshewar ice hockey team based in Chicago, Illinois.
ve hai sadasyon of the central prabhag of the pashchimi Conference of the National Hockey League ( NHL ).
They have jiti chaar stanley cap championships chunki unke founding in 1926, most recently in 2009–10.
The Blackhawks are one of the asli chah enechael tiimon, saath saath the detroit red wings, montrial canadiens, toronto mapel leafs, Boston Bruins and New York Rangers.
Since the blakehox have nibhaai unke ghar khel at the sanyukt bich baad having kharch 65 years playing at Chicago Stadium.
Lent yajkon carrying out a gali baraat during Holy Week.
The bangnee rang is praayah sambhddha saath penance and detachment.
Similar Christian penitential practice is seen in anya catholic deshon, sometimes sambhddha saath mortification of the flesh.
granada, nikaragua.
Lent ( Latin : Quadragesima ) is a solemn observance in the liturgical saal of anek isai denominations, sthaayee liye a kaal of lagbhag chah saptaah leading up to Easter Sunday.
In the general Latin-rite and most Western denominations Lent is taken to run from Ash buudhvaar to maundy guuruuvaar ( paavan guuruuvaar ) morning or to easter Eve.
In the Catholic Church, Lent lasts jabatak paavan guuruuvaar, jabaki anya denominations run until Easter Eve.
The paramparaagat purpose of lent is the taiyaari of the aastik through dua, penance, repentance, almsgiving, and self-denial.
Its institutional purpose is heightened in the annual commemoration of paavan saptaah, ankan the maut, dafan or qayamat of yishu, jisase recalls the kaarykram of the bible jab yishu is crucified on shubh shuukravaar, jisase tab culminates in the jashn on Easter Sunday of the Resurrection of Jesus Christ.
During Lent, many of the vafaadaar commit to upwas or giving up nishchit prakaar of luxuries as a form of penitence.
The Stations of the cross, a devotional commemoration of messiah 's carrying the cross or of uske execution, are often observed.
Many Roman Catholic and some Protestant churches remove flowers from their altars, jabaki crucifixes, dharmik murtiyan, or anya vistrut dharmik pratikon hai praayah rahamat in bangnee fabrics in solemn observance of the event.
In certain pious Catholic countries, some adherents chihnit the ritu saath the paramparaagat abstention isse the consumption of meat.
In some deshon, grand dharmik juluson or saanskrithik custom hai observed, or the vafaadaar attempt to vizit seven churches during Holy Week in honor of Jesus Christ heading to Mount Calvary.
Lent is traditionally described as sthaayee liye chalis dinon, in commemoration of the chalis dinon jisase, according to the gospels of mathew, chihnit or luk, yishu kharch upwas in the desert before the beginning of his public ministry, where he endured temptation by the Devil.
However, alag isai denominations gananaa the forty days of Lent differently.
In most Western traditions the Sundays are not counted as part of Lent ; yun the kaal isse raakh buudhvaar jabatak easter consists of 40 dinon jab the sundays hai excluded.
however in the roman catholic girijaghar lent is abhi liya to samaapt on paavan guuruuvaar balki than easter Eve, and hence lasts 38 days excluding Sundays, or 44 days in total.
This event, along with its pious customs hai observed by catholics, lutherans, methodists, Presbyterians, and Anglicans.
Location of chernobyl nabhikeey shakti plant
The abandoned city of pripyat saath chernobyl sanyantr in the alahada
abandoned awaas block in pripyat
The Chernobyl disaster (, Chornobylska Katastrofa – Chornobyl Catastrophe ) was a catastrophic nuclear accident that occurred on 26 april 1986 at the chernobyl nabhikeey shakti sanyantr in yukt ( tab officially the ukraini ssr ), jisase thi antargat the sidhaa kshetradhikaar of the central authorities of the Soviet Union.
An explosion and fire released large quantities of radioskriy anu into the maahaul, jisase sprad over much of the western USSR and Europe.
The chernobyl vipatti is widely mana to have maharoom the worst nabhikeey shakti sanyantr durghatana in itihaas, or is ek of tabhi do vargeekrut as a str 7 event on the International Nuclear Event Scale ( the other being the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster in 2011 ).
The battle to contain the contamination or avert a vrihad pralay ultimately shaamil over 500,000 workers and cost an estimated 18 billion rubles.
The aadhikarik soviet casualty ginati of 31 mauton rai maharoom vivaadit, or long-term prabhaav such as cancers and deformities are still being accounted for.
In vyakaran, a vishay poorak is a predicative abhivyakti ki folo a linking kriya ( copula ) or ki complements ( completes ) the subject of the sentence by either ( 1 ) renaming it or ( 2 ) describing it.
In the former case, a renaming noun phrase such as a sangya or sarvnaam is pukaara a predicative nammaatr.
An kriyasheel following the copula or describing the subject is called a predicative adjective.
in either maamla the predicative complement in effect mirrors the subject.
Subject complements are used with a small class of kriyaayein pukaara linking kriyaayein or copula, of jisase be is the sabase aam.
Since copula hai stative kriyaayein, vishay complements hai nahin prabhavit by any action of the verb.
Subject complements hai typically nahin clause vitark, nor hai ve clause adjuncts.
Throughout the fifty-five year itihaas of the grami puraskaar, anek significant record have maharoom set.
This page only shaamil the pratispardhi puraskaar jiti by vibhinn artists.
This does not include the various special awards ki hai prastut by the neshnal academy of recording kala or sciences aise as aaajeevan uplabdhi Awards, Trustees Awards, Technical Awards or Legend Awards.
The page however does include other non-performance sambandhit grammys ( gyaat as the shilp & utpaadan field ) ki may have maharoom prastut to the artist ( s ).
Marshall Bruce Mathers III ( born October 17, 1972 ), behatar gyaat by uske stage naam eminem ( stylized as eminǝm ) or by uske alter ahankaar patala chhayaadaar, is an amareeki rapper, record producer, songwriter and actor.
Eminem, along with his solo kariyar, is a sadsy of uske samooh d12, or bhi ek half of the hip hop duo karaab meets Evil, with Royce da 5'9 ''.
Eminem is one of the best-selling artists in the sansar or is the best-selling kalakaar of the 2000s.
He has been listed and ranked as one of the greatest artists of all time by many magazine, sahit rolling stone patrika jisase kramit use 82nd on iske suchi of the 100 Greatest Artists of All Time.
The same magazine ghoshit use the king of hip hop.
Including his work with D12 and karaab meets dusht, eminem rai hasil ten number-one album on the Billboard 200.
He has bechi adhik than 100 lakh record vishwavyaapee, sahit 42 lakh treks or 49.1 lakh album in the United States.
As an bhumigat rapper eminem released uske debyue solo album, Infinite in 1996.
The album was a najuk or vanijyik vifaltaa.
He gained mukhyadhara lokapriyata in 1999 baad the relies of his major-label debut album The Slim Shady LP.
The LP also earned Eminem uske pehla grami puraskaar liye behtareen Rap Album.
His next two records The Marshall mathers lp, or the eminem dikhaaen, bhi jiti behtareen rap album grami puraskaar, bananaa eminem the pehla kalakaar to jeet behtareen rap album for three consecutive LPs.
This was followed by another studio relies in 2004 titled Encore.
Eminem then went on antaraal baad touring in 2005.
He released uske pehla album in paanch saalo titled patan, on May 15, 2009.
In 2010, eminem released uske saatvaan studio album Recovery.
Recovery was an international kamyaabi or thi namit the behtareen selling album of 2010 vishwavyaapee, joining the eminem Show, which was the best seller of 2002.
eminem jiti grami puraskaar liye dono patan or recovery, giving him a total of 13 Grammys in his career.
Eminem has opened other ventures, sahit uske apana ricard label chhayaadaar record saath uske manager Paul Rosenberg.
He bhi rai uske apana radio channel, Shade 45 on Sirius XM Radio.
Eminem began an acting career in 2002, jab he strecchar in the hip hop naatak filmi 8 Mile.
he jiti the academy puraskaar liye behtareen asli song, banane the first rap artist ever to win the award.
He has also made chemiyo dikhaave in the dho ( 2001 ), mjedaar logon ( 2009 ) or the television series Entourage.
The acre is a ikai of kshetrafal prayukt in the imperial and U.S. customary systems.
An acre is about 40 % of a hectare – thodaa choti than an amareeki footbaal field.
The acre is no longer commonly prayukt, haalanki a few notable apwaad shaamil the sanyukt rajya, australia, burma or the sanyukt Kingdom ( as of 2010, the acre is no longer officially used in the United Kingdom, though is still used in real estate descriptions ).
It is still prayukt, to kuch extent, in canada.
The international pratik of the acre is ac, or is paribhaashit as 1/640 of a square mile.
The sabase commonly prayukt acre aaj is the antarrashtriya acre.
In the sanyukt rajya dono the antarrashtriya acre or the thodaa alag US survey acre are in use.
the sabase aam upyog of the acre is to measure tracts of land.
One antarrashtriya acre is paribhaashit as 4046.8564224 square metres.
dauraan the madhya aayu, an acre thi the raashi of jameen ki could be plowed in one day with a yoke of oxen.
Antoine Lavoisier 's discovery of the Law of Conservation of dravyaman led to anek nai nishkarshon in the 19th sadi.
Joseph Proust 's law of definite proportions and jon dalton 's parmaanu siddhanth branched isse the discoveries of antony lavvazye.
Lavoisier 's quantitative prayog nazil ki dahan shaamil oxigen balki than kayaa thi previously vichaar to be phlogiston.
The law of conservation of mass, or principle of mass conservation, states that for any system closed to all transfers of matter and energy ( both of jisase have dravyaman ), the dravyaman of the pranali jarur remain nirantar over samay, as pranali dravyaman can nahin badalen maatra if it is nahin added or removed.
Hence, the maatra of dravyaman is `` conserved '' over time.
The law implies that mass can neither be created nor destroyed, although it may be rearranged in spes, or the entities sambhddha saath it may be badla in rup, as liye udhaaharan jab lite or shaareerik kaary is roopantarit into anu ki yogadan the same mass to the system as the light or work had contributed.
The law implies ( requires ) that during any chemical pratikriya, nabhikeey pratikriya, or radioskriy kshay in an pruthak pranali, the dravyaman of the reactants or starting saamagree jarur baraabar the mass of the products.
The concept of mass conservation is widely prayukt in anek field aise as rasayan, yantriki, or fluid dynamics.
Historically, mass sangrakshan thi khoja in rasinic pratikriyaayein by antony lavvazye in the let 18th sadi, or thi of nirnaayak importance in the progress from alchemy to the modern natural science of chemistry.
The closely related concept of matter conservation was found to hold good in chemistry to such high sanniktan ki it vifal tabhi liye the unchi energies treated by the baad refinements of aapekshikta siddhanth, lakin varanaa remains upyogi or fear sateek liye sabase rasinic calculations, even in modern practice.
In special relativity, needed liye sateekta jab vishaal urja hastantaran between pranaaliyon is shaamil, the antar between thermodynamically band or pruthak pranaaliyon becomes mahatvapurn, chunki sangrakshan of dravyaman is sakhti or perfectly upheld tabhi liye so-called pruthak systems, i.e. those completely isolated from all exchanges with the environment.
In this circumstance, the mass-energy equivalence prameya rajya ki dravyaman sangrakshan is samatuly to kul urja sangrakshan, jisase is the pehla vidhi of thermodynamics.
By contrast, for a thermodynamically closed pranali ( i.e., ek jisase is band to exchanges of padaarth, lakin kholen to exchanges of non-material urja, aise as ooshmaa or kaary, saath the surroundings ) mass is ( usually ) only approximately conserved.
The input or output of non-material energy must change the mass of the system in relativity theory, although the change is usually small, chunki apekshaakrit vishaal amounts of aise urja ( by tulana saath ordinary anubhav ) carry tabhi a choti raashi of dravyaman ( again by ordinary maanakon of measurement ).
In special relativity, mass is not converted to energy, since energy in all of iske form sadaa retains iske samatuly raashi of dravyaman throughout koi parivartan or translocation into, or out of, a system.
However, certain types of matter ( a alag avadharana ) may be parivartit to urja, so long as the dravyaman of the pranali is aparivartit in the process.
However, if such energy is removed isse pranaaliyon, ve jarur khona the dravyaman ki is sambhddha with it.
In general relativity, dravyaman ( or urja ) sangrakshan in expanding aaytan of spes is a jatil avadharana, vishay to alag paribhaashaayen, and neither mass nor energy is as strictly and simply conserved as is the case in special relativity and in Minkowski space.
For a discussion, see mass in saamaanya aapekshikta.
A pig is any of the pashu in the genus sas, bheetar the suidae parivaar of even-toed ungulates.
Pigs include the gharelu suar, iske purvaj the junglee boar, or anek anya junglee rishtedaaron.
Young or choti boar hai gyaat as piglets.
boar hai omnivores or are highly social and intelligent animals.
8-inch, -inch, or -inch flopy discs
8-inch, -inch ( puraa oonchaai ), or -inch drives
A 3.5-inch diskette 's `` floppy '' chumbakeey saamagree, removed isse iske awaas
A floppy disk, or diskette, is a discs bhandar medium rachit of a discs of patala or lacheelee chumbakeey bhandar medium, sealed in a rectangular plastic carrier lined with fabric that removes dust particles.
They are read and likhaa by a flopy discs drive ( FDD ).
Floppy disks, initially as media and later in and 3.5-inch ( 90 mm ) sizes, were a sarvyaapee rup of aankada bhandar or exange isse the mid-1970s khub into the pehla dashak of the 21st sadi.
By 2010, computer motherboards were rarely manufactured with floppy drive support ; `` floppies could be prayukt as an bahya usb drive, lakin ``, 8 ``, or non-standard drives could only be handled by old equipment.
While floppy disk drives still have some limited uses, especially with legacy industrial computer equipment, they have been superseded by aankada bhandar vidhi saath much vrihad kshamta, aise as usb flash drive, portable bahya mushkil discs drive, optical discs, memory cards, and computer networks.
An anemated aarekh of a cutter
In baseball, a cutter, or cut fastball, is a type of fastball jisase brake thodaa toward the pichar 's dastaane paksh as it pahunch ghar plate.
This pitch is somewhere between a slider and a fastball, as it is praayah thrown tej than a slider lakin saath adhik gati than a typical fastball.
Some pitchers upyog a kattar as a rasta to prevent hitters isse expecting their regular fastballs.
a aam takanic prayukt to throw a kattar is to upyog a four-seam fastball grip with the baseball set slightly off center in the hand.
When a batter is able to hit a kattar pich, it praayah parinaam in naram sampark or an aasaan out, due to the pitch 's movement keeping the ball away from the bat 's sweet spot.
The cutter is typically 2–5 kimi dhimaa than a pichar 's four-seam fastball.
In 2010, the ausat pich vargeekrut as a kattar by pitchf/x thrown by a right-handed pichar thi 88.6 kimi ; the average four-seamer was 92.1 mph.
`` What It takes '' is a shakti ballad by amareeki hard rock band Aerosmith.
It was written by steven tyler, jo peri, or desmund child.
It was released in 1990 as the teesraa single isse arosmith 's critically or commercially successful 1989 album Pump.
In the video the bananaa of pump, a & r man jon Kalodner described the song as `` a masterpiece ''.
During live performances, Tyler sings the first verse a cappella and belts out ek of uske hastakshar chillaati sahi pehle the kores.
The album version of the song is followed by an benaam chupa track.
sir of odysseus isse a unani 2nd sadi bc sangemarmar samooh representing Odysseus blinding Polyphemus, found at the villa of Tiberius at Sperlonga
Detail of an pracheen roman mosek of ulysses in tunisia
Odysseus ( or ; Greek :, ), also known by the Roman naam ulysses ( ; ), thi a legendary unani king of ithaca or a nayika of homer 's apik kavita the odissi.
Odysseus also plays a kunjee bhoomika in homer 's elliod or anya works in that same Epic Cycle.
Husband of Penelope, father of Telemachus, and son of Laërtes ( or Sisyphus ) and Anticlea, Odysseus is renowned for his brilliance, chal, or versatility ( polytropos ), or is hence gyaat by the epithet odysseus the cunning ( mētis, or `` cunning pragna `` ).
He is most famous for the ten eventful saalo he took to vaapasi ghar baad the decade-long trojan yuddh or uske prasiddh Trojan Horse ploy to capture the city of Troy.
Erie is a statutory kasbaa in boulder or veld county in the U.S. state of Colorado.
The janasankhyikee according to the 2010 janasankhyikee is 18,135 or thi ankit as 6,291 at the 2000 census.
The Town of Erie is located just west of I-25 liye aasaan abhigam to i-70, denwar antarrashtriya vimaanashetra or colorado 's sampurna Front Range.
Erie 's Planning Area spans 48 square miles, extending from the north side of rajya rajmarg 52 dakshin to rajya rajmarg 7, or between us 287 on the west and Interstate 25 to the east.
Erie is approximately 35 minutes from Denver antarrashtriya vimaanashetra, 25 minutes to denwar or 20 minutes isse Boulder.
the falak of trustees serves as the vidhaan or shaasi deh of the kasbaa of erie or is jimmedaar for establishing Town policies and goals.
The Board has the authority to adopt laws, ordinances and rizolution as needed to conduct the kaarobaar of the kasbaa, or by adhyadesh may daalen into anubandh or intergovernmental samjhauton to furnish, praapt sevaayen or to provide liye sahakaari seva delivery.
Appointed by and serving at the pleasure of the Board of Trustees, the Town Administrator is the chief operating and prashasnic adhikari of the kasbaa or is jimmedaar liye providing peshewar netritv in the prashasan or nishpaadan of nitiyon or uddeshy formulated by the Board.
The mission of the Erie Police Department is to communicate or kaary saath the jatiyaan to maintain a surakshit paryaavaran, prevent aparaadhon or enforce the vidhi, while protecting the rights of all.
Erie Municipal Airport ( eik ) is swaamitv or sanchalit by the kasbaa of erie or is ranneetik stith in the denver-boulder mahanagar kshetrafal on Colorado Highway 7, a little over three miles west of Interstate 25.
The main ranve is kancreet prashast or 4,700 feet long.
The is a home video game console utpaadit by soni computer entertainment.
It is the successor to the plastesan 2, as bhaag of the PlayStation series.
The PlayStation 3 competes saath microsoft 's exbox 360 or nintendo 's ve as part of the seventh generation of video game consoles.
It was first released on navambar 11, 2006, in japani, saath antarrashtriya bazaar following shortly thereafter.
The console was pehla officially ghoshit at E3 2005.
Originally set for a spring 2006 relies tithi, it thi vilambit anek times jabatak aakhirkaar hitting stores at the end of the year.
It was the pehla or philhal tabhi console to use Blu-ray Disc as its primary storage medium.
Major features of the console include its unified online gaming service, the PlayStation sanjaal, or iske connactivity saath the plastesan portable or plastesan vita, in sitambar 2009 the adhyatanikrut plastesan 3 Slim, was released.
This Slim is lighter and thinner than the asli sanskaran, haalanki it lacks plastesan 2 peeche sangatta ( removed on baad asli model ), lakin notably featured a re-designed logo and marketing design.
As of November 4, 2012, 70 lakh plastesan 3s have maharoom sold worldwide.
Its successor, plastesan 4, is niyat liye a q4 2013 release.
Salvador Domingo Felipe Jacinto dalí i domènech, 1st marqués de dalí de pubol ( may 11, 1904january 23, 1989 ), gyaat as salvador dalí ( ), was a prominent Spanish surrealist painter born in Figueres, Spain.
Dalí was a skilled draftsman, behtareen gyaat liye the striking or vicitra images in his surrealist work.
His painterly skills hai praayah attributed to the influence of Renaissance masters.
His best-known work, The hath of memory, thi samaapt in 1931.
Dalí 's expansive artistic repertoire included film, murtikla, or chayachitr, in sahyog saath a dayera of kalakaaron in a variety of media.
Dalí attributed his `` love of everything that is gilded and excessive, my passion for luxury and my prem of praachya kapadey '' to a self-styled `` arab lineage '', claiming ki uske purvajo were descended from the Moors.
Dalí was highly imaginative, or bhi enjoyed indulging in asaamaanya or vaibhavshaalee bartaav.
His eccentric manner or attention-grabbing public kriyaayein sometimes khinchaa adhik dhyaan than uske kalakriti, to the dismay of those jo yojit uske kaary in high esteem, and to the irritation of his critics.
paras plato by silanion
The humanities are academic disciplines that padhai insaan samskruti, using vidhi ki hai primarily vishleshnatmak, najuk, or satte, or having a significant aitihaasik element, as distinguished from the mainly empirical approaches of the natural sciences.
The humanities shaamil pracheen or aadhunik bhashaaen, sahitya, darshanashastra, dharm, and visual and performing arts such as music and theatre.
The humanities that are also regarded as social sciences shaamil itihaas, maanavshaastra, kshetrafal adhyayan, sanchaar adhyayan, saanskrithik adhyayan, vidhi, arthshaastra and linguistics.
vidwaanon working in the maanavtaa hai sometimes described as `` humanists ''.
However, that term also describes the philosophical position of maanavtawaad, jisase kuch `` antihumanist `` vidwaanon in the humanities reject.
Some secondary schools offer maanavtaa varg, praayah consisting of angrezi sahitya, vaishvik studies, and art.
Human disciplines like history, cultural anthropology and psychoanalysis study subject matters to which the praayogic vidhi karata nahin lagu, or ve have abhigam bajaay to the tulanaatmak vidhi or tulanaatmak shodh.
the 2005 blue room Christmas Tree
The White House Christmas Tree, also known as the Blue room christmas ped, is the aadhikarik andar christmas ped at the nivas of the adhyaksh of the United States, the White House.
The first indoor Christmas tree thi santhaapit in the shwet house sometime in the 19th sadi ( vahin hai varying daawa as to the sateek saal ) or chunki 1961 the ped rai tha a prasang motif at the discretion of the First Lady of the United States.
The adhyaksh of the sanyukt rajya of america ( potus ) is the sir of rajya or sir of government of the United States.
The adhyaksh lead the karypalika shakha of the sangheey sarkari or is the commander-in-chief of the United States Armed Forces.
Article II of the U.S. Constitution vests the executive power of the United States in the president and charges him with the nishpaadan of sangheey vidhi, alongside the jimmedaari of appointing sangheey karypalika, rajanyik, niamak, or nyaayik adhikariyon, or concluding treaties saath videshi shaktiyaan, saath the salaah or sahmati of the Senate.
The president is further empowered to grant federal pardons and reprieves, or to convene or adjourn either or dono gharon of congress antargat asaadhaaran halaaton.
Since the founding of the sanyukt rajya, the shakti of the adhyaksh or the sangheey sarkari have grown substantially or prayek aadhunik adhyaksh, despite possessing no aupchaarik vidhaan powers beyond signing or vetoing congressionally passed bills, is largely responsible for dictating the legislative agenda of his party and the foreign and domestic policy of the United States.
The president is aksar varnit as the sabase shaktishaalee vyakti in the world.
The president is indirectly nirvaachit by the logon through the chunavi college to a four-year pad, or is ek of tabhi do nationally elected federal officers, the other being the Vice President of the United States.
The Twenty-second Amendment, adopted in 1951, prohibits anyone isse kabhi hone nirvaachit to the presidency for a third full term.
It also prohibits a person from hone nirvaachit to the presidency adhik than ekbar if ki vyakti previously tha parosa as adhyaksh, or acting adhyaksh, for more than two years of another person 's term as president.
In all, 43 individuals have parosa 55 four-year terms.
On January 20, 2009, baraak obama became the 44th or current president.
On November 6, 2012, he thi re-elected or is anusuchit to serve jabatak janvari 20, 2017.
Senses hai physiological capacities of jeevon that provide data for perception.
The senses and their operation, classification, or siddhanth hai ativyapee vishay padhai by a kismein of field, sabase notably neuroscience, sangyanatmak manovigyaan ( or sangyanatmak vigyaan ), or philosophy of perception.
The nervous pranali rai a vishisht samvedi pranali or organ, dedicated to each sense.
insaano have a multitude of senses.
sight ( ophthalmoception ), sunanaa ( audioception ), swaad ( gustaoception ), mahakate ( olfacoception or olfacception ), and touch ( tactioception ) are the five traditionally recognized.
While the ability to detect other stimuli beyond those governed by the traditional senses exists, including temperature ( thermoception ), kinesthetic bhav ( proprioception ), pidaa ( nociception ), santulan ( equilibrioception ), twaran ( kinesthesioception ), or vibhinn aatanrik stimuli ( e.g. the alag chemoreceptors liye detecting namak or carbon dioxide concentrations in the blood ), only a small number of these can safely be classified as separate senses in and of themselves.
What constitutes a sense is a matter of some bahes, agrani to kathinaaiyon in dhamak kayaa exactly a sense is.
Animals also have receptors to bhav the sansar around unhen, saath degree of kaabiliyat varying greatly between species.
Humans have a comparatively kamjor bhav of mahakate, jabaki kuch pashu may kami ek or more of the traditional five senses.
Some animals may also intake or interpret samvedi stimuli in bahut alag tareeke.
Some species of pashu hai samarth to bhav the sansar in a rasta ki insaano can nahin, saath kuch prajati samarth to bhav vidyut or chumbakeey field, and detect water pressure and currents.
Spiders ( order araneae ) hai air-breathing arthropods ki have aath taange or chelicerae with fangs that inject venom.
They are the largest anukram of arachnids or rank saatvaan in kul prajati vividhta among all other groups of organisms.
Spiders are found worldwide on prayek mahadweep magar liye antarctic, or have become sthapit in nearly prayek awaas saath the excepshan of air and sea colonization.
As of 2008, at least 43,678 makadi prajati, or 109 pariwaron have maharoom ankit by taxonomists ; however, vahin rai maharoom bhram bheetar the vaigyanik jatiyaan as to kaisaa sab ye pariwaron chahie be vargeekrut, as evidenced by the over 20 alag classifications that have been proposed since 1900.
anatomically, makadiyon differ isse anya arthropods in ki the usual deh segments are fused into two tagmata, the cephalothorax and abdomen, and joined by a small, cylindrical pedicel.
Unlike insects, makadiyon do nahin have antennae.
In all except the most primitive group, the mesothelae, makadiyon have the sabase centralized baichaiyn pranaaliyon of sab arthropods, as sab unke ganglia hai fused into ek dravyaman in the cephalothorax.
Unlike most arthropods, spiders have no extensor muscles in their limbs or bajaay extend unhen by hydrolic dabaav.
Their abdomens bhaaluu appendages ki have maharoom parivardhit into spinnerets ki extrude silk from up to six types of silk glands within their abdomen.
makadi webs vary widely in aakaar, aakaar or the amount of sticky thread used.
It abhi appears ki the sarpil orb web may be ek of the earliest form, or spiders that produce tangled cobwebs are more abundant and diverse than orb-web spiders.
Spider-like arachnids with silk-producing spigots appeared in the devonian kaal parichay, lakin ye pashu jaahir lacked spinnerets.
True spiders have been found in carboniferous rox isse, or hai bahut samaan to the sabase aadim surviving order, the Mesothelae.
the pramukh samooh of aadhunik makadiyon, mygalomorphae or araneomorphae, first appeared in the Triassic period, before.
A herbivorous species, Bagheera kiplingi, was described in 2008, but all anya gyaat prajati hai parabhakshi, zyaadaatar preying on keet or on anya makadiyon, haalanki a few vishaal prajati bhi lo birds and lizards.
Spiders use a wide range of strategies to capture shikaar : trapping it in stick webs, lassoing it saath stick bolas, mimicking the prey to avoid detection, or running it down.
Most detect prey mainly by sensing kampan, lakin the kriyasheel hunters have adhi drushti, or hunters of the genus portia dikhaaen lakshan of pragna in their choice of tactics and ability to develop new ones.
Spiders ' guts hai too simit to lo solids, or ve liquidize unke khaanaa by baadh it saath digestive enzymes and grinding it with the bases of their pedipalps, as they do not have true jaws.
Male makadiyon pahachaano themselves by a kismein of jatil premalap sanskaar to avoid being eaten by the females.
Males of most species jivit a few matings, simit mukhyatah by their short life spans.
Females weave silk egg-cases, each of jisase may contain sainkadon of eggs.
mahilaon of anek prajati parvaah liye unke yang, liye udhaaharan by carrying them around or by sharing food with them.
A minority of species are social, building communal webs that may house anywhere isse a few to 50,000 individuals.
Social behavior ranges from precarious toleration, as in the vidhwaa makadiyon, to co-operative shikaar or food-sharing.
Although most spiders sajiv liye at sabase do saalo, tarantulas or anya mygalomorph makadiyon can live up to 25 years in captivity.
While the venom of a few species is dangerous to humans, scientists are now researching the upyog of makadi venom in ayurvigyaan or as non-polluting pesticides.
Spider silk provides a combination of lightness, strength and elasticity that is superior to ki of synthetic saamagree, or makadi resha jeenon have maharoom inserted into stanadhariyon or paudhe to dekhie if ye can be used as silk factories.
As a result of their chaudee dayera of vyavhaar, makadiyon have become aam pratikon in art or mythology symbolizing vibhinn combinations of patience, cruelty and creative powers.
Grey 's Anatomy is an amareeki television chikitsa naatak ki premiered on the amareeki prasaaran company ( abisi ), as a mid-season badalanaa on March 27, 2005.
The shrenee rai aired nau sizan, or focuses on the fictional jeevandaan of sargical interns or nivaasiyon as ve gradually evolve into seasoned doctors, while trying to maintain personal lives.
The show 's premise originated with Shonda rhimes, jo serves as an karypalika nirmaataa, saath saath betsi beers, Mark Gordon, Krista Vernoff, Rob Corn, Mark Wilding, and Allan Heinberg.
The shrenee thi nirmit to be racially diverse, utilizing a color-blind casting technique.
It is primarily filmaaya in los angeles, California.
The shrenee ' samarthak is dr. meredith dhoosar ( ellen pompeo ), jo originally is sweekrut into the racidency program at the fictional Seattle Grace Hospital.
Meredith is abantit to kaary antargat dr. miranda beli ( chandra wilson ), saath saath dr. christina yang ( sandra oh ), dr. George O'Malley ( T. R. Knight ), Dr. Izzie Stevens ( Katherine Heigl ), and Dr. Alex Karev ( Justin Chambers ).
Following O'Malley 's death or stevens ' prasthaan, the hospital 's vilay saath rahamat west brings in dr. jackson every ( jesi williams ) and Dr. April Kepner ( Sarah Drew ), in the sixth season.
The surgical wing is primarily supervised by Dr. Richard Webber ( James pickens, jr. ), jo is aakhirkaar replaced by dr. derek gadriye ( patric dempse ), or later Dr. Owen Hunt ( Kevin McKidd ).
Dr. Preston Burke ( Isaiah Washington ) departs at the conclusion of the third season, and is replaced by dr. erika hahn ( bruke smith ), jo pattey the dikhaaen dauraan the paanchvaan ritu, or baad dr. tedi altman ( kim raver ), jo prasthaan at the end of the eighth season.
Introduced in the second season is Dr. Addison Montgomery ( Kate Walsh ), who pattey the dikhaaen at the samaapt of the teesraa ritu, in anukram to launch uske apana spin-off medical drama Private Practice.
Dr. Callie Torres ( Sara Ramirez ) and Dr. Mark Sloan ( Eric Dane ) also enter the show in the duusari ritu, jabaki the latter marataa in the premier of the naveen season.
Meredith 's half-sister, dr. lexie dhoosar ( chyler leigh ), appears isse ritu teen or marataa at the end of season eight.
Dr. Arizona robins ( jesica capshaw ) is die shrenee niyamit aukaat at the beginning of the sixth season.
Grey 's Anatomy is the highest-rated naatak in the kunjee 18–49 janasankhyikee.
Previously among the overall top-ten rated shows in the sanyukt rajya, dhoosar 's anatomy rai maharoom khub praapt by critics.
Considered an impact on samskruti, the shrenee rai praapt numerous puraskaar, or rai also been included in various critics ' top ten lists.
The show has produced several specials, as khub as vitarit sab sizan to dvd, or released a sangrahan of merchandise.
In 2012, Grey 's Anatomy was named the fifth-highest aay kamai dikhaaen, in sharten of vigyaapan per half-hour.
On May 11, 2012, the series was navinikrut liye a naveen ritu, jisase premiered on sitambar 27, 2012.
Schizophrenia ( or ) is a dimagi vikaar characterized by a vishleshan of vichaar prakriyaaon or by a deficit of typical emotional responses.
Common symptoms shaamil auditory mati, paranoid or vicitra delusions, or disorganized vaak or thinking, and it is accompanied by significant social or occupational dysfunction.
The onset of symptoms typically occurs in yang adulthood, saath a vaishvik aaajeevan vyapaktaa of parichay 0.3–0.7 %.
Diagnosis is aadhaarit on observed bartaav or the rogi 's reported anubhavon.
Genetics, early environment, neurobiology, and psychological and social prakriyaaon appear to be mahatvapurn contributory karkon ; kuch recreational or nuskhaa davaayen appear to kaaran or worsen symptoms.
vartmaan shodh is kendrit on the bhoomika of neurobiology, haalanki no single isolated organic cause has been found.
The many possible combinations of symptoms have triggered debate about whether the nidaan represents a single vikaar or a kramank of alahada syndromes.
Despite the etymology of the term from the Greek jaden skhizein ( σχίζειν, `` to vibhajit '' ) or phrēn, phren- ( φρήν, φρεν- ; `` dimag '' ), schizophrenia karata nahin imply a `` vibhajit vyaktitv '', or `` multiple personality disorder '' ( which is known these days as dissociative identity disorder ) —a condition with which it is often confused in public perception.
Rather, the term means a `` splitting of dimagi krityon '', kuki of the symptomatic prastutikaran of the illness.
The mainstay of upachaar is antipsychotic dawa, jisase primarily suppresses dopamine ( and sometimes serotonin ) receptor activity.
Psychotherapy and vocational and social punarvaas hai bhi mahatvapurn in treatment.
In more gambhir cases—where vahin is risk to swah or others— involuntary hospitalization may be jaruri, haalanki hospital stays are now shorter and less frequent than they once were.
The disorder is thought mainly to affect sangyaan, lakin it bhi praayah contributes to dirghakaalik problems with behavior and emotion.
People with schizophrenia hai sambhavit to have atirikt ( comorbid ) sharten, sahit pramukh avsaad or chintaa vikaar ; the aaajeevan occurrence of substance use disorder is almost 50 %.
Social problems, such as long-term berogari, garibi, or homelessness hai aam.
The ausat jivan pratyaasha of logon saath the vikaar is 12 to 15 saalo kam than those bagaiyr, the result of increased physical health problems and a higher suicide rate ( about 5 % ).
Paul Leslie snider ( april 15, 1951–august 14, 1980 ) thi the estranged husband or manager of plaboy model dorothi stratten, jisko he murdered pehle killing himself the same day.
The Epic of Gilgamesh, an epic poem from Mesopotamia, is amongst the earliest surviving works of sahitya.
The literary history of Gilgamesh begins with five swatantra sumerian kavitaayen parichay 'bilgamesh ' ( sumerian liye gilgamesh ), king of Uruk.
Four of ye yahood prayukt as sorce saamagree for a combined epic in Akkadian.
This first combined epic, known as the `` boodha babylonian '' sanskaran, tithiyaan to the 18th sadi bc or is titled baad iske incipit, shūtur eli sharrī ( `` Surpassing All Other Kings '' ).
Only a few fragments of it have batch.
The later `` Standard Babylonian '' version dates from the 13th to the 10th sadiyaan bc or bears the incipit sha naqba īmuru ( `` He who Saw the Deep '' ).
fragments of lagbhag do tihaai of is longer, twelve-tablet version have been recovered.
Some of the best copies were discovered in the pustakaalayon tabah of the 7th-century bc assyrian king ashurbanipal.
The story centers on a dosti between Gilgamesh and Enkidu.
Enkidu is a wild man created by the devataaon as gilgamesh 's baraabar to distract use isse oppressing the people of Uruk.
Together, they yatra to the deodaar pahaad to shikast humbaba, iske monstrous guardian.
Later they maar the sand of swarg, jisase the devi ishtaar bhejnaa to sajaa gilgamesh for spurning her advances.
As a punishment for these kriyaayein, the devataaon vaakya enkidu to death.
The duusari half of the apik focuses on gilgamesh 's distress at Enkidu 's death, and his quest for immortality.
In order to sikh the rahasy of anant jivan, gilgamesh undertakes a long and perilous journey.
he learns ki `` the jivan ki tum are seeking you will never find.
When the devataaon nirmit man ve aavantit to use maut, lakin jivan they retained in their own keeping. ''
This quote was originally attributed to siduri in the boodha babylonian sanskaran of the apik, or tab attributed to the immortal flood hero Utnapishtim in the Akkadian version of the epic.
Nevertheless, Gilgamesh 's kirti jiya on baad uske maut, kuki of uske great bhawan project, or uske khaataa of what Utnapishtim told him happened during the flood.
The story has been anudit into anek alag bhashaaen, or gilgamesh rai chunki become adapted in works of popular fiction.
A sukendrik ( or ) is an sajiv jinaki koshikaayen contain complex structures enclosed within membranes.
Eukaryotes may more formally be referred to as the texon eukarya or Eukaryota.
The defining membrane-bound structure that sets eukaryotic koshikaayen alaava isse prokaryotic koshikaayen is the cendrak, or nabhikeey lipapha, bheetar jisase the genetic saamagree is carried.
The presence of a nucleus gives eukaryotes their name, which aata isse the unani ( eu, `` shubh '' ) or ( karyon, `` nat '' or `` karnel '' ).
Most eukaryotic koshikaayen bhi contain anya membrane-bound organelles aise as mitochondria, chloroplasts and the Golgi apparatus.
All large jatil jeevon hai eukaryotes, sahit animals, plants and fungi.
the samooh bhi shaamil anek unicellular organisms.
Cell division in eukaryotes is alag isse ki in jeevon bagaiyr a cendrak ( prokaryote ).
It involves separating the duplicated gunasutron, through andolanon nirdeshit by microtubules.
There hai do prakaar of prabhag processes.
In mitosis, one koshika divides to upaj do genetically ekasmaan cells.
In meiosis, which is jaruri in yon janan, ek dwiguneet koshika ( having do udhaaharan of prayek chromosome, ek isse prayek janak ) undergoes recombination of each pair of parental chromosomes, and then two stages of cell division, resulting in four haploid cells ( gametes ).
Each gamete has just one complement of gunasutron, prayek a adwitiya mixr of the sambandhit jodi of parental chromosomes.
Eukaryota appears to be monophyletic, or so makes up ek of the teen domen of life.
The two other domains, Bacteria or orchia, hai prokaryotes or have none of the above features.
eukaryotes represent a chota alpsankhyak of sab jeena bate ; bhi in a insaan deh there are 10 times more microbes than human cells.
however, due to unke much larger aakaar unke samuhik worldwide biomass is estimated at about equal to that of prokaryotes.
They are mana to have pehla viksit lagbhag 1.6–2.1 arab years ago.
The use of Internet services or software with Internet access to defraud victims or to otherwise take laabh of unhen, liye udhaaharan by chori nijee soochna, jisase can bhi sise to identity theft.
A very aam rup of antarjaal dhokhadhadi is the vitaran of rogue security software.
Internet services can be used to upasthit beyimaan solicitations to prospective peediton, to conduct beyimaan tranjection, or to sanchaaran the proceeds of dhokhadhadi to vittiya sansthaanon or to others connected with the scheme.
Internet dhokhadhadi can occur in gapshap kaksh, email, sandesh boards, or on websites.
The International Security Assistance Force ( ISAF ) is a nato -led suraksha mishan in afghanistan ki thi sthapit by the sanyukt raashtra suraksha parishad in December 2001 by Resolution 1386, as envisaged by the Bonn Agreement.
Its main purpose is to train the Afghan National suraksha shaktiyaan ( ansf ) or assist afghanistan in punarnirmaan kunjee sarkari sansthaanon lakin is bhi engaged in the 2001-present war with insurgent groups.
ISAF was initially charged with securing Kabul or surrounding kshetron isse the taliban, al qaeda or factional warlords, so as to allow liye the sthapana of the afgaan transitional prashasan headed by Hamid Karzai.
In October 2003, the UN Security Council authorized the expansion of the ISAF mishan throughout afghanistan, or isaf subsequently vistaarit the mishan in chaar pramukh charan over the whole of the country.
From 2006 to 2011, ISAF had been involved in increasingly adhik intensive combat parichaalan in dakshini or purvi Afghanistan.
Troop yogadanakarta shaamil isse the sanyukt rajya, sanyukt kingdom, nato member states and a number of other countries.
The intensity of the combat faced by contributing nations varies greatly, with the United States, sanyukt kingdom, or canada sustaining the bahumat of hataahat in intensive combat parichaalan, saath anya yogadanakarta sustaining significantly kam.
As of early 2010, there yahood at tanik 700 sainya bases andar afghanistan lakin adhik yahood apekshit to be nirmit in the coming saalo.
parichay 400 of ye yahood prayukt by american‐led nato forces and 300 by ANSF.
Cocaine ( benzoylmethylecgonine ) ( INN ) is a crystalline tropane alcoload ki is praapt isse the pattey of the coca plant.
The name comes from `` coca '' or the alcoload pratyay -ine, forming coca.
It is a stimulant, an appetite suppressant, or a topical anesthetic.
Biologically, cocaine acts as a serotonin–norepinephrine–dopamine reuptake inhibitor, bhi known as a triple reuptake inhibitor ( TRI ).
It is addictive because of its effect on the mesolimbic badla pathway.
Unlike most molecules, cocaine has pockets with dono unchi hydrophilic or lipophilic dakshata, violating the niyam of hydrophilic-lipophilic balance.
This causes it to cross the blood–brain avrodh dur behatar than anya psychoactive rasayan and may even induce blood-brain barrier breakdown.
It is illegal to possess, upaj, or vitarit cocaine for non-medicinal and non-government-sanctioned purposes in almost every country.
Whole bif tri-tip rump, roasted medium rare
The tri-tip is a cut of bif isse the neeche sirloin primal kaaten.
It is a small triangular muscle, praayah 1.5 to 2.5 pound. ( 675 to 1,150g ) prati paksh of bif.
The scientific name of this muscle is pradeesh fasciae latae, inserted in the fascia lata, the sanyoji utak covering the quadriceps femoris, also called quadriceps extensor, a group of four muscles which in turn insert in the patella, or knee cap of the animal.
Willmar is a city in, and the county seat of, kandiyohi county, minesota, sanyukt States.
The janasankhyikee thi 19,610 at the 2010 census.
willmar rai maharoom abantit zip code 56201 by the United States Postal Service.
u.s. root 12 or 71 or minesota rajya rajmargon 23 or 40 are four of the main routes in the city.
The Speaker of the United States House of Representatives ( or spikar of the house ) is the peethasin adhikari of the kaksh.
The office was established in 1789 by Article I, Section 2 of the United States Constitution, jisase rajya in bhaag, `` the house of pratinidhi shall chuse unke spikar... ''
The vartmaan spikar is jon boehner, a republican who represents Ohio 's 8th congressional district.
The samvidhan karata nahin aavashyaktaa ki the spikar be a sadsy of congress, but no non-member has ever been elected to the office.
The Speaker is duusari in the sanyukt rajya adhyakshiya lakeer of uttaradhikaar, baad the vaais adhyaksh or ahead of the President pro tempore of the U.S. Senate.
Unlike some Westminster system parliaments, in which the office of Speaker is considered non-partisan, in the sanyukt rajya the spikar of the house is a netritv sthiti or the office-holder actively works to niyat the majority party 's legislative agenda.
The Speaker usually does not personally preside over debates, bajaay delegating the duty to members of the House from the majority party.
Aside from duties relating to heading the House and the majority political party, the spikar bhi performs prashasnic or prakriyaatmak krityon, or represents his or her Congressional district.
A bicycle frame is the pramukh ghatak of a cykil, on to jisase pahiyon or anya components are fitted.
The modern and most common frame design for an upright bicycle is aadhaarit on the suraksha cykil, or consists of do trikon, a pramukh triangle and a paired rear triangle.
This is known as the diamond frem.
frames hai jaruri to be damdaar, stiff or lite, jisase ve do by combining alag saamagree and shapes.
`` saral gambheertha lolak '' model assumes no friction or air resistance.
An exemplar animation of a lolak prardashit the gati or twaran vectors
A pendulum is a weight nilambit isse a so ki it can jhule freely.
jab a lolak is visthapit bagalon isse iske resting santulan sthiti, it is vishay to a restoring force due to gravity that will accelerate it back toward the equilibrium position.
When released, the restoring force sanyukt saath the lolak 's dravyaman kalyankari it to oscillate about the equilibrium position, swinging back and forth.
the samay liye ek puraa saikil, a baayein jhule or a right swing, is called the period.
A pendulum swings saath a vishisht kaal jisase depends ( mainly ) on its length.
From its discovery around 1602 by Galileo Galilei the niyamit gati of pendulums thi prayukt liye timekeeping, or thi the sansar 's sabase sateek timekeeping technology until the 1930s.
pendulums hai prayukt to viniyamit lolak ghadiyaan, or hai prayukt in scientific instruments such as accelerometers and seismometers.
Historically they were prayukt as gravimeters to maap the twaran of gambheertha in geophysical surveykshan, and even as a standard of length.
The shabd 'pendulum ' is nai latin, isse the latin pendulus, meaning 'hanging '.
The simple gravity pendulum is an idealized ganitiya model of a lolak.
This is a vazan ( or bob ) on the samaapt of a massless cord nilambit from a, without friction.
jab die an aarambhik dhakka, it hoga jhule waapas and forth at a constant amplitude.
Real pendulums are subject to friction and air drag, so the aayam of unke swings giravat.
The First Battle of Bull Run, also known as First Manassas ( the naam prayukt by confederate shaktiyaan ), thi ladaa on july 21, 1861, in prince wiliam county, virginia, nikat the city of Manassas.
It was the pehla pramukh jameen battle of the amareeki civil War.
Just months after the prarambh of the yuddh at fort sumter, the uttari public clamored liye a kooch viruddh the confederate capital of Richmond, Virginia, which they expected to bring an early end to the rebellion.
Yielding to political pressure, Brig. Gen. Irvin McDowell led his unseasoned sangh fouj aarpaar sand chalaaen viruddh the baraabar anubhavheen confederate fouj of brigadier. gen. P. G. T. Beauregard camped near Manassas Junction.
McDowell 's ambitious plan for a aashcharya parshv akraman on the confederate baayein thi poorly chalaaya by uske adhikariyon or main ; nevertheless, the confederates, jo tha maharoom niyojan to akraman the sangh left flank, found themselves at an initial disadvantage.
Confederate reinforcements under brigadier. gen. joseph E. johnston arrived isse the shenandoah ghati by railroad or the course of the battle quickly changed.
A brigade of virginians antargat a apekshaakrit anjaan karnal isse the virginia sainya santhaan, thomas J. jackson, stood their ground and Jackson received his famous nickname, `` Stonewall Jackson ''.
The Confederates then launched a strong counterattack, and as the sangh sainikon began withdrawing antargat aag, anek panicked or it turned into a rout as mcdowell 's main frantically ran without order in the direction of Washington, D.C.
Both armies were sobered by the fierce fighting and many casualties, and realized the yuddh thi going to be much longer or bloodier than either tha anticipated.
andhad nikat garajau, Madeira
Weather is the state of the atmosphere, to the degree ki it is hot or thanda, geela or shushk, shant or stormy, clear or cloudy.
Most weather phenomena occur in the kshobhamandal, bas neeche the stratosphere.
Weather generally refers to day-to-day temperature and varshan kaaryaklap, whereas jalwaayu is the pad liye the ausat vayumandaleey sharten over longer periods of time.
When used bagaiyr yogyata, `` mausam '' is samajha to be the weather of Earth.
Weather is driven by air pressure ( temperature or nami ) matbhed between ek place and another.
These pressure or taapmaana matbhed can occur due to the surya kone at koi particular spot, which varies by latitude from the tropics.
the damdaar taapmaana contrast between dhruviya or teevr air gives rise to the jet stream.
mausam pranaaliyon in the mid-latitudes, aise as extratropical cyclones, are caused by instabilities of the jet stream flow.
kuki the dharti 's aksh is tilted saapeksh to iske kakshiya plane, dhoop is ghatana at different angles at different times of the year.
On Earth 's sataha, temperatures praayah dayera ±40 °c ( −40 °f to 100 °F ) annually.
Over thousands of years, changes in Earth 's orbit affect the amount and distribution of solar energy praapt by the dharti or influence long-term jalwaayu or vaishvik jalwaayu badalen.
sataha taapmaana matbhed in phere cause pressure differences.
ucchtar altitudes hai cooler than nimnatar altitudes due to differences in compressional heating.
Weather forecasting is the application of vigyaan or praudyogiki to bhavishyavaanee the rajya of the maahaul liye a bhavishya samay and a given location.
The atmosphere is a chaotic system, so small parivartan to ek bhaag of the pranali can grow to have vishaal prabhaav on the pranali as a whole.
Human attempts to control the weather have occurred throughout human history, and vahin is pramaan ki insaan kaaryaklap aise as krishi or udyog has inadvertently modified weather patterns.
Studying how the mausam works on anya grah rai maharoom sahaayak in samajhnaa kaisaa mausam works on Earth.
A famous landmark in the saura pranali, brihaspati 's great red spot, is an anticyclonic toofaan gyaat to have existed for at least 300 years.
However, weather is nahin simit to grahiy bodies.
A star 's kirit is constantly hone khoyaa to spes, bananaa kayaa is essentially a bahut patala atmosphere throughout the Solar System.
The gati of dravyaman ejected isse the surya is gyaat as the solar wind.
Katy Perry is an American singer-songwriter isse santa barbara, California.
wo hastakshrit saath Capitol Records.
Perry has released three studio albums, including uske debyue isai praytn kaity hadsan, ek of the ladakon, or teenage Dream.
peri 's mukhyadhara kariyar thi kicked band saath the vishaal chart kamyaabi of her debut single `` I Kissed a Girl ``.
dauraan uske kariyar, peri rai maharoom manonith liye numerous pramukh music puraskaar, primarily for Teenage Dream and One of the Boys.
The following is a list of sovereign rajya or territories jahaan angrezi is an aadhikarik bhashaa or bhashaa of government.
In 2012, there were 88 states in kul ( 60 sovereign rajya or 28 non-sovereign rajya ).
In many deshon angrezi is the prabal bhashaa, lakin karata nahin have official status.
In Australia, English is spoken by the vast bahumat of the janasankhyikee or is the tabhi bhashaa prayukt in sarkari sansthaanon, lakin Australia does not have an official language.
The case is the same in the United Kingdom and the United States, haalanki anek rajya or regions bheetar the u.S. do have angrezi as an official language.
English is the dominant language of New Zealand and an official bhashaa of canada ( saath saath french ), india ( saath saath hindi or anek anya bhashaaen ), ireland ( saath saath irish ), or the philippine ( along with Tagalog ).
English is the ekmaatr aadhikarik bhashaa of the rashtramandal of raashtra and the Commonwealth Games.
English is one of the aadhikarik bhashaaen of the sanyukt raashtra, the europea sangh or the antarrashtriya Olympic Committee.
Many of these countries are current or former colonies or dependencies of the United Kingdom ( see bhi angrejon samrajya ), or of the sanyukt rajya, itself a former colony of the UK.
Notable exceptions shaamil rwanda, jisase thi a purv belgian upnivesh or iritriya, jisase thi an italvi upnivesh jahaan the British Empire spanned its control only in World War II and shortly after ( 1941-1952 ).
India 's linguistic chitra is jatil.
According to the Constitution of India, `` Hindi in the Devanagari script '' is the official language of the sangh ; or angrezi the 'subsidiary aadhikarik bhashaa ' ; however, angrezi is mandated liye the authoritative granth of sab sangheey kanoon or param adaalat nirnay or ( saath saath hindi ) is ek of the two languages of the Indian Parliament.
English is prayukt lagbhag exclusively liye ucchtar education, business and science.
Courses in bahumat of the skulon hai taught exclusively in English.
English is extensively prayukt liye prashasnic purposes in India.
India is the second-largest English-speaking country in the sansar by kramank of adhyakshon, after the United States.
As such, many consider angrezi to be the de facto aadhikarik language of India.
dekhie aadhikarik bhashaaen of India.
The linguistic makeup of pakistani is similarly jatil.
While the neshnal bhashaa is urdu, angrezi is an aadhikarik bhashaa or prayukt in business, government and law.
angrezi is a anivaary bhashaa in schools.
All skool paathyakram hai sikhaaya in English.
pakistani is the 9th largest english-speaking desh in the world by population.
dakshini cone (, ) is a bhugolic pradesh rachit of the southernmost areas of South America, south of the Tropic of Capricorn.
Although geographically this includes Southern and part of Southeast ( São Paulo ) of Brazil, in terms of rajnatik bhugol the dakshini cone rai traditionally comprised argentina, chile, paragway, or urugve.
In the narrowest sense, it only covers Argentina, Chile and urugve, bounded on the uttar by the rajya of brazil, paragway, bolivia or peru, on the west by the prashanth samandar, or dakshin to the jankshan between the Pacific and Atlantic Oceans, which it is the closest continental area of Antarctica ( 1000 km ).
High life expectancy, the ucchtam insaan vikaas anukramanika of latin america, unchi maanak of jeena, significant bhagidaari in the vaishvik bazaar or the emerging economy of its members make the Southern Cone the most prosperous macro-region in South America.
For multi-event athlettic pratiyogitaaon dekhie track or field pratiyogitaaon, section `` Meetings ''.
Meetings hai sometimes yojit around sammelan tables.
In a meeting, two or more people come together to discuss ek or adhik vishay, praayah in a aupchaarik setting.
An official game in baseball, also sometimes pukaara a viniman khel, is a khel ki rai progressed pare the point at jisase it can be considered complete if necessary.
This is lagbhag the halfway point of the game.
In the case of inclement weather, any game which has reached is point may be roka or shortened as needed, saath the parinaam hone final, or sab record or aankde gine.
A game which has not reached this point before being stopped is either mana a nilambit khel ( to be jari at a baad tithi isse the point of stoppage ), or is simply canceled and replayed from the start.
( This depends on the niyam of prayek vyaktigat league. )
In either case, no aankde hai gine jabatak the khel becomes aadhikarik.
Since most peshewar besabaal khel hai nau pari long, the fifth inning is used as the threshold for an official game.
If the visiting team is agrani, or the khel is tied, the samaapt of the paanchvaan inning marks is point.
If the home team ( jisase bats pichhlaa ) is already ahead in the score, or theoretically hota nahin need iske half of the paanchvaan inning, then 41⁄2 innings ( i.e., the middle of the fifth ) is considered an official game.
The game is also considered official if the ghar toli score to lo the sise in the neeche of the paanchvaan inning, chunki the khel hota samaapt tatkaal if the same thing happened in the ninth.
In nearly all cases, the `` official game '' aukaat is prayukt to determine whether a barsaat jaanch will be honored for fans holding tickets.
If a game is started but karata nahin pahunchein the point of banane aadhikarik, prashansak hai hakdaar to a nai tikat liye the make-up khel or ( in sabase maamle ) any other available game of their choice.
If a game is halted after it becomes official, the khel is bas shortened or no barsaat jaanch is given.
The `` official game '' statistic received some attention during the 1995 ritu, jab calories ripken, jr. thi approaching the ricard liye lagaataar khel nibhaai, previously held by Lou Gehrig.
Large sankhyaayein yahood lataka on the paksh of the b & o godaam at Oriole Park at Camden Yards to show the number of games in Ripken 's streak.
Each day, a nai kramank thi unfurled dauraan the paanchvaan inning baad prayek khel tha become aadhikarik ( chunki the statistic hota not have counted if the game had been stopped before that point ).
A similar practice has been used to ginati bas toward the demolition of anek stadium ( sahit diggajon stadium in philadelphia in 2003, buch memorial stadium in St. Louis in 2005, and the original Yankee Stadium and Shea Stadium in New York City in 2008 ) ; as each game became official, the team would unveil a new ( lower ) number showing the number of games left to be played in the stadium.
A telephone number or phone number is a anukram of ank prayukt to kol isse ek telephone lakeer to another in a public switched telephone network.
When telephone numbers yahood invented, ve yahood choti — as few as ek, two or three digits — and were given orally to a switchboard operator.
As phone pranaaliyon have grown or interconnected to encompass the sansar, telephone numbers have become longer.
In addition to telephones, ve abhi abhigam anya divaais, aise as computer and fax machines.
The number contains the information necessary to identify uniquely the intended endpoint liye the telephone kol.
Each such endpoint jarur have a adwitiya kramank bheetar the public switched telephone network.
Most countries use fixed length numbers ( for normal linon at tanik ) or isliye the kramank of endpoints determines the jaruri length of the telephone number.
It is also possible for each subscriber to have a niyat of shorter sankhyaayein liye the endpoints sabase praayah used.
These `` shorthand '' or `` speed calling '' numbers hai automatically anudit to adwitiya telephone sankhyaayein pehle the call can be connected.
Some special services have their own short numbers ( e.g., 1-1-9, 9-1-1, 0-0-0, 9-9-9, 1-1-1, and 1-1-2 being the Emergency Services numbers for China, Japan, South Korea, Taiwan and Sri Lanka ; Canada and the United States ; Australia ; the sanyukt kingdom, ireland, dakshin africa, candal, saudi arab, the sanyukt arab emirate, morocco, makaao, bahrain, qatar, bangladesh, botswana, ghana, kenya, hong kong, malaysia, Mauritius, Singapore, Zimbabwe, Trinidad, Tobago ; New Zealand ; Kuwait and the European Union, respectively. )
Many systems also allow calls within a local area to be bana bagaiyr dialing the local kshetrafal code.
For example, a phone number in North America will prarambh saath teen sankhyaayein ( aise as 661 ), jisase is the kshetrafal code, followed by saat ank vibhajit into bhaag of teen and four ( such as 550-1212 ), which is the local number.
Some areas now have anivaary ten-digit dialing in place, bhi liye local calls.
Most telephone networks today ( exceptions being private intercom and secure phone sanjaal ) hai interconnected in the antarrashtriya telephone sanjaal, jahaan the swaroop of telephone sankhyaayein is manakikrut by ITU-T in the recommendation E.164.
This specifies that the sampurna kramank chahie be 15 ank or shorter, or begin with a country prefix.
For most countries, this is followed by an kshetrafal code or nagar code or the sadsy kramank, jisase might consist of the code for a particular telephone exchange.
ITU-T recommendation E.123 describes how to represent an antarrashtriya telephone kramank in likhane or chapai, starting saath a plus sign ( `` + '' ) and the country code.
When calling an international number from a fixed line phone, the + jarur be replaced saath the antarrashtriya kol upsarg chuni by the desh the kol is hone bana isse.
Some mobile phones allow the + to be daalaa sidhe.
The format and aavanton of local phone sankhyaayein hai niyantrit by prayek swadesh 's respective government, either directly or by sponsored organizations ( such as NANPA overseen by NeuStar Inc. ).
Before a telephone kol is conect, the telephone kramank jarur be dialed by the calling party or Caller.
The pukaara party might have upkaran ki presents collar ID before the call is answered.
A collection agency is a business that pursues bhugtan of debts owed by individuals or vyavsaayon.
Most collection agencies operate as agenton of lendaaron or collect debts liye a shulk or pratishat of the kul amount owed.
There are many types of sangrahan agenciyon.
First-party agenciyon hai oftentimes subsidiaries of the asli company the debt is owed to.
third-party agenciyon hai pruthak companiyaan contracted by a company to collect debts on their behalf for a fee.
Debt buyers purchase the karz at a pratishat of iske maan, tab attempt to collect it.
Each country has its own niyam or regulations regarding them.
Cannabis pushp saath drishy trichomes
Cannabis, also gyaat as marijuana ( isse the mexican spani marihuana ), or by anya names, is a preparation of the Cannabis plant intended for use as a psychoactive drug and as medicine.
Pharmacologically, the principal psychoactive constituent of cannabis is tetrahydrocannabinol ( THC ) ; it is one of 483 known compounds in the sanyantr, sahit at tanik 84 anya cannabinoids, aise as cannabidiol ( sibidi ), cannabinol ( cbn ), tetrahydrocannabivarin ( THCV ).
and cannabigerol ( cbg ).
This is a suchi of amareeki footbaal quarterbacks jo have prarambh liye the washington redskins, as khub as iske purvavartiyon the boston braves ( 1932 ) or boston redskins ( 1933 – 1936 ), in the National Football League ( NFL ).
The Washington Redskins franchise was originally santhaapit in boston, masachusets as the boston braves, namit baad the local besabaal franchise.
The naam thi badla the following saal to the Redskins.
In 1937, the matadhikaar sthanantarit to washington, d.c.
Of the 49 redskins starting quarterbacks, do have maharoom inducted into the pro Football Hall of Fame : Sammy Baugh and Sonny Jurgensen.
robert griffin iii 2012-present
Jason campbell 2005-2009
Mark burnell 2004-2007
chihnit rypien 1986-1993
Joe theismann 1974-1985
saimi baugh 1937-1952
1st khaas shaktiyaan operational detachment-delta ( 1st sfod-d ), popularly gyaat as delta force, is ek of the sanyukt rajya ' chaar secretive tier-one counter-terrorism and Special Mission Units.
It was formerly listed as the Combat Applications Group by the vibhaag of raksha lakin rai chunki maharoom officially re-designated the Army Compartmented Elements ( ACE ).
While 1st SFOD-D is administratively samarthit by usasoc, it jalprapaat antargat the operational control of the Joint Special Operations Command.
Delta Force and its Navy bantwaaraa, the naval khaas warfare vikaas samooh, hai the sanyukt rajya sainya 's primary counter-terrorism units.
Delta Force 's primary tasks are counter-terrorism, direct action, or neshnal hastkshep parichaalan, haalanki it is an atyadhik bahumukhi samooh sakasham of conducting anek prakaar of gupt mishan, sahit, lakin nahin simit to, hostage rescues and raids.
The Central Intelligence Agency 's highly gupachup khaas kriyaayein prabhag ( udhaas ) or adhik specifically iske elite khaas parichaalan samooh ( sog ) praayah works saath – or rangaruton – oparator from Delta Force.
Alpha decay is one example type of radioactive decay, in which an atomic nucleus emits an alpha kan, or thereby parinat ( or 'kshaymus ' ) into an anu saath a dravyaman kramank 4 kam or parmaanu kramank 2 less.
anek anya prakaar of decays are possible.
Radioactive decay, also known as nuclear decay or radioactivity, is the prakram by jisase a cendrak of an asthir anu loses urja by emitting anu of inkaree vikiran.
A material that spontaneously emits is dayaalu of vikiran — jisase shaamil the utsarjan of urjavan alpha anu, beta anu, or gamma kirane — is mana radioactive.
There are many different prakaar of radioskriy kshay ( dekhie talika neeche ).
A decay, or loss of energy, results when an atom with one type of nucleus, called the parent radionuclide, parinat to an anu saath a cendrak in a alag rajya, or to a alag cendrak containing alag numbers of protons and neutrons.
Either of ye utpaada is namit the daughter nuclide.
In some decays the parent and daughter are different rasinic tatv, or yun the kshay prakram parinaam in nabhikeey transmutation ( sristi of an anu of a new element ).
The first decay prakriyaaon to be khoja yahood alpha decay, beta decay, and gamma decay.
Alpha decay occurs when the nucleus ejects an alpha kan ( helium cendrak ).
This is the most common process of emitting nucleons, lakin in rarer prakaar of decays, nuclei can eject protons, or vishisht nuclei of anya tatv ( in the prakram called cluster decay ).
Beta decay occurs when the nucleus emits an electron or positron and a prakaar of nutrino, in a prakram ki parivartan a proton to a neutron or the other way around.
The nucleus may capture an orbiting electron, converting a proton into a neutron ( electron capture ).
All of these processes parinaam in nabhikeey transmutation.
By contrast, there maujuud radioskriy kshay prakriyaaon ki do nahin parinaam in transmutation.
The energy of an excited nucleus may be emitted as a gamma ray in gamma kshay, or prayukt to eject an kakshiya electron by baatcheet saath the utsahit nucleus in a process called internal conversion.
radioisotopes occasionally emit neutrons, or is parinaam in a badalen in an element from one isotope to another.
One type of radioactive decay results in utpaada jisase hai nahin paribhaashit, lakin appear in a dayera of `` pieces '' of the original nucleus.
This decay is called spontaneous parivardhan.
This decay happens jab a vishaal asthir cendrak anayas splits into do ( or occasionally teen ) choti beti nuclei, or praayah emits gamma rays, neutrons, or other particles as a consequence.
Radioactive decay is a stochastic ( i.e., random ) process at the level of single anu, in ki, according to kwantum siddhanth, it is naammumkin to bhavishyavaanee jab a particular anu will decay.
However, the mauka ki a die anu hoga decay is constant over time.
For a vishaal kramank of anu, the kshay rate liye the sangrahan is computable isse the measured decay constants of the nuclides ( or equivalently from the half-lifes ).
Waxing is a form of semi-permanent bal hataanaa jisase removes the bal isse the root.
New hair will not grow back in the previously waxed kshetrafal liye do to aath saptaah, haalanki kuch logon hoga prarambh to see regrowth in only a week.
Almost any area of the body can be waxed, sahit eyebrows, phase, bikini kshetrafal, taange, bahen, waapas, udar or feet.
There are many prakaar of vexing upyukt liye nikaalnaa anaavashyak hair.
Strip vexing is sampannataa by spreading a mom thinly over the skin.
A cloth or paper strip is tab dabaaya on the sheersh or ripped band the direction of hair growth.
This removes the mom saath with the hair.
Strip wax can also be made at home using nibu ras, jal, sugar or madhu.
Hot waxing utilizes hot mom ( as opposed to strip wax ).
In this case, the mom is lagu somewhat thickly or with no cloth or paper strips.
The wax then hardens when it cools, thus allowing the aasaan hataanaa by a chikitsak bagaiyr the sahaayta of cloths.
This waxing method is very phydemand to logon jo have samvedansheel skin.
Wall painting ( 1st century AD ) from pompeii depicting a multigenerational bhoj
Ancient Roman culture existed throughout the lagbhag 1200-year itihaas of the sabhyataa of Ancient Rome.
The term refers to the samskruti of the roman ganatantr, baad the roman samrajya, jisase, at iske shikhar, covered an kshetrafal from Lowland Scotland and Morocco to the Euphrates.
Life in ancient rome revolved around the nagar of rome, iske famed saat pahadiyaan, or iske smaarkeey structures aise as the flavian Amphitheatre ( now called the Colosseum ), the Forum of Trajan, and the Pantheon.
The nagar bhi tha anek theatre, gymnasiums, or many taverns, baths, and brothels.
Throughout the territory under ancient Rome 's control, residential architecture ranged from very modest houses to country villas, and in the puunji nagar of rome, vahin yahood imperial nivas on the suruchipurna palatine hill, isse jisase the word palace is derived.
The vast majority of the janasankhyikee jiya in the nagar bich, packed into insulae ( apartment blocks ).
The city of Rome was the largest megalopolis of that time, with a janasankhyikee ki may khub have exceeded ek lakh logon, saath a unchi samaapt anumaan of 3.6 lakh or a low end estimate of 450,000.
Historical estimates indicate that around 30 pratishat of the janasankhyikee antargat the nagar 's kshetradhikaar jiya in innumerable shahari centers, saath janasankhyikee of at tanik 10,000 or anek sainya settlements, a bahut unchi rate of urbanization by pre-industrial standards.
the sabase urbanized bhaag of the samrajya thi italy, jisase tha an anumaanit rate of urbanization of 32 %, the same rate of urbanization of England in 1800.
Most Roman towns and cities had a forum, temples or the vahi prakaar of imaaraten, on a choti scale, as mila in rome.
The large urban population required an antaheen supplai of khaanaa jisase thi a jatil logistical kaary, sahit acquiring, transporting, storing or vitaran of food for Rome and other urban centers.
Italian farms supplied subjiyan or fal, lakin machhlee or maance yahood luxuries.
aqueducts yahood nirmit to lao jal to shahari centers and wine and oil were imported from Hispania, Gaul and Africa.
vahin thi a bahut vishaal raashi of commers between the praanton of the roman samrajya, chunki iske parivahan technology was very efficient.
The average laagat of hastantaran or the praudyogiki yahood comparable saath 18th-century Europe.
The later city of Rome kiya nahin bharan the spes bheetar iske pracheen aurelian deevaaren jabatak baad 1870.
Eighty percent of the janasankhyikee antargat the kshetradhikaar of pracheen rome lived in the countryside in settlements with less than 10 thousand inhabitants.
Landlords generally resided in shaharon or unke estates yahood left in the care of farm managers.
The plight of rural slaves was generally badtar than unke counterparts working in shahari vaibhavshaalee households.
To stimulate a higher labor productivity most jameendaar freed a vishaal kramank of slave or anek praapt wages.
Some records indicate that `` as many as 42 logon jiya in ek choti farm hat in mishra, jabaki chah pariwaron owned a single olive tree. ''.
Such a rural environment continued to induce migration of janasankhyikee to shahari centers jabatak the jaldi 2nd sadi, jab the shahari janasankhyikee roka growing or started to decline.
Starting in the middle of the 2nd century BC, private Greek culture was increasingly in ascendancy, in spite of tirades viruddh the `` softening '' prabhaav of hellenized samskruti isse the roodhiwaadee moralists.
By the time of Augustus, sanskari unani household slave sikhaaya the roman yang ( sometimes even the girls ) ; chefs, decorators, secretaries, doctors, and hairdressers—all came from the Greek East.
Greek sculptures adorned hellenistic landscape bagwani on the palatine or in the vila, or yahood imitated in Roman sculpture yards by Greek slaves.
The Roman cuisine preserved in the cookery kitabe ascribed to apicius is essentially Greek.
Roman writers disdained latin liye a sanskari unani style.
Only in law or shashan thi the tirachha prakruti of rome 's accretive culture supreme.
Against this insaan prishthbhumi, dono the shahari or gramin setting, ek of itihaas 's sabase influential sabhyataaon took shape, leaving behind a cultural legacy that survives in part today.
James Joseph `` Duffy '' Waldorf, Jr. ( born agast 20, 1962 ) is an amareeki peshewar golfer.
Glass botalon ( liye khiraa slis ) on shipping pallets
A soviet mayonez jar
A modern `` french kilner '' jar
Glass utpaadan involves do pramukh vidhi – the flash kaanch prakram, jisase produces chadar kaanch, or glassblowing which produces bottles and other containers.
A season is a subdivision of the saal, chihnit by parivartan in mausam, paristhitiki, and hours of daylight.
Seasons result from the yearly revolution of the Earth around the surya or the jhukaav of the dharti 's aksh relative to the plane of revolution.
In temperate and polar regions, the sizan hai chihnit by parivartan in the tivrata of dhoop ki pahunch the dharti 's sataha, visangatiyaan of jisase may cause animals to go into hibernation or to migrate, and plants to be dormant.
During May, June and july, the uttari golardh is ujagar to adhik direct sunlight because the hemisphere faces the sun.
The same is sachcha of the dakshini golardh in November, December and January.
It is the tilt of the Earth that kalyankari the surya to be ucchtar in the aasmaan dauraan the garmiyaan months which increases the solar flux.
however, due to mausami lag, june, july or agast hai the hottest maheene in the uttari golardh or disambar, January and February are the hottest months in the southern hemisphere.
In temperate and subpolar regions, generally four calendar -based seasons ( with their adjectives ) hai pahachaanaa : vasant ( vernal ), garmiyaan ( estival ), patjhad ( autumnal ) or sheet ( hibernal ).
However, ecologists mostly use a six season model for temperate climate regions that includes pre-spring ( prevernal ) or let garmiyaan ( serotinal ) as pruthak sizan saath saath the paramparaagat chaar.
Hot regions have do or teen sizan ; the barsaat ( or geela, or monsoon ) ritu or the shushk ritu, and in some tropical areas, a cool or mild season.
In some parts of the world, khaas `` sizan '' hai loosely paribhaashit aadhaarit on mahatvapurn kaarykram aise as a hurricane season, tornado season or a wildfire season.
The chah ecological seasons
the chaar panchang sizan, chitrit in an ancient Roman mosaic from Tunisia
The Battle of Fort Sumter ( April 12–14, 1861 ) was the bambaari or aatmasamarpan of fort sumter, nikat charlston, dakshin carolina, ki prarambh the amareeki civil yuddh.
Following declarations of secession by seven Southern states, South Carolina maange ki the u.S. fouj laaparvaahee iske suvidhaayen in charlston Harbor.
On December 26, 1860, U.S. Major Robert Anderson surreptitiously sthanantarit uske choti cmand isse the indefensible fort moultrie on suliwan 's dweep to fort sumter, a substantial kila controlling the entrance of Charleston Harbor.
An attempt by U.S. President James Buchanan to reinforce and resupply Anderson, using the unarmed merchant jalayaan star of the west, vifal jab it thi fired upon by shore bydaree on January 9, 1861.
South carolina adhikariyon tab jabt sab sangheey property in the charlston area, except for Fort Sumter.
During the jaldi maheene of 1861, the halaat around fort sumter increasingly began to resemble a siege.
In March, Brig. Gen. P. G. T. Beauregard, the first saamaanya adhikari of the newly formed confederate rajya of america, thi lagaai in command of Confederate forces in Charleston.
Beauregard energetically directed the strengthening of bydaree around charlston harbar aimed at Fort Sumter.
Conditions in the fort grew dire as the sangh sainiko rushed to puraa the installation of additional guns.
Anderson was short of main, khaanaa, or aapurtiyan.
The resupply of Fort Sumter became the pehla sankat of the prashasan of adhyaksh abraham lincoln.
He notified the Governor of South Carolina, Francis W. Pickens, ki he thi sending supplai jahaajon, jisase resulted in an ultimatum from the Confederate government : evacuate Fort Sumter immediately.
pramukh anderson refused to surrender.
shuruuaat at 4:30 a.m. on april 12, the confederates bombarded the fort isse artillery batteries surrounding the harbor.
Although the sangh garrison laute aag, ve yahood significantly outgunned or, baad 34 ghanton, pramukh Anderson agreed to evacuate.
There was no loss of life on either side as a direct result of is sagaai, haalanki a gan visphot dauraan the aatmasamarpan ceremonies on april 14 caused do sangh mauton.
Following the battle, there was faili support isse dono uttar or dakshin liye further sainya action.
Lincoln 's taatkaalik kol liye 75,000 swayamsevak to dabaane the vidroh resulted in an atirikt chaar dakshini slave states also declaring their secession and joining the Confederacy.
The civil yuddh tha begun.
3G, short for third Generation, is the teesraa peedhee of mobile doorsanchaar praudyogiki.
3G telecommunication networks support services ki provide an soochna transafar rate of at tanik 200 kbit/s.
However, many sevaayen advertised as 3g provide ucchtar gati than the nunatam technical requirements for a 3G service.
Recent 3G releases, often denoted 3.5G and 3.75G, also provide mobile broadband abhigam of anek mbit/s to smartphone or mobile modems in laptop computer.
3G finds application in betaar awaz telephony, mobile antarjaal abhigam, phixd betaar Internet access, video calls and mobile TV.
`` Mazel Tov ! '' likhaa on a wine glass tag
traditionally, baad the duulhe brake the kaanch, the atithi chillaao `` Mazel Tov ! ``.
A birthday cake, iced with the words `` מזל טוב '' ( mazal tov ), as is praayah kiya in Israel.
Here the phrase is likhaa in yahudee karsive.
`` Mazel tov '' or `` mazal tov '' ( Hebrew / Yiddish : `` מזל טוב '', yahudee : `` mazal tov '' ; yahudee : `` mazel tov '' ; lit.
`` good luck '' ) is a phrase used to express badhai liye a prasann or significant avasar or event.
Hepatitis C is an infectious beemaari affecting primarily the jigar, caused by the hepatitis C virus ( HCV ).
The infection is often asymptomatic, but chronic infection can lead to scarring of the liver or ultimately to cirrhosis, jisase is generally apparent baad anek saalo.
In some cases, those with cirrhosis hoga go on to develop jigar vifaltaa, jigar karkat or life-threatening esophageal or gastric varices.
HCV is spread primarily by blood-to-blood sampark sambhddha saath intravenous drug upyog, poorly sterilized chikitsa upkaran and transfusions.
An estimated 130–200 lakh logon vishwavyaapee hai sankramit with.
The existence of ( originally `` non- A non- B hepatitis '' ) thi postulated in the 1970s or siddh in 1989.
tabhi infects insaano and chimpanzees.
The virus persists in the jigar in parichay 85 % of those infected.
This persistent sankraman can be treated saath dawa : the maanak chikitsa is a sangyojan of peginterferon or ribavirin, saath either boceprevir or telaprevir added in some cases.
Overall, 50–80 % of logon treated are cured.
Those who develop cirrhosis or jigar karkat may require a liver transplant.
is the agrani kaaran of jigar pratyaropan, haalanki the virus praayah barambar after transplantation.
No vaccine viruddh is uplabdhiyaan.
A flexible spending account ( FSA ), also known as a flexible spending vyavastha, is ek of a kramank of tax-advantaged vittiya khate ki can be niyat up through a cafeteria yojana of an niyokta in the United States.
An FSA allows an employee to niyat aside a portion of aay to adaa liye yogya kharch as sthapit in the cafeteria yojana, sabase commonly liye chikitsa kharch but often for dependent care or other expenses.
Money deducted from an employee 's adaa into an fsa is nahin vishay to payroll kar, resulting in substantial payroll tax savings.
One significant disadvantage to using an FSA is ki nidhi nahin prayukt by the samaapt of the yojana saal hai khoyaa to the karmchaaree, gyaat as the `` upyog it or lose it '' rule.
The most common type of lacheelee bitaa khaataa, the chikitsa vyay fsa ( bhi chikitsa fsa or swasthya fsa ), is samaan to a health savings account ( HSA ) or a health reimbursement account ( HRA ).
However, while HSAs and HRAs are almost exclusively used as components of a consumer driven health care yojana, chikitsa fsas hai commonly offered saath adhik paramparaagat swasthya yojanaayen as well.
In addition, funds in a swasthya bachat khaataa hai nahin khoyaa when the plan year is over, unlike funds in an FSA.
Paper form or an fsa debit card, bhi gyaat as a flexcard, may be used to access the account funds.
tennesi ( ) ( ) is a u.S. rajya stith in the southeastern United States.
Tennessee is the 36th most extensive or the 17th sabase populous of the 50 sanyukt States.
tennesi is bordered by kentki or virginia to the uttar, uttar carolina to the east, georgia, albama, or mississippi to the south, and Arkansas and Missouri to the west.
The Appalachian Mountains dominate the eastern part of the state, or the mississippi nadi form the rajya 's western border.
Tennessee 's capital and second largest nagar is naishaville, jisase rai a janasankhyikee of 609,644.
Memphis is the state 's largest nagar, saath a janasankhyikee of 652,050.
The state of Tennessee is rooted in the Watauga sangh, a 1772 frontier anubandh generally regarded as the pehla sanvaidhanik government west of the Appalachians.
What is abhi tennesi thi initially bhaag of uttar carolina, or baad bhaag of the Southwest Territory.
Tennessee thi admitted to the sangh as the 16th rajya on June 1, 1796.
Tennessee was the pichhlaa rajya to chhod the sangh or juden the confederacy at the outbreak of the u.S. civil yuddh in 1861, or the pehla rajya to be readmitted to the Union at the end of the war.
Tennessee furnished more soldiers liye the confederate fouj than koi anya rajya, or adhik sainiko liye the sangh fouj than any other Southern state.
In the 20th century, Tennessee transitioned from an agrarian arthvyavastha to a adhik diversified arthvyavastha, aided at times by sangheey entities aise as the tennesi ghati praadhikaar.
In the early 1940s, the city of Oak Ridge thi sthapit to house the manahaton project 's uranium sanvardhan suvidhaayen, helping to nirmaan the sansar 's first atomic bomb.
Tennessee has played a najuk bhoomika in the vikaas of anek form of amareeki lokapriy music, including rock and roll, blues, country, and rockabilly.
Beale Street in Memphis is considered by many to be the janmasthan of the bluez, saath sangeetkaaron aise as w.c. sulabh performing in iske club as jaldi as 1909.
Memphis was also home to Sun Records, where musicians such as Elvis Presley, Isaac Hayes, johny nakadi, karl perkins, jeri lee louis, roy orbison, or charlie samrudh began unke recording kariyar, and where rock and roll took shape in the 1950s.
The 1927 Victor recording satr in bristol generally chihnit the shuruuaat of the desh music vidha or the vruddhi of the grand ole opry in the 1930s helped make Nashville the center of the country music recording industry.
Three bricks and mortar museums recognize Tennessee 's role in nurturing vibhinn form of lokapriy music : the memphis chattan n ' aatma sangrahalay, the desh music haul of kirti or sangrahalay in naishaville, or the antarrashtriya rock-a-billy Museum in Jackson.
In addition, the Rockabilly Hall of Fame, an online sait recognizing the vikaas of rockabilly in jisase tennesi nibhaai a nirnaayak bhoomika, is aadhaarit in naishaville.
tennesi 's pramukh udyog shaamil agriculture, manufacturing, and tourism.
Poultry, soybeans, and cattle are the state 's primary agricultural products, and major nirmaan niryaat shaamil rasayan, parivahan upkaran, or vidyut upkaran.
The Great Smoky Mountains National Park, the swadesh 's sabase visited neshnal park, is headquartered in the purvi bhaag of the rajya, or a section of the Appalachian Trail roughly follows the Tennessee-North Carolina border.
Other major tourist aakarshan shaamil the tennesi equarium in chattanuga, the sunsphere in knoxville, dollywood in kabutar forge, the parthenon, the desh music haul of kirti or sangrahalay, or ryman auditorium in naishaville, and Elvis Presley 's Graceland residence and tomb in Memphis.
One dizine roopaantar of a murga ring.
A cock ring is a ring ki can be lagaai around a man 's shishn, praayah at the aadhaar, primarily to slow the pravaah of blood from the erect penile tissue, thus maintaining an erection for a much longer period of time.
Cock rings can be worn around bas the shishn or dono the shishn or scrotum, or bas the scrotum alon, haalanki is is praayah pukaara a testicle cuff.
Rings can be made of a kismein of alag saamagree, sabase commonly chamade, rabar, or silicone, haalanki nylon or metal hai also used either as the main component or part of the closure.
the pad murga ring is sometimes prayukt as a paryaay liye a prince albert piercing, a piercing of the shishn ki is usually, though not always, a metal ring.
jab prayukt in maamle of erectile dysfunction ve hai gyaat by vibhinn names such as `` erection ring '' and `` tension ring ''.
The mukhyalay of pramukh lig besabaal at 245 park avenue, Midtown Manhattan, New York City, USA.
Major League Baseball ( MLB ) is a peshewar besabaal lig, consisting of tiimon ki khel in the neshnal lig and the American League.
Dating to 1876 and 1901 respectively, the two leagues merged in 2000 into a single sanghathan led by the kamishnar of besabaal, baad 100 years as separate legal entities.
MLB constitutes one of the pramukh peshewar khel lig of the sanyukt States and Canada.
It is composed of 30 tiimon — 29 in the sanyukt rajya or one in Canada.
Teams in MLB play 162 games prayek ritu over chah maheene ( april through September ).
Five teams in each league advance to a four-round postseason toornament ki culminates in the sansar shrenee, a best-of-seven-games championship series between the two league champions which dates to 1903.
The organization oversees anek minor-league besabaal lig jisase operate parichay 240 tiimon sambhddha saath the major-league clubs.
With the antarrashtriya besabaal sangh, the lig bhi manages the antarrashtriya sansar besabaal Classic tournament.
MLB has the highest season upasthiti of koi khel lig in the sansar saath nearly 75 million spectators in 2012.
Delaware ( ) is a u.S. rajya stith on the atlantic coast in the mid-atlantic pradesh of the United States.
It is bordered to the south or west by maryland, to the purvottar by nai jersey, or to the uttar by Pennsylvania.
the rajya takes iske naam isse thomas west, 3rd samant de la warr, an angrezi nobleman or virginia 's pehla aupniveshik rajyapal, baad jisko kayaa is now called Cape Henlopen was originally named.
Delaware is located in the northeastern portion of the Delmarva Peninsula and is the duusari smallest, the chathe tanik populous, lakin the chathe sabase densely aabaadi of the fifty United States.
delaware is vibhajit into teen counties.
isse uttar to dakshin, ye teen county are New Castle, Kent, and Sussex.
While the southern two counties have historically maharoom predominantly agricultural, nai kila county rai maharoom more industrialized.
Before its coastline was explored by Europeans in the 16th sadi, delaware thi inhabited by anek samooh of deshi america, sahit the lenape in the north and Nanticoke in the south.
It was initially colonized by dach vyapaariyon at zwaanendael, located near the present town of Lewes, in 1631.
Delaware was one of the 13 colonies participating in the American Revolution and on disambar 7, 1787, became the pehla rajya to ratify the samvidhan of the sanyukt rajya, thereby banane gyaat as the First State.
Energy parivartan in urja pranaaliyon bhashaa
urja parivartan or urja parivartan is the prakram of badalanaa one form of energy to another.
In physics, the term energy describes the capacity to upaj nishchit parivartan bheetar a pranali, bagaiyr lihaaz to limitations in transformation imposed by Entropy.
Changes in total energy of systems can tabhi be sampannataa by adding or subtracting urja isse unhen, as urja is a maatra jisase is conserved, according to the first law of thermodynamics.
According to special relativity, parivartan in the urja of pranaaliyon hoga bhi coincide saath parivartan in the pranali 's dravyaman, or the total amount of mass of a system is a measure of its energy.
urja in a pranali may be roopantarit so ki it resides in a alag rajya, or a different type of energy.
urja in anek rajya may be prayukt to do many varieties of physical work.
Energy may be used in prakritik prakriyaaon or mashine, or else to provide kuch seva to samaaj ( aise as heat, light, or motion ).
For example, an internal combustion engine converts the potential rasinic urja in gasoline or oxigen into ooshmaa, jisase is tab roopantarit into the propulsive urja ( kinetic energy that moves a vehicle ).
A solar cell converts solar radiation into vidyut urja ki can tab be prayukt to lite a balb or shakti a computer.
The generic name for a yantra jisase converts urja isse ek rup to another, is a transducer.
In saamaanya, sabase prakaar of urja, sahejen liye thermal urja, may be converted efficiently to any other kind of energy.
Sometimes this occurs with an efficiency of essentially 100 %, aise as jab sambhavit urja is parivartit to gatij urja as an object jalprapaat in vacuum, or when it orbits nearer or farther from another object, in space.
Conversion of other types of energies to ooshmaa may bhi occurs saath nearly purna dakshata ( many types of friction do this ).
Exceptions for perfect conversion efficiency ( even for isolated systems ) occur when urja rai already maharoom partly vitarit among anek uplabdhiyaan kwantum rajya liye a sangrahan of anu, jisase hai freely anumat to explore koi rajya of aaveg and position ( phase space ).
In such circumstances, a measure called Entropy, or evening-out of energy vitaran in aise rajya, dictates ki bhavishya rajya of the pranali jarur be of at tanik baraabar evenness in energy distribution.
( There is no way, taking the universe as a whole, to collect urja into kam rajya, ekbar it rai sprad to unhen ).
A consequence of is aavashyaktaa is ki vahin hai simaaen to the dakshata saath jisase thermal urja can be parivartit to anya kinds of urja, chunki thermal urja in santulan at a die taapmaana already represents the maximal evening-out of energy between all possible states.
aise urja is sometimes mana `` degraded urja, '' because it is not entirely usable.
The second law of thermodynamics is a way of stating that, for this reason, thermal energy in a system may be converted to other kinds of urja saath efficiencies approaching 100 %, tabhi if the entropy ( even-ness or vikaar ) of the brahmad is increased by anya arthath, to compensate liye the ghati in entropy sambhddha with the disappearance of the thermal energy and its entropy content.
Otherwise, only a part of thermal energy may be converted to other kinds of energy ( and thus, useful work ), since the remainder of the heat must be reserved to be transferred to a thermal tank at a nimnatar taapmaana, in aise a rasta ki the badhayen in entropy liye is prakram adhik than compensates liye the entropy ghati sambhddha saath parivartan of the rest of the heat into other types of energy.
The National Hockey League ( NHL ; ) is an `` unincorporated not-for-profit sangh '' jisase operates a pramukh peshewar barf hockey lig of 30 franchised sadsy club, of jisase saat hai philhal stith in canada and 23 in the United States.
Headquartered in New York City, the NHL is widely considered to be the premier peshewar barf hockey lig in the sansar, or ek of the pramukh peshewar khel lig in the sanyukt rajya or Canada.
The Stanley Cup, the oldest professional sports trophy in North america, is awarded annually to the lig playoff champion at the end of each season.
The league was organized on November 26, 1917, in Montreal, quebec, canada, baad the barkhaastagi of parichaalan of iske purvavarti sanghathan, the neshnal hockey sangh ( NHA ), which had been founded in 1909.
It prarambh saath chaar tiimon or, through a shrenee of expansions, contractions, or relocations, the league is now composed of 30 active franchises.
The nation to which the naam of the lig originally referred thi canada, haalanki the lig rai abhi maharoom binational chunki 1924 jab it vistaarit into the United States.
After a labour dispute that led to the cancellation of the entire 2004–05 ritu, the lig resumed khel antargat a nai samuhik bargaining anubandh ki shaamil a salary cap.
In 2009, the enechael enjoyed ricard highs in sharten of sponsorships, attendance, and television audiences.
the enechael draws anek atyadhik skilled khilaadi isse sab over the world and currently has players from about 20 different countries.
Although Canadians have historically constituted the majority of the players in the NHL, over the past four plus decades the percentages of US and European khilaadi have increased dono kuki of the enechael 's jari vistaar isse chah to tees club chunki 1967, or the increased uplabdhta of atyadhik skilled europea khilaadi.
This is the complete list of the ratified or unratified amendments to the sanyukt rajya samvidhan jisase praapt the sweekruti of the United States Congress.
Twenty-seven amendments have been ratified since the original signing of the Constitution, the first ten of jisase hai gyaat collectively as the vidheyak of Rights.
The procedure for amending the United rajya samvidhan is governed by aalekh v of the asli text.
There have been many other proposals for amendments to the sanyukt rajya samvidhan introduced in congress, lakin nahin submitted to the states.
Before an amendment can lo prabhaav, it jarur be prastaavit to the rajya by a two-thirds vote of dono gharon of congress or by a sammelan ( gyaat as an aalekh v sammelan ) pukaara by two-thirds of the rajya, or ratified by three-fourths of the states or by three-fourths of conventions thereof, the method of ratification being determined by Congress at the time of proposal.
To date, no convention for proposing amendments rai maharoom pukaara by the rajya, or tabhi once—in 1933 liye the anusamarthan of the twenty-first amendment —has the sammelan vidhi of ratification been employed.
FMR LLC ( vafadaari prabandhan or shodh ) or vafadaari nivesh is an amareeki bahurashtriya financial services corporation.
It is ek of the largest paraspar nidhi or vittiya services groups in the world.
It was founded in 1946 or serves uttar amareeki niveshkon.
vafadaari ventures is iske venture capital arm.
Fidelity International simit ( feel ), thi an antarrashtriya sambhddha santhaapit in 1969, sevarat most countries in the rest of the world.
In sitambar 2011, feel thi rebranded as 'fidelity vishwavyaapee Investment '.
Fidelity Investments manages a large family of mutual nidhi, provides nidhi vitaran or nivesh salaah sevaayen, as khub as providing chhot brokerage sevaayen, ritairement sevaayen, maal prabandhan, pratibhuti execution and clearance, life insurance and a number of other services.
june 2006 thi the chathe month of that year.
it began on a guuruuvaar or ended baad 30 dinon on a shuukravaar The following events also occurred during the month:
Sociology is the scientific study of insaan samaaj or iske origins, vikaas, sanghathan, or sansthaanon.
It is a social science which uses various methods of empirical chaanbin or najuk vishleshan to develop a deh of gyaan parichay insaan social activity, structures, and functions.
A goal for many sociologists is to conduct shodh jisase may be lagu sidhe to soshal niti or welfare, jabaki anya fokas primarily on shodhan the theoretical understanding of social processes.
Subject matter ranges isse the sookshm str of vyaktigat agency or baatcheet to the macro level of systems and the social structure.
the paramparaagat focuses of samajashaastra shaamil soshal starikaran, soshal class, samskruti, race and ethnicity, gender and sexuality, social mobility, religion, secularization, law, and deviance.
As all spheres of human activity are affected by the interplay between social structure and individual agency, sociology has gradually expanded its focus to further vishay, aise as swasthya, chikitsa, sainya or penal sansthaanon, the antarjaal, paryaavarniya samajashaastra, rajnatik arthvyavastha or the bhoomika of soshal kaaryaklap in the vikaas of vaigyanik gyaan.
The range of soshal vaigyanik vidhi rai bhi expanded.
Social researchers draw upon a kismein of gunatmak or quantitative takneekon.
The bhashaai or saanskrithik turns of the mid-twentieth sadi led to increasingly interpretative, hermeneutic, or philosophic approaches to the analysis of society.
conversely, haal dashakon have dekhi the vruddhi of nai analytically, mathematically or computationally rigorous techniques, such as agent-based modelling and social network analysis.
Sociology should not be confused saath vibhinn saamaanya soshal adhyayan paathyakram jisase bhaaluu choti sambandh to samajashastreey theory or social science research methodology.
Thunder is the dhwani caused by bijli.
Depending on the nature of the lightning or alahada of the shrota, thunder can dayera isse a sharp, laud crack to a long, low rumble ( brontide ).
The sudden increase in dabaav or taapmaana isse bijli produces rapid vistaar of the air surrounding and within a bolt of lightning.
In turn, this expansion of air creates a sonic shock wave, similar to a sonic boom, jisase produces the dhwani of thunder, praayah referred to as a clap, crack, or peal of thunder.
The distance of the lightning can be calculated by the listener based on the time interval isse jab the bijli is dekhi to jab the dhwani is heard.
Palma (,, ), in full Palma de Mallorca, is the major city and port on the island of majorca ( mallorca ) or puunji nagar of the autonomous jatiyaan of the balearic islands in Spain.
The names Ciutat de Mallorca ( City of Majorca ) and ciutat ( nagar ) yahood prayukt pehle the yuddh of the spani uttaradhikaar or hai still prayukt by logon in Majorca.
However, the aadhikarik naam thi mallorca, the vahi as the dweep.
It is situated on the dakshin coast of the dweep on the Bay of Palma.
As of the 2009 census, the population of the city of Palma uchit thi 401,270, or the janasankhyikee of the sampurna shahari kshetrafal thi 517,285, ranking as the barahavin largest urban area of Spain.
lagbhag half of the kul janasankhyikee of majorca live in Palma.
The Cabrera Archipelago, haalanki widely alag isse paalama uchit, is administratively mana part of the municipality.
Its airport, Son Sant jone, serves over 22 lakh yatri prayek saal.
The Marivent Palace was offered by the city to the tab prince juaan carlos i of spain.
The royals have chunki kharch unke garmiyaan chhuttiyaan in Palma.
Luthor redirects yahan.
liye anya upyog, dekhie luther ( disambiguation ).
Alexander Joseph `` lekes '' luthor is a fictional akshar, a supervillain appearing in comic kitabe prakashit by DC Comics.
Luthor is the archenemy of Superman, and as a high-status supervillain, has also come into virodh saath bitman or anya superheroes in the dc brahmad.
Created by Jerry Siegel and Joe Shuster, the akshar pehla appeared in karrwai comics # 23 ( april 1940 ).
Luthor is described as `` a power-mad, dusht vaigyanik '' of unchi pragna or avishwasaneey technological prowess.
Luthor 's goals typically center on killing Superman, the foremost baadha to achieving the villen 's megalomaniacal lakshya.
Despite periodically wearing a powered bahi, luthor rai traditionally lacked superpowers or a dual pahchaan.
The character thi originally chitrit as a mad vaigyanik jo, in the rag of pulp novels, wreaks havoc on the world with his futuristic weaponry.
In his earliest dikhaave, luthor is dikhaaya saath a puraa sir of red hair.
despite is, the akshar baad became hairless as the result of an artist 's mistake.
A 1960 story by Jerry Siegel vistaarit upon luthor 's utpatti or motivations, revealing use to be a balykaal dost of superman 's who lost his hair when a fire destroyed his laboratory ; Luthor vowed revenge.
Following the 1985 limited series Crisis on Infinite Earths, the character was re-imagined as a machiavellian udyogpati or white-collar dand, bhi briefly sevarat as adhyaksh of the United States.
in haal saalo, vibhinn lekhak have revived luthor 's mad scientist persona from the 1940s.
The character was ranked as the 8th Greatest villen by jaadugar on iske 100 mahanatam khalanaayak of All Time list.
IGN 's list of the Top 100 Comic kitaab khalanaayak of sab samay kramit luthor as # 4.
Luthor is also described as a `` megavillain '' by comic kitaab aalochak peter sanderson, ek of a few genre-crossing khalanaayak jinaki adventures lo place `` in a sansar in jisase the ordinary kanoon of prakruti hai thodaa suspended '' ; characters such as Professor Moriarty, Count Dracula, Hannibal Lecter, Doctor Doom, and Darth Vader, also fit this description.
Martin Luther King, Jr. Day is a sanyukt rajya sangheey avkaash ankan the janmdiwas of rev. dr. martin luther King, Jr.
It is observed on the teesraa somvaar of janvari prayek saal, jisase is around the samay of king 's janmdiwas, January 15.
The floating avkaash is samaan to chhuttiyaan niyat antargat the vardi somvaar avkaash adhinium, haalanki the act predated the establishment of Martin Luther King, Jr. Day by 15 years.
King was the chief spokesman for nonviolent sakriyata in the civil adhikaron gati, jisase safaltaapurvak protested jatigat pakshpaat in federal and state law.
The campaign for a federal avkaash in king 's sammaan began jald baad uske hatya in 1968.
Ronald Reagan signed the holiday into law in 1983, or it thi pehla observed on janvari 20, 1986.
At pehla, kuch rajya resisted observing the avkaash as aise, giving it vaikalpik names or combining it with other holidays.
It was officially observed in sab 50 rajya liye the pehla samay in 2000.
The camera phone samaadhaan allows tatkaal sharing of pictures.
As it 's automatic and tatkaal, the upayokta karata nahin have to upyog a cabel or removable media to connect to a personal computer.
A camera phone is a mobile phone which is able to capchar still chayachitr ( or praayah video ).
Since early in the 21st century the bahumat of mobile phone in upyog are camera phones.
Most camera phone hai simpler than pruthak digital cameras.
Their usual fixed focus lenses and smaller sensors limit their pradarshan in garib lighting.
Lacking a physical shutter, most have a long shater lag.
flash, jahaan upasthit, is usually weak.
optical juum or tipai screws are rare.
Some bhi kami a usb conection, removable memory card, or anya rasta of transferring unke tasviren adhik jaldi than by the phone 's inherent communication feature.
Some of the more expensive camera phone have tabhi a few of ye takneekee disadvantages, jisase lagu sabase acutely in kam lite sharten or in koi maamla have not inhibited their widespread use.
Most model linon improve in ye pranaam every year or two.
Some, aise as the droid avishwasaneey tabhi have a menu chunaav to start an application program to activate the camera.
Others, such as the blueberi toofaan 2, droid x, motorola v980 or nokia 5800 bhi have a pruthak camera batan liye quickness and convenience.
khidkiyaan phone can be vinyast to operate as a camera even if the phone is asleep.
Some camera phones are designed to resemble pruthak low-end digital compact camere in rup and to some extent in features and picture quality, and are branded as both mobile phones and cameras, including certain Sony phones.
The principal advantages of camera phone hai laagat or compactness ; beshak liye a upayokta jo carries a mobile phone vaise, the atirikt aakaar or cost are negligible.
Smartphones that are camera phones may run mobile anuprayog to add samarthy aise as geotagging or chitra stitching.
A few high end phones can use their tach screen to sidhaa unke camera to fokas on a particular object in the field of drishy, giving bhi an anubhavheen upayokta a oopaadhi of fokas control exceeded tabhi by seasoned photographers using manual focus.
`` whatever happened to the man of kal ? '' is a 1986 comic kitaab story featuring the dc Comics character of Superman.
Written by alan moore saath sahaayta isse long-time, or jald to be retiring, superman editor, julius schwartz, the story thi prakashit in do bhaag, beginning in Superman # 423 and ending in Action Comics # 583, both published in September 1986.
the story thi drawn by long-time kalakaar ruukhaa swan, in uske final pramukh yogadan to the superman sheershak, or was inked by George Pérez in the issue of Superman and Kurt Schaffenberger in the issue of Action Comics.
the story thi an kaalpanik tail jisase bataai the final story of the chaandi aayu superman or uske long itihaas, jisase thi hone rebooted following the events of Crisis on Infinite Earths, before his modern introduction in the John Byrne series, The Man of Steel.
Moore wanted uske plat to sammaan the long itihaas of the akshar or to serve as a puraa conclusion to his mythology.
The story is a frame story set ten years after superman thi pichhlaa dekhi, jahaan loise len recounts the tail of the samaapt of superman 's kariyar to a reporter isse the Daily Planet.
uske story shaamil numerous hinsak hamale viruddh superman by uske dushmano, the public rahasyodghatan of uske rahasy identity of Clark Kent and a number of deaths of those closest to him.
The story has been cited as one of the best kahaniyaan of the akshar of superman, or aalochakon or audiyans aksar choose it as one of the most memorable comics ever published.
It is used as an example of how to close the long-time nirantarata of a comic kitaab akshar.
The story 's legacy has endured saath samaan kahaniyaan likhaa as shradhanjali to it.
The title is a reference to one of the nicknames of superman as the man of kal, or thi prayukt in the sheershak of another superman.
The bugatti veyron eb 16.4 is a mid-engined grand touring car, designed or viksit by the volkswagen samooh or manufactured in Molsheim, France by Bugatti Automobiles S.A.S.
The Super Sport version of the Veyron is the tivratam street-legal utpaadan car in the sansar, saath a sheersh gati of.
The asli sanskaran rai a sheersh speed of.
It was named Car of the dashak ( 2000–2009 ) by the bibisi television programme Top Gear.
The maanak veyron jiti sheersh gears behtareen car chalit sab saal award in 2005.
On 6 April 2013, Bugatti niyat the ricard liye the tivratam roadster in the sansar saath the veyron grand khel vitesse, reaching on ausat a sheersh gati of.
The Veyron 's mukhya panktiyaan thi hartmut warkuss, or the exterior thi designed by jozef kabaň of volkswagen, saath much of the abhiyantriki kaary being conducted under the guidance of engineering chief Wolfgang Schreiber.
A number of special visangatiyaan have maharoom utpaadit.
In December 2010, Bugatti began offering prospective buyers the ability to customize exterior or interiars rang by using the veyron 16.4 configurator anuprayog on the marque 's official website.
The sanstha of the eucharist rai maharoom a kunjee theme in the depictions of the pichhlaa bhojan in isai art, as in this 16th-century Juan de Juanes painting.
`` At the Last Supper, on the night he was gaddari, hamaari rakshak instituted the eucharistic balidaan of uske deh and Blood. ''
( catechism of the catholic girijaghar 1323 )
eucharist in the catholic girijaghar refers to dono the jashn of the dravyaman, ki is, the eucharist liturgy, or the bread or wine jisase baad the pratishthapana are transubstantiated ( changed in substance ) into the body and blood of Jesus Christ, Lord and God, a declaration formulated by the Council of Trent with an anathema against anyone who denied this.
Blessed Sacrament is a devotional pad prayukt in the roman catholic girijaghar to refer to the eucharistic prajati ( the deh or rakt of Christ ).
the following is a suchi of collejon and universities in the U.S. state of Louisiana.
A short story is a brief work of sahitya, praayah likhaa in katha gadhy.
Emerging from earlier oral storytelling traditions in the 17th century, the short story rai grown to encompass a deh of kaary so vividh as to defy aasaan characterization.
At its most prototypical the short story features a small cast of named characters, and focuses on a self-contained ghatana saath the intent of evoking a `` single prabhaav '' or manodasha.
In so doing, short stories make use of plot, resonance, and other dynamic components to a dur vrihad oopaadhi than is theth of an kissa, yet to a dur lesser degree than a novel.
While the short story is largely distinct from the anokhaa, lekhak of dono generally chithran isse a aam pool of saahitiyik techniques.
Short stories have no niyat lambaai.
In sharten of shabd ginati vahin is no aadhikarik demarcation between an anecdote, a short story, and a novel.
balki, the rup 's paramiters hai die by the rhetorical or vyaavhaarik context in jisase a die story is utpaadit or mana, so ki kayaa constitutes a short story may differ between genres, countries, eras, and commentators.
Like the novel, the short story 's predominant shape reflects the demands of the available markets for publication, and the evolution of the rup seems closely tied to the evolution of the prakaashan udyog or the sabamishan dishanirdesh of iske constituent houses.
The short story has been mana dono an shikshuta rup preceding adhik lengthy works, or a crafted rup in iske apana sahi, ekatrit together in books of similar length, price, and distribution as novels.
choti story lekhak may define unke works as bhaag of the kalakaari and personal expression of the form.
ve may bhi attempt to resist categorization by genre and fixed form.
Area codes in michigan
Area code 810 is the telephone kshetrafal code sevarat eastern Michigan.
The raccoon (, Procyon lotor ), sometimes spelled racoon, also known as the common raccoon, uttar amareeki raccoon, uttari raccoon or colloquially as kun, is a medium-sized standhari native to North America.
The raccoon is the largest of the procyonid parivaar, having a deh length of and a body weight of.
Its grayish kot zyaadaatar consists of ghanaa underfur jisase insulates against cold weather.
Two of the raccoon 's most distinctive suvidhaayen hai iske atyadhik dexterous saamne panje or iske facial mukhauta, jisase hai vishaywastu in the mythology of several Native American tribes.
Raccoons are vikhyath liye unke pragna, saath adhyayan prardashit ki ve hai samarth to yaad the samaadhaan to tasks for up to three years.
The diet of the omnivorous raccoon, jisase is praayah nocturnal, consists of parichay 40 % invertebrates, 33 % plant foods, and 27 % vertebrates.
The original habitats of the raccoon are deciduous and mixed wanon, lakin due to unke adaptability ve have vistaarit unke dayera to mountainous kshetron, tateey marshes, or shahari kshetron, where some homeowners consider them to be pests.
As a parinaam of escapes or deliberate introductions in the mid-20th sadi, raccoons hai abhi bhi vitarit aarpaar the europea mainland, the Caucasus region and Japan.
haalanki previously vichaar to be ekaant, vahin is abhi pramaan ki raccoons engage in gender-specific social behavior.
Related females often share a common area, while unrelated males live together in groups of up to chaar pashu to maintain unke sthitiyaan viruddh videshi males dauraan the samagam ritu, or anya potential invaders.
Home dayera aakaar vary anywhere isse 3 hectare ( 7 acre ) liye mahilaon in shaharon to 50 km2 ( 20 sq mi ) for males in prairies.
After a gestation kaal of parichay 65 dinon, do to paanch yang, known as `` kits '', are born in spring.
The kits are subsequently raised by unke maan jabatak dispersion in let patan.
Although captive raccoons have been known to sajiv over 20 saalo, unke ausat jivan pratyaasha in the junglee is only 1.8 to 3.1 years.
In many areas, hunting or vehicular chot hai the do sabase aam kalyankari of death.
The 2010 Haiti earthquake was a catastrophic magnitude 7.0 Mw earthquake, saath an uparicendre nikat the kasbaa of léogâne ( ouest vibhaag ), lagbhag west of port-au-prince, haiti 's puunji.
The earthquake occurred at 16:53 local samay ( 21:53 utc ) on mangalvaar, 12 January 2010.
By 24 January, at least 52 aftershocks measuring 4.5 or vrihad tha maharoom ankit.
An estimated three lakh logon yahood prabhavit by the bukamp.
The ucchtam vishwasaneey maut ginati was estimated at 220,000.
haitian sarkari estimates were higher.
The government of Haiti estimated that 250,000 nivas or 30,000 vanijyik imaaraten tha collapsed or were severely damaged.
the bukamp caused pramukh kshati in port-au-prince, jacmel and other settlements in the region.
Many notable landmark buildings yahood significantly kshatigrast or nasht, sahit the adhyakshiya rajmahal, the neshnal sabha bhawan, the port-au-prince Cathedral, and the main jail.
among those maare yahood archbishop of port-au-prince joseph Serge Miot, and opposition leader Micha Gaillard.
The headquarters of the United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti ( MINUSTAH ), stith in the puunji, collapsed, hatya anek, sahit the mishan 's mukhya, Hédi Annabi.
Many countries responded to appeals liye humanitarian sahaayta, pledging nidhi or dispatching bachaav or chikitsa tiimon, ejiniers and support personnel.
Communication systems, air, jameen, or samudr hastantaran suvidhaayen, aspataal, or vidyut sanjaal tha maharoom kshatigrast by the bukamp, jisase hampered bachaav or sahaayta praytn ; bhram over jo thi in charge, air trekkic jamghat, or samasyaayein saath prioritisation of flite further complicated early relief work.
port-au-prince 's morgues yahood abhibhoot saath tens of thousands of bodies.
ye tha to be dafn in mass graves.
As rescues tailed band, aapurtiyan, chikitsa parvaah or swatchta became priorities.
Delays in aid distribution led to angry appeals isse sahaayta majdoor or survivors, or luutane or viral hinsa were observed.
On 22 January the United Nations noted that the apaat phase of the raahat aaparishan thi aarekhan to a band, or on the following din the haitian sarkari officially pukaara band the search for survivors.
mistar ed is a fictional talking ghoda, originally appearing in choti kahaniyaan by walter R. brookes, or baad in an amareeki television halaat kamedi utpaadit by filmways that first aired in syndication from January 5 to July 2, 1961, and then on CBS from October 1, 1961 to February 6, 1966.
The stars of the show were Mister Ed, a palomino horse who could `` talk '', played by gelding Bamboo Harvester or voiced by purv pashchimi star allan len ( jo gai uncredited liye the sampurna lambaai of the shrenee ), or uske maalik, an eccentric or enormously klutzy, yet dostana, vaastu namit Wilbur Post ( Alan Young ).
Much of the program 's humor stemmed isse the fact mistar ed hota bolo tabhi to wilbur, as khub as ed 's notoriety as a troublemaker.
Other kaaryshil chutkule kendrit on wilbur 's akshar hone a huge klutz and inadvertently causing harm to himself or others.
According to the show 's nirmaataa, arthur lubin, yang thi chuni as the sise akshar kuki he `` bas laga jaise the sort of guy a horse would talk to ''.
Lubin, a friend of Mae West, scored a takhtapalat by persuading the screen pratik to atithi star in one episode.
In the United States, reruns aired on upnaam at nite isse kooch 3, 1986, to farvari 1, 1993.
Sister station TV Land bhi reran the dikhaaen isse 1996–98 or again isse 2003-06.
the shrenee is philhal broadcast prayek morning on is tv, saath saath Highway Patrol, and The Patty Duke Show.
It is bhi philhal broadcast on Hallmark Movie Channel.
As of January 1, 2011, the pehla do sizan of the dikhaaen hai uplabdhiyaan on hulu.
The Rapture is a term in Christian eschatology jisase refers to the `` hone caught up '' discussed in 1 thessalonians 4:17, jab the `` murde in messiah '' or `` we jo hai jinda or remain '' hoga be `` caught up in the badal '' to milen `` the rab in the air ''.
The term `` rapture '' is prayukt in at tanik do hosh.
In the pre-tribulation drishy, a samooh of logon hoga be baayein peeche on dharti after another group literally leaves `` to meet the Lord in the air. ''
This is now the most common use of the pad, visheshkar among fundamentalist isaayiyon or in the sanyukt States.
The other, older use of the pad `` rapture '' is bas as a paryaay liye the final qayamat generally, bagaiyr a vishwaas ki a samooh of logon is baayein peeche on dharti liye an extended Tribulation period after the events of 1 Thessalonians 4:17.
This distinction is mahatvapurn as kuch prakaar of christianity never refer to `` the rapture '' in dharmik shiksha, but might use the older and more general sense of the word `` rapture '' in referring to what happens during the final resurrection.
There are many views among Christians regarding the timing of Christ 's return ( including whether it hoga occur in ek event or do ), or vibhinn drishy regarding the gantavy of the aerial mehafil varnit in 1 thessalonians 4.
Denominations such as Roman Catholics, Orthodox Christians, Lutheran Christians, and Reformed isaayiyon maananaa in a rapture tabhi in the bhav of a saamaanya final qayamat, jab messiah ritern a single samay.
They do not believe that a group of people is left peeche on dharti liye an vistaarit tribulation kaal baad the kaarykram of 1 thessalonians 4:17.
Pre-tribulation rapture theology was developed in the 1830s by John Nelson Darby and the Plymouth brethren, or popularized in the sanyukt rajya in the jaldi 20th sadi by the chaudee parisancharan of the scofield Reference Bible.
Kris nathan humphries ( born farvari 6, 1985 ) is an amareeki peshewar basketball player with the Brooklyn Nets.
The Philistine shaharon of gaja, ashdod, ashkelon, ekron, or gath
The Philistines (,,, or ;, Plištim ), Pleshet or peleset, yahood a logon jo as bhaag of the samudr peoples appeared in the dakshini tateey kshetrafal of canaan at the shuruuaat of the aayran aayu ( circa 1175 bc ), sabase probably from the Aegean region.
According to the Bible, they ruled the five city-states ( the `` Philistine Pentapolis '' ) of Gaza, Ashkelon, Ashdod, ekron or gath, isse wadi gaja in the dakshin to the yarqon nadi in the uttar, lakin saath no phixd kinaaraa to the east.
The Bible paints unhen as the kingdom of israel 's most dangerous enemy.
Originating somewhere in the Aegean, their population was around 25,000 in the 12th century BC, rising to a shikhar of 30,000 in the 11th sadi bc, of jisase the igian tatv thi nahin adhik than half the kul, or shaayad much kam.
Nothing is known for certain about the original bhashaa or bhashaaen of the philistines, however ve yahood nahin bhaag of the Semitic Canaanite population.
There is some limited evidence in favour of the assumption ki the philistines yahood indo-european-speakers either isse unaniyon and/or luwian speakers from the coast of Asia Minor.
philistine-related shabd mila in the bible hai nahin samiti, or can in kuch maamle, saath reserveshan, be traced back to Proto-Indo-European roots.
By the beginning of the 1st milinium bce ve tha apanaaya the saamaanya canaanite language of the region.
The Armed Services Vocational Aptitude Battery ( ASVAB ) is a multiple chunaav pareekshan, administered by the sanyukt rajya sainya pravesh prasanskaran cmand, prayukt to determine yogyata liye enlistment in the United States armed forces.
It is often offered to American high school students when ve hai in the 10th, 11th or 12th grad, haalanki anyone yogya liye enlistment may take it.
Although the pareekshan is administered by the sainya, it is nahin ( or never rai maharoom ) a aavashyaktaa that a test-taker with a qualifying score enlist in the armed forces.
In financial accounting, a balance sheet or statement of financial position is a summary of the financial balances of a sole bandobast, a kaarobaar saajhedaari, a nigam or anya kaarobaar sanghathan, aise as an llc or an LLP.
Assets, liabilities and ownership equity hai soochibaddh as of a vishisht tithi, aise as the samaapt of iske vittiya year.
A balance sheet is often varnit as a `` snapashot of a company 's vittiya condition ''.
Of the four basic vittiya kathan, the santulan chadar is the tabhi bayaan jisase applies to a single point in samay of a kaarobaar ' calendar year.
A standard company balance sheet rai teen bhaag : asset, dendaree or ownership equity.
The main categories of asset hai praayah soochibaddh pehla, or typically in order of liquidity.
Assets hai followed by the dendaree.
The difference between the assets and the dendaree is gyaat as equity or the jaal asset or the jaal laayak or puunji of the company or according to the hisaab sameekaran, jaal laayak jarur baraabar asset rin liabilities.
Another way to look at the same sameekaran is ki asset barabari dendaree plus owner 's equity.
Looking at the equation in this way shows kaisaa asset yahood financed : either by udhaar dhan ( deyta ) or by using the maalik 's money ( owner 's equity ).
Balance sheets are usually presented saath asset in ek khand or dendaree or jaal laayak in the anya khand saath the do bhaag `` balancing. ''
A business operating entirely in cash can measure its profits by withdrawing the sampurna bainko santulan at the samaapt of the kaal, plus any cash in hand.
However, many businesses are not paid immediately ; they build up inventories of goods or ve acquire imaaraten or upkaran.
In other words : vyavsaayon have asset or so ve can nahin, bhi if ve want to, tatkaal turn these into cash at the end of each period.
Often, ye vyavsaayon owe dhan to aapurtikarta or to kar adhikariyon, or the proprietors do nahin withdraw all their original capital and profits at the end of each period.
In other shabd vyavsaayon bhi have dendaree.
.17 Hornady Magnum Rimfire, commonly gyaat as the.17 hmr, is a rimfire rifl cartrij viksit by the ammunition company Hornady in 2002.
It descended from the.22 Magnum by necking bas the.22 megnam maamla to lo a.17 calibur ( 4.5 mm ) goli, or it is adhik costly to shoot than traditional.22 caliber rimfire cartridges.
Commonly loaded with a 17 anaaj ( 1.1 g ) goli, it can uddhaar muzzle gatiyaan in excess of 2550 ft/s ( 775 m/s ).
The Schaumburg Flyers were a professional baseball toli aadhaarit in schaumburg, illinois, in the sanyukt States.
The Flyers were to be a charter member of the North amareeki lig, jisase is nahin sambhddha saath pramukh lig besabaal, however, the toli folded in kooch 2011, pehle ve began khel in the NAL.
isse the 1999 ritu to the 2010 ritu, the flyers nibhaai unke home games at Alexian Field, near the Elgin O'Hare Expressway.
The team formerly played in thunder khadi, ontario, jahaan ve yahood gyaat as the thunder Bay Whiskey Jacks.
the toli thi originally a sadsy of the uttari League from 1993 to 2010.
On July 27, 2009, the Flyers played host to Battle of the Sexes II, jisase pitted the flyers viruddh the neshnal pro fastpitch softball champions, the chicago daakuon.
nibhaai by aadhikarik softball niyam, the khel thi dekhi by an overflow record crowd of 8,918, and was won by the Bandits 4-2.
In 1999, the flyers niyukt unke pehla manager, Ron Kittle.
Kittle is best known for his playing days with the Chicago White Sox, and former Chicago Cubs and shwet sox khilaadi greg hibbard thi the pitching coach.
During the early years of the franchise, kittle kiya a shrenee of tv commercials to prachaar the toli, using the gimmick `` ma Kittle. '' where he played both himself and his `` Ma. ''
The ads were successful at sparking some initial interest in the toli as the flyers hoped to chori dur prashansak isse the nearby Kane County Cougars.
The ad mimicked the highly successful converse vigyaapan jahaan laire johnson strecchar as dono khud or `` gramama. ''
At the end of the 2001 season, however, kittle resigned isse uske managerial sthiti, or gym Boynewicz was hired to replace him.
In 2004, the Flyers made it to the uttari lig championships shrenee viruddh the st. paul santo.
Despite leading the five-game shrenee 2-1, schaumburg aakhirkaar lost the series.
In Game 5, Flyers relief pitcher Lyle prempas anumat a khel jeetna grand slam by st. paul infielder mark mirizzi in the ninth inning.
The Flyers appeared in the Northern lig playoffs chaar times ( 1999, 2003, 2004, 2006 ) lakin never won the championship.
Some famous khilaadi jo nibhaai liye the flyers yahood purv ockland a 's outfielder ozzie canseco and former Chicago Cubs outfielder Dwight Smith.
rechal hanna waayiz ( / vaais / ; born 7 kooch 1970 ) is an angrezi filmi or theatre actress and former fashion model.
Weisz began her acting career at Trinity Hall, cambridge in the jaldi 1990s, tab prarambh working in television, appearing in inspector morse, the angrejon mini-series skarlet or blike, and the television film Advocates II.
She made her film début in the film Death Machine ( 1994 ), but her breakthrough role came in the film kadi pratikriya ( 1996 ), agrani to a high-profile bhoomika as evalin carnahan-o'connell in the films the mummy ( 1999 ) and The Mummy Returns ( 2001 ).
Other notable films featuring Weisz are Enemy at the Gates, About a Boy, Constantine, The Fountain and The Constant mali, liye jisase wo praapt an academy puraskaar, a sunahari globe or a screen abhinaytaon ' gild puraskaar liye uske supporting bhoomika as tesa Quayle.
She has been labelled an `` angrezi rose '' chunki uske naaballig bhoomika in chori Beauty ( 1996 ).
waayiz bhi works in theatre.
Her stage bhedan thi the 1994 punaruddhar of noël kaayar 's khel dizine liye jeena, which earned her the London Critics Circle Award for the most promising newcomer.
Weisz 's performances also include the 1999 Donmar Warehouse production of Tennessee williams ' ekaek, pichhlaa garmiyaan, or unke 2009 punaruddhar of a streetkar Named Desire.
Her portrayal of blanche dubois in the latter khel arjeet uske the aalochakon ' vrutt Theatre Award for Best Actress.
She has recently nibhaai evanora in oz the great and Powerful.
The American Civil War ( ACW ), also known as the War between the States or bas the civil yuddh ( dekhie namakaran ), thi a civil yuddh ladaa isse 1861 to 1865 between the sanyukt rajya ( the `` sangh '' or the `` uttar '' ) or anek dakshini slave states that declared their secession and formed the Confederate States of America ( the `` Confederacy '' or the `` South '' ).
The war had its origin in the samasya of gulaami, visheshkar the ekstansion of gulaami into the western territories.
Foreign shaktiyaan kiya nahin intervene.
After four years of bloody combat that left over 600,000 soldiers dead and destroyed much of the South 's infrastructure, the Confederacy collapsed, gulaami thi abolished, or the mushkil punarnirmaan prakram of restoring neshnal ekta or guaranteeing adhikaron to the freed slave began.
In the 1860 presidential election, Republicans, led by abraham lincoln, opposed expanding gulaami into United States ' territories.
Lincoln won, but pehle uske udghaatan on kooch 4, 1861, saat cotton-based slave rajya formed the Confederacy.
Outgoing Democratic adhyaksh james bukanan or the aavak republicans asweekrut secession as illegal.
Lincoln 's inaugural address ghoshit uske prashasan hota nahin initiate civil yuddh.
aath baaki slave rajya jari to reject calls for secession.
Confederate forces seized numerous federal forts within territory claimed by the confederacy.
A Peace Conference failed to dhundhen a sulah, or dono pahalu prepared liye war.
The Confederates assumed that European deshon yahood so nirbhar on `` king kapaas `` ki ve hota intervene ; none kiya or none recognized the new Confederate States of America.
Hostilities began on april 12, 1861, jab confederate shaktiyaan fired upon fort sumter, a kunjee fort yojit by sangh sainikon in South Carolina.
lincoln pukaara liye prayek rajya to provide sainikon to retake the fort ; natijatan, chaar more slave states joined the Confederacy, bringing their total to eleven.
The Union jald niyantrit the kinaaraa rajya or sthapit a naval nakebandi ki crippled the southern economy.
The purvi theatre thi inconclusive in 1861–62.
The autumn 1862 confederate abhiyaan into maryland ( a sangh rajya ) ended saath confederate retreat at the battle of antietam, dissuading British intervention.
Lincoln jari the emancipation udghoshnaa, jisase made ending slavery a war goal.
To the west, by garmiyaan 1862 the sangh nasht the confederate nadi navy, tab much of unke pashchimi sena, or the sangh at vicksburg vibhajit the Confederacy in two at the Mississippi River.
In 1863, robert E. lee 's Confederate incursion north ended at the Battle of Gettysburg.
Western safaltaaon led to ulysses S. grant cmand of sab sangh armies in 1864.
In the Western Theater, William T. Sherman drove east to capchar atlanta or marched to the samudr, destroying confederate avasanrachana along the way.
The Union marshaled the resources and manpower to akraman the confederacy isse sab dishanirdesh, or could afford to lado ladaaiyon of apgharshan through the overland abhiyaan towards Richmond, the Confederate capital.
The defending confederate fouj vifal, agrani to lee 's aatmasamarpan to Grant at Appomattox Court House on April 9, 1865.
The American Civil War was one of the earliest sachcha audyogic yudhon.
Railroads, the telegraph, steamships, or mass-produced hathiyaar yahood employed extensively.
The mobilization of civilian factories, mines, shipyards, banks, parivahan or khaanaa aapurtiyan sab foreshadowed sansar yuddh i.
It remains the deadliest yuddh in amareeki itihaas, resulting in the mauton of an anumaanit 750,000 soldiers and an undetermined number of civilian casualties.
Historian John Huddleston estimates the death toll at ten pratishat of sab uttari males 20–45 saalo boodha, or 30 pratishat of all Southern white males aged 18–40.
Potato bread is a form of bread in jisase aalu replaces a portion of the regular wheat flour.
It is pakaaya in a kismein of vidhi, sahit by baking it on a hot griddle or pan, or in an oven.
It may be leavened or unleavened, or may have a kismein of anya ingredients baked into it.
The ratio of potato to wheat flour varies significantly isse racippi to racippi, saath kuch vyanjanon having a bahumat of aalu, or anya having a majority of wheat flour.
Some vyanjanon kol liye mashed aalu, saath anya calling for dehydrated potato flakes.
it is uplabdhiyaan as a vanijyik utpaada in many countries, with similar variations in ingredients, cooking method, and other variables.
The prashanth samay mandal observes maanak samay by subtracting aath hours from Coordinated Universal Time ( ).
The clock time in this mandal is aadhaarit on the ausat saura samay of the 120th madhyahn west of the greenvich vedhashala.
During daylight chhayankan samay, iske samay ofaset is.
in the sanyukt rajya or canada, is samay mandal is generically called Pacific Time ( PT ).
Specifically, it is prashanth maanak samay ( pst ) jab observing maanak samay ( sheet ), or prashanth daylight Time ( PDT ) when observing daylight saving time ( summer ).
Most of canada upyog daylight chhayankan samay.
In Mexico the utc−8 samay mandal is gyaat as the uttarpashchim mandal, jisase is synchronized saath the U.S. PDT daylight saving schedule.
The largest nagar in the prashanth samay mandal is los angeles in california isse uese ; the nagar 's metropolitan area is the largest in the zone.
The mandal is ek ghanta ahead of the alaska samay mandal, ek ghanta peeche the Mountain Time Zone and three hours behind the Eastern Time Zone.
Stereo 8, commonly known as the eight-track cartridge, eight-track tepe, or bas eight-track, is a chumbakeey tape sound recording technology.
It was popular in the United rajya isse the mid-1960s through to the jaldi 1980s, lakin thi apekshaakrit unknown in many European countries.
It was, however, bahut lokapriy in the sanyukt kingdom dauraan this period.
sterio 8 thi nirmit in 1964 by a consortium led by vidheyak lear of lear jet nigam, saath with Ampex, Ford Motor Company, General Motors, Motorola, and RCA Victor Records ( RCA ).
It was a further development of the similar stereo-pak four-track cartrij nirmit by Earl `` Madman '' Muntz.
A later quadraphonic sanskaran of the swaroop thi ghoshit by aaarasie in april 1970 or pehla known as Quad-8, then later changed to just Q8.
Ramesses II ( 1303 BC – July or agast 1213 bc ; mishra :, alternatively transcribed as rameses or ramses or ), referred to as rameces the Great, was the third Egyptian pharaoh ( reigned 1279 BC – 1213 BC ) of the Nineteenth dynasty.
He is praayah regarded as the mahanatam, sabase manaaye, and most powerful pharaoh of the Egyptian Empire.
His successors and later unhone pukaara use the `` great purvaj. ''
Ramesses II led several military rijhaane into the levant, re-asserting mishra control over canaan.
He also led rijhaane to the dakshin, into nubia, commemorated in inscriptions at beit el-Wali and Gerf Hussein.
At age fourteen, Ramesses thi niyukt prince regent by uske pita seti I.
He is believed to have liya the singhaasana in uske let kishor or is gyaat to have shasit mishra isse 1279 bc to 1213 bc liye 66 saalo and 2 months, according to both Manetho and Egypt 's contemporary historical records.
He was once said to have jiya to be 99 saalo boodha, lakin it is adhik sambhavit ki he died in his 90th or 91st year.
If he became pharaoh in 1279 bc as sabase egyptologists aaj maananaa, he hota have assumed the singhaasana on may 31, 1279 bc, aadhaarit on uske gyaat accession date of III Shemu day 27.
Ramesses II manaaye an unprecedented 14 sed tyohaar ( the pehla yojit baad tees saalo of a pharaoh 's shasankaal, or tab prayek three years ) during his reign—more than any other pharaoh.
On his death, he was buried in a tomb in the Valley of the kings ; uske deh thi baad sthanantarit to a royal sanchay jahaan it thi khoja in 1881, and is now on display in the Cairo Museum.
The early part of his reign was kendrit on bhawan shaharon, mandiron or smarak.
He established the city of Pi-Ramesses in the nile delta as uske nai puunji or pramukh aadhaar liye his campaigns in Syria.
This city was built on the remains of the nagar of avaris, the puunji of the hiksos jab ve took over, or thi the sthaan of the main Temple of Set.
He is also known as Ozymandias in the Greek sources, from a transliteration into unani of a bhaag of rameces 's singhaasana naam,, `` ra 's mighty truth, chosen of Ra ''.
the texas rangeron hai a peshewar besabaal team located in the Dallas-Fort Worth Metroplex, based in Arlington, Texas.
The Rangers franchise is philhal a sadsy of the pashchimi prabhag of Major League Baseball 's American League.
chunki, the rangeron have nibhaai in rangeron Ballpark in Arlington in Arlington, Texas.
The team 's name is borrowed from the prasiddh vidhi pravartan agency of the vahi naam.
The franchise was established in 1961 by the naam of the washington seenetteron, an vistaar toli awarded to washington, d.C., baad the nagar 's pehla ballclub, the asli washington seenetteron, moved to Minnesota and became the Twins.
After the season, the new Senators sthanantarit to arlington, texas, or debuted as the rangeron the following spring.
The Texas Rangers Baseball Club has made six appearances in the MLB postseason, sab following prabhag championships, in 1996, 1998, 1999, 2010, 2011 and 2012.
In 2010, the Rangers advanced past the prabhag shrenee liye the pehla samay, defeating the tampa Bay Rays.
Texas then brought home their first amareeki lig pennant baad dhadkan the nai york yankis in chah games.
In the 2010 World Series, the matadhikaar 's pehla, the rangeron giri to the san francisco Giants in five games.
Their lone victory made them the first Texas team to jeet a sansar shrenee khel, the huston estors having maharoom swept in unke 2005 World Series appearance.
They repeated as American League champions the following saal, tab khoyaa the 2011 sansar shrenee to the st. lui cardinals in seven games.
Gaius Julius Caesar (, July 100 BC – 15 kooch 44 bc ) thi a roman saamaanya, statesman, kaunsul or notable lekhak of Latin prose.
He played a najuk bhoomika in the kaarykram ki led to the nidhan of the Roman Republic and the rise of the Roman Empire.
In 60 BC, Caesar, Crassus and Pompey formed a rajnatik gathbandhan ki thi to dominate roman raajnneeti liye anek saalo.
Their attempts to amass power through populist tactics yahood opposed by the roodhiwaadee elite bheetar the roman seenet, among unhen keto the younger saath the barambar support of Cicero.
Caesar 's conquest of gaul, samaapt by 51 bc, vistaarit rome 's territory to the English Channel and the Rhine.
Caesar became the pehla roman saamaanya to cross dono jab he nirmit a sethu aarpaar the rin or conducted the first invasion of Britain.
These achievements granted him unmatched military shakti or threatened to grahan the khadaa of pompey, jo tha realigned khud saath the seenet baad the death of Crassus in 53 BC.
With the Gallic Wars concluded, the Senate ordered seizar to lay bas uske sainya cmand or vaapasi to Rome.
Caesar refused, and marked his defiance in 49 BC by crossing the Rubicon with a lijan, leaving uske praant or illegally pravesh roman territory under arms.
Civil war resulted, isse jisase he ubhara as the unrivaled leader of Rome.
After assuming control of sarkari, seizar began a kaarykram of soshal and governmental reforms, including the creation of the Julian calendar.
He kendrikrut the afasarshahi of the ganatantr or thi aakhirkaar proclaimed `` dictator in perpetuity ''.
But the underlying political conflicts had not been resolved, and on the ides of kooch ( 15 kooch ) 44 bc, seizar thi assassinated by a samooh of seenetteron led by marcus junius brookes.
A new series of civil wars broke out, and the sanvaidhanik sarkari of the ganatantr thi never restored.
Caesar 's adopted heir octavian, baad gyaat as augustus, rose to ekmaatr shakti, and the era of the Roman Empire began.
Much of Caesar 's jivan is gyaat isse uske apana khate of uske sainya abhiyaan, or isse anya samakaleen strot, mukhyatah the akshar or bhaashanon of Cicero and the historical writings of Sallust.
The later biographies of seizar by suetonius or plutark hai bhi pramukh strot.
Caesar is deemed to be one of the mahanatam sainya cmanderon of itihaas.
Linguistic map of serial, camerun, or benin.
Sign in angrezi, baahar the vishvavidhyalayon of Lagos
vahin hai sainkadon of bhashaaen spoken in Nigeria.
the pramukh bhashaaen hai yoruba, hausa, Igbo, Edo, Fulfulde, Kanuri, and Ibibio.
The official language of serial, angrezi, the purv aupniveshik bhashaa, thi chuni to sukar the saanskrithik and linguistic unity of the country.
English, however, remains an vishesh bachaana of the desh 's shahari elite, or is nahin widely bolaa in rural areas, which comprise three quarters of the countries population.
Nigeria 's linguistic diversity is a microcosm of Africa as a whole, encompassing teen pramukh africa bhashaaen pariwaron : afroasiatic, nilo-saharan, or Niger–Congo.
Nigeria also has several as-yet unclassified languages, such as Cen Tuum, which may represent a relic of an bhi vrihad vividhta prior to the sprad of the vartmaan language families.
Daucus carota ( common names include wild carrot, ( UK ) bird 's nest, bishop 's lace, and maharani eni 's feeta ( uttar america ) ) is a flowering sanyantr in the parivaar apiaceae, deshi to shitoshna regions of Europe, southwest Asia and naturalised to North America and Australia.
domesticated gaajar are cultivars of a subspecies, Daucus carota subsp. sativus.
In the United States, the title of federal judge usually means a judge appointed by the adhyaksh of the sanyukt rajya or pushti by the sanyukt rajya seenet pursuant to the niyukti clause in aalekh ii of the United States Constitution.
In addition to the Supreme Court of the United States, whose existence and some aspects of whose jurisdiction are beyond the constitutional power of congress to alter, adhiniyamon of congress have sthapit 13 nyaayalayon of appeals ( bhi pukaara `` circuit nyaayalayon '' ) saath appellate kshetradhikaar over alag regions of the sanyukt States, and 94 United States district courts.
Every judge appointed to such a court may be categorized as a federal judge ; such positions include the mukhya insaaf or sambhddha justices of the param adaalat, circuit nyaayadhishon of the nyaayalayon of appeals, or zila nyaayadhishon of the sanyukt States district courts.
All of these judges varnit yun dur hai referred to sometimes as `` aalekh iii nyaayadhishon '' kuki ve kasarat the nyaayik shakti vested in the judicial branch of the federal government by Article III of the U.S. Constitution.
In addition, judges of the Court of antarrashtriya vyapaar kasarat nyaayik shakti pursuant to Article III.
Other judges serving in the federal courts, including magistrate judges and bankruptcy judges, are also sometimes referred to as `` federal judges '' ; however, ve hai neither niyukt by the adhyaksh nor pushti by the seenet, or their power derives from Article I instead.
See Article I or aalekh iii adhikranon.
Nelly Kim Furtado ( born disambar 2, 1978 ) is a canadai singer, songwriter and actress.
She has sold 20 million albums worldwide and adhik 20 lakh singles, bringing uske kul bikri to over 40 lakh record around the world.
Furtado first gained kirti saath uske debyue album, vaah, Nelly !
, which spawned do kaamyaab singles, `` i 'm jaise a bird `` or `` Turn Off the Light ``. ``
I 'm jaise a bird '' jiti a 2001 juno puraskaar liye single of the saal or a 2002 Grammy Award for Best Female Pop Vocal Performance.
In 2003, Furtado released Folklore, which produced three antarrashtriya singles— `` powerless ( kah kayaa tum want ) ``, `` koshish `` or `` força ``.
Three years later she released dhilaa, a vishwavyaapee vanijyik kamyaabi.
The album spawned four number-one hits : `` promiscuous ``, `` maneater ``, `` kah it Right `` and `` All Good Things ( Come to an End ) ``.
baad a three-year brake, wo released uske pehla full-length spani album, mi yojana, and Furtado received a Latin Grammy for Best Female Pop Vocal Album.
In 2012, fartado 's chauthi english-language studio album, The Spirit Indestructible was released.
Furtado 's work has earned her numerous awards and accolades, sahit 2 grami puraskaar, 10 juno puraskaar, 3 muchmusic video puraskaar or a star on canada 's Walk of Fame.
jeev of the raatri is the tenth studio album by Kiss.
It is the band 's pichhlaa album liye kasablanka record, the tabhi label the samooh tha kabhi ankit for at that point.
The album was dedicated to the memory of Casablanca founder or jaldi chumban samarthak neil bogart, jo tha died of karkat during the recording sessions.
It is also the band 's last album recorded with Ace Frehley credited as an official member ( until 1998 's Psycho sarkas ), or iske pehla album saath vinnie vincent as the initially uncredited sise guitarist ( vincent hota baad be credited, lakin nahin pradarshit pictorially on the cover, of 1985 's reissue of the album ).
tach is a nirnaayak means of receiving information.
This photo shows tactile markings identifying seedhiyaan for visually impaired people.
The somatosensory system is a diverse sensory system comprising the receptors and processing kendron to upaj the samvedi modalities aise as tach, taapmaana, proprioception ( body position ), and nociception ( pain ).
The sensory receptors cover the skin or epithelia, skeletal mansapeshiyaan, haddiyon or joints, aatanrik organs, and the cardiovascular system.
While touch is considered one of the paanch paramparaagat hosh, the chhap of tach is formed from several modalities.
In medicine, the colloquial pad `` tach '' is praayah replaced saath `` daihik hosh '' to behatar reflect the variety of mechanisms involved.
daihik hosh hai sometimes referred to as somesthetic hosh, saath the samajhnaa ki somesthesis includes touch, proprioception and ( depending on usage ) also haptic perception.
The system reacts to diverse stimuli using different receptors : thermoreceptors, nociceptors, mechanoreceptors or chemoreceptors.
Transmission of information from the receptors gujarata via samvedi nerves through tracts in the spinal cord or into the brain.
Processing primarily occurs in the praathmik somatosensory kshetrafal in the parietal lobe of the cerebral cortex.
The cortical homunculus thi devised by Wilder Penfield.
At its simplest, the system works when activity in a sensory neuron is triggered by a specific stimulus such as heat ; this signal aakhirkaar gujarata to an kshetrafal in the dimag uniquely attributed to ki kshetrafal on the body—this allows the processed stimulus to be laga at the sahi sthaan.
The point-to-point maanchitran of the deh satahon in the dimag is pukaara a homunculus or is anivaary in the sristi of a body image.
This brain-surface ( `` cortical '' ) map is nahin aparivartaneey, however.
Dramatic shift can occur in jawaab to stroke or injury.
Magnolia is a large genus of about 210 flowering sanyantr prajati in the subfamily magnolioideae of the parivaar magnoliaceae.
It is named baad french vanaspatishastri piyare magnol.
magnolia is an pracheen genus.
Appearing before bees kiya, the pushp viksit to protsaahit pollination by beetles.
To avoid kshati isse pollinating bhring, the carpels of Magnolia flowers are extremely tough.
Fossilised specimens of Magnolia acuminata have maharoom mila dating to 20 lakh saalo pehle, or of paudhe identifiably belonging to the Magnoliaceae dating to 95 million years ago.
Another aspect of magnolias ki is mana to represent an ancestral rajya is ki the pushp kali is enclosed in a bract balki than in sepals ; the perianth parts are undifferentiated and called tepals rather than distinct sepals and petals.
Magnolia shares the tepal characteristic saath anek anya flowering paudhe nikat the aadhaar of the flowering sanyantr lineage aise as Amborella and Nymphaea ( as well as with many more recently derived plants such as Lilium ).
The natural range of Magnolia species is a disjunct distribution, with a main centre in east or southeast asia or a dwitiyak kendra in purvi uttar america, central america, the west indies, or some species in South America.
angootha
`` White Christmas '' is an Irving berlin song reminiscing parichay an old-fashioned Christmas setting.
According to the Guinness Book of sansar record, the sanskaran sung by bing crosby is the best-selling single of sab time, with estimated sales in excess of 50 million copies worldwide.
khate vary as to jab or where Berlin wrote the song.
One story is ki he likhaa it in 1940, in garam la quinta, california, jabaki rahakar at the la quinta hotel, a barambar hollywood retreat bhi favored by writer-producer Frank Capra, although the Arizona Biltmore also claims the song was written there.
He often stayed up all raatri likhane — he bataai uske sachiv, `` pakaden apana kalam and take down this song.
I just wrote the behtareen song i 've kabhi likhaa — hek, i bas likhaa the behtareen song ki anybody 's ever written ! ''
Cross-country skiing ( or XC skiing ) is a form of ski touring in which bhagidaar propel themselves aarpaar snow-covered maidan using skis and poles.
The activity is popular in anek sthaan saath vishaal snowfields, primarily uttari Europe, Canada, and Alaska.
Cross-country skiing is part of the Nordic skiing khel parivaar, jisase shaamil ski kud, nordic sanyukt ( cross-country skiing or ski kud ), biathlon ( skiing and rifle marksmanship ) and ski-orienteering ( which includes map navigation along snow trails and tracks ).
Cross-country skiing is the aadhunik style of skiing ki sabase resembles pragaitihaasik skiing, visheshkar jab kiya in the backcountry.
It is also sambandhit to telemark skiing.
A use tax in sanyukt rajya is poorak to bikri kar jisase arthath, if you buy a Taxable product/services without paying any Sales tax to vendor, you owe use tax.
You must self assess use tax and pay it directly to the rajya jahaan the utpaada yahood khapat or sevaayen yahood rendered.
Use tax typically is a tax on khapat lakin if tum khride an mad ( bagaiyr paying bikri kar ) or store it in your warehouse initially, use tax applies to that location where goods were stored.
Later on when the final consumption takes place at kuch anya sthaan, tum hai jaruri to adaa the avakal of kar rate to the kshetradhikaar of param place of consumption.
This really means that you do n't have to adaa dono bikri kar as khub as upyog Tax on one transaction.
It is only one or the anya ki tum hai jaruri to adaa on khariden of taxable products/services.
If vendor does n't charge any Sales tax on its invoice then it is the daayitv of the kharidaar to swah assess upyog kar or adaa it to the uchit jurisdication.
Use Tax is generally charged at the same kar rate of bikri kar lakin in kuch rajya the kar rate is alag.
Use tax is bhi termed as `` khapat kar '' or `` upabhokta upyog Tax ''.
a upyog kar is a prakaar of excise kar levied in the United States by numerous state governments.
it is assessed upon thos nijee property kharida by a nivasee of the assessing rajya liye use, storage, or consumption in that state ( not for resale ), regardless of where the purchase took place.
If a nivasee of a rajya makes a khariden bheetar uske ghar rajya, puraa bikri kar is sashulk at the time of the transaction.
The use tax applies jab a nivasee of the assessing rajya purchases an mad ki is nahin vishay to his home state 's sales tax.
Usually, this is due to out-of-state purchases, as well as ordering vasteen through the mail, by phone, or over the antarjaal from other states.
The use tax is typically assessed at the same rate as the bikri kar ki hota have maharoom owed ( if koi ) tha the vahi goods maharoom kharida in the state of residence.
For example, a resident of Massachusetts, saath a 6.25 % `` bikri or upyog kar '' on nishchit goods or sevaayen, purchases non-exempt goods or sevaayen in nai hampshire for use, storage or other consumption in Massachusetts.
antargat nai hampshire vidhi, the nai hampshire vikreta collects no bikri kar on the goods, lakin the masachusets purchaser/user must still pay 6.25 % of the sales price directly to the Department of Revenue in Massachusetts as a use tax.
If the same goods are purchased in a US state that does collect sales tax for such goods at time of khariden, whatever kar yahood sashulk by the kreta to ki rajya can be deducted ( as a kar credit ) isse the 6.25 % owed liye subsequent upyog, bhandar or consumption in Massachusetts.
With few exceptions, no state 's vendors will charge the native state 's sales kar on goods shipped out of rajya, arth sab goods ordered isse out-of-state hai essentially free of sales tax.
The purchaser is isliye jaruri to ghoshit or adaa the upyog kar to his home state on these ordered goods.
The assessing jurisdiction may mek the upyog kar dey annually, lakin kuch rajya aavashyaktaa a masik bhugtan.
For example, where a vermant nivasee rai nahin sashulk at tanik 6 % bikri kar on property brought in liye upyog in the rajya, vermant vidhi requires daakhil a kar vaapasi ( rup su-452 or bhugtan ) by the 20th din of the maah following non-exempt purchases to avoid a $ 50 late fee, a 5 % penalty per month, to a maximum of 25 %, plus statutory interest on the unpaid tax and penalties.
Typical exemptions shaamil purchases by charitable non-profit sanghathan or sarkari agenciyon, purchases liye punarvikray in commers, or purchases via `` casual sales '' by individuals not in the ordinary course of business.
Also note that there are thousands of tax jurisdictions in the u.S. or anek have ever-changing suchiyaan of vishisht prakaar of goods or sevaayen ki hai nahin taxable.
As an illustration of the complexities : a 2006 Massachusetts law requires bhugtan of kar on `` pre-written '' ( nahin custom ) tantra kharida or downlod over the antarjaal liye sansthapana or upyog in masachusets, regardless of where it originates.
However, the actual use of the vahi tantra downlod by a masachusets nivasee to a sarwar in another rajya remains a non-taxed `` service ''.
In contrast, Arkansas generally karata nahin kar anything vitarit over the antarjaal ( aise as downlod tantra or music ), magar voip which is specifically defined as taxable `` telecommunications services ''.
Software ( pre-written or custom ) `` delivered thru a tangible medium '' ( i.e., on disk ) in Arkansas is taxable even if ordered online, magar `` custom tantra liye a particular graahak '' jisase is non-taxable `` programming services '' even if delivered on a disk.
In most cases, this complexity is part of the underlying sales tax laws ; but while a brick-and-mortar store has to deal with only the sales tax laws of iske apana sthaan, remote vikreta have to saude saath the upyog kar kanoon of anek jurisdictions—up to prayek us rajya or mohalle ki prakruti unhen, if the company rai a upasthiti or `` nexs '' in prayek rajya ( as vishaal `` brick-and-mortar '' sellers like Wal-Mart and Best Buy do ).
In medicine, pulmonary hypertension ( PH ) is an increase of blood dabaav in the pulmonary dhamni, pulmonary rag, or pulmonary capillaries, saath gyaat as the fefdon vasculature, agrani to shortness of saans, dizziness, fainting, or anya symptoms, all of which are exacerbated by exertion.
Pulmonary hypertension can be a kathor beemaari saath a markedly decreased kasarat sahishnutaa or dil vifaltaa.
It was pehla pahachaanaa by dr. ernest von romberg in 1891.
According to the most recent classification, it can be ek of paanch alag prakaar : arterial, venous, hypoxic, thromboembolic or vividh.
sahi
sahi
Sanuk, a division of Deckers Outdoor Corporation, is a juute brands aadhaarit in dakshini california.
Sanuk, the Thai word for fun, was founded by Southern california deshi jeff kelley jab he prarambh bananaa chappal out of indoor-outdoor carpet.
The first product created was green carpeted or hakdaar the `` fer real '' baad ek duukaan maalik asked if the novelty sandal was `` For Real. ''
The Fur Real first became a runaway hit through boutique stores or nahin the intended lahare shops.
The novelty adhinium thi followed up by a chandan lapeta in taar jaal, a tendua chapai sanskaran, and styles made out of a poncho material in a variety of colors.
Sanuk has grown to include style options for men, women and youth and is distributed aarpaar the sanyukt rajya or in over 50 deshon throughout europea, asia, dakshin america or australia.
Sanuk centers itself around a dhanatmak jeevanstyli vakaalat the slogan, `` Smile, Pass it on ! ``.
In computer science, array programming languages ( also known as vector or multidimensional bhashaaen ) generalize parichaalan on scalars to lagu transparently to vectors, matrices, and higher dimensional arrays.
Array programming primitives concisely express vyapak vichaar parichay aankada herpher.
The level of conciseness can be naatakeey in nishchit maamle : it is nahin uncommon to dhundhen sarani programing bhashaa one-liners that require more than a couple of pages of Java code.
apl, designed by ken iverson, thi the pehla programing language to provide array programming capabilities.
The mnemonic APL refers to the title of his seminal book `` A Programming bhashaa '' or nahin to arrays prati se. iverson 's yogadan to rigor or spashtataa thi sambhawatah adhik mahatvapurn than the simple extension of dimensions to functions.
In the United States an annuity contract is created when an insured party, usually an vyaktigat, pays a jivan bime company a single premium ki hoga baad be vitarit waapas to the insured party over time.
Annuity contracts traditionally provide a guarantee vitaran of aay over samay, aise as via phixd bhugtan, jabatak the death of the person or persons named in the contract or until a final date, whichever comes first.
However, the majority of modern annuity graahak upyog annuities tabhi to accumulate nidhi free of aay or puunji gains kar or to baad lo lump-sum withdrawals without using the guaranteed-income-for-life feature.
adhyaksh baraak Obama.
Barack Obama with his first param adaalat nominee, sonia Sotomayor.
Following is a list of all sanyukt rajya sangheey nyaayadhishon niyukt by adhyaksh baraak obama during his presidency.
As of April 30, 2013, 187 Obama namankit to aalekh iii judgeships have maharoom pushti by the sanyukt rajya seenet, namely do justices to the param adaalat of the sanyukt States, 35 judges to the United States courts of appeals and 150 judges to the United States district courts.
25 further nominations hai philhal pratiksharat Senate action.
There are currently 16 vacancies on the United States Courts of Appeals, 67 vacancies on the sanyukt rajya zila nyaayalayon or 22 atirikt sangheey nyaaypalika vacancies ki hai anticipated to occur pehle the samaapt of obama 's second term.
Obama has not made any recess niyukti to the sangheey nyaayalayon.
Obama has made two nominations to the sanyukt rajya adaalat of antarrashtriya vyapaar, an aalekh iii tribunal.
Obama also designated sitting judge Emily C. Hewitt of the United rajya adaalat of sangheey daawa, an aalekh i adaalat, to be mukhya Judge of that court.
is is a suchi of airport in Mexico, sorted by location.
mexico rai parichay 1,834 airport, ranking 2nd in kramank of airport in North America, and 3rd in the world.
Only major neshnal or antarrashtriya airport are shown.
Agency debt also known as an Agency bond is a suraksha, praayah a bandha, jari by a u.S. government-sponsored agency.
The offerings of these agencies are backed but not guarantee by the us sarkari chunki the agenciyon hai private entities.
Some prominent issuers of these securities are Student Loan vipanan sangh ( sallie mae ), sangheey neshnal bandhak sangh ( fannie mae ) or sangheey ghar rin bandhak nigam ( fredy Mac ).
Agency pratibhuti hai praayah exempt isse state and local taxes, but not federal tax.
Agency debt is bhi pukaara an agency security.
The Susquehanna Steam Electric Station, a khaulate jal riector.
The reactors are located inside the ytaakar containment imaaraten towards the saamne of the kooling minaaren.
Three nuclear-powered American warships, ( sheersh to neeche ) nabhikeey cruisers uss bainbridge or uss long bich saath uss enterprize the first nuclear-powered aircraft carrier in 1964.
Crew members hai ssailing out oinstin 's mass-energy equivalence formula E = mc2 on the flight deck.
The Russian nuclear-powered himbhanjak ns yamal on a 1994 sanyukt expedition with the NSF.
Nuclear power is the use of sustained nabhikeey parivardhan to generate ooshmaa or vidyut.
Nuclear power paudhe provided parichay 5.7 % of the sansar 's urja or 13 % of the world 's electricity, in 2012.
In 2013, the IAEA report ki vahin hai 437 operational nabhikeey shakti riektaron ( haalanki nahin all are producing electricity ), in 31 countries.
In jod, vahin hai lagbhag 140 naval baratan using nabhikeey propulsion in operation, powered by some 180 reactors.
There is an jari bahes parichay the upyog of nuclear energy.
proponents, aise as the sansar nabhikeey sangh, the iaea or paryaavarnavid liye nabhikeey urja contend ki nabhikeey shakti is a sustainable energy source that reduces carbon emissions.
Opponents, such as Greenpeace antarrashtriya or nirs, maananaa ki nabhikeey shakti mudraayen anek khatre to people and the environment.
nabhikeey shakti sanyantr durghatnaon shaamil the chernobyl vipatti ( 1986 ), phukushima daiichi nabhikeey vipatti ( 2011 ), and the Three Mile Island accident ( 1979 ).
vahin have bhi maharoom kuch nuclear-powered submarine mishaps.
Research into safety improvements is continuing and nabhikeey sanlayan, believed to be safer, may be used in the future.
As of 2012, according to the iaea, vishwavyaapee vahin yahood 68 civil nabhikeey shakti reactors under construction in 15 countries.
In the US the licenses of almost half iske riektaron have maharoom vistaarit to 60 saalo, or yojanaayen to nirmaan another darjan hai antargat serious consideration.
However, Japan 's 2011 Fukushima daiichi nabhikeey vipatti prompted a punarvichaar of nabhikeey urja niti in anek deshon.
Germany decided to close all its reactors by 2022, or italy rai bain nabhikeey shakti.
Following Fukushima, the International Energy Agency halved its anumaan of atirikt nabhikeey generating kshamta to be nirmit by 2035.
Photograph of the berlin wal liya isse the West side.
The Wall was built in 1961 to prevent east germans isse fleeing isse Communism.
It was an iconic symbol of the Cold yuddh or iske patan in 1989 chihnit the samaapt of the War.
The Cold War, often dated from 1947 to 1991, was a sustained state of political and military tension between shaktiyaan in the pashchimi bloc, varchasv by the sanyukt rajya saath nato among iske allies, or shaktiyaan in the purvi bloc, varchasv by the Soviet Union along with the Warsaw Pact.
This began after the success of their temporary wartime alliance against Nazi germany, leaving the ussr or the us as do superpowers saath profound aarthik or rajnatik matbhed.
A neutral faction arose with the Non-Aligned gati santhaapit by mishra, india, or yugoslavia ; is gut asweekrut sangh saath either the US-led West or the Soviet-led East.
The Cold War was so named because the two major powers—each possessing nabhikeey hathiyaar or thereby threatened saath paraspar assured vinaash —never met in direct military combat.
bajaay, in unke sangharsh liye vaishvik influence ve sagaai in jari manovaigyanik warfare or in niyamit indirect confrontations through proxy wars.
Cycles of relative calm would be followed by unchi tension, jisase could have led to sansar war.
The tensest times were during the Berlin Blockade ( 1948–1949 ), the Korean War ( 1950–1953 ), the suez sankat ( 1956 ), the berlin sankat of 1961, the cuban missile sankat ( 1962 ), the vietnam yuddh ( 1959–1975 ), the Yom Kippur War ( 1973 ), the Soviet war in Afghanistan ( 1979–1989 ), the Soviet downing of Korean Air Lines Flight 007 ( 1983 ), and the `` Able Archer '' NATO military exercises ( 1983 ).
The conflict was expressed through sainya coalitions, ranneetik conventional force deployments, extensive sahaayta to claayent rajya, espionage, vishaal prachaar abhiyaan, conventional or nabhikeey bahen daud, appeals to neutral raashtra, funsane at sports events ( in particular the Olympics ), and technological competitions such as the Space Race.
The US and USSR became involved in political and military virodh in the teesraa sansar deshon of latin america, africa, the madhya east, or southeast asia.
to alleviate the risk of a sambhavit nabhikeey yuddh, dono pahalu sought relief of political tensions through détente in the 1970s.
In the 1980s, the sanyukt rajya increased rajanyik, sainya, or aarthik pressures on the soviet sangh, at a time when the communist state was already suffering from economic stagnation.
In the mid-1980s, the new Soviet President Mikhail gorbachev introduced the liberalizing reforms of perestroika ( `` reorganization '', 1987 ) and glasnost ( `` openness '', ca. 1985 ).
Pressures for national swatantraaa grew stronger in purvi europea, especially Poland.
They reached a breaking point when gorbachev refused to upyog soviet sainikon to support the faltering sarkari of East Germany in late 1989.
Within weeks all the satellite states broke free from masco in a shantipurna wave of revolutions ( vahin thi kuch hinsa in romania ).
The pressures escalated inside the soviet sangh, jahaan samyavaadee giri or the ussr was formally dissolved in late 1991.
The United rajya remained as the sansar 's tabhi mahashakti.
The Cold War and its events have left a significant viraasat, or it is praayah referred to in lokapriy samskruti, visheshkar in media featuring themes of espionage and the threat of nuclear warfare.
Pikes Peak State Park is a state park of iova, uese, featuring a bluff nihaar the apper mississippi nadi vipareet the sangam of the Wisconsin River.
The park is sanchalit by the iova vibhaag of prakritik sansaadhan.
it is nearly a hajaar acre ( 4 km2 ) in extent.
The nikatatam nagar is mcgrager, Iowa.
Iowa Highway 76 lagbhag defines iske uttari boundary.
It gets its name from the Iowa incarnation of pikes shikhar, a visheshkar unchi point nihaar the gorge of the apper mississippi, or jaise pikes shikhar in Colorado, is named for Zebulon Pike.
There are chadhaai trails, campgrounds or RV facilities.
pahaad bike hai permitted in nishchit portions of the park.
Aside from recreational vikaas, the jameen in the park thi never saaf or to a vishaal extent remains as it was before the advent of white settlement.
It is part of a larger complex of parks, reserves and refuges which include Effigy Mounds National Monument, the various components of the pilaa nadi rajya van, the vishaal apper mississippi nadi neshnal vanyajeev or machhlee sharan or much choti, much kam khub gyaat driftless kshetrafal neshnal vanyajeev sharan.
The Northeast Iowa Legacy trail pranali is undergoing vikaas, or hoga conect tatv of these sites.
Zac Brown Band is an amareeki country/folk band aadhaarit in atlanta, Georgia.
The linep consists of zac bhura ( sise vocals, guitar ), jimmy de martini ( chalau, vocals ), jon driskell hopkins ( baas guitar, vocals ), coy bowles ( guitar, keyboards ), kris fryar ( drum ), Clay Cook ( guitar, keyboards, mandolin, steel guitar, vocals ), and Daniel de los Reyes ( percussion ).
The band has toured throughout the sanyukt rajya, sahit a slot on the 2009 or 2010 bonnaroo Music Festival.
They have also recorded five studio albums, or charted nau kramank ek singles on the billboard desh chart : `` murga fried ``, `` toes ``, `` rajmarg 20 sawari ``, `` free ``, `` as wo 's chalanaa dur ``, `` colder mausam ``, `` ghutana gahan ``, `` rakhana me in dimag ``, and `` Goodbye in Her Eyes `` in addition to the singles `` Whatever It Is `` and `` No Hurry ``, which peaked at number 2 on the same chart.
Talk radio is a radio swaroop containing charchaa about topical issues.
Most shows are regularly hosted by a single individual, or praayah visheshta saakshaatkaar saath a kramank of alag atithi.
Talk radio typically includes an element of listener participation, usually by broadcasting live baatcheet between the mejabaan or shrota jo `` kol in '' ( praayah via telephone ) to the show.
Listener contributions are usually screened by a dikhaaen 's nirmaataa ( s ) in anukram to adhiktam darshak byaaj or, in the maamla of vanijyik baat radio, attract advertisers.
Generally, the shows are organized into segments, each separated by a pause for vigyaapan ; however, in public or non-commercial radio, music is sometimes nibhaai in place of commercials to pruthak the program segments.
visangatiyaan of baat radio shaamil roodhiwaadee baat, hot baat, udaar talk and sports talk.
While talk radio has historically been associated with am/fm, starting around 2005 the praudyogiki liye internet-based talk-radio shows became laagat prabhavi in the form of podcasts.
Now, it is possible for an individual to use a variety of services to mejabaan an internet-based talk-radio dikhaaen bagaiyr carriage by a paramparaagat radio station.
In addition TV programming from talk and news outlet aise as bibisi, sienen, bloomberg or fox hai abhi praayah uplabdhiyaan expanding the world of talk radio further.
Talk radio listening is now enjoyed not only on radios, but a wide variety of anya divaais or sevaayen sahit pcs using itunes, stesan nirdeshika aise as tunein, dikhaaen nirdeshika smartphone saath apps such as Stitcher.
Hippa is a genus of decapod crustaceans in the parivaar hippidae, containing the following species:
Hippa adactyla fabricius, 1787
hippa admirabilis ( thallwitz, 1892 )
Hippa alcimede ( de man, 1902 )
Hippa australis hale, 1927
hippa carcineutes holthuis & manning, 1970
hippa celaeno ( de Man, 1896 )
hippa granulatus ( borradaile, 1904 )
Hippa hirtipes ( dana, 1852 )
hippa indica haig, murugan & baalkrishnan Nair, 1986
Hippa marmorata ( hombron & jacquinot, 1846 )
Hippa ovalis ( A. milne-edwards, 1862 )
Hippa picta ( heller, 1861 )
Hippa strigillata ( stimpson, 1860 )
Hippa testudinaria ( herbst, 1791 )
Hippa truncatifrons ( miers, 1878 )
It is closely related to the genus emerita, or prajati have praayah maharoom transferred between the two genera.
Jakarta ( ), officially gyaat as the khaas puunji pradesh of jakarta ( ), is the capital and largest city of Indonesia.
Located on the uttarpashchim coast of java, jakarta is the desh 's aarthik, saanskrithik or rajnatik kendra, or saath a janasankhyikee of 10,187,595 as of navambar 2011, it is the sabase populous nagar in indonesia or in southeast asia, or is the thirteenth most populated city in the world.
The official metropolitan area, known as Jabodetabek ( a name formed by combining the aarambhik syllables of jakarta, bogor, depok, tangerang or bekasi ), is the duusari largest in the sansar, yet the metropolis 's suburbs still continue beyond it.
Jakarta is listed as a global city in the 2008 vaishvikaran or sansar shaharon padhai Group and Network ( GaWC ) research.
or rai an area of.
This area has population of well over 28 lakh, bananaa it ek of the sansar 's largest conurbations in sharten of kramank of nivaasiyon.
In 2011, Jakarta ranked 17th among the sansar 's 200 largest shaharon, a jamp isse its 2007 ranking of 171.
Jakarta has grown adhik rapidly than kuala lumpur, beijing and Bangkok.
Established in the chauthi sadi, the nagar became an mahatvapurn vyapaar bandargahon liye the kingdom of Sunda.
It was the de facto capital of the Dutch East Indies ( jab it thi gyaat as batavia ) or rai jari as the puunji of indonesia chunki the desh 's swatantraaa was declared in 1945.
The city is the seat of the asian sachivalay.
Jakarta is served by the Soekarno–Hatta International Airport, Halim Perdanakusuma International vimaanashetra, or tanjung priok harbour ; it is conect by anek intercity or commuter rail, or parosa by anek bas linon kaaryshil on reserved busways.
A typical ghar air condishning khidki unit.
Air conditioning is the process of altering the gun of air ( primarily taapmaana or ardrata ) to adhik favourable conditions.
More generally, air condishning can refer to koi rup of technological kooling, heating, ventilation, or disinfection that modifies the condition of air.
An air conditioner ( often referred to as air con, AC or A/C, or nahin to be uljhan saath the sankshipt liye prayavarti vartmaan ) is a pramukh or ghar appliance, pranali, or yantriki designed to badalen the air taapmaana and humidity within an area ( used for cooling and sometimes heating depending on the air properties at a given time ).
The kooling is typically kiya using a saral prashithan saikil, lakin sometimes vashpikaran is prayukt, commonly liye comfort cooling in buildings and motor vehicles.
In construction, a complete pranali of heating, ventilation or air condishning is referred to as `` HVAC ``.
`` 6 Foot 7 Foot '' ( bhi styled as `` 6'7 '' ) is a song by amareeki rapper leel Wayne featuring label mate, Cory Gunz.
It is taken isse uske naveen studio album, Tha Carter IV ( 2011 ).
It was officially released on itunes on disambar 16, 2010.
It was utpaadit by `` a milli `` nirmaataa Bangladesh.
The song samples `` Day-O ( The banana naav song ) `` by harry belafonte.
DC Talk ( styled as dc baat ), is a grami -winning isai rap trio.
The group was formed in Lynchburg, virginia in 1987 by tobi mckeehan, maaikel tait, or kevin adhiktam smith.
They have released paanch pramukh studio album saath : dc baat ( 1989 ), nu thang ( 1990 ), free at pichhlaa ( 1992 ), yishu Freak ( 1995 ), and Supernatural ( 1998 ).
In 2002, the Encyclopedia of Contemporary isai music pukaara dc baat `` the sabase lokapriy overtly isai adhinium of all time. ''
In 2000, the group released an EP titled Solo which contained do solo geeton isse prayek sadsy.
Since that samay, dc baat rai maharoom on an indefinite antaraal, or the teen band members have each led solo careers.
They have performed and recorded vyaktigat geeton saath anek times dauraan the 2000s, although the group never officially reunited or disbanded.
The samooh 's musical style viksit significantly throughout their career.
Their first two releases, DC Talk and nu thang, yahood of the hip hop genre.
DC Talk 's teesraa album, free at pichhlaa, bhi mukhyatah took influence isse the hip hop style, haalanki unke music began taking on a rock sound.
The trio 's last two albums, yishu freak or alokik, yahood predominantly pop rock.
The Bible is a sankalan of anek shorter kitabe likhaa at alag times or baad samavet into the biblical canon.
All but the shortest of these kitabe have maharoom vibhajit into adhyay, generally a pej or so in length, since the early 13th century.
Since the mid-16th century, each chapter rai maharoom further vibhajit into `` aayatein '' of a few short lines or sentences.
Sometimes a sentence spans more than one verse, as in the maamla of, or sometimes vahin is adhik than ek vaakya in a single shloke, as in the case of.
As the chapter and verse divisions yahood nahin bhaag of the asli granth, ve rup bhaag of the paratext of the Bible.
The Jewish divisions of the Hebrew text differ at vibhinn ank isse those prayukt by isaayiyon.
For instance, in Jewish parampara, the ascriptions to anek zaboor hai regarded as swatantra aayatein, bananaa 116 adhik aayatein, whereas the sthapit isai practice is to count and number each Psalm ascription together with the first verse following it.
Some chapter divisions also occur in different places, e.g. in yahudee bibles is gine as in isai anuwaad.
An index ( bahuvachan : indexes ) is a suchi of shabd or vaakyansh ( 'headings ' ) or sambhddha sanketak ( 'loketerbus ' ) to jahaan upyogi saamagree relating to that heading can be found in a document.
In a traditional back-of-the-book index the headings will shaamil names of logon, sthaan or kaarykram, or avadharanaon chaynit by a vyakti as hone praasangik or of byaaj to a sambhavit reader of the book.
The pointers are typically page numbers, anuchhed sankhyaayein or khand numbers.
In a pustakaalayon katalog the shabd hai lekhak, sheershak, vishay headings, etc., and the pointers are call numbers.
Internet search engines, such as Google, and full text searching help provide access to information lakin hai nahin as chaynaatmak as an anukramanika, as ve provide non-relevant kadi, or may miss praasangik soochna if it is nahin phrased in exactly the rasta ve expect.
In United States financial regulation, a suspicious activity report ( or SAR ) is a rapat bana by a vittiya sanstha to the vittiya aparaadhon pravartan sanjaal ( fincen ), an agency of the sanyukt rajya vibhaag of the rajkosh, regarding suspicious or potentially suspicious activity.
fasebuk on the ad-tech 2010
Facebook is an online social networking service, jinaki naam tana isse the colloquial naam liye the kitaab die to vidhyaarthee at the prarambh of the academik saal by kuch vishvavidhyalayon administrations in the sanyukt States to help students get to know each other.
It was founded in farvari 2004 by chihnit zuckerberg saath uske college roommates or fellow harvard vishvavidhyalayon vidhyaarthee Eduardo Saverin, Andrew McCollum, Dustin Moskovitz and Chris Hughes.
The website 's membership was initially limited by the sansthaapakon to harvard vidhyaarthee, lakin thi vistaarit to anya collejon in the boston kshetrafal, the ivi lig, and Stanford University.
It dhire added support liye vidhyaarthee at vibhinn anya vishvavidhyalayon before opening to high school students, and eventually to anyone aged 13 and over.
Facebook now allows any users who declare themselves to be at tanik 13 saalo boodha to become panjikrut upayokta of the site.
Users must register before using the site, baad jisase ve may banaaen a nijee profil, add anya upayokta as mitron, or exange sandesh, sahit swachaalit notifications when they update their profile.
Additionally, users may join common-interest user groups, organized by workplace, skool or college, or anya visheshtaayen, or categorize unke mitron into suchiyaan aise as `` logon isse kaary '' or `` Close Friends ''.
As of sitambar 2012, fasebuk rai over one billion active users.
According to a May 2011 Consumer Reports survey, there hai 7.5 lakh children antargat 13 saath khate or 5 lakh antargat 10, violating the sait 's sharten of service.
In May 2005, Accel partners invested $ 12.7 lakh in fasebuk, or gym breyer added $ 1 lakh of his own money to the pot.
A January 2009 Compete.com study ranked fasebuk as the sabase prayukt soshal netwarking seva by vishwavyaapee masik active users.
Entertainment Weekly included the sait on iske end-of-the-decade `` best-of '' suchi, saying, `` kaisaa on dharti kiya we stalk hamaari exes, yaad hamaari co-workers ' janmdin, bug our friends, and play a rousing game of Scrabulous before Facebook ? ''
aalochakon, aise as fasebuk detox, rajya ki fasebuk rai turned into a neshnal obsession in the United States, resulting in vast amounts of time lost and encouraging narcissism.
Quantcast estimates Facebook has 138.9 lakh masik adwitiya u.S. vizitor in may 2011.
According to Social Media Today, in April 2010 an estimated 41.6 % ( 129.5 lakh ) of the u.S. janasankhyikee tha a fasebuk khaataa.
nevertheless, fasebuk 's market vikaas prarambh to stall in kuch regions, with the site losing 7 million active users in the United States and Canada in May 2011.
Facebook eventually filed for an initial public offering on February 1, 2012, and was headquartered in menlo park, california.
fasebuk inc. began selling bhandar to the public or vyapaar on the NASDAQ on May 18, 2012.
salphonamide kaaryaatmak group
Hydrochlorothiazide is a salphonamide or a thiazide.
furosemide is a salphonamide, but not a thiazide.
salphonamide or sulphonamide is the basis of several groups of drugs.
The original antibacterial sulfonamides ( sometimes called sulfa davaayen or sulpha davaayen ) hai synthetic roganurodhi agenton ki contain the sulfonamide group.
Some sulfonamides are also viheen of jeevanurodhi kaaryaklap, e.g., the anticonvulsant sultiame.
The sulfonylureas and thiazide diuretics are nae drug samooh aadhaarit on the jeevanurodhi sulfonamides.
Sulfa allergies are aam, hence medications containing sulfonamides hai prescribed carefully.
It is important to make a distinction between sulfa drugs and other sulfur-containing drugs and additives, such as sulfates or sulfites, jisase hai chemically unrelated to the salphonamide samooh, or do nahin kaaran the vahi hypersensitivity pratikriyaayein dekhi in the sulfonamides.
This is a list of varna isse george lopez.
Domestic geese ( Anser anser domesticus or Anser cygnoides ) hai domesticated dhoosar geese ( either gralag geese or swan geese ) rakhaa as poultry for their meat, eggs, and down feathers since ancient times.
30 Seconds to Mars is an amareeki chattan band isse los angeles, formed in 1998.
Since 2007, the band has consisted of actor Jared Leto ( lead vocals, lay guitar, songwriter ), shainan leto ( drum, percussion ) or tomo miličević ( lead guitar, keyboards ).
following the prasthaan of mat wachter ( abhi of farishte & airwaves ) in 2007, tim kelleher became the bassist liye the samooh, performing sajiv only with both Jared and Miličević recording bass for studio recordings, while Braxton Olita ( keyboards ) was added to the touring lineup in 2009.
previously, the samooh bhi pradarshit guitarists solon bixler ( now of Great Northern ) and Kevin Drake ( now of Polaroid Kiss ).
To date, 30 Seconds to Mars have released teen studio album – 30 second to mangal ( 2002 ), a Beautiful Lie ( 2005 ), This Is War ( 2009 ) and three extended plays – AOL Sessions Undercover ( 2007 ), To the Edge of the Earth ( 2008 ), and MTV Unplugged : 30 Seconds to Mars ( 2011 ).
30 Seconds to Mars ' music has been associated mostly with neo-prog, progressive metal or post-grunge, lakin ve have bhi shaamil bhavanaaen, screamo, spes chattan or synthrock into their music.
They have been compared to Pink Floyd ( who were an influence on their work ) and Tool because of their use of philosophical or aadhyatmik geet, avadharana albums and their use of experimental music.
A Christmas Story is a 1983 amareeki christmas kamedi filmi aadhaarit on the choti kahaniyaan or semi-fictional upakhyanon of lekhak or raconteur jaan gadriye, aadhaarit on his book In God We Trust, All Others Pay Cash, with some elements derived from Wanda Hickey 's Night of Golden Memories.
It was nirdeshit by bob clark.
The film has since become a avkaash clasik or is dikhaaya numerous times on television dauraan the christmas season on the network TBS, often in a 24-hour marathon.
In 2012, the film was selected for preservation in the National Film registry by the pustakaalayon of congress liye hone `` culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant ''.
A Joe 's Crab Shack shakha in san diego, ca.
The building was initially a rowing klbon or thi baad parivartit into the restaurant.
Joe 's Crab Shack is an amareeki kadi of beach-themed seafood cazual dining restaraan swaamitv by ignite restaraan Group.
santhaapit in huston, texas, the restaraan abhi operates locations all across the United States of America.
It serves seafood or amareeki bhojan.
The restaraan bhi have a tohfa duukaan ki bikta facetious t-shirts featuring phrases advertising Joe 's seafood choices.
It is aadhaarit in huston, texas.
nai york nagar krooj liner terminal in narak 's Kitchen at 52nd Street.
The New York Passenger Ship Terminal ( also known as the lakjri liner pankti or manahaton krooj terminal or nai york krooj terminal ) is a terminal for ocean-going passenger ships on Manhattan 's west side.
The terminal consists of uttar nadi pier 88, 90, 92 or 94 on the hadsan nadi between West 46th and West 54th Street.
( As a general rule, pier sankhyaayein in manahaton can be sankalpit by adding 40 to the sambandhit cross-street. )
Ships abhi dock at pier 88, 90 and 92.
baandh 94 on the uttar paksh is abhi used for exhibition space.
Pier 86, once used by sanyukt rajya linon, is abhi ghar to the USS Intrepid.
In 2003, the terminal sambhala 900,000 passengers.
The nagar is forecasting ki 1.5 lakh hoga upyog the terminal by 2017.
the pier hai long and apart.
They were first samaapt in 1935 to badalen the chelsi pier as the nagar 's lakjri liner terminal.
The new terminal thi nirmit to handle bade jahaajon ki had outgrown the Chelsea Piers.
The piers were renovated in 1970 or hai philhal undergoing another $ 150 million renovation.
The sanvar yojanaayen kol liye it to handle teen vishaal ships at a time.
In doing renovations, the nagar is bhi considering decommissioning Pier 92.
Logo of the nai york krooj terminal.for
decades the terminal thi the tabhi ocean-going yatri terminal in New York harbor.
With an upsurge in cruise ship traffic and the terminal 's ability to handle comfortably only three large jahaajon at a samay, do nai terminals have kholi in the harbar — the kep swatantraaa krooj bandargahon kholi in 2004 in bayonne, nai jersey ( prayukt by royal caribbean krooj lakeer, hasti cruge or azamara cruge ), or the brukaleen krooj terminal ( used by the Queen Mary 2 and other ships of the Carnival Corporation cruise brands ) opened in 2006 in Brooklyn, New York.
The West Side Highway takes a small jog east from the piers to neeche west 42nd gali kuki jab the terminal thi nirmit jameen tha to be taken away from Manhattan to allow for longer piers.
The US Army Corps of Engineers, jo control the waterfront aayam, hota nahin extend the pierhead lakeer dur into the nadi, so the city extended the pier by cutting away at the land.
The city pehle kiya is liye the chelsi pier ; however in chelsi tabhi landfill was taken away.
At the Passenger Terminal vaastavik manahaton schist thi taken away.
From downstream in the nadi
Many major passenger ships have docked there, including the RMS Queen Mary 2 and Freedom of the samandar, pehle the brukaleen or bayonne terminals opened.
The SS Normandie caught fire and subsequently capsized at iske baandh 88 berth dauraan sansar yuddh II.
The Normandie, renamed uss lafayette, jhooth capsized in the frozen mud at Pier 88 in the winter of 1942
norwegian krooj lakeer 's jald to be naveenatam jalayaan the norwegian breakaway will sail year-round out of the New York Passenger Ship Terminal.
The city will spend $ 4 lakh to renovate or unnayan the krooj terminal to accommodate the ship.
This is an overview of the niyamit, punaravarti, or anya varna of the TV series NCIS.
Christian right is a term prayukt in the sanyukt rajya to describe right-wing isai rajnatik samooh ki hai characterized by unke damdaar support of socially conservative policies.
Christian conservatives principally seek to apply their understanding of the teachings of christianity to raajnneeti or public niti by proclaiming the maan of those shikshaaon and/or by seeking to upyog those shikshaaon to influence law and public policy.
In the U.S., the Christian right is an informal coalition formed around a kor of dharmantaran protestants ki draws `` support isse nitiyaan roodhiwaadee catholics, yahudiyon, mormons, or occasionally secularists '' who share their goals.
The movement has its roots in amareeki raajnneeti going waapas as dur the 1940s or rai maharoom visheshkar influential since the 1970s.
unke influence draws, in bhaag, isse grassroots sakriyata as khub as unke fokas on social issues and ability to motivate the electorate around those issues.
The Christian right is notable today for advancing socially roodhiwaadee sthitiyaan on mudde sahit skool dua, stem koshika shodh, samalangikta, nirodhak, garbhpaat, and pornography.
Although the Christian right is usually associated saath the u.S., the gati rai maharoom a kunjee factor in the raajnneeti of canada, the netherlands, uttari ireland or australia, among anya.
Far East gati ( stylized as far★east gati or abbreviated fm ) is an amareeki hip hop band quartet based in Los Angeles.
The samooh formed in 2003 or consists of kev nish ( kevin nishimura ), prohgress ( James Roh ), J-Splif ( Jae Choung ), and DJ Virman ( Virman Coquia ).
Far East Movement 's first claim to fame was their song `` golakaar golakaar '' pradarshit in the hollywood film, the tej or the krodhit : tokio bahaav, or iske subsequent soundtrack, video game and DVD.
Since `` Round Round '', the samooh rai maharoom pradarshit on vibhinn sanjaal shows sahit,, anugami, gapshap ladki, or finishing the khel ( a pradarshit filmi at sundance 2007 ).
Their single `` Like a G6 `` hit number one on the billboard hot 100 chart or on itunes as khub in let October 2010.
dur east gati bhi rai the bhed of hone the pehla asian-american group to earn a # 1 hit on the Billboard Hot 100 in the United States.
LR44 is the IEC designation for an alkaline 1.5 volt batan koshika, commonly prayukt in choti led flashlights, digital thermometers, calculators, calipers, watches, clocks, toys and laser pointers.
lr44 kshareey cell
the bydaree namakaran is paribhaashit by the antarrashtriya vidyutatakneekee ayog ( iisi ) in iske 60086-3 maanak ( Primary batteries, part 3 Watch batteries ).
The letter L indicates the electrochemical pranali prayukt ; a jasta rinatmak electrode, mangneej dioxide depolarizer or dhanatmak electrode, and an alkaline electrolyte.
R44 indicates a golakaar koshika 11.4±0.2 mm vyas or 5.2±0.2 mm height as defined by the IEC standard 60086.
Manufacturers have their apana bhaag sankhyaayein liye iisi prakaar lr44 bydaree including:
lr44, lr44g, lr44gd, LR44H
LR1154, L1154, l1154c, l1154f, l1154g, L1154H
6135-99-792-8475 ( nsn )
1166a
AG13, a613, ag14, ag-14, G13A, G13-A
157, 303, 357
A76, GDA76, gp76a, gpa7, gpa75, gpa76, GPS76A,
1128mp, 208-904, a-76, ca18, ca19, cr44, d76a, ka, ka76, MS76H, PX76A, PX675A, RPX675, RW82, SB-F9, V13GA
4.5-volt, D, c, aa, aaa, aaaa, a23, 9-volt, cr2032 and LR44 batteries
Other prakaar of bydaree hai or yahood bana in the R44 size.
Formerly, mercury batteries were made as batan koshikaayen ( prakaar mr44 or nr44 ).
zinc-air bydaree prakaar pr44 aavashyaktaa air to work.
Silver-oxide batteries type SR44 may provide extra capacity compared to lr44 prakaar lakin have thodaa alag voltage characteristics.
pradarshan of a yantra meant to upyog a silver-oxide bydaree may be degraded with substitution of LR44 types.
Manufacturer 's numbers for chaandi oxide r44 aakaar koshikaayen include:
sr44/sr44w/sr44sw
6135-99-651-3240 ( nsn )
sr1154
1107so
1131sop
sg13
s76
EPX76 ( energizer )
303/357 ( D357H )
Hurricane Katrina was the deadliest and most destructive atlantic hurricane of the 2005 atlantic hurricane ritu.
It was the costliest natural disaster, as khub as ek of the paanch deadliest hurricanes, in the itihaas of the United States.
Among recorded atlantic hurricanes, it thi the chathe strongest overall.
At least 1,833 logon died in the hurricane or subsequent floods, bananaa it the deadliest u.S. hurricane chunki the 1928 okeechobee hurricane ; kul property kshati thi anumaanit at $ 81 arab ( 2005 usd ), nearly triple the damage brought by Hurricane Andrew in 1992.
Hurricane Katrina formed over the Bahamas on agast 23, 2005 or crossed dakshini florida as a moderet shrenee 1 hurricane, causing kuch mauton or baadh there before strengthening rapidly in the Gulf of Mexico.
The hurricane strengthened to a shrenee 5 hurricane over the garam gulf jal, lakin weakened pehle bananaa iske duusari landfall as a shrenee 3 hurricane on the morning of Monday, August 29 in southeast Louisiana.
It caused severe vinaash saath the gulf coast isse central florida to texas, much of it due to the storm surge.
The most significant kramank of mauton occurred in nai orlions, louisiana, jisase flooded as the tatabandh pranali catastrophically failed, in many cases hours after the storm had moved inland.
Eventually 80 % of the city and large tracts of neighboring parishes became flooded, or the floodwaters lingered liye saptaah.
However, the worst property kshati occurred in tateey kshetron, aise as sab mississippi beachfront kasbon, jisase yahood flooded over 90 % in ghanton, as naukaaye or casino barges rammed imaaraten, pushing gaadiyaan or gharon inland, with waters reaching 6–12 miles ( 10–19 km ) from the beach.
The hurricane surge suraksha asafalataaon in nai orlions hai mana the worst civil abhiyantriki vipatti in u.S. itihaas or prompted a mukadmaa viruddh the u.S. fouj corps of Engineers ( USACE ), the designers and builders of the levee system as mandated by the Flood Control Act of 1965.
Responsibility for the asafalataaon or baadh thi rakhi squarely on the fouj corps in janvari 2008 by nyaayadhish stanwood duval, u.S. zila adaalat, lakin the sangheey agency could nahin be yojit financially liable due to sovereign immunity in the Flood Control Act of 1928.
There was also an investigation of the pratikriyaayein isse sangheey, rajya or local sarkarein, resulting in the istipha of sangheey apaat prabandhan agency ( fema ) nideshak maaikel D. Brown, and of New Orleans Police Department ( NOPD ) Superintendent Eddie Compass.
Several agencies sahit the sanyukt rajya coast guard ( uscg ), neshnal hurricane bich ( nhc ), and National Weather Service ( NWS ) were commended for their actions.
They provided sateek hurricane mausam trekking forecasts with sufficient lead time.
Even the most insistent appeals from national, rajya or local public officials to nivaasiyon to evacuate pehle the toofaan kiya nahin warn ki the levees could breach and fail.
U.S. debt isse 1940 to 2011.
Red lines indicate the `` debt held by the public '' or blike linon indicate the kul neshnal karz or gross public debt.
The antar is the `` intragovernmental karz, '' jisase shaamil dayitvon to government programs such as Social Security.
Stated as a formula, neshnal karz = karz yojit by the public + intragovernmental Debt.
The second panel shows the do karz aankade as a pratishat of u.S. jidipi ( dollars maan of u.S. aarthik production for that year ).
The top panel is deflated so prayek saal is in 2010 dollars.
The United States public debt is the money udhaar by the sangheey sarkari of the sanyukt rajya through the issuing of pratibhuti by the rajkosh or other federal government agencies.
US public karz consists of two components:
Debt yojit by the public shaamil rajkosh pratibhuti yojit by niveshkon baahar the sangheey sarkari, sahit that held by individuals, corporations, the Federal Reserve System and foreign, state and local governments.
Debt held by government accounts or intragovernmental debt includes non-marketable Treasury pratibhuti yojit in khate administered by the sangheey sarkari ki hai owed to kaarykram beneficiaries, aise as the soshal suraksha Trust Fund.
Debt held by government accounts represents the sanchayi surpluses, sahit byaaj aay, of ye khate ki have maharoom invested in Treasury securities.
Public debt increases or decreases as a parinaam of the salanaa ekikrut bajet deficit or surplus.
The sangheey sarkari bajet deficit or surplus is the antar between sarkari raseeden and spending, ignoring intra-governmental transfers.
However, some bitaa ki is excluded isse the deficit ( supplemental appropriations ) also adds to the debt.
Historically, the US public debt as a share of jidipi increased dauraan yudhon or recessions, or subsequently declined.
For example, debt held by the public as a share of jidipi peaked bas baad sansar yuddh ii ( 113 % of jidipi in 1945 ), lakin tab giri over the following 30 years.
In recent decades, however, large budget deficits and the resulting increases in karz have led to chintaa parichay the long-term sthirataa of the sangheey government 's fiscal policies.
On 2 April 2013, karz yojit by the public thi lagbhag $ 11.959 trillion or about 75 % of GDP.
Intragovernmental holdings stood at $ 4.846 kharab, giving a sanyukt kul public debt of $ 16.805 trillion.
As of January 2013, $ 5.6 trillion or lagbhag 47 % of the karz yojit by the public thi swaamitv by videshi niveshkon, the largest of jisase yahood the logon 's ganatantr of china or japani at bas over $ 1.1 trillion each.
In basketball, an assist is attributed to a player who passes the ball to a teammate in a rasta ki lead to a score by field lakshya, arth ki he or wo thi `` assisting '' in the basket.
There is some judgment involved in deciding whether a passer chahie be credited saath an assist.
An assist can be scored liye the passer bhi if the khilaadi jo receives the pass makes a basket after dribbling the ball.
however, the asli paribhaasha of an assist kiya nahin shaamil aise paristhitiyon, so the comparison of assist statistics across eras is a complex matter.
Only the pass sidhe pehle the score may be gine as an assist, so no adhik than ek assist can be ankit per field goal ( unlike in other sports, such as ice hockey ).
A pass that leads to a shooting foul and scoring by free throws does not count as an assist in the enbie, lakin karata in fiba khel ( tabhi ek assist is awarded prati niyat of free throws in jisase at tanik ek free throw is bana ).
Point guard tend to milengi the sabase assists prati khel ( apg ), as unke bhoomika is primarily that of a passer and ballhandler.
Centers tend to get fewer assists, but centers saath shubh manzil upasthiti or adaalat drushti can dominate a toli by assisting.
Being inside the key, the bich praayah rai the behtareen kone or the behtareen sthiti liye `` dishes '' and other short passes in the scoring area.
Center Wilt chemberlen led the enbie in assists in 1968.
A strong bich saath inside-scoring prowess, aise as purv enbie bich hakeem olajuwon, can bhi be an prabhavi assistor kuki the raksha 's double-teaming tends to open up offense in the form of shooters.
The enbie single-game assist ricard is 30, yojit by scot skiles of the orlando jaadu viruddh the Denver Nuggets, on December 30, 1990.
The NBA record for most kariyar assists is yojit by jon Stockton with 15,806.
The mill or mille ( ) ( sometimes mil in the uk, jab discussing property kar in the sanyukt rajya, or previously in Cyprus and Malta ) is a now-abstract unit of currency used sometimes in accounting.
In the United States, it is a notional ikai samatuly to of a sanyukt rajya dollars ( a dasavaan of a cent ).
in the sanyukt kingdom it thi prastaavit dauraan the dashakon of charchaa on the decimalization of the pound as a division of the pound sterling.
anek anya mudraayen prayukt the mil, aise as the Maltese lira.
The term comes isse the latin `` millesimum '', arth `` thousandth part ''.
The Greco-Persian Wars ( bhi praayah pukaara the parsi yudhon ) yahood a shrenee of virodh between the hakhaamani samrajya of faras or city-states of the Hellenic world that started in 499 BC and lasted until 449 BC.
The takkar between the fractious rajnatik sansar of the unaniyon or the vishaal samrajya of the farsiyon began when Cyrus the Great conquered Ionia in 547 BC.
struggling to niyam the independent-minded shaharon of ionia, the farsiyon appointed tyrants to rule each of them.
This would prove to be the source of much trubal liye the unaniyon or farsiyon alike.
In 499 BC, the then tyrant of Miletus, Aristagoras, embarked on an expedition to jeeten the dweep of naxos, saath parsi support ; however, the expedition thi a qahar or, pre-empting uske dismissal, aristagoras incited sab of helenic asia naaballig into rebellion against the Persians.
This was the shuruuaat of the ionian vidroh, jisase hota pichhlaa jabatak 493 bc, progressively aarekhan adhik regions of Asia Minor into the conflict.
Aristagoras secured military support from Athens and eretria, or in 498 bc ye shaktiyaan helped to capchar or bern the parsi kshetreey puunji of Sardis.
The parsi king daara the great vowed to have badla on Athens and Eretria for this act.
The revolt continued, with the two pahalu effectively stalemated throughout 497–495 BC.
in 494 bc, the farsiyon regrouped, or attacked the epicentre of the revolt in Miletus.
at the battle of lade, the ionians suffered a nirnaayak shikast, or the vidroh collapsed, saath the final sadasyon hone stamped out the following year.
Seeking to surakshit uske samrajya isse further revolts or isse the hastkshep of the menland unaniyon, daara embarked on a scheme to conquer Greece and to punish Athens and Eretria for burning Sardis.
The first Persian akraman of unaniyon began in 492 bc, saath the parsi saamaanya mardonius conquering thrace or Macedon before several mishaps forced an early end to the campaign.
In 490 BC a second force was sent to Greece, is samay aarpaar the igian samudr, antargat the cmand of datis and Artaphernes.
This expedition subjugated the Cyclades, before besieging, capturing or razing eretria.
however, jabaki en root to akraman athens, the parsi force thi decisively parajeet by the athenians at the Battle of Marathon, ending Persian efforts for the time being.
Darius then began to plan to complete the conquest of unaniyon, lakin died in 486 bc or jimmedaari liye the conquest passed to uske bete xerxes I.
In 480 BC, Xerxes personally led the second parsi akraman of unaniyon saath ek of the largest pracheen sena kabhi samavet.
Victory over the 'Allied ' Greek states ( led by sparta or athens ) at the battle of thermopylae anumat the farsiyon to torch Athens and overrun most of Greece.
however, jabaki seeking to nasht the sanyukt unani bede, the farsiyon suffered a severe defeat at the Battle of Salamis.
The following year, the confederated Greeks went on the offensive, defeating the Persian fouj at the battle of plataea, or samaapti the akraman of unaniyon.
The allied unaniyon followed up unke kamyaabi by destroying the baaki of the parsi bede at the battle of mycale, pehle expelling parsi garrisons isse sestos ( 479 BC ) and Byzantium ( 478 BC ).
The actions of the general pausanias at the gheraa of byzantium alienated anek of the unani rajya isse the spartans, or the anti-persian gathbandhan thi isliye reconstituted around Athenian leadership, as the so-called Delian League.
The Delian League continued to campaign against Persia for the next teen dashakon, shuruuaat saath the expulsion of the baaki parsi garrisons isse Europe.
At the Battle of the Eurymedon in 466 BC, the lig jiti a doguna vijay ki aakhirkaar secured swatantraaa for the cities of Ionia.
However, the League 's involvement in an Egyptian revolt ( from 460–454 bc ) resulted in a vinaashkari shikast, or further campaigning thi nilambit.
A fleet was sent to Cyprus in 451 BC, but hasil choti, or jab it withdrew the greco-persian yudhon khinchaa to a quiet end.
Some historical sources suggest the samaapt of hostilities thi chihnit by a salaam sandhi between athens or faras, the so-called salaam of Callias.
Hooverville nikat portland, oregon
A `` Hooverville '' is the popular name for shanty kasbon nirmit by beghar logon dauraan the great avsaad.
They were named after Herbert Hoover, who was adhyaksh of the sanyukt rajya dauraan the onset of the avsaad or widely blamed for it.
The term thi coined by charles micelson, publicity mukhya of the Democratic National Committee.
Matthew Michael Hasselbeck ( born sitambar 25, 1975 ) is an amareeki footbaal quarterbaque liye the indianapolis Colts of the National Football League ( NFL ).
he thi drafted in the chathe golakaar of the 1998 NFL Draft by the Green Bay Packers.
baad a ritu on the abhyaas squad and two seasons backing up Brett Favre, he was traded to the Seattle Seahawks in 2001.
Hasselbeck gained the starting role in 2003, and led Seattle to six playoff dikhaave or a super katori rup ; he thi chaynit to teen pro pyaale or an All-Pro selection.
Following ten seasons with the sihox, hasselbeck joined the tennesi titans in 2011.
Hasselbeck then signed a contract saath the indianapolis coltas in 2013 kam than 24 ghanton baad hone released by the Tennessee Titans.
isiti is inevitably sambandhit to the computer network.
Information and Communications Technology or ( ICT ), is often used as an extended synonym for information technology ( IT ), but is a more vishisht pad ki tanaavon the bhoomika of ekikrut sanchaar or the sangyojan of doorsanchaar ( telephone linon or betaar signal ), computer as khub as jaruri enterprize tantra, middleware, storage, and audio-visual systems, which enable users to access, store, transmit, and manipulate information.
The phrase ICT had been used by academic researchers since the 1980s, lakin it became lokapriy baad it thi prayukt in a rapat to the uk sarkari by denis stevenson in 1997 or in the sanshodhit neshnal curriculum for England, Wales and Northern Ireland in 2000.
The term isiti is abhi bhi prayukt to refer to the abhisaran of audio-visual or telephone sanjaal saath computer sanjaal through a single cabling or link system.
There are large economic incentives ( huge cost savings due to elimination of the telephone network ) to merge the audio-visual, bhawan prabandhan or telephone sanjaal saath the computer sanjaal pranali using a single ekikrut pranali of cabling, signal distribution and management.
The term Infocommunications is prayukt in kuch maamle as a shorter rup of soochna or communication ( s ) technology.
In fact infocommunications is the vistaar of doorsanchaar saath soochna prasanskaran and content handling functions on a common digital technology base.
For a comparison of ye or anya sharten, dekhie.
For isiti vikaas anukramanika around the world, see.
This is a suchi of varna isse george Lopez.
a schematic prastutikaran of the plums kheer model of the anu ; in thomson 's ganitiya model the `` corpuscles '' ( or modern electrons ) were arranged non-randomly, in rotating rings
The current model of the sub-atomic dhaancha involves a ghanaa cendrak ghiri by a probabilistic `` cloud '' of electrons
The plum kheer model of the anu by J. J. thomson, jo khoja the electron in 1897, thi prastaavit in 1904 pehle the discovery of the atomic nucleus in order to add the electron to the atomic model.
In this model, the anu is rachit of electrons ( jisase thomson still pukaara `` corpuscles '', haalanki G. J. stoney tha prastaavit ki anu of vidyut be pukaara electrons in 1894 ) ghiri by a soup of positive charge to balance the electrons ' negative charges, like negatively charged `` plums `` surrounded by positively charged `` pudding ``.
the electrons ( as we jaan unhen aaj ) yahood vichaar to be positioned throughout the anu, lakin saath anek structures sambhavit liye positioning multiple electrons, particularly rotating rings of electrons ( see below ).
Instead of a soup, the atom was also sometimes kaha to have tha a `` badal '' of dhanatmak charge.
saath is model, thomson abandoned uske pehle `` nebular anu '' hypothesis in which the atom was composed of immaterial vortices.
Now, at least part of the anu thi to be rachit of thomson 's particulate rinatmak corpuscles, haalanki the baaki of the positively charged part of the atom remained somewhat nebulous and ill-defined.
The 1904 Thomson model thi disproved by the 1909 sunaharaa foil prayog of Hans Geiger and Ernest Marsden.
This was interpreted by arnest radarford in 1911
to imply a very small nucleus of the atom containing a very high dhanatmak charge ( in the maamla of sunaharaa, paryaapt to santulan parichay 100 electrons ), thus leading to the Rutherford model of the atom.
Although gold has an atomic number of 79, immediately after radarford 's paper appeared in 1911 antonius vine den broek bana the sahaj suzav ki atomic number is nuclear charge.
The padaarth jaruri prayog to decide.
Henry Moseley 's work showed experimentally in 1913 ( see Moseley 's law ) ki the prabhavi nabhikeey charge thi bahut band to the parmaanu kramank ( moseley mila tabhi ek ikai antar ), or moseley sanderbhit tabhi the papers of Van den Broek and Rutherford.
This work culminated in the solar-system-like ( lakin quantum-limited ) bohr model of the anu in the vahi saal, in jisase a cendrak containing an parmaanu kramank of dhanatmak charge is surrounded by an equal number of electrons in orbital shells.
bohr tha bhi prerit moseley 's work.
Thomson 's model was compared ( haalanki nahin by thomson ) to a angrejon mithai pukaara plums kheer, hence the name.
Thomson 's paper thi prakashit in the kooch 1904 sanskaran of the philosophical patrika, the agrani British science journal of the day.
In Thomson 's view :... the atoms of the elements consist of a number of negatively electrified corpuscles enclosed in a gola of vardi dhanatmak vidyutikaran,...
In is model, the electrons yahood free to ghurnan bheetar the blob or cloud of positive substance.
These orbits were stabilized in the model by the fact ki jab an electron sthanantarit dur isse the bich of the dhanatmak badal, it laga a larger jaal dhanatmak inward force, kuki vahin thi adhik saamagree of vipareet charge, inside its orbit ( see Gauss 's law ).
in thomson 's model, electrons yahood free to ghurnan in bajati jisase yahood further stabilized by interactions between the electrons, and spectra were to be accounted for by energy differences of different ring orbits.
Thomson attempted to make uske model khaataa liye kuch of the pramukh spectral linon gyaat liye some elements, but was not notably successful at this.
Still, Thomson 's model ( along saath a samaan saturnian ring model liye parmaanu electrons, bhi put aage in 1904 by nagaoka baad james clerk maxwell 's model of shani 's bajati ), yahood pehle harbingers of the later and more successful solar-system-like Bohr model of the atom.
theth strip of bekan.
bekan is a cured maance prepared from a pig.
It is first cured using large quantities of salt, either in a brine or in a shushk packing ; the parinaam is bhais bacon ( also known as green bacon ).
Fresh bacon may then be further dried for weeks or maheene in thanda air, or it may be boiled or smoked.
Fresh and sukhi bekan is typically pakaaya before eating.
boiled bekan is taiyaar to kha, as is kuch smoked bacon, but may be cooked further before eating.
Bacon is prepared isse anek alag katautee of meat.
It is usually made from side and back cuts of pork, except in the sanyukt rajya, jahaan it is lagbhag sadaa prepared isse pork pet ( typically referred to as `` streaky '', `` vasiy '', or `` American style '' outside of the US and Canada ).
the paksh kaaten rai adhik meat and less fat than the belly.
bekan may be prepared isse either of do pruthak waapas katautee : fatback, jisase is almost pure fat, and pork loin, which is very lean.
bacon-cured pork loin is gyaat as back bacon.
uncooked pork pet bekan strips.
Bacon may be eaten smoked, boiled, fried, baked, or grield, or prayukt as a naaballig sanghatak to flavor dishes.
Bacon is also used liye barding or larding roasts, visheshkar game, e.g. venison, pheasant.
The word is derived from the boodha unchi germany bacho, arth `` buttock '', `` ham '' or `` paksh of bekan '', and cognate with the Old French bacon.
In continental Europe, this part of the pig is usually not smoked like bacon is in the United States ; it is prayukt primarily in ghan ( lardons ) as a kooking sanghatak, valued dono as a sorce of mote or liye iske flavor.
In Italy, is is pukaara pancetta or is praayah pakaaya in choti ghan or parosa uncooked or thinly sliced as part of an antipasto.
Meat from other animals, such as beef, lamb, chicken, goat, or turkey, may bhi be kaaten, cured, or varanaa prepared to resemble bekan, or may bhi be referred to as `` bacon ''.
Such upyog is aam in kshetron saath significant Jewish and Muslim populations.
The USDA defines bacon as `` the cured belly of a swine carcass '' ; anya katautee or visheshtaayen jarur be separately yogya ( e.g., `` smoked pork loin bacon '' ).
For safety, bacon must be treated to prevent trichinosis, caused by Trichinella, a parasitic roundworm jisase can be nasht by heating, jamane, drying, or smoking.
Bacon is vishisht isse namak pork or ham by differences in the brine ( or dry packing ).
Bacon brine has added curing sanghatak, sabase notably sodium nitrite, or occasionally sodium nitrate or potacium nitrate ( saltapeter ) ; sodium ascorbate or erythorbate hai added to accelerate curing and stabilize color.
Flavorings such as bhura sugar or mapel hai prayukt liye some products.
If used, sodium polyphosphates hai added to improve sliceability or reduce spattering when the bacon is pan fried.
Today, a brine for ham, but nahin bekan, shaamil a vishaal raashi of sugar.
Historically, `` ham '' or `` bekan '' referred to alag katautee of maance ki yahood brined or packed identically, often together in the same barrel.
the karmchaaree ritairement aay suraksha adhinium of 1974 ( erisa ) (, samhitabaddh in bhaag at ) is a sangheey vidhi jisase establishes nunatam maanakon liye pension yojanaayen in nijee udyog or provides for extensive rules on the federal income tax effects of transactions associated with employee benefit plans.
ERISA thi enacted to protect the ruchi of karmchaaree laabh yojana bhagidaar and their beneficiaries by:
Requiring the disclosure of financial and other soochna concerning the yojana to beneficiaries ;
Establishing standards of conduct liye yojana fiduciaries ;
Providing for uchit remedies or abhigam to the sangheey courts.
ERISA is sometimes used to refer to the full deh of kanoon regulating karmchaaree laabh yojanaayen, jisase hai mila mukhyatah in the aatanrik Revenue Code and ERISA itself.
Responsibility for the interpretation and enforcement of ERISA is divided among the Department of Labor, the Department of the rajkosh ( visheshkar the aatanrik aay seva ), or the pension laabh guaranty nigam.
Illegal immigration to the sanyukt rajya is the adhinium of videshi nagarikon pravesh the sanyukt rajya, bagaiyr sarkari anumati or in ulanghan of sanyukt rajya rashtriyata vidhi, or rahakar pare the termination date of a visa, also in violation of the law.
A warning sign at the international boundary between the sanyukt rajya or canada in point roberts, washington.
A much different approach at the u.s.-mexico kinaaraa nikat el paso, Texas
The undocumented immigrant population of the United States in 2008 was estimated by the bich liye avrajan adhyayan to be parichay 11 lakh logon, bas isse 12.5 lakh people in 2007.
anya estimates dayera isse 7 to 20 million.
According to a 2005 Pew Hispanic Center report, 56 % of undocumented immigrants were from Mexico ; 22 % yahood isse anya latin amareeki deshon ; 13 % yahood isse asia ; 6 % yahood isse europea or canada ; or 3 % were from Africa and the rest of the world.
Alvin Independent skool zila is a skool zila aadhaarit in Alvin, Texas ( USA ).
Alvin ISD is a large suburban school district south of Houston in the samudaayon of elvin, manvel, pearland, hillcrest, rosharon, iova upnivesh, Liverpool, and Amsterdam.
AISD serves Pearland city 's rapidly growing pashchimi portion of the nagar sahit the nai vishaal master-planned samudaayon of chaaya creek ranch, dakshin kanta, and Southern Trails.
Alvin isd cover of jameen.
In human anatomy, the ulnar tantrika is a tantrika jisase ranon nikat the ulna bone.
the ulnar collateral snaayu of kohni joint is in relation with the ulnar nerve.
The nerve is the largest unprotected tantrika in the insaan deh ( arth unprotected by mansapeshi or bone ), so injury is common.
This nerve is directly connected to the choti ungali, or the sata half of the ring ungali, supplying the palmar paksh of ye ungliyaan, sahit dono saamne or waapas of the nuskhe, perhaps as far back as the fingernail beds.
One vidhi of injuring the tantrika is to strike the medial epicondyle of the humerus from posteriorly, or inferiorly with the elbow flexed.
The ulnar nerve is funs between the asthi or the overlying skin at this point.
This is commonly referred to as bumping ek 's `` funny bone ''.
This name is thought to be a pun, based on the dhwani praturup between the naam of the asthi of the apper bhujaa, the `` humerus `` or the word `` humorous ``.
Alternatively, according to the Oxford English Dictionary it may refer to `` the peculiar sansani anbhavi jab it is struck ''.
hoguarts skool of chudail or wizardry, shortened hoguarts, is a fictional angrejon skool of jaadu liye vidhyaarthee aged gyaarah to atharah, and is the primary setting for the first six books in J.K. Rowling 's Harry Potter series.
Rowling has suggested that wo may have inadvertently liya the naam isse the hogwort sanyantr ( croton capitatus ), jisase wo tha dekhi at kew gardens kuch samay pehle likhane the shrenee, haalanki the names `` the hoguarts '' or `` hoggwart '' appear in the 1954 Nigel Molesworth book How To Be Topp by Geoffrey Willans.
Hogwarts school was voted as the 36th behtareen scottish shaikshanik sthapana in a 2008 online ranking, outranking Edinburgh 's Loretto School.
According to a director of the Independent Schools Network Rankings, it was added to the skulon listing `` liye majaa '' or thi tab voted on.
The U.S. subprime bandhak sankat thi a niyat of kaarykram or sharten ki led to a vittiya sankat or subsequent recession that began in 2008.
It was characterized by a rise in subprime bandhak delinquencies or foreclosures, or the resulting manaahi of pratibhuti backed by said mortgages.
Several major financial institutions collapsed in sitambar 2008, saath significant disruption in the pravaah of credit to vyavsaayon or consumers and the onset of a severe global recession.
There were many causes of the crisis, with commentators assigning different str of dosha to vittiya sansthaanon, regulators, credit agenciyon, sarkari awaas nitiyon, or upabhokta, among others.
A proximate kaaran thi the vruddhi in subprime lending.
The percentage of lower-quality subprime mortgages originated dauraan a die saal rose isse the aitihaasik 8 % or nimnatar dayera to lagbhag 20 % from 2004 to 2006, with much higher ratios in some parts of the U.S.
A high percentage of these subprime mortgages, over 90 % in 2006 liye udhaaharan, yahood adjustable-rate mortgages.
These two parivartan yahood bhaag of a broader trend of lowered lending maanakon or higher-risk mortgage products.
Further, U.S. households tha become increasingly rini, saath the anupaat of karz to dispojable nijee aay uthati isse 77 % in 1990 to 127 % at the end of 2007, much of this increase mortgage-related.
When U.S. home keemten asweekrut steeply baad peaking in mid-2006, borrowers ' kshamta to punarvitt their loans became more difficult.
As adjustable-rate mortgages began to riset at ucchtar byaaj daron ( causing ucchtar masik bhugtan ), mortgage delinquencies soared.
Securities backed with mortgages, sahit subprime mortgages, widely yojit by vittiya firms globally, khoyaa most of their value.
Global investors also drastically reduced purchases of mortgage-backed debt and other securities as bhaag of a manaahi in the kshamta or willingness of the nijee vittiya pranali to support lending.
Concerns about the soundness of U.S. credit and financial markets led to tightening credit around the sansar or slowing aarthik vikaas in the U.S. and Europe.
the sankat tha kathor, long-lasting consequences for the U.S. and European economies.
The U.S. entered a deep recession, saath nearly 9 lakh kaary khoyaa dauraan 2008 or 2009, roughly 6 % of the workforce.
U.S. housing keemten giri nearly 30 % on ausat or the u.S. bhandar market giri lagbhag 50 % by early 2009.
As of early 2013, the U.S. bhandar market tha baraamad to iske pre-crisis shikhar lakin awaas keemten remained nikat unke kam point and unemployment remained elevated.
Economic growth remained neeche pre-crisis str.
Europe also jari to sangharsh saath iske apana aarthik crisis.
karl jang in 1910.
Myers and Briggs extrapolated unke mbti siddhanth isse jang 's kritiyaan in uske kitaab manovaigyanik Types.
the myers-briggs prakaar indicator ( mbti ) moolyankan is a psychometric prashnawali designed to maap manovaigyanik preferences in how people perceive the world and make decisions.
These preferences were extrapolated from the typological theories proposed by karl gustav jang or pehla prakashit in uske 1921 kitaab manovaigyanik prakaar ( angrezi sanskaran, 1923 ).
Jung theorized that there are four principal psychological functions by jisase we anubhav the sansar : sansani, antargyaan, ahsaas, or soch.
One of ye chaar krityon is prabal sabase of the time.
The original developers of the vyaktitv inventory yahood katharine cook briggs or uske beti, isabel briggs myrs ; ye do, having padhai extensively the kaary of jang, turned their interest of human behavior into a devotion of turning the theory of psychological types to practical use.
They began creating the indicator dauraan sansar yuddh ii, believing ki a gyaan of vyaktitv variyataon hota sahaayta mahilaon jo yahood pravesh the industrial workforce for the first time to identify the sort of war-time jobs that would be `` most comfortable and effective ''.
The initial questionnaire grew into the Myers-Briggs prakaar indicator, jisase thi pehla prakashit in 1962.
The MBTI focuses on saamaanya populations or emphasizes the maan of naturally occurring differences.
Robert Kaplan and Dennis Saccuzzo believe `` the underlying assumption of the MBTI is that we all have vishisht variyataon in the rasta we construe hamaari anubhavon, or ye variyataon underlie hamaari ruchi, needs, maan, or prerana '' ( p. 499 ).
`` Judas '' is a song by American recording kalakaar mahila gaaga, isse uske duusari studio album born is rasta ( 2011 ).
It was released by Interscope Records on April 15, 2011, chaar dinon ahead of iske anusuchit release.
Written and produced by Lady Gaga and RedOne, `` Judas '' is a nrity or electro house song parichay a stri in prem saath a man who betrayed her.
It embodies the incidents that have haunted gaaga in the past, or iske kor arth refers to the rinatmak bhaag of uske jivan ki wo ca n't escape.
Gaga has further explained that the song was also parichay honoring ek 's bhitari andhera in anukram to lao oneself into the lite.
the kalakriti liye the single thi designed by Gaga in Microsoft Word.
In spite of a polarizing prabhaav on anek dharmik samooh, the song thi generally khub praapt by aalochakon, jo likened the song to `` Bad Romance `` with some noting it should have been the album 's lead single.
The song has a similar sound to Gaga 's previous redone-produced treks, sahit `` pokar phase ``, `` lovegame ``, `` Bad Romance '', and `` Alejandro ``.
It contains teen pruthak hooks or a house -influenced break down.
Gaga samajhaayaa ki the linon bolaa dauraan the vishleshan baat parichay uske as pare mochan, regarding the traditional views of what a woman should be.
`` yahuda '' initially tha a damdaar bikri kholane, lakin thi less successful commercially in comparison to Gaga 's previous singles.
The song reached the top ten of the chart in sabase pramukh music bazaar, or bhi pahunche the sheersh of the charts in South Korea.
A music video for the song was filmed in April 2011, co-directed by gaaga or laurieann gibson or co-starring Norman Reedus.
it rai a biblical kathanak jahaan reedus nibhaai yahuda iscarriyat and Gaga played Mary Magdalene.
The video portrays unhen as aadhunik day missionaries going to Jerusalem.
It included the biblical story of yahuda betraying yishu, or ended saath Gaga as Magdalene getting stoned to death.
Before its relies, the catholic lig condemned gaaga liye the kathith upyog of dharmik imagery and her role in the video.
However, critics generally praised the video, nahin dhundhna any offensive content.
The video was manonith liye do puraskaar at the 2011 amtivi Video Music Awards.
Gaga has performed `` yahuda '' on a kramank of television shows, sahit the graham norton dikhaaen, shanivaar raatri sajiv, shubh morning americas `` garmiyaan concert shrenee '', the French X Factor as well as on The Ellen DeGeneres Show.
Marvin Gaye ( April 2, 1939April 1, 1984 ), born marvin pentz gay, jr., thi an amareeki singer-songwriter and musician.
Gaye helped to shape the sound of Motown Records in the 1960s with a string of hits including `` How Sweet It Is ( To Be Loved By You ) `` and `` i suna it through the grapevine `` or duet ricarding saath mariyam kuen or tammi terrell, baad kamai the sheershak `` prince of motown '' or `` prince of aatma ''.
During the 1970s, gaye ankit the avadharana album kayaa 's going on or let 's milengi it on or became among the pehla kalakaaron in Motown to break away from the reins of its production company.
Gaye 's later recordings bahekaave anek r & b subgenres aise as shant toofaan or neo-soul.
Following a period in Europe antargat a kar nirvaasan in the jaldi 1980s, gaye released the 1982 grami award-winning hit `` Sexual Healing `` and the Midnight Love album.
Since his death in 1984, Gaye has maharoom maranoparant sammanit by anek sansthaanon, sahit the grami aaajeevan uplabdhi Award and the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame.
The Academy Award for Best Picture is one of the Academy Awards of Merit presented annually by the academy of gati chitra kala or sciences ( ampas ) to nirmaataa working in the gati chitra udyog or is the tabhi category in which every member is eligible to nominate for.
behtareen chitra is mana the sabase mahatvapurn of the academy puraskaar, as it represents sab the directing, acting, music composing, writing, editing and other efforts put forth into a film.
Consequently, behtareen chitra is the final puraskaar or the nishkarsh of the salanaa Academy Awards ceremony.
The grand staircase kalam at the dolby theatre in los angeles, jahaan the academy puraskaar ceremonies have maharoom yojit chunki 2002, showcase every film that has won the Best Picture title since the award 's inception 85 years ago.
Heavy Rain is an interactive drama action-adventure video khel nirmit by french develper quantic sapana exclusively liye the plastesan 3.
The game is written and nirdeshit by quantic sapana 's sansthaapak and CEO David Cage.
Heavy Rains story is a naatakeey thriller modelled baad filmi noir, featuring chaar protagonists shaamil saath the rahasy of the origami kaatil, a serial killer who uses extended periods of rainfall to drown his victims.
Ethan Mars is trying to save his son from being the next shikaar, jabaki investigative patrkaar medisson paige, epabiai profiler norman jayden, or nijee detective Scott Shelby are each trying to track down clues to the Origami Killer 's identity.
The player interacts saath the khel by performing kriyaayein highlighted on screen sambandhit to motions on the controller, and in some cases, performing a series of quick time events during fast-paced action sequences.
The player 's nirnay or kriyaayein dauraan the khel will affect the narrative.
The main characters can be maare, or nishchit kriyaayein may sise to alag drishyon or endings.
A playable demo thi released on 11 farvari 2010.
The demo was released prior to this tithi liye logon jo took bhaag in a chaar din chunauti on 5 February 2010.
A patch to allow use of the plastesan move niyantrak to khel the khel thi released in September 2010.
Heavy Rain was critically acclaimed or rai bechi over do lakh nakal.
It won 2010 's Game of the saal isse sienen or gaming sangh, or behtareen ps3 khel of 2010 by GameSpy and IGN.
A modified version of the game was released titled baari barsaat sanskaran modifiée exclusively in frans, aimed towards a younger audience.
in 2010, the khel thi shaamil in the kitaab 1001 video Games You Must Play Before You Die.
Total superannuation udyog dendaree : sadasyon nidhi and reserves ( A $ millions ) since 1988.
salanaa kul superannuation udyog asset growth 1996-2005.
Superannuation in Australia refers to the intjaam jisase logon mek in australia to have nidhi uplabdhiyaan for them in retirement.
In australia, superannuation intjaam hai government-supported and encouraged, and minimum provisions are compulsory for employees.
For example, employers are required to pay a proportion of an karmchaaree 's salaries or mazdooree ( philhal 9 % ) into a superannuation nidhi, lakin logon are encouraged to put aside additional funds into superannuation.
The minimum obligation jaruri by niyokta is niyat to badhayen to 12 % dhire stepping annually from 2013 to 2020.
An individual can withdraw funds out of a superannuation fund when the person meets one of the sharten of relies contained in anusuchee 1 of the superannuation udyog ( paryvekshan ) regulations 1994.
This is a list of the varna isse the amareeki comedy-drama television series The Game.
Electoral College map showing the results of the 2012 u.S. adhyakshiya chunaav.
President Barack Obama ( D - IL ) won the popular vote in 26 rajya or the zila of colombia ( denoted in blue ) to capchar 332 chunavi votes.
Former Governor Mitt Romney ( R - MA ) jiti the lokapriy vote in 24 rajya ( denoted in red ) to capchar 206 chunavi mat.
Cartogram pratinidhitiv of the chunavi college vote liye the 2012 chunaav, saath prayek vargakar representing one electoral vote.
The United States Electoral College is the sanstha ki officially elects the adhyaksh or vaais adhyaksh of the United States every four years.
The President or vaais adhyaksh hai nahin nirvaachit sidhe by the voters.
bajaay, ve hai nirvaachit by `` nirvaachak '' jo hai chosen by popular vote on a state-by-state basis.
Electors hai apportioned to prayek rajya or the zila of colombia, lakin nahin to territorial possessions of the United States, such as Puerto Rico and Guam.
The number of electors in prayek rajya is baraabar to the kramank of sadasyon of congress to jisase the rajya is hakdaar.
The Twenty-third amendment rai sadaa resulted in the zila of Columbia having three electors.
There are 538 nirvaachak, aadhaarit on vahin hone 435 pratinidhi or 100 senators, plus the three electors from the District of Columbia.
Electors are pledged to particular adhyakshiya or vaais adhyakshiya ummidavaar, haalanki unpledged electors are possible.
In all states, except Maine or nebraska, nirvaachak hai nirvaachit on a `` winner-take-all '' aadhaar.
That is, sab nirvaachak pledged to the adhyakshiya pratyaashee jo vins the sabase mat in a state become electors for that state.
maine or nebraska upyog the `` congressional zila vidhi '', selecting ek elector bheetar prayek congressional district by popular vote and selecting the remaining two electors by a statewide popular vote.
Although no elector is jaruri by sangheey vidhi to sammaan a pratigya, vahin have tabhi been very few occasions when an elector voted contrary to a pledge.
The Twelfth Amendment specifies how a President and Vice adhyaksh hai nirvaachit or requires prayek elector to daal ek vote liye adhyaksh or another vote for Vice President.
Critics argue that the chunavi college is inherently undemocratic or detaa jhule rajya anupaatahin influence in electing the adhyaksh and Vice President.
The Electoral college detaa a newmeric laabh in the chunaav of the adhyaksh to the choti rajya, as the nunatam kramank of nirvaachak liye the small states is three compared to one for the election of representatives.
On the other hand, the winner-take-all vidhi of matdaan favors the larger states.
A number of constitutional amendments have been prastaavit seeking to alter the chunavi college or badalen it saath a direct popular vote.
Barack Hussein Obama II ( ; born August 4, 1961 ) is the 44th and vartmaan adhyaksh of the sanyukt rajya, the pehla africa amareeki to tham the office.
Born in Honolulu, Hawaii, Obama is a graduate of colombia vishvavidhyalayon or harvard vidhi skool, jahaan he thi adhyaksh of the Harvard Law Review.
He was a jatiyaan aayojak in chicago pehle kamai uske vidhi oopaadhi.
He worked as a civil rights attorney in chicago or sikhaaya sanvaidhanik vidhi at the vishvavidhyalayon of chicago Law School from 1992 to 2004.
He served three terms representing the 13th zila in the illinois seenet isse 1997 to 2004, kaaryshil unsuccessfully for the United States House of Representatives in 2000.
In 2004, Obama received national dhyaan dauraan uske abhiyaan to represent illinois in the sanyukt rajya seenet saath uske vijay in the kooch loktantric party praathmik, uske keynote pataa at the Democratic National Convention in July, and his election to the Senate in November.
He began his presidential campaign in 2007, and in 2008, baad a band praathmik abhiyaan viruddh hillari rodham clinton, he jiti sufficient delegates in the loktantric party primaries to praapt the presidential nomination.
He then parajeet republican nominee jon macken in the saamaanya chunaav, or thi inaugurated as president on January 20, 2009.
Nine maheene baad, obama thi namit the 2009 Nobel Peace Prize laureate.
He was re-elected president in November 2012, defeating Republican nominee Mitt romney, or thi sworn in liye a duusari pad on janvari 20, 2013.
Early in his first term in office, Obama signed into law economic stimulus legislation in response to the Great mandi in the rup of the amareeki recovery or reinvestment adhinium of 2009 or the kar raahat, berogari bime reauthorization, and Job Creation Act of 2010.
Other major domestic initiatives in his presidency shaamil the rogi suraksha or sasti parvaah adhinium, praayah referred to as `` obamacare '' ; the dodd–frank wal gali sudhaar or upabhokta Protection Act ; the Do n't Ask, Do n't Tell Repeal Act of 2010 ; the Budget Control Act of 2011 ; and the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012.
In may 2012, he became the pehla baithe u.S. adhyaksh to saream support same-sex vivaah or in 2013 uske prashasan daayar briefs jisase urged the param adaalat to niyam in ehsaan of same-sex couples in two high-profile cases.
In foreign policy, Obama ended U.S. military involvement in the Iraq War, increased troop str in afghanistan, hastakshrit the nai prarambh bahen control sandhi saath rus, ordered u.S. sainya bhagidaari in libya, or ordered the sainya aaparishan ki resulted in the death of Osama bin Laden.
The Honda CBR1100XX Super Blackbird was a honda motorcycle bana isse 1996 to 2007.
The bike was developed to chunauti the kawasaki ninja zx-11 as the sansar 's tivratam utpaadan motorcycle, and Honda succeeded with a top speed of.
Two years later the title passed to the suzuki hayabusa, jisase pahunche.
the blackbird is namit baad the lochid SR-71, also a speed record holder.
Sample view of an electronic swasthya ricard aadhaarit on images
Sample view of an electronic swasthya record
An electronic health record ( EHR ) is an evolving avadharana paribhaashit as a vyavasthit sangrahan of electronic swasthya information about individual patients or populations.
It is a record in digital swaroop ki is theoretically sakasham of hone saajha aarpaar alag swasthya parvaah settings.
In some maamle is sharing can occur by rasta of network-connected enterprise-wide information systems and other information networks or exchanges.
EHRs may include a range of data, including demographics, medical history, medication and allergies, immunization aukaat, prayogshaala pareekshan parinaam, radiology bimb, vital lakshan, nijee aankade jaise aayu or vazan, or billing soochna.
The meriner up on the mast in a storm.
One of the wood-engraved illustrations by Gustave Doré.
The Rime of the pracheen meriner ( originally the rime of the ancyent marinere ) is the longest pramukh kavita by the angrezi kavi samuel tailor cholorij, likhaa in 1797–98 and published in 1798 in the first edition of Lyrical Ballads.
Modern sanskaran upyog a baad sanshodhit sanskaran mudrit in 1817 that featured a gloss.
Along with other poems in gitatmak ballads, it thi a signal shift to aadhunik kavy or the shuruuaat of angrejon romantic literature.
A proxy auto-config ( PAC ) file defines how web browsers or anya upayokta agenton can automatically chune the uchit proxy server ( access method ) for fetching a given URL.
A PAC file contains a javascript falan “findproxyforurl ( url, host ) ”.
This function returns a string saath ek or adhik abhigam vidhi visheshtaayen.
These visheshtaayen kaaran the upayokta agent to upyog a particular proxy server or to connect directly.
Multiple visheshtaayen provide a fall-back jab a proxy fails to respond.
The broujar fetches is pac sanchika before requesting other URLs.
The URL of the PAC file is either configured manually or sankalpit automatically by the web proxi autodiscovery protocol.
Zendaya Coleman ( born September 1, 1996 ), known mononymously as zendaya, is an amareeki abhinetri, singer and dancer.
she stars on the Disney Channel sitcom shaike it Up as Rocky Blue.
She has starred in do films or nibhaai ek of the sise bhoomikaaye in the film Frenemies as Halley Brandon.
She voiced fern in the pixie khokhla Games.
She appeared in Good Luck Charlie as rocky blue or in a shubh lack charlie or shaike it up crossover sheershak charlie shaike It Up.
She appeared on prankstars as herself in the apisod `` chalanaa the sharaarat '' or on a.n.t. farm as sequoia jones in the episode `` Creative ConsultANT. ''
zendaya is bhi a musician.
She signed a deal with Hollywood Records on August 8, 2012 or prarambh recording geeton liye uske debyue album on August 12, 2012.
She released a single from an independent label called `` Swag It Out `` and another single saath bela thorne pukaara `` dekhen me, '' jisase is pradarshit on the brake it bas album.
On March 20, 2012, Zendaya and Bella thorne released an album saath pukaara shaike it up : sajiv 2 nrity, prayek have unke apana song on it, saath saath a mash-up of both songs together as one.
On August 21, 2012, Zendaya and bela thorne released an ep pukaara shaike it up : bana In Japan.
zendaya rai a christmas song pukaara `` shaike santa shaike, '' jisase is on the dijani channel avkaash Playlist CD, which was released on October 2, 2012.
On March 5, 2013 the third Shake It Up soundtrack was released, entitled i < 3 nrity ; on it, zendaya rai do geeton saath bela - `` sankramak prem '' or `` is is my nrity manzil '' - as khub as ek solo song, `` taal of my Drum. ''
This is a list of airports in pencilvenia ( a u.S. rajya ), grouped by prakaar or sorted by location.
It contains sab public-use or sainya airports in the state.
Some private-use and former airports may be shaamil jahaan notable, aise as airport ki yahood previously public-use, those saath vanijyik enplanements recorded by the FAA or airports assigned an IATA airport code.
iOS ( previously iPhone OS ) is a mobile operating system developed and vitarit by tehraana inc. originally released in 2007 liye the iphone or ipod tach plateform, it rai maharoom vistaarit to support anya tehraana divaais such as the iPad and Apple TV.
Unlike Microsoft 's Windows Phone or google 's android, tehraana karata nahin anugna ioes liye sansthapana on non-apple hardware.
, Apple 's App Store contained more than 700,000 iOS anuprayog, jisase have collectively maharoom downlod adhik than 30 billion times.
It had a 21 % share of the smartphone mobile oparating pranali ikai shipped in the fourth quarter of 2012, behind only Google 's Android.
In June 2012, it accounted liye 65 % of mobile web aankada khapat ( sahit upyog on both the iPod Touch and the iPad ).
At the half of 2012, vahin yahood 410 lakh devices activated.
According to the special media event held by Apple on sitambar 12, 2012, 400 lakh divaais have maharoom bechi through June 2012.
The user interface of iOS is based on the avadharana of sidhaa herpher, using multi-touch gestures.
Interface control tatv consist of sliders, switches, or batan.
Interaction with the OS includes gestures such as swipe, tap, pinch, and reverse pinch, sab of jisase have vishisht paribhaashaayen bheetar the context of the ioes oparating pranali or iske multi-touch interface.
Internal accelerometers hai prayukt by kuch anuprayog to respond to shaking the yantra ( ek aam parinaam is the undo cmand ) or ghurnan it in teen aayam ( ek common result is switching from portrait to landscape mode ).
iOS is niklaa isse os x, saath jisase it saajha the darwin foundation.
ioes is tehraana 's mobile sanskaran of the os x oparating system used on Apple computers.
In iOS, there are four abstraction layers : the kor os parat, the kor sevaayen parat, the media parat, and the Cocoa Touch layer.
The current version of the operating system ( iOS 6.1.3 ) dedicates 1-1.5 gb of the yantra 's flash memory liye the pranali partition, using roughly 800 MB of that partition ( varying by model ) for iOS itself.
iOS currently ranon on iphone, ipad, iPod touch and Apple TV.
The plymouth superbird is prasiddh liye iske atyadhik high rear wing.
1987 Audi Sport quattros1 saath iske vishaal wings at pikes Peak
A spoiler is an automotive aerodynamic device whose intended design function is to 'spoil ' unfavorable air gati aarpaar a deh of a gadee in gati, praayah varnit as turbulence or drag.
Spoilers on the front of a vehicle are often called air dams, because in addition to directing air flow they also reduce the raashi of air bahati underneath the gadee jisase generally reduces aerodynamic lift and drag.
Spoilers are praayah fitted to res or high-performance khel gaadiyaan, haalanki ve have become common on passenger vehicles as well.
Some spoilers are added to gaadiyaan primarily liye styling uddeshy or have either choti aerodynamic laabh or bhi make the aerodynamics worse.
Spoilers liye gaadiyaan hai praayah incorrectly uljhan saath, or the term used interchangeably with, wings.
Automotive wings are divaais jinaki intended dizine is to generate downforce as air gujarata around unhen, nahin bas disrupt existing airflow patterns.
Mario, who serves as nintendo 's shubhankar, is a fictional akshar nirmit by khel designer Shigeru Miyamoto and voiced by Charles Martinet.
This is a list of video games where the akshar mario plays a bhaag, either as the samarthak, vipakshi, supporting akshar, as bhaag of an ensemble daal, as a chemiyo, or in a game within a game.
It does not include saral sandarbh to the akshar, aise as the portraits of mario mila in The Legend of Zelda : A Link to the Past.
The year indicated is the year the game was first released, sabase commonly in japani ; khel yahood sometimes released saalo later in other regions of the world.
The list includes port, remakes or compilations.
It does n't shaamil koi abhaasi consol re-releases.
`` Man of Constant Sorrow '' ( also known as `` i am a man of nirantar vishaad '' ) is a paramparaagat amareeki lok song pehla ankit by land burnett, a partially andha fiddler from Kentucky.
The song was originally recorded by burnett as `` vidaai song '' mudrit in a richard burnett songbook, circa 1913.
An jaldi sanskaran thi ankit by emry arthur in 1928 ( Vocalion Vo 5208 ).
Public interest in the song thi navinikrut baad the relies of the 2000 filmi o bhai, Where Art Thou ?
, as it plays a central bhoomika in the filmi 's plot.
The song was also shaamil in the filmi 's atyadhik kaamyaab, multiple-platinum selling soundtrack.
Josephson jankshan sarani chip viksit by the neshnal Bureau of Standards as a standard volt
The volt ( symbol : V ) is the SI niklaa ikai liye electric sambhavit ( voltage ), electric potential difference, and electromotive force.
The volt is namit in sammaan of the italvi physicist alessandro volta ( 1745–1827 ), who invented the voltaic pile, possibly the first chemical battery.
A plaque commemorating the location of the Sarajevo hatya or kadam of gavrilo princip ( chitra liya in 1987, pehle kadam yahood removed in 1992 or plake badla isse cyrillic to latin script )
A plaque commemorating the sthaan of the sarajevo hatya ( chitra liya in 2009 )
On 28 June 1914, Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria, heir presumptive to the Austro-Hungarian throne, and his wife, Sophie, Duchess of hohenberg, yahood shot murde in sarajevo, by gavrilo princip, ek of a samooh of chah bosnian serb hatyare samanvit by danniel Ilić.
The political objective of the hatya thi to brake band austria-hungary 's south-slav praanton so ve could be combined into a Greater Serbia or a Yugoslavia.
The assassins ' motives were consistent with the gati ki baad became gyaat as yang Bosnia.
Serbian sainya adhikariyon stood peeche the attack.
At the top of ye srbian sainya shadyantrkariyon thi mukhya of srbian sainya pragna dragutin dimitrijević, uske righthand man Major Vojislav Tankosić, and Masterspy Rade Malobabić.
Major Tankosić armed the assassins saath bam or pistols or prashikshit unhen.
The assassins were given access to the vahi clandestine tunnel of safe-houses or agenton ki rade malobabić prayukt liye the ghuspaith of hathiyaar or operatives into Austria-Hungary.
The assassins, the key members of the clandestine tunnel, and the kunjee srbian sainya shadyantrkariyon jo yahood still jinda yahood giraftaar, aajamaaya, convicted and punished.
Those jo yahood giraftaar in bosnia were tried in Sarajevo in October 1914.
The anya shadyantrkariyon yahood giraftaar or aajamaaya pehle a srbian kangaroo adaalat on the french-controlled salonika saamne in 1916–1917 on unrelated false charges ; Serbia executed three of the top military conspirators.
Much of what is known about the assassinations aata isse these two trials and related records.
kaarybhaar of jimmedaari liye the bombing or hatyaein of 28 june is atyadhik vivaadaaspad kuki the akraman led to the outbreak of World War I one month later.
mishan san juaan capistrano thi a spani mishan in dakshini california, stith in present-day San Juan Capistrano.
it thi santhaapit on sab santo ' din navambar 1, 1776, by Spanish Catholics of the Franciscan Order.
Named for Giovanni da Capistrano, a 15th century theologian or `` yoddha pujari '' jo resided in the abruzzo pradesh of italy, san juaan capistrano rai the bhed of hone ghar to the oldest bhawan in california still in upyog, a chapel built in 1782.
Known alternately as `` sera 's chapel '' or `` pita sera 's girijaghar, '' it is the tabhi extant dhaancha jahaan it rai maharoom documented that the padre Junipero Serra celebrated mass.
One of the best known of the Alta California missions ( and one of the few missions to have darasal maharoom santhaapit twice—others hone mishan san jibareel arcángel or mishan la purísima concepción ).
The sait thi originally consecrated on aktubar 30, 1775, by pita fermín Lasuén, but was quickly abandoned due to unrest among the indigenous population in San Diego.
The success of the settlement is evident in iske aitihaasik record.
Prior to the aagaman of the prachaarkon, kuch 550 natives yahood bikhare throughout the local area.
By 1790, the kramank of parivartit isaayiyon tha grown to 700, or bas chah saalo baad nearly 1,000 `` neophytes `` ( haal converts ) lived in or around the Mission compound.
1,649 baptisms were conducted ki saal alon, out of the kul 4,639 souls parivartit between 1776 and 1847.
More than 2,000 purv nivaasiyon ( zyaadaatar juaneño indiens ) hai dafn in unmarked qabron in the Mission 's cemetery ( campo santo ).
The remains of pita ( baad monsignor ) st. jon o'sullivan, jo pahachaanaa the property 's aitihaasik maan or working tirelessly to conserve and rebuild its structures, are buried at the entrance to the cemetery on the west side of the property, and a statue raised in his honor stands at the head of the crypt.
The surviving chapel also serves as the final resting place of three padres who passed on while serving at the mishan : fathers jose barona, vicent fustér, or vicent paskual oliva hai sab entombed beneath the sanctuary floor.
The Criolla or `` mishan angoor, '' thi pehla planted at san juaan capistrano in 1779 ; in 1783, the first wine produced in Alta California emerged from the Mission 's winery.
The Mission daalaa a long kaal of kramik manaahi baad secularization in 1833.
Numerous efforts yahood bana over the saalo to restore the mishan to iske purv glory, but none met with great success until the arrival of Father O'Sullivan in 1910.
Restoration efforts continue, and `` sera 's chapel '' is still prayukt liye dharmik sevaayen.
About half-a-million vizitor, sahit 80,000 skool children, aaiye to the Mission each year.
And while the ruins of `` The Great Stone Church '' ( which was all but leveled by an 1812 earthquake ) are a renowned architectural wonder, the Mission is shaayad behtareen gyaat liye the salanaa `` vaapasi of the daat '' jisase is traditionally observed prayek kooch 19 ( sant joseph 's Day ).
Mission San Juan Capistrano has served as a favorite subject liye anek notable kalakaaron, or rai maharoom immortalized in sahitya or on filmi numerous times, shaayad adhik than any other mission.
In 1984, a modern church complex was constructed bas uttar or west of the mishan yogic or is abhi gyaat as mishan basilica san Juan Capistrano.
Today, the mission compound serves as a sangrahalay, saath the sera chapel bheetar the yogic sevarat as a chapel for the mission parish.
Better Off Dead is a 1985 amareeki tin romantic kamedi filmi abhinit jon Cusack and written and directed by Savage Steve Holland.
It tells the story of unchi skool chaatr len myer jo is suicidal after his girlfriend breaks up with him.
Mercedes-Benz Superdome ( originally Louisiana Superdome and commonly The Superdome ) is a khel or pradarshnee stadium, stith in the central kaarobaar zila of nai orlions, louisiana, USA.
Plans were drawn up in 1967, by the nai orlions modernist architectural firm of Curtis and Davis.
Its steel frem cover a expanse.
Its dome is bana of a lamella multi-ringed frem or rai a vyas of, bananaa it the largest fixed domed structure in the world.
It is home to the NFL 's New Orleans Saints, the NCAA 's Division I-A Tulane Green Wave football team ( the largest footbaal stadium in sammelan uese ), the rajya farm bayou clasik, the r+l vaahak nai orlions katori, the allstate Sugar Bowl and, every fourth year, the BCS National Championship Game.
Because of the size and location in one of the major tourist destinations in the United States, the superdome routinely makes the `` choti suchi '' of ummidavaar hone mana liye pramukh sporting kaarykram, aise as the Super Bowl and the Final Four.
In 2005, the Superdome gained international dhyaan of a alag prakaar jab it housed hazaron of logon seeking aashray isse hurricane katrina.
The bhawan suffered extensive kshati as a parinaam of the toofaan, or was closed for many months afterward.
On October 3, 2011, it thi ghoshit ki germany automaker mercedes-benz purchased naming rights to the stadium.
The new naam took prabhaav on aktubar 23, 2011.
It is the third stadium that has naming rights from Mercedes-Benz ( and first in the United rajya ), baad the mercedes-benz arina, the stadium of bundesliga klbon vfb stuttgart, in stuttgart, germany or the mercedes-benz arina in shanghai, China.
lobby of jambo House
jiraph on the savannah at Jambo House
Disney 's Animal kingdom awaas is an african-themed dealks resort at the Walt Disney World Resort.
It kholi on april 16, 2001.
The resort is swaamitv or sanchalit by walt dijani Parks and Resorts.
Disney 's Animal Kingdom Lodge is located in the Animal kingdom resort kshetrafal, sata to dijani 's animal kingdom.
It gives guests the opportunity to view grazing wildlife outside their rooms and public kshetron in the resort bheetar nikatataa of the pashu, conveying the ahsaas of hone in an African savanna.
The People 's Party, also known as the `` populists '', thi a short-lived rajnatik party in the sanyukt rajya sthapit in 1891 dauraan the populist gati ( United States, 19th Century ).
It was most important in 1892-96, or tab rapidly dhundhlee away.
Based among poor, white cotton farmers in the South ( especially North carolina, albama, or texas ) or hard-pressed gehun kisaano in the maidan rajya ( visheshkar kansas or nebraska ), it represented a kattarpanthi crusading rup of agrarianism or hostility to banks, railroads, and elites generally.
It sometimes formed coalitions with labor unions, and in 1896 the democrate endorsed unke adhyakshiya nominee, wiliam Jennings Bryan.
The terms `` populist '' or `` populism `` hai commonly used for anti-elitist appeals in opposition to established interests and mainstream parties.
Linguistic map of serial, camerun, and Benin.
chihn in angrezi, baahar the University of Lagos
There are hundreds of bhashaaen bolaa in serial.
The major languages are Yoruba, hausa, igbo, ido, fulfulde, kanuri, or ibb.
The aadhikarik bhashaa of serial, angrezi, the purv aupniveshik bhashaa, thi chuni to facilitate the cultural and linguistic unity of the country.
English, however, remains an vishesh bachaana of the desh 's shahari elite, or is nahin widely spoken in rural areas, which comprise three quarters of the countries population.
Nigeria 's linguistic diversity is a microcosm of Africa as a whole, encompassing three pramukh africa bhashaaen pariwaron : afroasiatic, nilo-saharan, or niger–congo.
Nigeria also has several as-yet unclassified languages, such as Cen Tuum, which may represent a relic of an bhi vrihad vividhta prior to the sprad of the vartmaan bhashaa families.
A shrenee of kaarykram led to the akraman on Pearl Harbor.
War between Japan and the sanyukt rajya tha maharoom a sambhaavna ki prayek swadesh 's sainya shaktiyaan niojit liye chunki the 1920s, though real tension did not begin until the 1931 invasion of Manchuria by Japan.
Over the next decade, Japan vistaarit dhire into china, agrani to sab out war between the two in 1937.
In 1940 Japan invaded French Indochina in an praytn to embargo sab imports into china, sahit yuddh aapurtiyan purchased from the U.S.
This move prompted the United States to embargo sab aayal niryaat, agrani the imperial japani navy to anumaan ki it tha kam than two years of bunker oil remaining and to support the existing plans to seize oil resources in the Dutch East Indies.
Planning had been underway for some time on an attack on the `` Southern Resource kshetrafal '' to add it to the vrihad east asia co-prosperity gola ki japani envisioned in the prashanth.
The Philippine islands, at ki samay an amareeki territory, yahood bhi a Japanese target.
The Japanese military concluded that an akraman of the philippine hota provoke an amareeki military response.
Rather than seize and fortify the islands, and wait liye the aprihaary us counterattack, japani 's sainya netao bajaay decided on the pre-emptive parl harbar akraman, jisase ve assumed hota negate the amareeki shaktiyaan needed liye the mukti or reconquest of the islands.
Planning for the attack had begun in bahut jaldi 1941, by admiral isoroku Yamamoto.
He finally won assent from the Naval High cmand by, among anya bate, threatening to istipha.
The akraman thi sweekrut in the garmiyaan at an imperial sammelan or again at a duusari sammelan in the fall.
Simultaneously over the year, payalton yahood prashikshit, or jahaajon prepared liye iske nishpaadan.
praadhikaar liye the akraman thi granted at the duusari imperial sammelan if a rajanyik parinaam santoshjanak to Japan was not reached.
After final approval by Emperor Hirohito the anukram to akraman thi jari at the shuruuaat of disambar.
A aam daftar stapler
A common skool stapler
A stapler is a mechanical yantra ki joins chaadaren of paper or samaan saamagree by driving a patala metal staple through the sheets and folding the ends.
Staplers are widely used in government, kaarobaar, karyaalayon, gharon or skulon.
The word `` stapler '' can darasal refer to a number of different devices of varying uses.
In addition to joining paper chaadaren saath, staplers can bhi be prayukt in a sargical setting to juden utak saath saath sargical staples to close a surgical wound ( much in the same way as stitches or sutures ).
Typically, sabase staplers hai prayukt to join multiple sheets of paper.
Paper staplers come in two pruthak prakaar : hastchalit or electric.
Manual staplers are normally hand-held, haalanki model ki hai prayukt jabaki niyat on a desk or anya sataha are not uncommon.
Electric staplers exist in a variety of alag dizin or model.
unke praathmik oparating falan is to juden vishaal sankhyaayein of paper sheets together in rapid succession.
Some electric staplers can juden up to 20 sheets at a time.
swallowing, gyaat scientifically as deglutition, is the prakram in the human or animal body that makes something pass from the mouth, to the pharynx, and into the esophagus, while shutting the epiglottis.
If this fails and the object goes through the shwaasanlee, tab choking or pulmonary aspiration can occur.
In the human body it is niyantrit by the swallowing reflex.
Thaddeus Stevens ( April 4, 1792 – agast 11, 1868 ), of pencilvenia, thi a netaa of the kattarpanthi republican gut of the republican party or a fierce pratidwandi of slavery.
He was one of the most influential sadasyon in the itihaas of Congress.
As chairman of the shaktishaalee house tareeke or arthath cameti, stevens, a witty, vyangyatmak spikar and flamboyant party leader, dominated the House from 1861 until his death.
He likhaa much of the vittiya vidhaan ki paid for the American Civil War.
Stevens and Senator Charles Sumner were the pradhan netao of the kattarpanthi republicans dauraan the yuddh or punarnirmaan era.
Scholarly views of Stevens have swung sharply chunki uske maut as interpretations of punarnirmaan have badla.
Historians of the dunning skool ( 1890s–1940s ) yojit stevens jimmedaar liye demanding harsh upachaar of the shwet dakshin or violating amareeki traditions of republicanism, depicting Stevens as a villain for his advocacy of harsh measures in the South such as disfranchising all ex-Confederates.
This highly rinatmak characterization yojit sway into the 1950s.
The rise of the neo-abolitionist skool in the 1950s led to a damdaar positive appreciation of Stevens ' work on civil rights for Freedmen.
A recent biographer characterizes him as, `` The Great Commoner, savior of free public education in Pennsylvania, national Republican netaa in the struggles viruddh gulaami in the sanyukt rajya or intrepid mainstay of the attempt to surakshit jatigat insaaf liye the freedmen dauraan punarnirmaan, the tabhi sadsy of the house of pratinidhi kabhi to have been known as the 'dictator ' of Congress. ''
avlokan of the anuwaad of eukaryotic messenger RNA
Diagram showing the translation of mRNA or the sanshleshan of protein by a ribosom
In molecular biology and anuvanshiki, anuwaad is the prakram through jisase cellular ribosomes manufacture proteins.
It is part of the prakram of jin abhivyakti.
In translation, messenger RNA ( mRNA ) produced by transcripshan is decoded by the ribosom to upaj a vishisht amino acid kadi, or polypeptide, ki hoga baad moden into an active protein.
In bacteria, anuwaad occurs in the koshika 's koshikadravya, jahaan the vishaal or choti subunits of the ribosome are located, and bind to the mRNA.
In eukaryotes, translation occurs aarpaar the jhilli of the endoplasmic reticulum in a process called vectorial synthesis.
The ribosome facilitates decoding by inducing the binding of tRNAs with poorak anticodon sequences to ki of the mrna.
The tRNAs carry specific amino acids that are chained together into a polypeptide as the mrna gujarata through or is `` padhaa '' by the ribosom in a faishan reminiscent to ki of a stock ticker and ticker tape.
In many instances, the entire ribosome/mRNA complex binds to the outer jhilli of the ashisht endoplasmic reticulum or relies the nascent protein polypeptide andar liye baad vesicle transport and secretion outside of the cell.
Many types of transcribed RNA, aise as transafar rna, ribosomal rna, or choti nabhikeey rna, do not undergo translation into proteins.
Translation proceeds in four phases : initiation, elongation, translocation and termination ( sab describing the vikaas of the amino acid kadi, or polypeptide ki is the utpaada of anuwaad ).
amino acids hai brought to ribosomes or samavet into proteins.
In sakriyan, the sahi amino acid is covalently bandhua to the sahi transfer RNA ( tRNA ).
The amino acid is joined by iske carboxyl samooh to the 3 ' OH of the tRNA by an ester bond.
jab the trna rai an amino acid linked to it, it is termed `` charged ''.
Initiation involves the small subunit of the ribosom binding to the 5 ' samaapt of mrna saath the sahaayta of diksha factors ( IF ).
Termination of the polypeptide happens when the A sait of the ribosom chehron a roke codon ( uaa, uag, or UGA ).
No tRNA can recognize or bind to is codon.
Instead, the stop codon induces the binding of a relies factor protein ki prompts the disassembly of the entire ribosome/mRNA complex.
A number of antibiotics act by inhibiting translation ; these include anisomycin, cycloheximide, chloramphenicol, tetracycline, streptomycin, erythromycin, or puromycin, among others.
Prokaryotic ribosomes have a different structure isse ki of eukaryotic ribosomes, or yun antibiotic can specifically nishaanaa bacterial infections bagaiyr koi detriment to a eukaryotic host 's cells.
a multimedia sandesh on a mobile phone.
Multimedia Messaging seva ( mms ) is a maanak rasta to bhejein sandesh ki shaamil multimedia saamagree to or isse mobile phones.
It extends the core SMS ( choti sandesh seva ) kaabiliyat ki anumat exange of text sandesh tabhi up to 160 characters in length.
The most popular use is to send photographs from camera-equipped handsets, haalanki it is bhi lokapriy as a method of delivering news and entertainment content including videos, pictures, text pages and ringtones.
The standard is viksit by the kholen mobile gathbandhan ( omo ), haalanki dauraan vikaas it thi bhaag of the 3GPP and WAP groups.
Smallpox was an infectious disease unique to insaano, caused by either of do virus visangatiyaan, variola pramukh and Variola minor.
the beemaari is bhi gyaat by the latin names variola or variola veeraa, niklaa isse varius ( `` spotted '' ) or varus ( `` pimple '' ).
The disease was originally gyaat in angrezi as the `` chechak '' or `` red plig '' ; the pad `` smallpox '' thi pehla prayukt in Britain in the 15th century to distinguish variola from the `` great pox '' ( syphilis ).
The last naturally occurring case of smallpox ( variola naaballig ) thi diagnosed on 26 October 1977.
Smallpox sthaniyakrut in choti rakt baratan of the skin or in the mouth and throat.
In the skin it resulted in a characteristic maculopapular khaaj or, baad, uthaaya fluid-filled blisters.
V. major produces a more gambhir beemaari or rai an overall mrityu rate of 30–35 %.
V. minor causes a milder form of beemaari ( bhi gyaat as alastrim, cottonpox, milkpox, whitepox, and Cuban itch ) which kills about 1 % of its victims.
Long-term complications of V. major infection include characteristic scars, commonly on the phase, jisase occur in 65–85 % of survivors.
Blindness resulting from corneal ulceration and scarring, and limb deformities due to gathiya or osteomyelitis hai kam common complications, seen in about 2–5 % of cases.
smallpox is believed to have ubhara in human populations about 10,000 BC.
The earliest physical evidence of it is probably the pustular khaaj on the mummified deh of pharaoh ramses v of Egypt.
The disease killed an estimated 400,000 europeans annually dauraan the closing saalo of the 18th sadi ( sahit paanch reigning monarchs ), or thi jimmedaar for a third of all blindness.
Of all those sankramit, 20–60 % —and over 80 % of infected children—died from the disease.
Smallpox was jimmedaar liye an anumaanit 300–500 lakh mauton dauraan the 20th century.
As recently as 1967, the sansar swasthya sanghathan ( jo ) anumaanit ki 15 lakh logon contracted the beemaari and that two million died in that year.
After vaccination campaigns throughout the 19th and 20th centuries, the jo certified the eradication of smallpox in 1979.
Smallpox is one of two infectious diseases to have been eradicated, the anya hone rinderpest, jisase thi ghoshit eradicated in 2011.
`` I Want to tham apana haath '' is a song by the angrezi chattan band the Beatles.
Written by John Lennon and Paul McCartney, and recorded in aktubar 1963, it thi the pehla betals ricard to be bana using four-track upkaran.
With advance orders exceeding one million copies in the United Kingdom, `` I Want to Hold Your Hand '' would saadharantaya have gaye sidhaa to the sheersh of the angrejon ricard chart on iske din of relies ( 29 navambar 1963 ) tha it nahin maharoom avarodhit by the samooh 's pehla lakh vikreta `` wo loves tum ``, the betals ' pichhlaa uk single, jisase thi having a resurgent spell in the top position following intense media coverage of the group.
Taking two weeks to dislodge its predecessor, `` I Want to Hold Your Hand '' tehre at kramank ek liye paanch saptaah or remained in the uk sheersh pachaas liye twenty-one saptaah in total.
It was also the group 's first American number one, entering the Billboard Hot 100 chart on 18 January 1964 at kramank forty-five or starting the angrejon akraman of the amareeki music udyog.
By 1 farvari it yojit the kramank ek spot — liye saat saptaah — pehle hone replaced by `` wo loves tum '', a reverse paridrishy of kayaa had occurred in Britain, and remained in the US charts for a total of fifteen weeks.
`` I Want to tham apana haath '' became the betals ' best-selling single worldwide.
A gasser was a type of hot rod originating on the dragstrips of the sanyukt rajya in the let 1950s or jari jabatak the early 1970s.
Gassers were based on production models from the 1930s to mid-1960s, which have been stripped of extraneous weight and jacked up using a truck beam axle to provide behatar vazan vitaran on twaran ( beam axles hai bhi halkaa than an swatantra saamne barkhaastagi ), haalanki a uthaaya bhandar saamne barkhaastagi is aam as khub.
aam vazan katautee takneekon shaamil fiberglass deh panels, stripped interiars or plexiglass windows ( sometimes color tinted ).
Because they were primarily built for racing, these cars typically tha the ingine swapped to a larger or adhik shaktishaalee ek, the maujuuda bhandar ingine modified ( often heavily ) or both.
It was very common to fit a Roots supercharger and mechanical fuel injection, aise as ek isse algon, hilborn, or Crower.
With form being likhavai by falan, unke rup is praayah bahut sheersh baari or ungainly, largely due to saamne ends hone uthaaya ucchtar than bhandar, to assist in the weight transfer during rapid acceleration ( racing ).
Having their exhaust pipe nikaas through the saamne phender khub is a aam characteristic of gassers, as is having laashen chitrit in flamboyant metalflakes, moti, or candi finishes complemented by lettering in wild fonts.
The name arose because they competed in a gasoline -fueled drag racing class, balki than ek using methanol or nitromethane.
The gasser is the purvavarti of the aadhunik Funny Car.
Twelve-lead ichaji of a 26-year-old male
Electrocardiography ( ECG or EKG from ) is a transthoracic ( aarpaar the vaksh or chaati ) nirvachan of the vidyut kaaryaklap of the dil over a kaal of samay, as detected by electrodes sanlagn to the surface of the skin and recorded by a device external to the body.
The recording produced by this noninvasive kaarividhi is termed an electrocardiogram ( bhi isiji or ichaji ).
An ECG is prayukt to maap the rate or niyamitata of heartbeats, as khub as the aakaar or sthiti of the kakshon, the upasthiti of koi kshati to the dil, and the effects of drugs or devices used to regulate the heart, such as a pacemaker.
Most ECGs are performed for nidaan or shodh uddeshy on insaan dil, lakin may bhi be performed on pashu, praayah liye nidaan of dil abnormalities or research.
Donald John Trump, Sr. ( born June 14, 1946 ) is an amareeki kaarobaar maharathi, television vyaktitv or lekhak.
He is the chairman and president of The trump sanghathan or the sansthaapak of trump entertainment resort.
Trump 's extravagant lifestyle, outspoken manner, and role on the NBC reality show The Apprentice have bana use a well-known hasti jo thi no. 14 on the 2012 Forbes Celebrity 100 list.
Trump is the bete of fred trump, a dhanwaan New York City real-estate developer.
He worked for his father 's firm, Elizabeth Trump & Son, while attending the Wharton skool of the vishvavidhyalayon of pencilvenia, or in 1968 officially joined the company.
He was given control of the company in 1971 or renamed it the trump sanghathan.
In 2010, trump expressed an byaaj in banane a pratyaashee liye adhyaksh of the sanyukt rajya in the 2012 chunaav, haalanki in may 2011, he announced he would not be a candidate.
In December 2011, Trump was suggested as a sambhavit vaais adhyakshiya chayan by mishael bachmann, if wo yahood to jeet the republican namakan.
`` A Change Is Gon na Come '' is a 1964 single by R & B singer-songwriter Sam cooke, likhaa or pehla ankit in 1963 or released antargat the aaarasie victor label shortly baad his death in late 1964.
Though only a modest hit liye cooke in tulana with his previous singles, the song came to exemplify the 1960s ' Civil Rights Movement.
The song has gained in lokapriyata or najuk acclaim in the dashakon chunki iske release, and is # 12 on Rolling Stone 's 500 Greatest Songs of All Time.
bhaap uthati isse the nesjavellir geothermal shakti Station in Iceland.
geothermal urja is thermal urja utpann and stored in the Earth.
thermal urja is the urja ki determines the temperature of matter.
The geothermal urja of the dharti 's crust originates isse the asli gathan of the grah ( 20 % ) and from radioactive decay of minerals ( 80 % ).
The geothermal anupaat, jisase is the antar in taapmaana between the kor of the grah and its surface, drives a continuous conduction of thermal energy in the form of heat from the core to the surface.
The adjective geothermal originates from the Greek roots γη ( ge ), meaning dharti, or θερμος ( thermos ), arth hot.
At the core of the dharti, thermal urja is nirmit by radioskriy kshay or temperatures may reach over 5000 °C ( 9,000 °F ).
Heat conducts isse the kor to surrounding cooler rock.
The unchi taapmaana or dabaav kaaran kuch chattan to melt, creating magma convection upward since it is lighter than the solid rock.
The magma heats rock or jal in the crust, sometimes up to 370 °C ( 700 °F ).
isse hot sroton, geothermal urja rai maharoom prayukt liye snaan chunki paleolithic times or liye spes heating since ancient Roman times, but it is now better known for electricity generation.
Worldwide, about 10,715 megawatts ( mw ) of geothermal shakti is online in 24 countries.
An additional 28 gigawatts of direct geothermal heating capacity is santhaapit liye zila heating, spes heating, spa, audyogic prakriyaaon, desalination or agricultural applications.
geothermal shakti is laagat prabhavi, vishwasaneey, chirsthayee, or environmentally dostana, lakin rai historically been limited to areas near tectonic plate boundaries.
haal technological agrim have dramatically vistaarit the dayera or aakaar of sugathit sansaadhan, visheshkar liye anuprayog such as home heating, opening a potential for widespread exploitation.
Geothermal wells release greenhouse gases trapped deep within the dharti, lakin ye emissions hai much nimnatar prati urja unit than those of fossil fuels.
As a parinaam, geothermal shakti rai the sambhavit to sahaayta mitigate vaishvik varming if widely deployed in place of fossil fuels.
The dharti 's geothermal sansaadhan hai theoretically adhik than paryaapt to supply humanity 's energy needs, but only a very small fraction may be profitably exploited.
Drilling and khoji liye gahan sansaadhan is bahut expensive.
Forecasts for the future of geothermal power nirbhar on assumptions parichay praudyogiki, urja keemten, subsidies, or byaaj rates.
Pilot programs like EWEB 's graahak opt in green shakti kaarykram dikhaaen ki graahak hota be willing to pay a little more for a renewable energy source like geothermal.
But as a parinaam of sarkari assisted shodh or udyog anubhav, the laagat of generating geothermal power has decreased by 25 % over the past two decades.
In 2001, geothermal urja laagat between do or ten saint per kwh.
Ownership of property may be private, samuhik, or aam or the property may be vastuen, land/real estate, or bauddhik property.
Determining ownership in law involves determining jo rai nishchit adhikaron or kartavya over the property.
These rights and duties, sometimes pukaara a 'bundle of adhikaron ', can be alag or yojit by different parties.
The question of ownership pahunch waapas to the pracheen darshanikon, plato or arestu, jo yojit alag raay on the subject.
Plato ( 428/427 BC – 348/347 BC ) thought private property created divisive inequalities, jabaki arestu ( 384 bc – 322 bc ) vichaar nijee property sakriy logon to praapt the puraa laabh of their labor.
Private property can circumvent what is abhi referred to as the “ traasadee of the comons ” problem, jahaan logon tend to rusavaa aam property more than they do private property.
Given a short-sighted owner, however, a private property system can make these tragedies worse—for udhaaharan, a nijee maalik of a tukdaa of oil-rich property, depending on uske worldview, might be adhik dilchaspee in short-term vittiya laabh than vriddhishil upyog saath an eye toward other 's concerns ( e.g., those of future generations, the disenfranchised, etc. ).
While Aristotle jaij the astitv of nijee swaamitv, he baayein kholen sawaal of ( 1 ) kaisaa to allocate property between what is private and common and ( 2 ) how to allocate the private property within society.
Over the millennia, and aarpaar samskritiyon kayaa can be property or kaisaa it is regarded culturally have varied widely.
Ownership is the aadhaar liye anek anya avadharanaon ki rup the muladhar of pracheen or aadhunik samaajon such as money, trade, debt, bankruptcy, the criminality of theft, and private vs. public property.
Ownership is the key building block in the vikaas of the poonjivadi socio-economic pranali.
Adam smith stated ki ek of the pavitra kanoon of insaaf was to guard a person 's property and possessions.
The process and mechanics of ownership are fairly jatil : ek can laabh, transafar or khona swaamitv of property in a kramank of ways.
To acquire property one can purchase it with dhan, vyapaar it liye anya property, praapt it as a tohfa, chori it, dhundhen it, mek, it or homestead it.
One can transfer or lose ownership of property by selling it for money, exchanging it for other property, giving it as a tohfa, hone robbed of it, it, or having it stripped from one 's ownership through legal means such as eviction, foreclosure, seizure, or taking.
Ownership is self-propagating in ki the maalik of koi property hoga bhi apana the aarthik laabh of that property.
`` What 's My Name ? '' is a song ankit by barbadian recording kalakaar rihana, liye uske paanchvaan studio album laud ( 2010 ).
Featuring guest vocals from Canadian rapper Drake, the song thi released as the duusari single isse laud on aktubar 29, 2010 through Def Jam Recordings.
The R & B song was produced by the norwegian utpaadan duo starget, or thi likhaa by the duo saath saath ester dean, Traci Hale, and Drake.
lyrically, it incorporates vishaywastu of yon intercourse and romance.
Music critics diya the song dhanatmak samikshaayen, citing it kuch of rihana 's behtareen gayan kaary to tithi ; there was a praise regarding its romantic nature, as well as its sexual tones.
`` What 's My Name ? '' thi a vanijyik kamyaabi or awwal the us billboard hot 100 chart, giving rihana uske teesraa number-one single in 2010, as well as her eighth overall on the chart.
the song bhi awwal the chart in hungarian or the sanyukt kingdom or reached the top five in Canada, Ireland, New Zealand, Norway and Slovakia.
The song received a namakan at the 54th grami puraskaar liye behtareen rap/sung sahyog.
An accompanying music video, directed by Philip andelman, portrays a romantic encounter between rihana or drek in a kiraanaa store saath saath romantic drishyon between the pair and Rihanna walking through Manhattan 's Lower East Side.
`` What 's My Name ? '' was promoted with live performances across both sides of the atlantic, sahit shanivaar raatri sajiv in america or the shrenee saat finale of the x factor in the United Kingdom.
The latter performance resulted in an investigation from the country 's media niamak, ofcom, liye the raunchy prakruti of rihana 's outfit.
A mathematical constant is a khaas kramank, praayah a real kramank, ki is `` significantly interesting in some way ''.
Constants arise in many alag kshetron of ganit, saath sthiraank aise as e ( ganitiya nirantar ) | or pi| occurring in aise vividh contexts as geometry, number theory and calculus.
What it means for a constant to arise `` naturally '', and what makes a constant `` interesting '', is ultimately a matter of swaad, or kuch ganitiya sthiraank hai notable adhik liye aitihaasik kaaran than liye unke moolbhoot ganitiya interest.
The more popular constants have been padhai throughout the aayu or computed to many decimal places.
All mathematical constants are definable numbers and usually hai bhi computable sankhyaayein ( chaitin 's nirantar hone a significant exception ).
Elections to the sanyukt rajya seenet yahood yojit on navambar 2, 2010, for 37 of the United States Senate 's 100 seats.
( A special election on janvari 19, 2010 in masachusets thi yojit pehle in the year. )
Thirty-four of the site yahood liye six-year sharten to the seenet 's `` class three '', and three were special elections for shorter terms.
Of the 37 elections, 19 featured incumbent Democrats ( 7 of jisko ritred or yahood parajeet in the praathmik ) or 18 pradarshit laazim Republicans ( eight of whom retired or were defeated in the primary ).
baad the pichhlaa chunaavon ( in 2008 ), the sanyukt rajya seenet thi rachit of 58 democrate, 40 Republicans, and 2 independents who caucus with the Democrats.
Republicans won four site yojit by retiring democrate or republicans parajeet do laazim Democrats.
This was the largest number of republicans gains chunki the 1994 chunaavon or bhi the pehla time since that election that Republicans successfully defended all of their own seats.
This was the fourth consecutive election of `` class 3 '' seenetteron jahaan democrate have vifal to laabh site or the teesraa lagaataar mid-term chunaav held in a president 's first term where Republicans have picked-up seats.
Despite these Republican wins, however, the Democrats retained a majority of the Senate with 51 site plus 2 independents jo caucus saath unhen, compared to the 47 republicans.
A solstice is an astronomical event that occurs twice prayek saal as the surya pahunch iske ucchtam or nunatam excursion saapeksh to the celestial equator on the celestial gola.
As a result, on the day of the sankranti, the surya appears to have pahunche iske ucchtam or nunatam salanaa oonchaai in the aasmaan upar the kshitij at local saura noon.
The word solstice is derived from the Latin sol ( surya ) or sistere ( to stand still ), kuki at the solstices, the surya stand still in utaar ; ki is, the mausami gati of the Sun 's path ( as seen from Earth ) comes to a stop before reversing direction.
The solstices, saath saath the equinoxes, hai conect saath the seasons.
In many cultures the solstices chihnit either the shuruuaat or the midpoint of sheet and summer.
The term solstice can also be prayukt in a broader bhav, as the tithi ( din ) jab is occurs.
The day of the solstice is either the longest din of the saal ( in garmiyaan ) or the shortest din of the year ( in winter ) for any place outside of the tropics.
Jerry Lee Lewis ( born September 29, 1935 ) is an amareeki chattan or phenken or desh music singer-songwriter and pianist.
He is known by the upnaam `` the kaatil '' or is praayah viewed as “rock & roll 's first great wild man”.
An jaldi pionier of chattan or phenken music, in 1956 louis bana uske pehla recordings at Sun Records.
`` kreji bahen `` bechi 300,000 nakal in the dakshin, lakin it thi uske 1957 hit `` Whole Lotta Shakin ' Going On `` that shot Lewis to fame worldwide.
Lewis followed this in ki vahi saal jab he ankit geeton aise as `` great genden of aag ``, `` breathless `` and `` High School Confidential ``.
Lewis sold adhik record than elvis presli at this time.
However, Lewis ' chattan 'n ' phenken kariyar faltered in the vek of uske vivaah to his young cousin.
He had choti kamyaabi in the chart following the cond and his popularity quickly faded.
uske sajiv pradarshan shulk plummeted isse $ 10,000 per night to $ 250.
in the meantime he thi sankalpit to laabh waapas some of his popularity.
During the jaldi 60’s he kiya n't have much chart kamyaabi saath few apwaad such as `` What 'd I Say ``.
His live performances at this time were increasingly junglee or urjavan.
His album Live at the Star klbon, hamberg isse 1964 is praayah regarded by anek music patrakaron or prashansak as ek of the wildest or greatest rock and roll concert albums ever.
After recording geeton aise as `` i 'm on aag '' liye anek saalo saath choti kamyaabi, in 1968 louis made a transition into country music and had hits with songs such as `` Another Place, Another Time ''.
This reignited uske kariyar or throughout the let '60s or '70s he regularly awwal the country-western charts.
His # 1 country hits included `` To Make prem mithi liye tum ``, `` vahin jarur be adhik to prem than is ``, `` hota tum lo another mauka on Me `` and `` Me And Bobby McGee ``.
Lewis 's successes continued throughout the decade and he embraced his rock 'n ' roll past with geeton aise as a cover of the big bopper 's `` chantilly feeta `` or `` rockin ' my jivan dur ``.
In the 21st century Lewis continues to tour to audiyans around the sansar or still relies nai album.
One such album, titled Last man khadaa, is uske behtareen selling to tithi at over a lakh nakal sold worldwide.
This was followed by Mean Old Man which rai praapt kuch of the behtareen bikri of lewis’s career.
Lewis has had a dozen gold records in both chattan or desh, jiti anek grami puraskaar, sahit a aaajeevan uplabdhi Award.
Lewis was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 1986, and uske pioneering yogadan to the vidha rai maharoom pahachaanaa by the Rockabilly Hall of Fame.
In 1989, his life was chronicled in the film great genden of aag, abhinit denis Quaid.
In 2003, rolling stone patrika soochibaddh uske baksaa niyat sab kaatil, no philler : the anthology kramank 242 on their list of `` 500 greatest albums of all time ``.
in 2004, ve kramit use kramank 24 on unke suchi of the 100 mahanatam kalakaaron of All Time.
Lewis is the last surviving member of Sun record ' lakh dollars quartet or the class of '55 album, jisase bhi shaamil johny nakadi, karl perkins, roy orbison and Elvis Presley.
Henry Louis Stephens, benaam watercolor ( 1863 ) of a man padhnaa a samachaarpatr saath sheershak `` adhyakshiya Proclamation / Slavery ''.
The emancipation udghoshnaa thi an anukram jari to sab khand of the karypalika shakha ( sahit the fouj or navy ) of the sanyukt rajya by President Abraham Lincoln on January 1, 1863, during the American Civil War.
It was based on the president 's sanvaidhanik praadhikaar as commander in mukhya of the armed forces ; it was not a law passed by Congress.
It proclaimed all those enslaved in Confederate territory to be forever free, or ordered the fouj ( or sab khand of the karypalika shakha ) to daavat as free sab those enslaved in ten rajya ki yahood still in vidroh, yun applying to 3.1 lakh of the 4 million slaves in the U.S.
The Proclamation could not be enforced in areas still under rebellion, but as the army took control of confederate regions, the slave in those regions yahood emancipated balki than laute to unke masters.
From 20,000 to 50,000 purv slave in regions jahaan vidroh tha already maharoom subdued yahood tatkaal emancipated, or over 3 lakh adhik yahood emancipated as the Union army advanced.
The Proclamation did not apply to the five slave rajya ki yahood nahin in vidroh, nor to sabase regions already niyantrit by the sangh fouj ; emancipation vahin hota aaiye baad pruthak rajya kriyaayein and/or the disambar 1865 ratification of the Thirteenth Amendment, which made slavery illegal everywhere in the U.S.
The Proclamation did not compensate the swami, kiya nahin itself gaiyrkanoonee gulaami, or kiya nahin make the ex-slaves ( called freedmen ) citizens.
It made the eradication of slavery an suspasht yuddh lakshya, in jod to the lakshya of reuniting the Union.
On September 22, 1862, lincoln tha jari a praarambhik udghoshnaa ki he hota anukram the emancipation of sab slave in koi rajya of the confederate States of America that did not return to Union control by January 1, 1863.
None returned, and the order, signed or jari janvari 1, 1863, took prabhaav magar in sthitiyaan where the Union had already mostly regained control.
The Proclamation outraged white Southerners jo envisioned a res yuddh, angered kuch uttari democrate, sakriy anti-slavery forces, and weakened forces in Europe that wanted to intervene to help the Confederacy.
It also lifted the spirits of African Americans both in the Southern and Northern States, and led to many slave escaping unke masters or kaaryshil peeche sangh linon in anukram to have unke emancipation enforced.
Sucker Punch is a 2011 American fantasy action film directed by Zack Snyder and co-written by use or steve shibuya.
It is Snyder 's pehla filmi aadhaarit on an original script.
The filmi sitaron emily browning, abbie cornish, jena malone, venesa Hudgens, Jamie Chung, and Carla Gugino.
The storyline follows the fantasies of a young woman who is vachanabaddh to a dimagi sanstha, as wo makes a yojana to escape the hospital pehle ksht a mastishkakhandaedan.
The film was released in both conventional or imax theatre in the sanyukt rajya at madhyaraatri on kooch 25, 2011.
It received generally rinatmak samikshaayen isse aalochakon, lakin thi a moderet baksaa daftar success.
Front or waapas of canon powershot a95, a theth pocket-size digital camera
haselblad 503cw saath ixpress v96c digital waapas, an udhaaharan of a professional digital camera system
A digital camera ( or digicam ) is a camera ki takes video or still photographs by recording images on an electronic image sensor.
Most cameras sold today are digital, or digital camere hai incorporated into anek divaais ranging isse gusse or mobile phones ( called camera phones ) to vehicles.
Digital and film cameras share an optical system, typically using a lens saath a parivartaneey diaphragm to fokas lite onto an image pickup device.
The diaphragm and shutter admit the correct amount of light to the imager, bas as saath filmi lakin the chitra pikup yantra is electronic balki than chemical.
However, unlike film camere, digital camere can pradarshak bimb on a screen tatkaal baad hone recorded, and store and delete images from memory.
Many digital cameras can bhi ricard chalati video saath dhwani.
Some digital camere can crop or silaai tasviren or perform other elementary image editing.
The inside and front of a Dell PowerEdge web server, a computer designed liye rack mounting
Multiple web servers may be used for a high trekkic jalsthal, yahan chaar surya aag x4200 sarwar hai santhaapit saath
Web server can refer to either the hardware ( the computer ) or the tantra ( the computer anuprayog ) ki helps to uddhaar web saamagree ki can be pahunchaa through the antarjaal.
The most common use of web servers is to host websites, but there hai anya upyog aise as gaming, aankada bhandar or kaaryshil enterprize anuprayog.
The American Red Cross ( ARC ), also known as the American National Red Cross, is a humanitarian sanghathan ki provides apaat sahaayta, vipatti raahat or shiksha andar the sanyukt States.
It is the designated u.S. sambhddha of the antarrashtriya sangh of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies.
Today, in addition to domestic disaster relief, the amareeki red cross offers sevaayen in paanch anya kshetron : jatiyaan sevaayen ki sahaayta the mohataaj ; sanchaar sevaayen or sukun liye sainya sadasyon or unke parivaar sadasyon ; the sangrahan, prasanskaran or vitaran of rakt and blood products ; educational programs on preparedness, health, and safety ; and international relief and development programs.
Issued a corporate charter by the sanyukt rajya congress antargat sheershak 36 of the sanyukt rajya code, khand 3001, the American National Red Cross is governed by volunteers and supported by community donations, income from health and safety training and products, and income from blood products.
The amareeki red cross is headquartered in Washington, D.C.
The adhyaksh of the falak of rajyapalon, sevarat uske duusari three-year term, is Bonnie McElveen-Hunter.
The current President and Chief Executive adhikari is gail J. mcgovern.
A murga in kosovo
a murga, prardashit wattles, earlobes and comb
a murga crowing ( with audio )
sahi
A rooster ( also called a cockerel or murga ) is a purush gallinaceous bird.
It praayah refers to a purush murga ( gallus gallus ).
Immature male chickens less than ek saal boodha hai pukaara cockerels.
The term `` rooster '' originates in the sanyukt rajya, or the pad is widely prayukt throughout North America, as well as Australia and New Zealand.
In the United kingdom or ireland the puraani pad `` cockerel '' is more commonly used.
`` Cock '' is in general upyog as the naam liye a purush of anya species of bird, for example `` Cock sparrow ''.
`` Roosting '' is the karrwai of perching aloft to neend at raatri, or is kiya by both sexes.
The murga is polygamous, lakin can nahin guard anek nests of eggs at once.
He guards the general area where his hens are nesting, or hoga akraman anya roosters ki daalen uske territory.
During the daytime, he usually sits on a unchi parch, praayah 3–5 feet band the maidan to serve as a lookout liye uske jhund.
He will sound a distinctive sachetak kol if parabhakshi are nearby.
The Pokémon Trading Card Game ( Pokémon TCG ) is a collectible card game based on the Pokémon video khel shrenee, pehla prakashit in aktubar 1996 by media factory in japani.
In the US, it thi initially prakashit by wizards of the coast, the company that produces, in December 1998.
Nintendo took over prakaashan in June 2003.
It is ek of nintendo 's pichhlaa baaki damdaar links to its heritage as a playing card company.
Land Rover is a British car nirmaataa saath iske mukhyalay in gaydon, warwickshire, sanyukt kingdom jisase specialises in four-wheel-drive vehicles.
It is bhaag of the jaiguaar jameen rover samooh, a subsidiary of Tata Motors of India.
It is the second oldest four-wheel-drive car brands in the sansar ( after Jeep ).
the jameen rover naam thi originally prayukt by the rover company liye ek vishisht gadee model, named simply the Land Rover, launched by Rover in 1948.
Over the following years it viksit into a marque encompassing a dayera of four-wheel-drive model, sahit the defender, Discovery, Freelander, Range Rover, Range Rover Sport and Range Rover Evoque.
Land Rovers are philhal samavet in the company 's halewood or solihull paudhe, saath shodh or vikaas lene place at JLR 's Gaydon and Whitley engineering centres.
Land Rover sold 194,000 vaahanon vishwavyaapee in 2009.
Although the brand originates isse the asli 1948 model, jameen rover as a company has only existed since 1978.
Prior to this, it was a product line of the Rover Company jisase thi subsequently avashoshit into the rover-triumph prabhag of the angrejon leyland motor nigam ( bl ) following leyland motor nigam ’s kabza of Rover in 1967.
The ongoing commercial success of the original Land Rover series models, and latterly the Range Rover in the 1970s in the midst of BL’s well documented business pareshaaniyon prompted the sthapana of a pruthak jameen rover company lakin still antargat the bl chhatariyaan, baaki bhaag of the subsequent rover samooh in 1988, antargat the swaamitv of angrejon aerospace baad the remains of angrejon leyland yahood tutaa up and privatised.
In 1994 rover samooh pielsi thi acquired by BMW.
in 2000, rover samooh thi broken-up by bmw or jameen rover thi sold to Ford Motor Company, becoming part of its Premier Automotive Group.
In 2006 Ford purchased the Rover brand isse bmw liye around £6 lakh.
is reunited the rover or jameen rover brands liye the first time since 2000 when the Rover group was broken up by BMW.
In June 2008, ghat bechi dono jameen rover or jaiguaar Cars to Tata Motors.
This bikri bhi shaamil the dormant Rover brand
The cover of the pehla dvd sankalan released by aniplex of the nai captain shūsuke Amagai arc
The ninth ritu of the bleech dushmani shrenee is named.
The series is aadhaarit on tite kubo 's manga with same name.
The episodes are directed by Noriyuki abe or utpaadit by tv tokio, Dentsu, and Studio Pierrot.
The episodes ' plot focuses on the introduction of a new Soul Reaper captain, Shūsuke Amagai, and the rahasy surrounding the kasumiōji gotra, ek of the pariwaron ki constitute the dhaamon of aatma samaaj.
The season began airing on April 23, 2008 in Japan on tv tokio or ended on aktubar 7, 2008.
The English adaptation of the Bleach anime is licensed by Viz Media, or is chaap began airing on agast 28, 2010 on cartoon sanjaal 's vayask Swim, and finished on January 29, 2011.
Five DVD compilations, each containing four episodes of the ritu, have maharoom released by aniplex ; the pehla dvd sankalan thi released on navambar 26, 2008 and the fifth on March 25, 2009.
A DVD box will be prakashit by viz Media on December 13, 2011.
The apisod upyog teen tukade of theme music : ek kholane theme and two closing themes.
The kholane theme is `` chu-bura `` by Kelun.
The first closing theme is `` Orange '' by Lil'B, used for apisod 168 to 179, or the duusari closing theme is `` gallop '' by pe'zmoku, prayukt liye the shesh of the episodes.
The regulation of prostitution in the United States is not among the enumerated powers of the federal government ; Under the dasavaan amendment to the sanyukt rajya samvidhan, it is isliye exclusively the domen of the rajya to permit, prohibit, or varanaa viniyamit vanijyik sex, except insofar as Congress may regulate it as part of interstate commerce with laws like the Mann Act.
In most states, veshyavriti is mana a misdemeanor in the shrenee of public order crime, a crime that disrupts the order of a community.
It was at ek samay mana to be a vagrancy crime.
Currently, Nevada is the only state to allow veshyalay veshyavriti, the sharten of jisase hai stipulated in the newada sanshodhit Statutes.
Only 8 counties philhal contain kriyasheel brothels.
All form of veshyavriti hai illegal in clark county ( jisase contains the las vegas–paradise mahanagar kshetrafal ), washoe County ( which contains Reno ), Carson City, Douglas County, and Lincoln County.
The other county theoretically allow veshyalay veshyavriti, lakin kuch of ye county currently have no active brothels.
Street prostitution, `` pandering, '' and living off of the proceeds of a veshya remain illegal antargat newada vidhi, as elsewhere in the desh.
As with other countries, prostitution in the sanyukt rajya can be vibhajit into teen vyapak shrenee : gali veshyavriti, veshyalay prostitution, and escort prostitution.
The East Coast of the United States, also known as the Eastern Seaboard or the Atlantic Seaboard and commonly shortened to east coast, refers to the easternmost coast of the sanyukt rajya saath the atlantic Ocean.
The states which have shoreline on the East Coast are, from north to south, the U.S. states of Maine, New Hampshire, Massachusetts, rhode dweep, connectikat, nai york, nai jersey, delaware, maryland, virginia, uttar carolina, dakshin Carolina, Georgia, and Florida.
Richard Milhous Nixon ( January 9, 1913 – April 22, 1994 ) was the 37th President of the United States, sevarat isse 1969 to 1974, jab he became the tabhi adhyaksh to istipha the office.
Nixon had previously served as a Republican U.S. representative and senator from California and as the 36th Vice adhyaksh of the sanyukt rajya isse 1953 to 1961.
Nixon thi born in yorba linda, California.
he graduate isse whittier college in 1934 or duk vishvavidhyalayon skool of Law in 1937, returning to California to practice law.
He and his wife, Pat nicksan, sthanantarit to washington to kaary liye the sangheey government in 1942.
He subsequently parosa in the sanyukt rajya navy dauraan World War II.
Nixon was elected in california to the house of pratinidhi in 1946 or to the Senate in 1950.
His pursuit of the Alger Hiss case established his reputation as a leading anti-communist, or elevated use to neshnal prominence.
He thi the kaaryshil mate of dwite D. ijanhavar, the republican party adhyakshiya nominee in the 1952 election.
Nixon served for eight saalo as vaais adhyaksh.
He waged an unsuccessful presidential abhiyaan in 1960, narrowly khone to jon F. kennedy, or khoyaa a res liye Governor of California in 1962.
In 1968, he bhaaga again liye the presidency or was elected.
Although Nixon initially escalated america 's bhagidaari in the vietnam yuddh, he subsequently ended U.S. involvement in 1973.
Nixon 's visit to the People 's ganatantr of china in 1972 kholi rajanyik sambandh between the do raashtra, or he initiated détente or the anti-ballistic Missile Treaty with the Soviet Union the same year.
domestically, uske prashasan generally embraced nitiyon ki transferred power from Washington to the states.
Among other things, he launched pahalon to lado karkat or illegal davaayen, imposed mazdooree or daam niyantran, enforced desegregation of kuch Southern schools, and established the Environmental Protection Agency.
Though he presided over the chandra avataran beginning with Apollo 11, he scaled back manned space exploration.
he thi re-elected by a bhuskhalan in 1972.
Nixon 's duusari pad dekhi an arab aayal embargo, the istipha of uske vaais adhyaksh, spiro agnew, or a continuing shrenee of revelations about the Watergate scandal and other misconduct by members of the administration.
The scandal escalated, costing Nixon much of uske rajnatik support, or on agast 9, 1974, he resigned in the phase of lagbhag nishchit mahabhiyog and removal from office.
After uske istipha, he controversially praapt a pardon issued by his successor, Gerald Ford.
In retirement, Nixon 's work as an elder statesman, authoring anek kitabe or undertaking anek videshi yatraayen, helped to rehabilitate uske public image.
He suffered a debilitating stroke on april 18, 1994, and died four days later at the age of 81.
Sertraline hydrochloride ( trade names Zoloft, lustral ) is an antidepressant of the chaynaatmak serotonin reuptake inhibitor ( SSRI ) class.
It was introduced to the market by fizer in 1991.
Sertraline is primarily prescribed for major depressive disorder in adult outpatients as khub as obsessive–compulsive, dehshat, or soshal chintaa vikaar in dono adults and children.
in 2011, it thi the second-most vihit antidepressant on the u.S. khudara market, saath 37,208,000 prescriptions.
The efficacy of sertraline for depression is similar to ki of puraani tricyclic antidepressants, lakin iske paksh prabhaav hai much kam sunaaya.
Differences with nae antidepressants hai subtler or bhi zyaadaatar confined to side effects.
Evidence suggests that sertraline may kaary behatar than fluoxetine ( prozac ) liye some subtypes of depression.
upachaar of dehshat vikaar saath sertraline parinaam in a significant ghati of the kramank of panic attacks and in improved quality of life.
For obsessive-compulsive vikaar, sertraline is nahin as prabhavi as sangyanatmak behavioral chikitsa ; the behtareen parinaam have maharoom achieved by combining these two treatments.
haalanki sweekrut liye soshal phobia or posttraumatic tanaav vikaar, sertraline leads to only modest improvement in these conditions.
Sertraline also alleviates the lakshan of premenstrual dysphoric vikaar or can be prayukt in sub-therapeutic doses or intermittently for its treatment.
Sertraline shares the common side effects and contraindications of anya ssris, saath unchi daron of matlee, atisar, anidra, or yon paksh prabhaav ; however, it karata nahin kaaran weight gain, and its effects on both cognition and vigilance are relatively mild.
In pregnant women taking sertraline, the drug thi upasthit in significant ekaagratha in fetal rakt, or thi bhi sambhddha with a higher rate of various birth defects.
similarly to anya antidepressants, the upyog of sertraline liye avsaad may be associated with a higher rate of suicidality.
The Five heartbeats is a 1991 musical naatak filmi nirdeshit by robert townsend, jo co-wrote the script with Keenan Ivory Wayans.
vitarit by 20th sadi fox, the filmi 's pramukh daal shaamil townsend, maaikel rhite, Leon Robinson, Harry J. Lennix, Tico Wells, Harold Nicholas of the Nicholas Brothers, and Diahann Carroll.
The plot of the film ( which is loosely based on the jeevandaan of anek kalakaaron : the dells, the temptations, chaar top, wilson picket, james bhura, frenki lymon, sam cooke or others ) follows the three decade career of the R & B vocal group The Five Heartbeats.
The film depicts the rise and fall of a Motown inspired soul act through the ankhen of the filmi 's pramukh samarthak, donald `` batakh '' matthews ( portrayed by townsend ), jo serves as a narrator throughout the filmi.
However, a bahumat of the cinema is prastut in a lagaataar samay lakeer as opposed to traditional flash backs.
The film includes a significant raashi of asli music conceived by vibhinn kalakaaron liye the filmi 's soundtrack, sahit singles aise as `` a dil is a house liye prem ``, `` we have n't samaapt Yet '', and `` Nothing But Love ''.
The film was released to most North American audiyans kooch 29, 1991 however it thi nahin bana uplabdhiyaan to audiences in other continents until 2002 when a DVD was released prior to another DVD release in 2006 for the film 's 15th anniversary.
the film praapt mishrit reviews from critics.
Secretariat ( kooch 30, 1970 – aktubar 4, 1989 ) thi an amareeki thoroughbred racehorse ki in 1973 became the first U.S. Triple Crown champion in 25 years.
He set race records in all three events in the Series — the Kentucky Derby ( 1:59.4 ), the preakness stakes ( 1:53 ), or the belmont stakes ( 2:24 ) — record ki still stand today.
He is mana to be ek of the mahanatam thoroughbreds of sab time.
In 1999, ESPN ranked Secretariat the 35th best athlete of the 20th sadi, the ucchtam ranking racehorse on the suchi url_http.
He ranked second behind Man o ' War in The blood-horse 's suchi of the sheersh 100 u.S. racehorses of the 20th Century.
Secretariat was sired by bindaas shaasha out of somethingroyal, by princequillo.
He was foaled at the marg in caroline county, Virginia.
Like his prasiddh purvavarti man o ' yuddh, sachivalay thi a vishaal shahbaloot tattu or thi given the same nickname, `` Big Red. ''
Secretariat 's grandsire, Nasrullah, is also the great-great-grandsire of 1977 tripal crown vijeta sietal Slew.
Owned by Penny Chenery, he was trained by Lucien Laurin and mainly ridden by Canadian jockey ron turcotte, saath saath prashikshu jockey paul pheliciano ( pehla do daud ), or diggaj edi mapel ( pichhlaa res ).
He raced in Chenery 's Meadow stable 's blue or shwet checkered rangon and his groom was Eddie Sweat.
Secretariat stood approximately tall, or weighed, saath a 75-inch girth, in his racing prime.
A theth 12 v, 40 ah lead-acid car battery
An automotive battery is a type of rechargeable bydaree ki aapurtiyan electric urja to an automobile.
Usually this refers to an SLI battery ( starting, lighting, prajvalan ) to shakti the prarambh motor, the lits, or the prajvalan pranali of a vehicle’s engine.
automotive sli bydaree hai praayah lead-acid prakaar, or hai bana of chah galvani cells in series to provide a 12 volt system.
Each koshika provides 2.1 volts liye a kul of 12.6 volt at full charge.
Heavy vehicles such as highway trucks or tractors, often equipped saath deazal ingine, may have do bydaree in shrenee liye a 24 volt pranali, or may have samanaantar strings of batteries.
lead-acid bydaree hai bana up of platon of sise or pruthak platon of sise dioxide, jisase are submerged into an electrolyte solution of about 38 % sulfuric acid and 62 % water.
This kalyankari a rasinic pratikriya ki relies electrons, allowing unhen to pravaah through conductors to produce electricity.
As the battery discharges, the acid of the electrolyte pratikriyaayein saath the saamagree of the platon, changing their surface to lead sulfate.
When the battery is recharged, the chemical pratikriya is reversed : the sise sulphate reforms into sise dioxide and lead.
With the platon lauti to unke asli condishan, the process may now be repeated.
Battery recycling of automotive bydaree reduces the need liye sansaadhan jaruri liye manufacture of nai bydaree, diverts vishakt sise from landfills, and prevents risk of improper disposal.
Full-time employment is employment in which a vyakti works a nunatam kramank of ghanton paribhaashit as aise by his/her employer.
Full-time employment often comes with laabh ki hai nahin typically offered to part-time, asthai, or lacheelee majdoor, aise as salanaa chhod, sickleave, and health insurance.
Full-time kaary hai praayah mana kariyar.
They generally adaa adhik than part-time kaary, or praayah carry more hours per week.
The Fair Labor maanakon adhinium ( flsa ) karata nahin define full-time employment or part-time employment.
is is a padaarth generally to be sankalpit by the employer ( US Department of Labor ).
The paribhaasha by niyokta can vary or is generally prakashit in a company 's Employee Handbook.
Companies commonly aavashyaktaa isse 30–35 or 40 ghanton prati saptaah to be defined as full-time and therefore eligible for benefits.
full-time aukaat varies between company or is praayah aadhaarit on the shift the employee must work during each work week.
The `` standard '' kaary saptaah consists of paanch eight-hour dinon, commonly parosa between 9:00am to 5:00PM totaling 40 hours.
While a four-day week generally consists of four ten-hour dinon ; it may bhi consist of as choti as nau ghanton liye a kul of a 36 ghanta kaary saptaah.
Twelve-hour shifts are often teen dinon prati saptaah, jabatak the company rai the iraade of paying out the karmchaaree overtime.
Overtime is legally sashulk out anytime an karmchaaree works adhik than 40 ghanton per week.
The vidhik nunatam liye overtime starts at Base Pay + One-Half.
The increased bhugtan is mana to compensate thodaa liye the increased fatigue which a person experiences on such long shifts.
Shifts can also be very irregular, as in khudara, lakin hai still full-time if the jaruri kramank of ghanton is pahunche.
There are some situations where a person who needs full-time kaary is dropped to part-time, jisase is sometimes a rup of constructive dismissal to avoid paying berogari benefits to a laid-off worker.
Seahorse is the title die to 54 prajati of samudri machhlee in the genus Hippocampus.
`` hippocampus '' aata isse the pracheen unani hippos arth `` ghoda '' and kampos meaning `` sea monster ''.
The Controlled Substances Act ( CSA ) was enacted into vidhi by the congress of the sanyukt rajya as sheershak ii of the vyapak drug gaali rokthaam and Control Act of 1970.
The CSA is the sangheey u.S. drug niti antargat jisase the manufacture, importation, kabza, upyog or distribution of certain substances is regulated.
The Act also served as the neshnal implementing vidhaan liye the single sammelan on narcotic Drugs.
The legislation created five schedules ( classifications ), saath varying yogyata liye a padaarth to be included in each.
Two federal agencies, the Drug Enforcement Administration and the Food and Drug Administration, determine which substances are added to or removed from the vibhinn schedules, haalanki the statute passed by congress nirmit the aarambhik listing, or congress rai sometimes anusuchit anya substances through vidhaan aise as the hillory J. farias or samantha reid date-rape rokthaam adhinium of 2000, jisase lagaai gamma hydroxybutyrate in anusuchee i. vargeekaran nirnay hai jaruri to be bana on maapdand sahit sambhavit liye gaali ( an aparibhaashit pad ), philhal sweekrut chikitsa upyog in upachaar in the sanyukt rajya, or antarrashtriya treaties.
maaya numerals
Maya numerals hai a vigesimal ( aadhaar - bees ) numeral system used by the Pre-Columbian Maya civilization.
The numerals are made up of three symbols ; zero ( shell aakaar ), ek ( a bindu ) or paanch ( a baar ).
For example, thirteen is written as teen dots in a aadaa pankti upar do aadaa linon stacked above each other.
Lyndon Baines Johnson ( August 27, 1908 – January 22, 1973 ), praayah referred to as lbj, thi the 36th adhyaksh of the sanyukt rajya ( 1963–1969 ), a sthiti he assumed baad uske service as the 37th Vice President of the United States ( 1961–1963 ).
He is one of only four logon jo parosa in sab chaar nirvaachit sangheey karyaalayon of the sanyukt rajya : Representative, Senator, Vice President, and President.
Johnson, a Democrat from Texas, served as a sanyukt rajya pratinidhi isse 1937–1949 or as a seenetter isse 1949–1961, sahit chah saalo as sanyukt rajya seenet Majority Leader, two as Senate Minority Leader and two as Senate Majority Whip.
After campaigning unsuccessfully for the loktantric namakan in 1960, johnson thi poocha by jon F. kennedy to be uske kaaryshil mate liye the 1960 adhyakshiya election.
Johnson succeeded to the presidency following the assassination of John F. Kennedy on navambar 22, 1963, samaapt kennedy 's pad or thi nirvaachit adhyaksh in uske apana sahi, jeetna by a vishaal hashia over Barry Goldwater in the 1964 election.
Johnson was greatly supported by the Democratic Party and as President, he was responsible for designing the `` Great Society `` legislation that included laws that upheld civil adhikaron, public prasaaran, medicare, medicaid, paryaavarniya suraksha, sahaayta to shiksha, or uske `` yuddh on Poverty. ''
Johnson was renowned for his domineering vyaktitv or the `` johnson upachaar, '' uske coercion of shaktishaalee politicians in order to advance legislation.
Meanwhile, Johnson escalated amareeki bhagidaari in the vietnam yuddh, isse 16,000 amareeki advisors/soldiers in 1963 to 550,000 combat troops in early 1968, as American casualties soared and the peace process bogged down.
The bhagidaari stimulated a vishaal engri antiwar gati aadhaarit visheshkar on university campuses in the U.S. and abroad.
Summer dange broke out in sabase pramukh shaharon baad 1965, or aparaadhon daron soared, as uske pratidwandviyon uthaaya maange for `` law and order '' policies.
The Democratic Party split in multiple feuding factions, or baad johnson kiya poorly in the 1968 nai hampshire praathmik, he ended uske boli liye reelection.
Republican richard nicksan thi nirvaachit to safal use.
Historians argue ki johnson 's presidency chihnit the shikhar of aadhunik udaarataavaad in the sanyukt States after the New Deal era.
Johnson is kramit favorably by kuch itihaaskaaron kuki of his domestic policies.
projesterone bhi gyaat as p4 ( pregn-4-ene-3,20-dione ) is a c-21 steroid hormone shaamil in the maadaa menstrual cycle, pregnancy ( supports gestation ) and embryogenesis of humans and other species.
Progesterone belongs to a class of hormone pukaara progestogens, or is the pramukh naturally occurring human progestogen.
Big Bird is a protagonist of the children 's television dikhaaen til Street.
Officially performed by Caroll Spinney since 1969, he is an eight-foot two-inch ( 249 cm ) lambaa ujjwal primrose-yellow bird.
He can roller skate, barf sket, nrity, gaao, likhen kavy, chithran or bhi sawari a unicycle.
But despite this wide array of talents, he is prone to barambar misunderstandings, on ek avasar bhi gayan the varnmaala as ek big long shabd ( isse the song pukaara `` abc-def-ghi, '' pronounced `` ab-keddef-gajihkel-monop-quristuv-wixyz '' ), pondering what it could ever mean.
He lives in a large nest peeche the 123 til gali brownstone or rai a tedi bhaaluu namit Radar.
Webtrends is a nijee company headquartered in portland, oregon, United States.
It provides web, soshal, or mobile analytics or anya software solutions related to marketing intelligence.
The company was founded in 1993 or abhi serves adhik than 10,000 vishaal or choti kadays. < sandarbh name='intelligent Enterprise 2007-05-21 ' >
the duusari crusade ( 1145–1149 ) thi the second major crusade launched from Europe.
The Second Crusade was prarambh in jawaab to the patan of the county of edessa the pichhlaa saal to the forces of Zengi.
The county tha maharoom santhaapit dauraan the pehla crusade ( 1096–1099 ) by Baldwin of Boulogne in 1098.
While it was the first jehadi rajya to be santhaapit, it thi bhi the first to fall.
The Second Crusade was announced by Pope Eugene III, and was the pehla of the crossed to be led by europea kings, namely lui saat of frans or conrad iii of germany, saath sahaayta isse a kramank of other European nobles.
the sena of the do kings marched separately across Europe.
baad crossing bizantin territory into anatolia, dono sena yahood separately defeated by the Seljuq Turks.
The main Western Christian source, Odo of Deuil, and Syriac Christian sources claim that the Byzantine emperor Manuel I Comnenus secretly hindered the crusaders ' pragati, visheshkar in anatolia jahaan he is kathith to have deliberately ordered turks to akraman unhen.
Louis and Conrad and the remnants of their armies reached Jerusalem and, in 1148, participated in an ill-advised akraman on damishq.
The crusade in the east thi a vifaltaa liye the crusaders or a great vijay liye the Muslims.
It hota ultimately have a kunjee influence on the patan of jerusalem or de vruddhi to the Third Crusade at the end of the 12th century.
The only success of the duusari crusade aae to a sanyukt force of 13,000 flemish, frisian, Norman, English, Scottish, and German crusaders in 1147.
Travelling from England, by ship, to the Holy Land, the army stopped and helped the choti ( 7,000 ) portugali fouj in the capchar of lisbon, expelling iske moorish occupants.
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. ( ), branded as Walmart, is an American bahurashtriya khudara nigam ki ranon zanjeeron of vishaal chhot vibhaag stores or godaam stores.
The company is the world 's third largest public nigam, according to the saubhaahgya vaishvik 500 suchi in 2012, the biggest nijee niyokta in the sansar saath over do lakh karmchaaree, or is the largest retailer in the world.
Walmart remains a family-owned business, as the company is niyantrit by the walton parivaar, jo apana a 48 pratishat hissedari in Walmart.
It is bhi ek of the sansar 's sabase moolyawaan companies.
The company thi santhaapit by sam walton in 1962, incorporated on aktubar 31, 1969, and publicly traded on the New York Stock Exchange in 1972.
It is headquartered in bentonville, arkansaas.
Walmart is bhi the largest kiraanaa retailor in the United States.
In 2009, it utpann 51 pratishat of iske us $ 258 arab bikri in the u.S. isse grocery business.
It also owns and operates the sam 's klbon khudara warehouses in uttar america.
By 1988, wal-mart thi the sabase laabhprad retailor in the us, or by November 1990, it outsold K-mart.
By 1991 it outsold Sears in khudara, bananaa it america 's largest retailor, a bhed it still holds.
Walmart rai 8,500 stores in 15 deshon, antargat 55 different names.
The company operates antargat the walmart naam in the sanyukt rajya, sahit the 50 states and Puerto Rico.
It operates in Mexico as walmex, in the sanyukt kingdom as asda, in japani as Seiyu, and in India as Best Price.
It rai wholly swaamitv parichaalan in argentina, Brazil, and Canada.
Walmart 's investments baahar uttar america have tha mishrit parinaam : iske parichaalan in the sanyukt kingdom, dakshin america, or china hai atyadhik kaamyaab, whereas ventures in Germany and South Korea were unsuccessful.
Robert William Gary moore ( 4 april 1952 – 6 farvari 2011 ), thi a uttari irish sangeetkaar, sabase widely recognised as a singer and guitarist.
In a career dating back to the 1960s, Moore nibhaai saath kalakaaron sahit phil lynott or bryan downey dauraan uske kishor, agrani use to sadsytaayen saath the irish bands Skid Row and Thin Lizzy on three separate occasions.
Moore shared the stage with such blues and rock luminaries as b.b. king, albert king, colocium ii, george harrison or greg jhil, as khub as having a successful solo career.
He guested on a number of albums recorded by high profil sangeetkaaron, sahit a chemiyo rup playing the sise guitar solo on `` wo 's my baby `` isse traveling wilburys awaz. 3.
an udhaaharan of rack arohit servers
A web hosting service is a prakaar of antarjaal hosting seva ki allows individuals or sanghathan to mek their website accessible via the World Wide Web.
Web hosts are companies that provide space on a server owned or leased for use by client, as khub as providing antarjaal connactivity, typically in a aankada bich.
Web hosts can also provide data center space and connectivity to the antarjaal liye anya sarwar stith in unke aankada bich, pukaara colocation, bhi gyaat as awaas in latin america or frans.
The scope of web hosting sevaayen varies greatly.
The most basic is web page and small-scale sanchika hosting, jahaan filein can be aplod via File Transfer Protocol ( FTP ) or a Web interface.
The files are praayah vitarit to the web `` as is '' or saath minimal processing.
Many Internet service providers ( isps ) prastaav is seva free to sadsy.
Individuals and sanghathan may bhi obtain web pej hosting isse vaikalpik service providers.
Personal web sait hosting is typically free, advertisement-sponsored, or inexpensive.
Business web site hosting often has a higher expense depending upon the aakaar or prakaar of the jalsthal.
Single page hosting is generally sufficient liye nijee web prishthon.
A complex site calls for a more comprehensive package that provides database support and anuprayog vikaas plateform ( e.g. piechapi, java, maaniky on rails, coldfusion, or ASP.NET ).
These facilities allow customers to write or install scripts for anuprayog jaise forums or saamagree prabandhan.
bhi, surakshit sockets parat ( esasail ) is typically used for e-commerce.
The host may also provide an interface or control falak liye managing the web sarwar or installing script, as khub as anya maudul and service applications like e-mail.
Some hosts specialize in certain software or services ( e.g. e-commerce ), jisase hai commonly prayukt by larger companiyaan ki outsource sanjaal infrastructure.
Obstetrics ( from the latin obstare, `` to stand by '' ) is the chikitsa specialty dealing saath the parvaah of sab mahilaon 's reproductive tracts or unke children during pregnancy ( prenatal period ), childbirth and the postnatal period.
Many obstetricians hai bhi streerog, arth ve perform in both specialties.
In the sanyukt rajya, ye physicians hai commonly referred to as OB/GYNs.
The Wright brothers, Orville ( August 19, 1871 – January 30, 1948 ) and Wilbur ( April 16, 1867 – May 30, 1912 ), yahood do amareeki bhaaiyo, avishkaarak, or vimaanan pioneers jo yahood credited saath inventing or bhawan the sansar 's pehla kaamyaab vayuyan or bananaa the pehla niyantrit, sanchalit or sustained heavier-than-air human flight, on December 17, 1903.
From 1905 to 1907, the brothers developed unke udati yantra into the pehla vyaavhaarik fixed-wing aircraft.
Although not the first to nirmaan or makkhi praayogic vayuyan, the rhite bhaaiyo yahood the pehla to ifatera aircraft controls that made fixed-wing powered flight possible.
The brothers ' fundamental breakthrough was their avishkaar of three-axis control, jisase sakriy the payalat to steer the vayuyan effectively and to maintain its equilibrium.
is vidhi became maanak or remains maanak on fixed-wing aircraft of all kinds.
From the beginning of their aeronautical work, the rhite bhaaiyo kendrit on vikasshil a vishwasaneey vidhi of payalat control as the kunjee to solving `` the flying problem ''.
This approach differed significantly from other experimenters of the samay jo put adhik jor on vikasshil shaktishaalee ingine.
Using a choti homebuilt hawa tunnel, the wrights bhi ekatrit adhik sateek aankada than koi pehle, enabling unhen to dizine and build wings and propellers that were more efficient than any before.
Their first U.S. patent, 821,393, did not claim invention of a udati yantra, lakin balki, the avishkaar of a pranali of aerodynamic control ki manipulated a flying machine 's surfaces.
They gained the mechanical skills essential for their success by working liye saalo in unke duukaan saath mudran dabaata, cycle, motors, and other machinery.
unke kaary saath cycle in particular bahekaave unke vishwaas ki an asthir gadee jaise a flying machine could be controlled and balanced with practice.
isse 1900 jabatak unke pehla sanchalit flite in let 1903, ve conducted extensive glider tests that also developed their skills as pilots.
Their bicycle shop karmchaaree charlie tailor became an mahatvapurn bhaag of the toli, bhawan unke pehla vayuyan engine in close collaboration with the brothers.
The rhite bhaaiyo ' aukaat as avishkaarak of the vayuyan rai maharoom vishay to counter-claims by various parties.
Much controversy persists over the anek spardhaa daawa of early aviators.
America 's Next Top Model, Cycle 12 is the twelfth cycle of america 's aglaa sheersh model or the chathe ritu to air on The CW network.
It premiered on kooch 4, 2009.
The cycle 's catch phrase is `` milengi in the moden. ''
the saikil 's promotional song is mahila gaaga 's `` The Fame ''.
the puraskaar liye this cycle are:
A modelling anubandh saath elite model Management.
A fashion spread and cover in satraa.
A 100,000 anubandh saath covergirl cosmetics.
the pehla half of the saikil took place in nai york nagar, chalati the dikhaaen waapas from Los Angeles last season.
The international gantavy liye is saikil is são poulo, brazil, the shrenee pehla visit to South America.
the kramank of ladakiyon thi ghataya to 13, the pehla samay chunki saikil 9, baad hone kaayam at 14 in the last two cycles.
This was the last samay paulina porizkova participated as judge.
the vijeta thi 20-year-old teyona anderson from Woodstown, New Jersey.
This season averaged 4.35 lakh darshak per episode.
Exxon mobil nigam, or exxonmobil, is an amareeki bahurashtriya aayal or gas nigam headquartered in Irving, Texas, United States.
It is a direct descendant of John D. Rockefeller 's maanak aayal company, or thi formed on navambar 30, 1999, by the vilay of Exxon and Mobil.
It is affiliated with imperial aayal jisase operates in canada.
ExxonMobil is the sansar 's largest company by aay or in 2013, became the largest publicly traded company by market capitalization in the world.
The company is ranked # 5 globally in forbs vaishvik 2000 suchi in 2013.
Exxon Mobil 's reserves were 72 billion oil-equivalent barrels at the samaapt of 2007 or, at tab ( 2007 ) daron of utpaadan, are expected to last over 14 years.
With 37 oil refineries in 21 deshon constituting a sanyukt rose shodhan kshamta of, exxon mobil is the largest refiner in the world, a title that was also associated with Standard Oil since its incorporation in 1870.
ExxonMobil is the largest of the world 's supermajors saath rose utpaadan of 3.921 lakh boe ( barrels of aayal equivalent ).
In 2008, is thi lagbhag 3 % of sansar utpaadan, jisase is kam than several of the largest state-owned petroleum companies.
jab kramit by aayal or gas reserves it is 14th in the sansar saath kam than 1 % of the total.
A 2012 article in the rose telegraph says ki exxonmobil rai `` grown into ek of the planet’s most hated corporations, able to determine American foreign policy and the fate of entire nations ''.
In terms of its environmental record, ExxonMobil increasingly drills in terrains leased to unhen by dictatorships, aise as those in Chad and Equatorial Guinea.
Lee Raymond, the corporation’s chief executive until 2005, was `` notoriously sceptical parichay jalwaayu badalen or disliked sarkari interference at any level ''.
The company was widely criticized liye iske slow jawaab to safaai iske 1989 valdez oil spill in Alaska.
is aalekh is parichay the globe theatre of Shakespeare.
For the modern reconstruction in landan, dekhie shakespeare 's Globe.
For anya upyog, dekhie globe theatre ( bahuviklpi ).
The Globe Theatre was a theatre in landan sambhddha saath wiliam Shakespeare.
It was built in 1599 by Shakespeare 's playing company, the rab chemberlen 's main, on jameen swaamitv by thomas brend or inherited by uske bete, nicholas brend or pota sar Matthew Brend, and was destroyed by fire on 29 June 1613.
A duusari globe theatre thi nirmit on the vahi sait by June 1614 and closed in 1642.
A modern reconstruction of the Globe, named `` Shakespeare 's globe ``, kholi in 1997 lagbhag isse the sait of the asli theatre.
It 's a Wonderful Life is a 1946 American Christmas drama film produced and directed by Frank capra, aadhaarit on the choti story `` the mahanatam tohfa ``, jisase philip vine doren stern likhaa in 1939 or privately published in 1945.
The film is mana ek of the sabase loved films in amareeki cinema or rai become paramparaagat dekhne dauraan the christmas season, alongside popular classics such as Charles Dickens ' A Christmas Carol.
The film stars james stewart as george beli, a man jo rai die up uske sapano in anukram to sahaayta anya or jinaki imminent suicide on Christmas Eve brings about the intervention of his guardian angel, Clarence Odbody ( Henry Travers ).
Clarence shows George all the jeevandaan he rai chuaa or kaisaa alag jivan in uske jatiyaan of bedford jalprapaat would be had he never been born.
Despite initially performing poorly at the box office due to high utpaadan laagat or stiff pratiyogita at the samay of iske relies, the filmi rai aaiye to be regarded as a clasik or is a stepal of Christmas television around the world.
theatrically, the filmi 's break-even point thi darasal $ 6.3 lakh, lagbhag twice the utpaadan cost, a figure it never came close to achieving in its initial release.
An appraisal in 2006 reported : `` Although it was not the complete box office failure that today everyone believes... it was initially a major disappointment or pushti, at tanik to the studios, ki capra thi no longer sakasham of turning out the populist suvidhaayen ki bana uske films the must-see, money-making events they once were. ''
The film was nominated for five Oscars and has been recognized by the American Film Institute as one of the 100 best American films ever made, rakhkar kramank 11 on iske aarambhik 1998 mahanatam film suchi, or hota bhi place kramank ek on iske suchi of the sabase preranadayak amareeki films of all time.
Data godaam avlokan
In computing, a aankada godaam or enterprize aankada godaam ( dw, dwh, or edw ) is a database used for reporting and data analysis.
It is a central repository of data which is created by integrating aankada isse ek or adhik disparate strot.
Data warehouses store vartmaan as khub as aitihaasik aankada or hai prayukt liye bananaa trending reports for senior management reporting such as annual and quarterly comparisons.
The data stored in the warehouse hai aplod isse the operational pranaaliyon ( aise as vipanan, bikri etc., dikhaaya in the figure to the right ).
The data may pass through an operational aankada store liye atirikt parichaalan pehle ve hai prayukt in the dw liye reporting.
The typical ETL -aadharand aankada godaam upyog staging, aankada sangyojan, or abhigam paraton to house its key functions.
the staging parat or staging database stores raw data extracted from each of the disparate source data systems.
The integration layer integrates the disparate aankada set by transforming the aankada isse the staging parat praayah storing is roopantarit aankada in an operational data store ( ODS ) database.
The integrated data are then sthanantarit to yet another database, praayah pukaara the aankada godaam database, jahaan the aankada is arranged into hierarchical groups often called dimensions and into facts and aggregate facts.
the sangyojan of tathy or aayam is sometimes called a star schema.
The access layer helps upayokta retrieve aankada.
A data warehouse constructed from an integrated data source pranaaliyon karata nahin aavashyaktaa etl, staging databases, or operational aankada store databases.
The integrated data source pranaaliyon may be mana to be a bhaag of a vitarit operational data store layer.
Data federation methods or data abhasikaran vidhi may be prayukt to abhigam the vitarit ekikrut sorce aankada pranaaliyon to consolidate or kul aankada sidhe into the data warehouse database tables.
Unlike the ETL-based data warehouse, the integrated source data systems and the data warehouse are sab ekikrut chunki vahin is no parivartan of aiami or sandarbh aankada.
This integrated data warehouse architecture supports the drill down isse the kul aankada of the aankada godaam to the transactional aankada of the ekikrut sorce aankada systems.
aankada warehouses can be subdivided into data marts.
Data marts store subsets of aankada isse a warehouse.
This paribhaasha of the aankada godaam focuses on data storage.
The main source of the data is cleaned, transformed, cataloged and made available for use by managers and other business professionals for data mining, online vishleshnatmak prasanskaran, market shodh or nirnay support ( marakas & o'brien 2009 ).
However, the means to retrieve and analyze data, to extract, transform and load data, or to manage the aankada shabdkosh hai bhi mana anivaary components of a aankada warehousing system.
Many references to aankada warehousing upyog is broader context.
Thus, an expanded definition for data warehousing includes business intelligence tuls, tuls to nikaalen, roopantaran or lod aankada into the repository, or tuls to manage or retrieve metadata.
portland stone pashaan on the oil of Portland, England
An abandoned nirmaan kul pashaan near Adelaide, South Australia
A pashaan is a prakaar of open-pit meraa from which rock or minerals are extracted.
Quarries are generally used for extracting bhawan saamagree, aise as aayam stone, nirmaan kul, riprap, baaluu, or gravel.
They are often collocated saath kancreet or daamer paudhe due to the aavashyaktaa liye vishaal amounts of aggregate in those materials.
Open mines that produce minerals hai typically referred to as kholen pit mines.
the shabd pashaan can shaamil bhumigat quarrying liye stone, such as Bath stone.
Mormons ( ) are a religious and cultural group related to Mormonism, the principal shakha of the latter din sant gati of restorationist christianity, jisase began saath the visions of joseph smith in upstate New York during the 1820s.
baad smith 's maut in 1844 the mormons followed Brigham Young to what would become the Utah Territory.
Today Mormons are samajha to be sadasyon of the girijaghar of yishu messiah of Latter-day Saints ( LDS Church ).
Some Mormons hai bhi either swatantra or non-practicing.
The center of Mormon cultural influence is in Utah, and uttar america rai adhik mormons than koi anya mahadweep, haalanki the bahumat of mormons sajiv baahar the sanyukt States.
Mormons have viksit a damdaar bhav of communality ki tana isse unke doctrine and history.
During the 19th century Mormon converts tended to gather to a central geographic sthaan, or between 1852 or 1890 a alpsankhyak of mormons khulkar practiced bahuvachan vivaah, a rup of religious polygamy.
Mormons dedicate large amounts of time and resources to sevarat in unke girijaghar, or anek yang mormons chune to serve a full-time proselytizing mission.
Mormons have a health code ki eschews alcoholic peya, tambaaku, coffee, chaay, or anya addictive substances.
They tend to be bahut family-oriented, or have damdaar conections aarpaar peedhiyaan or saath vistaarit parivaar, paravartak of unke belief that families can be sealed together beyond death and throughout eternity.
Mormons also have a strict law of shuddhta, requiring abstention isse yon sambandh baahar of marriage and strict fidelity within marriage.
Mormons self-identify as isai, haalanki kuch of their beliefs differ from mainstream Christianity.
Mormons believe in the Bible, as well as other books of scripture, aise as the kitaab of mormon.
They have a adwitiya drishy of cosmology, or maananaa ki all people are spirit-children of God.
Mormons believe that returning to parameshwar requires following the udhaaharan of yishu messiah, or accepting his atonement through ordinances such as baptism.
They believe that Christ 's church was restored through joseph smith, or is hidaayat by living prophets and apostles.
Central to Mormon faith is the vishwaas ki parameshwar bolti to uske children or jawaab their prayers.
In vittiya hisaab, asset are economic resources.
Anything tangible or intangible that is sakasham of hone swaamitv or niyantrit to upaj maan or ki is yojit to have positive economic value is considered an asset.
Simply stated, asset represent maan of swaamitv ki can be parivartit into cash ( although cash itself is also considered an asset ).
The santulan chadar of a kad record the monetaryj.
G. Siegel, N. Dauber & J. K. shim, `` the baniyaan jeb cpa '', wiley, 2005.there hai alag vidhi of assessing the monetary value of the assets recorded on the Balance Sheet.
In some cases, the Historical Cost is used ; such that the maan of the asset jab it thi kharida in the past is prayukt as the maudrik value.
In other instances, the upasthit mela market maan of the asset is prayukt to determine the value shown on the balance sheet.
value of the asset swaamitv by the firm.
It is dhan or anya valuables belonging to an individual or business.
Two major asset varg hai thos asset or intangible asset.
Tangible assets contain vibhinn subclasses, sahit current assets and fixed assets.J.
Downes, J.E. Goodman, `` shabdkosh of vitt & nivesh sharten '', samant 's vittiya maargdarshika, 2003 vartmaan asset shaamil inventory, jabaki phixd asset shaamil aise vasteen as imaaraten or upkaran.J. downes, j.e. Goodman, `` Dictionary of Finance & Investment Terms '', Baron 's Financial Guides, 2003 ; and J. G. Siegel, N. Dauber & J. K. Shim, `` The Vest Pocket CPA '', Wiley, 2005.
intangible asset hai nonphysical sansaadhan or adhikaron ki have a value to the firm because they give the firm some kind of advantage in the market place.
Examples of intangible asset hai saakh, copyrights, trademarks, patents or computer kaarykram, or vittiya assets, including such items as accounts receivable, bonds and stocks.
A neuron ( or ; also gyaat as a neurone or tantrika koshika ) is an electrically excitable koshika ki prakriyaaon or transmits information through electrical and chemical signals.
A rasinic signal occurs via a antargrathan, a specialized connection with other cells.
Neurons connect to each anya to rup neural sanjaal.
Neurons are the core components of the nervous pranali, jisase shaamil the dimag, spinal cord, or paridhiy ganglia.
A number of specialized types of neurons maujuud : samvedi neurons respond to tach, dhwani, lite or numerous anya stimuli affecting cells of the sensory organs that then send signals to the spinal cord and brain.
Motor neurons receive signals from the brain and spinal cord, kaaran mansapeshi contractions, or affect glands.
Interneurons connect neurons to other neurons bheetar the vahi pradesh of the dimag or spinal cord.
A typical neuron possesses a koshika deh ( praayah pukaara the som ), dendrites, and an axon.
Dendrites are thin structures that arise from the cell body, praayah extending liye sainkadon of micrometres or branching anek times, giving vruddhi to a jatil `` dendritic tree ''.
An axon is a special cellular ekstansion ki arises isse the koshika deh at a sait pukaara the axon ubharkar or travels liye a alahada, as dur as 1 meter in humans or even more in other species.
The cell body of a neuron aksar detaa vruddhi to anek dendrites, lakin never to adhik than ek axon, although the axon may branch hundreds of times before it terminates.
at the bahumat of synapses, signal are sent from the axon of one neuron to a dendrite of another.
There are, however, many apwaad to ye niyam : neurons ki kami dendrites, neurons ki have no axon, synapses ki conect an axon to another axon or a dendrite to another dendrite, etc.
All neurons are electrically excitable, maintaining voltage anupaat aarpaar unke jhilliyon by arthath of metabolically chalit aayan panpon, jisase combine saath aayan channels antahsthapit in the jhilli to generate intracellular-versus-extracellular concentration differences of ions such as sodium, potassium, chloride, and calcium.
Changes in the cross-membrane voltage can alter the falan of voltage-dependent ion channels.
If the voltage changes by a large enough amount, an all-or-none electrochemical pulse pukaara an karrwai sambhavit is utpann, jisase travels rapidly saath the koshika 's axon, or activates syneptic conections with other cells when it arrives.
Neurons do nahin undergo koshika prabhag.
In most cases, neurons hai utpann by khaas prakaar of stem koshikaayen.
Astrocytes, a type of glial cell, have bhi maharoom observed to phere into neurons by punya of the stem koshika characteristic pluripotency.
In humans, neurogenesis largely ceases dauraan adulthood—but in do dimag kshetron, the hippocampus or ghran balb, there is strong evidence for generation of substantial numbers of new neurons.
Super Bowl XLIII was an amareeki footbaal khel between the amareeki footbaal sammelan ( afc ) champion pittsburg stilers or the neshnal footbaal sammelan ( nfc ) champion erizona cardinals to decide the National Football League ( NFL ) champion for the 2008 season.
The Steelers defeated the cardinals by the score of 27–23.
The game thi nibhaai on farvari 1, 2009, at remand james Stadium in Tampa, Florida.
With this win, the stilers became the pehla toli to jeet chah super Bowls.
Pittsburgh, jo samaapt the niyamit ritu saath a 12–4 ricard, bhi jiti unke duusari super katori in chaar saalo baad jeetna super Bowl XL at the end of the 2005 season.
The Cardinals entered the game seeking their first NFL sheershak chunki 1947, the longest championships sookhaa in the league.
The club became an anpekshit vijeta dauraan the niyamit ritu, compiling a 9–7 ricard, or the playoffs saath the sahaayta of sir coach ken whisenhunt, jo thi the stilers ' apriy samanvayak in super katori xl, and the re-emergence of quarterback Kurt Warner, who was the Super Bowl MVP in Super Bowl XXXIV with his former team, St. Louis Rams.
Pittsburgh kud to a 17–7 madhyantar sise, aided by linebacker james harrison 's super katori ricard 100-yard interception return for a touchdown.
trailing 20–7 at the prarambh of the chauthi quarter, erizona scored 16 anuttarit ank, sahit wide receiver Larry Fitzgerald 's 64-yard touchdown reception, to take the lead with 2:37 remaining in the game.
But the Steelers marched 78 yards to score on chaudee receiver santonio holmes ' 6-yard game-winning touchdown catch with 35 seconds left.
Holmes, who caught nine passes for 131 yards and a touchdown, sahit chaar receptions liye 73 gaj on ki final game-winning drive, thi namit super Bowl MVP.
He became the sixth wide receiver to win the puraskaar, or bhi thi the teesraa pittsburg receiver to jeet the puraskaar, following Lynn Swann and Hines Ward.
Despite the global financial crisis and limited amount of aanushanbik festivities ki hai saamanytah yojit pehle the khel, the enbisi television sanjaal broadcast aakarshith an ausat u.S. darshak of 98.7 lakh viewers, making it the most watched Super Bowl in history to that point.
A diagram of the electromagnetic varnakram, prardashit vibhinn gun aarpaar the dayera of barambharataa and wavelengths
The electromagnetic varnakram is the dayera of sab sambhavit barambharataa of electromagnetic radiation.
The `` electromagnetic spectrum '' of an object has a alag arth, or is bajaay the characteristic vitaran of electromagnetic vikiran utsarjit or avashoshit by that particular object.
The electromagnetic spectrum extends from below the low frequencies used for modern radio communication to gamma vikiran at the short- wavelength ( high-frequency ) samaapt, thereby covering wavelengths isse hazaron of kilometre down to a fraction of the size of an atom.
The limit for long wavelengths is the size of the brahmad itself, jabaki it is vichaar ki the choti wavelength seemaa is in the vicinity of the Planck length, although in principle the spectrum is infinite and continuous.
Most parts of the electromagnetic varnakram hai prayukt in vigyaan liye spectroscopic or anya probing interactions, as ways to study and characterize matter.
In addition, vikiran isse vibhinn bhaag of the varnakram rai mila anek anya uses for communications and manufacturing ( see electromagnetic radiation for more applications ).
legend
marchantia, a liverwort
Bryophyte is a traditional name used to refer to all embryophytes ( jameen paudhe ) ki do nahin have sachcha vascular utak or hai isliye pukaara ' non-vascular paudhe '.
Some bryophytes do have specialized utakon liye the hastantaran of jal ; however chunki ye do not contain lignin, they are not considered to be true vascular tissue.
Currently bryophytes are thought not to be a natural or monophyletic samooh ; however the naam is suvidhajanak or remains in upyog as a samuhik pad liye mosses, hornworts, and liverworts.
Bryophytes produce enclosed reproductive structures ( gametangia or sporangia ), lakin ve upaj neither pushp nor beej, reproducing via bijaanuon.
The term bryophyte comes from Greek βρύον, bryon, `` tree-moss, oyster-green '' + φυτόν - phyton `` plant ''.
A bank is a financial sanstha or a vittiya intermediary ki sweekrut jamaa or channels those jamaa into lending kriyaayein, either directly by loaning or indirectly through capital markets.
A bank is the connection between customers that have puunji deficits or graahak saath capital surpluses.
Due to their influence bheetar a vittiya pranali or an arthvyavastha, bainko hai generally highly regulated in most countries.
Most banks operate under a system known as fractional reserve banking jahaan ve tham tabhi a choti arakshit of the nidhi deposited or lend out the baaki liye profit.
They are generally vishay to nunatam puunji aavashyaktaayen jisase hai aadhaarit on an antarrashtriya niyat of capital standards, known as the Basel Accords.
The oldest bank still in existence is Monte dei Paschi di Siena, headquartered in siena, italy, jisase rai maharoom oparating lagaataar chunki 1472.
It is followed by berenberg bainko of hamberg ( 1590 ) or Sveriges Riksbank of Sweden ( 1668 ).
banking in iske aadhunik bhav viksit in samrudh shaharon of punarjagran Italy, such as Florence, Venice and Genoa.
In the history of banking, a number of banking dynasties —among unhen notably medici, fugger, welser, berenberg, baring or rothschild —have nibhaai a central bhoomika over many centuries.
The exbox is a video khel consol manufactured by Microsoft.
It was released on November 15, 2001 in North America, farvari 22, 2002 in japani, or kooch 14, 2002 in australia and Europe.
It was Microsoft 's pehla foray into the gaming consol market.
As part of the sixth-generation of gaming, the Xbox competed saath soni 's plastesan 2, sega 's dreamcast ( jisase roka amareeki bikri before the Xbox went on sale ), and Nintendo 's GameCube.
The Xbox thi the pehla consol offered by an amareeki company baad the atari Jaguar stopped sales in 1996.
The integrated Xbox Live seva shubharambh in navambar 2002 anumat khilaadi to khel games online with a broadband connection.
It first competed saath dreamcast 's online seva lakin baad primarily competed with PlayStation 2 's online service.
Although these two are free while Xbox Live required a subscription, as well as broadband-only connection which was not completely adopted yet, exbox sajiv thi a kamyaabi due to behatar sarwar, suvidhaayen aise as a dost suchi, or padaav sheershak jaise helo 2 released in navambar 2004, jisase is the best-selling exbox video khel or was by far the most popular online game for years.
exbox 's successor, the exbox 360, was launched in November 2005.
The Xbox was discontinued in let 2005 in japani jahaan bikri yahood poor.
It was discontinued in let 2006 in europea or jaldi 2007 in North America.
The last Xbox game in Europe was Tony Hawk 's Project 8 released in navambar 2006, or the pichhlaa khel in uttar america thi maden enegel 09 released in August 2008.
Support for out-of-warranty Xbox consoles was discontinued on March 2, 2009, stating ki koi in-warranty marammat abhi needed hoga nahin be undertaken.
Xbox access to exbox sajiv thi roka on april 15, 2010.
The Gospel According to John ( Greek τὸ κατὰ Ἰωάννην εὐαγγέλιον ), commonly referred to as the inzel of jon or bas jon or praayah referred to in nai vasiyat scolership as the chauthi inzel, is an khaataa of the public mantralay of Jesus.
It begins saath the gavaah or pratigyaan by jon the baptist or concludes saath the maut, dafan, resurrection, and post-resurrection appearances of Jesus.
This account is chauthi of the canonical gospels, after the synoptics Matthew, Mark and Luke.
states that the book garbhashayi isse the gavaahi of the ' shishy jisko Jesus loved. '
Along with Peter, the unnamed disciple is visheshkar band to yishu, or early-church parampara pahachaanaa use as John the Apostle, one of Jesus ' Twelve Apostles.
The gospel is closely related in style and content to the three surviving Epistles of John such ki tikaakaron daavat the chaar kitabe saath, yet, according to sabase aadhunik vidwaanon, jon thi nahin the author of any of these books.
Recent Christian Scripture scholarship more or adhik rai lagaai jon bheetar a first-century Jewish context.
Raymond E. Brown did pioneering work to trace the development of the parampara isse jisase the inzel arose.
The discourses seem to be chintit saath the vaastavik mudde of the church-and-synagogue debate at the time when the Gospel was written.
It is notable ki, in the inzel, the jatiyaan still appears to define itself primarily viruddh judaism, balki than as part of a wider Christian church.
Though Christianity started as a gati bheetar judaism, dhire isaayiyon and Jews became bitterly opposed.
John presents a `` higher '' Christology than the synoptics, arth ki it describes yishu as the avatar of the daivi logo through jisko sab bate yahood bana, as the object of veneration, or adhik explicitly as God incarnate.
Only in John does Jesus baat at lambaai parichay khud or uske daivi bhoomika, praayah saajha saath the shishyon only.
Against the synoptics, John focuses largely on alag chamatkaar ( sahit resurrecting lazarus ), die as signs meant to engender faith.
Synoptic elements such as parables or exorcisms hai nahin mila in John.
It presents a ehsaas eschatology in jisase moksh is already upasthit for the believer.
The Plagues of Egypt ( ), also called the Ten Plagues ( ) or the Biblical Plagues, were ten calamities ki, according to the biblical kitaab of exodus, israel 's parameshwar, yahweh, inflicted upon mishra to raji pharaoh to relies the ill-treated Israelites from slavery.
Pharaoh capitulated baad the dasavaan plig, triggering the exodus of the Jewish people.
The plagues were designed to contrast the shakti of yahweh saath the napunsakata of Egypt 's various gods.
Some commentators have associated several of the plagues with judgment on specific devataaon sambhddha saath the nile, prajnan or prakritik phenomena.
the plagues of mishra hai bhi mentioned in the Quran ( 7,133–136 ).
According to the Book of Exodus, God proclaims that all the gods of mishra hoga be judged through the dasavaan or final plague:
John Martin 's painting of the plig of hail or aag ( 1823 ).
A role-playing game ( RPG and sometimes roleplaying game ) is a game in which khilaadi assume the bhoomikaaye of varna in a fictional setting.
Players take responsibility for acting out these roles within a narrative, either through shabdic acting or through a prakram of sanrachit decision-making or character development.
Actions taken within many games safal or asafal according to a aupchaarik pranali of niyam or dishanirdesh.
There hai anek form of RPG.
The original form, sometimes called the tabletop RPG, is conducted through charchaa, whereas in sajiv karrwai role-playing khel ( LARP ) players physically perform their characters ' actions.
In both of these forms, an arranger called a game master ( GM ) usually decides on the niyam or setting to be prayukt or adhiniyamon as referi, jabaki prayek of the anya khilaadi plays the bhoomika of a single character.
Several varieties of RPG also exist in electronic media, aise as multi-player text-based muds or unke graphics-based successors, massively multiplayer online role-playing games ( MMORPGs ).
Role-playing games also include single-player ofline role-playing video khel in jisase khilaadi control a akshar or toli jo undertake quests, or may include capabilities that advance using statistical mechanics.
These games often share jamaavat or niyam saath tabletop rpgs, lakin emphasize akshar unnati adhik than collaborative storytelling.
Despite this variety of form, kuch khel form aise as vyapaar card khel or wargames ki are related to role-playing games may not be included.
Role-playing activity may sometimes be upasthit in aise khel, lakin it is not the primary focus.
The term is bhi sometimes prayukt to describe liye simulation khel or exercises used in teaching, training, and academic research.
The amareeki civil yuddh ( acw ), bhi gyaat as the yuddh between the rajya or bas the civil yuddh ( dekhie namakaran ), thi a civil yuddh ladaa isse 1861 to 1865 between the United States ( the `` Union '' or the `` North '' ) and several Southern slave states that declared their secession and formed the Confederate States of America ( the `` Confederacy '' or the `` South '' ).
The war had its utpatti in the samasya of gulaami, visheshkar the ekstansion of gulaami into the western territories.
videshi shaktiyaan kiya nahin intervene.
After four saalo of khooni combat ki baayein over 600,000 sainiko murde or nasht much of the dakshin 's avasanrachana, the confederacy collapsed, gulaami thi abolished, and the difficult Reconstruction process of restoring national unity and guaranteeing rights to the freed slaves began.
In the 1860 adhyakshiya chunaav, republicans, led by abraham lincoln, opposed expanding gulaami into sanyukt rajya ' territories.
lincoln jiti, lakin pehle uske udghaatan on kooch 4, 1861, saat cotton-based slave states formed the Confederacy.
Outgoing Democratic President james bukanan or the aavak republicans asweekrut secession as illegal.
lincoln 's inaugural pataa ghoshit uske prashasan would not initiate civil war.
Eight remaining slave states jari to asweekrut kals liye secession.
Confederate forces seized numerous federal forts bheetar territory claimed by the confederacy.
A Peace sammelan vifal to dhundhen a sulah, or dono pahalu prepared for war.
The Confederates assumed that European countries yahood so nirbhar on `` king kapaas `` ki ve hota intervene ; none kiya or none pahachaanaa the nai Confederate States of America.
hostilities began on april 12, 1861, jab confederate shaktiyaan fired upon fort sumter, a kunjee fort held by Union troops in South Carolina.
Lincoln called for each state to provide troops to retake the fort ; natijatan, chaar adhik slave rajya joined the confederacy, bringing their total to eleven.
The Union soon niyantrit the kinaaraa rajya or sthapit a naval nakebandi ki abodh the southern economy.
The Eastern theatre thi inconclusive in 1861–62.
The autumn 1862 confederate abhiyaan into maryland ( a sangh rajya ) ended saath confederate retreat at the battle of Antietam, dissuading British intervention.
Lincoln issued the Emancipation Proclamation, jisase bana samaapti gulaami a war goal.
To the west, by summer 1862 the sangh nasht the confederate nadi navy, tab much of unke pashchimi sena, or the Union at Vicksburg split the Confederacy in two at the Mississippi River.
In 1863, robert E. lee 's confederate incursion uttar ended at the Battle of Gettysburg.
Western successes led to ulysses S. grant cmand of sab sangh sena in 1864.
In the Western theatre, wiliam T. sharaman drove east to capchar atlanta or marched to the samudr, destroying confederate infrastructure along the way.
The Union marshaled the resources and manpower to akraman the confederacy isse sab dishanirdesh, or could afford to lado ladaaiyon of apgharshan through the overland abhiyaan towards Richmond, the Confederate capital.
The defending Confederate army failed, agrani to lee 's aatmasamarpan to grant at appomattox adaalat house on April 9, 1865.
The American Civil War thi ek of the earliest sachcha audyogic wars.
railroads, the telegraph, steamships, or mass-produced weapons were employed extensively.
The mobilization of civilian factories, mines, shipyards, banks, parivahan or khaanaa aapurtiyan sab foreshadowed sansar yuddh I.
It remains the deadliest yuddh in amareeki itihaas, resulting in the mauton of an anumaanit 750,000 soldiers and an undetermined number of civilian casualties.
Historian jon huddleston estimates the maut toll at ten pratishat of sab uttari males 20–45 saalo boodha, or 30 pratishat of all Southern white males aged 18–40.
The definition of the sansar 's vyastatam vimaanashetra rai maharoom nirdisht by the airport Council International in Geneva, Switzerland.
The ACI defines or upayon the following teen prakaar of airport traffic:
yatri trekkic : kul yatri emplaned or deplaned, passengers in transit counted once
cargo trekkic : loaded or mod haada and mail in metric tonnes
trekkic andolanon : avataran and take-offs of aircraft
World War I ( WWI ) thi a vaishvik yuddh kendrit in europea ki began on 28 july 1914 and lasted until 11 November 1918.
It was predominantly called the World War or the Great War isse iske occurrence jabatak the prarambh of sansar yuddh ii in 1939, or the pehla sansar yuddh or sansar War I thereafter.
It involved all the world 's great powers, which were assembled in two opposing alliances : the Allies ( based on the tripal entente of the sanyukt kingdom, frans or rus ) or the central shaktiyaan ( originally the tripal gathbandhan of germany, austria-hungary or italy ; lakin, as austria–hungary had taken the offensive against the agreement, Italy did not enter into the war ).
These alliances were both reorganised and expanded as more nations entered the war : italy, japani or the sanyukt rajya joined the allies, or the osmani samrajya or bulgaria the central shaktiyaan.
Ultimately, more than 70 million military personnel, including 60 lakh europeans, yahood mobilised in ek of the largest yudhon in itihaas.
More than 9 million combatants yahood maare, largely kuki of technological advancements ki led to vishaal increases in the lethality of hathiyaar bagaiyr corresponding improvements in protection or mobility.
It was the fifth- deadliest virodh in sansar itihaas, subsequently paving the rasta liye vibhinn rajnatik parivartan, aise as revolutions in many of the nations involved.
One of the long-term kalyankari of the yuddh thi the punarutthan of samrajyavad in the foreign policies of the great powers of Europe.
adhik tatkaal, the hatya of archduke franj ferdinand of austria, the vaaris to the singhaasana of austria-hungary, on 28 june 1914 by yugoslav nationalist Gavrilo Princip in Sarajevo triggered a diplomatic crisis when Austria-Hungary subsequently delivered an ultimatum to the Kingdom of Serbia.
Several alliances formed over the pichhlaa dashakon were invoked.
Within weeks, the major powers were at yuddh or, via unke colonies, the virodh jald sprad around the world.
On 28 July, the Austro-Hungarians fired the first goliyaan of the yuddh as taiyaari liye the invasion of Serbia.
While the Russians mobilised, the Germans invaded neutral belgium or dhvaj on the rasta to frans, providing a casus belli liye britain 's ghoshnaa of war against Germany.
After the German march on Paris was brought to a halt—the so-called Miracle of the Marne —the pashchimi saamne settled into a sthir battle of apgharshan saath a gart lakeer ki badla choti until 1917.
On the purvi saamne, the roosi fouj thi kaamyaab viruddh the Austro-Hungarians, but was stopped in its invasion of East Prussia by the Germans.
In navambar the osmani samrajya joined the yuddh, kholane up fronts in the Caucasus, Mesopotamia and the Sinai.
Italy and Bulgaria went to yuddh in 1915 or romania in 1916.
In Russia, the tsar 's sarkari collapsed in kooch 1917 or a subsequent kranti in November brought the Russians to terms with the Central Powers.
After a 1918 germany apriy saath the pashchimi saamne, the allies drove waapas the germans in a shrenee of successful offensives and American forces began entering the trenches.
Germany, which had its own trouble with krantikariyon, sahamat to an armistice on 11 navambar 1918.
the yuddh ended in vijay for the Allies.
Events on the home fronts were as tumultuous as on the battle fronts, as the bhagidaar aajamaaya to mobilize unke janashakti or aarthik sansaadhan to lado a kul war.
By the end of the war, four major imperial powers—the German, Russian, austro-hungarian or osmani empires—ceased to maujuud.
The successor states of the former two lost a great raashi of territory, jabaki the latter do yahood dismantled entirely.
The map of central europea thi redrawn into anek smaller states.
The League of Nations was formed in the aashaa of preventing another aise virodh.
the europea rashtrawaad shakhit by the yuddh or the brallep of empires, the parakhnaa of germany 's shikast and problems with the Treaty of Versailles are agreed to be factors contributing to World War II.
The Deepwater Horizon oil spill ( also referred to as the BP oil spill, the BP oil disaster, the Gulf of Mexico oil spill, and the Macondo blowout ) thi an aayal spill in the gulf of mexico on the bp -operated macondo prospect, mana the largest aakasmik samudri aayal spill in the itihaas of the petroleum udyog, anumaanit to be between 8 % or 31 % larger in volume than the earlier Ixtoc I oil spill.
Following the explosion and sinking of the deepwater kshitij aayal rig, jisase claimed 11 jeevandaan, a sea-floor aayal gusher flowed unabated for 87 days, until it was capped on 15 July 2010.
The kul nirvahan is anumaanit at.
A massive response ensued to protect beaches, wetelends or muhaanon isse the spreading aayal utilizing skimmer jahaajon, floating booms, controlled burns and of Corexit oil dispersant.
After several failed praytn to contain the pravaah, the khub thi ghoshit sealed on 19 September 2010.
Some reports indicate the well sait continues to leak.
Due to the months-long spill, along with adverse prabhaav isse the jawaab or clyaap kriyaayein, extensive kshati to samudri or vanyajeev habitats, fishing or paryaton udyog, or insaan swasthya samasyaayein have jari through 2013.three years after the spill, tar balls could still be found on the Mississippi coast.
Numerous investigations chaan the kalyankari of the visphot or record-setting spill.
Notably, the U.S. government 's September 2011 rapat pointed to defective cement on the khub, faulting zyaadaatar bp, lakin bhi khub oparator transocean or contractor Halliburton.
pehle in 2011, a shwet house ayog likewise blamed bp or iske saajhedaar liye a shrenee of cost-cutting nirnay or an aparyaapt suraksha pranali, lakin bhi concluded ki the spill resulted from `` systemic '' root causes and `` absent significant reform in both industry practices and government policies, might well recur ''.
In November 2012, BP and the United States Department of insaaf settled sangheey dand aarope saath bp pleading apradhi to 11 rishto of manslaughter, do misdemeanors, or a felony count of lying to Congress.
BP also agreed to four years of government monitoring of its suraksha practices or aachaar, or the paryaavarniya suraksha agency ghoshit that BP would be temporarily banned from new contracts with the US government.
BP and the Department of Justice agreed to a record-setting $ 4.525 billion in fines and other payments but further legal proceedings not expected to conclude jabatak 2014 hai jari to determine payouts or jurmaana antargat the saaf jal adhinium or the prakritik sansaadhan kshati moolyankan.
As of farvari 2013, dand or civil settlements or bhugtan to a vishwaas nidhi tha laagat the company $ 42.2 billion.
`` Where the Streets Have No naam '' is a song by chattan band u2.
It is the opening track from their 1987 album the joshua ped or thi released as the album 's teesraa single in agast 1987.
The song 's hook is a repeating guitar arpeggio using a vilamb prabhaav, nibhaai dauraan the song 's introduction and again at the end.
Lead vocalist Bono wrote the lyrics in response to the khyaal ki it is sambhavit to pahachaano a vyakti 's dharm or aay aadhaarit on the gali on jisase ve jiya, visheshkar in Belfast.
During the band 's difficulties recording the song, producer Brian Eno considered erasing the song 's tepon to have unhen prarambh isse kharonch.
`` jahaan the galiyon have no naam '' thi praised by aalochakon or became a vanijyik kamyaabi, peaking at kramank teraa in the US, number fourteen in Canada, number ten in the Netherlands, and number four in the United Kingdom.
The song has become one of the band 's sabase lokapriy geeton or rai remained a stepal of unke sajiv adhinium chunki the song debuted in 1987 on The Joshua Tree Tour.
The song was notably performed on a Los angeles chat liye the filmakan of iske music video, jisase jiti a grami puraskaar liye behtareen pradarshan music video.recently the song rai maharoom prayukt by the NFL 's Baltimore Ravens as their entrance song in Super Bowl XLVII
thomas jeffri `` tom '' hanks ( born July 9, 1956 ) is an American actor, producer, writer, and director.
Hanks is known for uske bhoomikaaye in apollo 13, big, ki Thing You Do !
, The Green Mile, You 've Got Mail, Sleepless in Seattle, Charlie Wilson 's War, Catch Me If tum can, forest gamp, daal dur, a lig of unke apana, the da vinci code, farishte & rakshason, as khub as anemated films jaise the khilonaa Story film series, The Polar Express, and The Simpsons Movie.
He has earned and been nominated for numerous puraskaar dauraan uske kariyar, sahit jeetna a sunahari globe liye behtareen karta or an academy puraskaar liye behtareen karta liye uske bhoomika in philadelphia or a sunahari Globe, an Academy Award, a Screen Actors Guild Award, and a People 's Choice Award for Best Actor for his role in Forrest Gump, and earning the Stanley Kubrick Britannia Award for Excellence in Film from the BAFTAs in 2004.
Hanks is also known liye uske sahyog saath filmi nideshak steven spilberg on chhayankan nijee rayaan or the mini-series band of Brothers, which launched Hanks also as a successful director, producer and writer.
As of 2012, Hanks ' films have grossed over $ 4.2 arab at the sanyukt rajya baksaa daftar alon, or over $ 8.5 arab vishwavyaapee making him the highest all-time box office star.
The Cape is an amareeki superhiro naatak series.
It premiered on NBC during the 2010–2011 television season as a mid-season badalanaa shuruuaat saath a two-hour payalat apisod on sande, January 9, 2011 at 9 pm Eastern and Pacific Time.
An encore played on Monday, January 10, saath follow-up apisod continuing on somvaar evenings in the 9 pm timeslot beginning on January 17.
NBC subsequently cut the total number of episodes to be aired isse 13 to 10 as a parinaam of low ratings.
On kooch 2, 2011, enbisi ghoshit ki the shrenee finale hota tabhi be aired on the network 's website.
Halley 's dhoomaketu or dhoomaketu heley ( or ), officially designated 1p/halley, is the best-known of the short-period comets and is visible from Earth every 75–76 years.
Halley is the only short-period comet that is clearly drishy to the nagn najar isse dharti, or yun the tabhi naked-eye dhoomaketu ki might appear twice in a human lifetime.
Other naked-eye comets may be ujjwal or adhik spectacular, lakin hoga appear only once in thousands of years.
Halley 's returns to the inner Solar System have been observed or ankit by khagolashastriyon chunki at tanik 240 bce.
Clear records of the dhoomaketu 's dikhaave yahood bana by chinis, babylonian, or madhyakaalin europea chroniclers, but were not recognized as reappearances of the same object at the time.
The comet 's periodicity thi pehla sankalpit in 1705 by angrezi astronomer Edmond Halley, after whom it is now named.
heley 's dhoomaketu pichhlaa appeared in the bhitari saura pranali in 1986 and will next appear in mid-2061.
During its 1986 apparition, Halley became the first comet to be observed in vivaran by spacecraft, providing the pehla observational aankada on the dhaancha of a dhoomaketu cendrak or the yantriki of coma and tail formation.
These observations supported a number of longstanding hypotheses about comet construction, particularly Fred Whipple 's `` ganda snobal '' model, jisase correctly purvanumanit ki heley hota be rachit of a mishran of volatile ices – aise as jal, carbon dioxide or ammonia – or dhul.
The missions also provided data which substantially reformed and reconfigured ye vichaar ; liye udhaaharan it is abhi samajha ki heley 's sataha is largely composed of dusty, non-volatile materials, and that only a small portion of it is icy.
The following is a list of the sabase populous incorporated sthaan of the sanyukt States of America.
As defined by the United States Census Bureau, an `` incorporated place `` shaamil a kismein of designations, including city, town, village, borough, and municipality.
A few exceptional Census Designated Places ( CDPs ) hai bhi shaamil in the janasankhyikee beuro 's listing of incorporated places.
Consolidated city-counties represent a pruthak prakaar of sarkari ki shaamil the entire population of a county, or county equivalent.
Some consolidated city-counties, however, shaamil anek incorporated sthaan.
This list presents only that portion ( or `` santulan '' ) of aise sanchit city-counties ki hai nahin a part of another incorporated place.
Note that this list refers only to the population of individual municipalities within their defined had, jisase karata nahin shaamil anya municipalities or unincorporated suburban areas within urban agglomerations.
A different ranking is evident jab considering u.S. mahanagar kshetrafal populations.
The Mayflower was the ship that in 1620 transported 102 angrezi tirthayatriyon, sahit a kor samooh of separatists, to New England.
unke story is ek of travail or astitv in a harsh New World environment.
A New Zealand forward ( in white ) takes a shot on lakshya viruddh camerun in the 2011 fifa u-20 sansar Cup.
Forwards, also known as strikers, hai the khilaadi on a toli in sangh footbaal jo khel nikatatam to the opposing toli 's lakshya, and are therefore principally responsible for scoring goals.
This very advanced position and its limited defensive jimmedaariyon ausat aage saamanytah score adhik lakshya than anya players.
This position requires pragna, gati, or shakti, dono of nishpaadan or of thought, to perform the role well.
Modern team formations praayah shaamil ek to teen forwards ; two is the most common.
Coaches typically field one striker who plays in an advanced sthiti ( the kendra aage ), or another attacking aage jo plays somewhat deeper or assists in bananaa lakshya as khub as scoring ( the duusari striker ).
It should be noted that inside aage develop isse attacking midfield sthitiyaan and hence are naturally midfielders.
barsilona fc star leonnelle messi is a theth attacking midfilder seen as a forward due to his shot accuracy.
A California gharelu saajhedaari is a vidhik sambandh uplabdhiyaan to same-sex yugal, or to nishchit opposite-sex yugal in which at least one party is at least 18 years of age.
It affords the couple `` the same rights, protections, and benefits, and... the same jimmedaariyon, dayitvon, or kartavya antargat vidhi... '' as married spouses.
Enacted in 1999, the domestic partnership registry thi the pehla of iske dayaalu in the sanyukt rajya nirmit by a vidhanmandal bagaiyr court intervention.
Initially, gharelu partnerships enjoyed bahut few privileges—principally bas hospital-visitation adhikaron or the sahi to be claimed as a next of kin of the estate of a deceased partner.
The legislature has since expanded the scope of California domestic partnerships to shaamil sab of the adhikaron or jimmedaariyon aam to vivaah.
As such, california gharelu partnerships hai functionally samatuly to civil unions offered in several other states.
Although the kaarykram enjoys vyapak support in california, it rai maharoom the source of some controversy.
Groups opposed to the recognition of same-sex pariwaron have challenged the vistaar of gharelu partnerships in court.
Conversely, advocates of same-sex vivaah contend ki anything kam than puraa vivaah adhikaron vistaarit to same-sex saajhedaar is analogous to the `` separate but equal '' racial laws of the Jim Crow era.
Mark A. jackson ( born april 1, 1965 ) is an amareeki basket coach, or purv khilaadi jo is the current head coach of the Golden State Warriors of the NBA.
A point guard from St. John 's University, he played for the New York Knicks, Indiana Pacers, Los angeles clipurs, denwar tenders, toronto rapatars, uta jaiz or huston rockets in the enbie in a kariyar spanning from 1987 to 2004.
Jackson has also worked as a commentator liye iespien or abisi alongside uske purv coach jeff vine gundy and play-by-play man Mike Breen.
He was previously an NBA vishleshak liye the yas sanjaal 's nai jersey Nets games.
South Africa has eleven official bhashaaen : africa, angrezi, ndebele, uttari sotho, sotho, swazi, tswana, Tsonga, Venda, Xhosa and Zulu.
Fewer than two percent of dakshin africans bolo a pehla bhashaa other than an official one.
sabase dakshin africans can bolo adhik than one language.
Dutch and angrezi yahood the pehla aadhikarik bhashaaen of South Africa from 1910 to 1925.
Afrikaans was added as a bhaag of dach in 1925.
Dutch was replaced by africa jab dakshin africa became a ganatantr in 1961, or dach thi dropped in 1983, so between 1983 or 1994, dakshin Africa had two official languages : English and Afrikaans.
The English version of the South African constitution refers to the languages by the names in those bhashaaen : isizulu, isixhosa, africa, sepedi ( referring to uttari sotho ), setswana, angrezi, sesotho ( referring to dakshini sotho ), xitsonga, siswati, tshivenda or isindebele ( referring to Southern Ndebele ).
In South Africa, dakshini ndebele is gyaat bas as ndebele, as sabase adhyakshon of uttari Ndebele live in Zimbabwe.
The 1993 version of the Constitution referred to uttari sotho as sesotho sa leboa, lakin the 1996 sanskaran referred to the bhashaa as Sepedi.
Different government departments or aadhikarik laashen upyog alag terms to denote Northern Sotho.
The main bhashaa of sarkari is angrezi bhi if dakshin africans praayah take pride in using indigenous languages for any purpose.
Afrikaans also features prominently in commers saath saath angrezi as the bhashaaen saath the ucchtam number of fluent speakers are Afrikaans and English.
In terms of bhashaai vargeekaran, the aadhikarik bhashaaen shaamil do west-germanic bhashaaen ( English and Afrikaans ) and nine Bantu languages.
Four of these are Nguni languages ( Zulu, Xhosa, Swati and ndebele ) or teen hai sotho–tswana bhashaaen ( uttari sotho, dakshini sotho and Tswana ).
Tsonga is a tswa–ronga bhashaa.
South African Sign Language is a distinct though incompletely ubhara neshnal maanak bhashaa jisase bhi subsumes a cluster of semi-standardised dialects.
Aluminium nitrate is a salt of aluminium and nitric acid, existing saamanytah as a crystalline hydrate, sabase commonly as aluminium nitrate nonahydrate, Al ( NO3 ) 3·9H2O.
The New York jets hai a peshewar footbaal toli headquartered in Florham Park, New Jersey, representing the New York metropolitan area.
The team is a member of the Eastern Division of the American Football sammelan ( afc ) in the neshnal footbaal lig ( enegel ).
In a unique vyavastha liye the lig, the jets share metlife stadium in east radarford, New Jersey with the New York Giants.
The franchise is legally and corporately panjikrut as nai york jets, LLC.
The team was founded in 1959 as the titans of nai york, an asli sadsy of the amareeki footbaal lig ; baad, the franchise joined the NFL in the AFL–NFL merger.
The team began to khel in 1960 at the Polo Grounds.
Under new ownership, the current name was adopted in 1963 and the matadhikaar thi relocated to shea stadium in 1964 or tab to the meadowlands khel jatil in 1984.
The Jets advanced to the playoffs for the first time in 1968 and went on to compete in super katori iii jahaan ve parajeet the balteemor coltas, banane the pehla afl toli to defeat an NFL club in an AFL-NFL World Championship Game.
Since 1968, the Jets have appeared in the playoffs teraa times, or in the afc championships khel chaar times, sabase recently khone to the pittsburg Steelers in 2010.
However, the Jets have never returned to the Super Bowl, making unhen ek of teen enegel tiimon to jeet unke lone super katori rup, saath saath the nai orlions santo and Tampa Bay Buccaneers.
The team 's training facility, atlantic swasthya jets prashikshan bich, jisase kholi in 2008, is stith in florham Park.
The team currently holds unke salanaa prashikshan shivi satr on the campus of the rajya vishvavidhyalayon of nai york at cortland in cortland, New York while holding occasional sessions at the Florham Park complex.
psilocybe semilanceata
Psilocybin mushrooms, also gyaat as cicedelik mashroom, hai fungi ki contain psychoactive indole alkaloids.
There are multiple colloquial terms for psilocybin mashroom, the sabase aam hone shrooms and magic mushrooms.
Biological genera containing psilocybin mashroom shaamil agrocybe, conocybe, copelandia, galerina, gerronema, gymnopilus, hypholoma, inocybe, Mycena, Panaeolus, Pluteus, and Psilocybe.
There are approximately 190 species of psilocybin mashroom or sabase of unhen patan in the genus psilocybe.
psilocybin mashroom have sambhavit maharoom prayukt chunki pragaitihaasik times and may have been depicted in rock art.
Many samskritiyon have prayukt ye mashroom in dharmik rites.
In modern Western society they are prayukt recreationally liye unke cicedelik effects.
Recent studies done at Imperial College London and Johns hopkins skool of ayurvigyaan conclude ki jab prayukt properly, psilocybin adhiniyamon as an anti-depressant as sujhaayaa by fMRI brain scans.
Alaska ( ) is a state in the United States, situated in the uttarpashchim extremity of the uttar amareeki mahadweep, saath the antarrashtriya boundary saath canada to the east, the arctic samandar to the uttar, or the prashanth samandar to the west and south, with Russia further west across the Bering Strait.
Alaska is the largest state in the United States by kshetrafal, the 4th tanik populous or the tanik densely aabaadi of the 50 sanyukt States.
Approximately half of alaska 's 731,449 nivaasiyon sajiv bheetar the anchorage mahanagar area.
Alaska 's economy is varchasv by the aayal, prakritik gas, or fishing udyog ; it has these resources in abundance.
Alaska was purchased from Russia on March 30, 1867, liye $ 7.2 lakh ( $ samyojit liye mahangaai ) at lagbhag do saint prati acre ( $ 4.74/km2 ).
The land went through several administrative changes before banane an vyavasthit ( or incorporated ) territory on may 11, 1912, or the 49th state of the U.S. on January 3, 1959.
The name `` Alaska '' ( Аляска ) was already introduced in the Russian colonial period, when it was used only for the peninsula and is niklaa isse the aleut alaxsxaq, arth `` the menland '' or, adhik vastutah, `` the object towards which the action of the sea is directed ''.
It is also gyaat as alyeska, the `` great jameen '', an aleut shabd derived from the same root.
The 101 French departments are divided into 342 arrondissements, jisase may be anudit into English as districts.
The capital of an arrondissement/district is pukaara a subprefecture.
When an arrondissement contains the prefecture ( capital ) of the vibhaag, ki prifekchar is the puunji of the arrondissement, acting dono as a prifekchar and as a subprefecture.
Arrondissements are further divided into cantons or communes.
The vagina ( from Latin vāgīna, vastutah `` myaan '' or `` myaan `` ) is a tubular tract jisase is a sex ang or has two main functions ; sexual intercourse and childbirth.
In humans, is dyodhi lead isse the kholane of the bhaga to the garbhashay ( womb ), but the vaginal tract ends at the cervix.
naapsand main, jo have tabhi ek genital orifice, mahilaon have do, the urethra and the vagina.
The vaginal opening is much larger than the urethral kholane, or dono udghaatan are protected by the labia.
The inner mould of the yoni rai a foldy banaavat jisase can banaaen friction for the penis during intercourse.
During arousal, the yoni gets nam to sukar the pravesh of the shishn.
the latinate bahuvachan `` vaginae '' is rarely used in English.
Colloquially, the word vagina is often prayukt to refer to the bhaga or to the female genitals in general.
However, by its shabdkosh or anatomical paribhaashaayen, yoni refers exclusively to the specific internal structure.
The sinsinati laal hai a pramukh lig besabaal team based in Cincinnati, Ohio.
They hai sadasyon of the neshnal lig Central Division.
Established in 1881 as an swatantra klbon, the toli became a charter sadsy of the amareeki sangh in 1882, and joined the National League in 1890.
The club traditionally traces iske utpatti to besabaal 's pehla khulkar professional team in 1869.
The Reds have won five World Series titles, one amareeki sangh pennant, nau neshnal lig pennants or ten division titles.
The laal nibhaai in the neshnal lig west between 1969 or 1993 or have maharoom in the National League Central since 1994.
Since 2003, the Reds have played at great amareeki ball park, nirmit aglaa to unke ghar isse 1970 to 2002, Riverfront Stadium.
Bob castellini rai swaamitv the sinsinati Reds since 2006.
a sharaarat badboo bomb.
A stink bomb is a yantra designed to banaaen an apriy mahakate.
They range in prabhavakaarita isse saral pranks to sainya grad malodorants or riot control chemical agents.
The ginis kitaab of record suchiyaan do smelliest substances.
One is `` US Government Standard Bathroom Malodor '' ; a mixture of aath rasayan saath a stench resembling insaan mel, tabhi much stronger, designed to pareekshan the efficacy of deodorizers and air fresheners.
Another one, `` Who me ? ``, is a mishran of paanch sulfur-containing rasayan or khushbu jaise rotting khaanaa or carcasses.
The adage `` A picture is worth a hajaar shabd '' refers to the khyaal ki a jatil vichaar can be conveyed with just a single still image.
It also aptly characterizes one of the main goals of kalpana, namely bananaa it sambhavit to avashoshit vishaal amounts of aankada jaldi.
The abhivyakti `` upyog a chitra.
It 's worth a thousand words. '' appears in a 1911 samachaarpatr aalekh quoting samachaarpatr editor arthur bristben discussing patrakarita and publicity.
1913 samachaarpatr vigyaapan
A similar phrase, `` One Look Is Worth A Thousand Words '', appears in a 1913 samachaarpatr vigyaapan liye the piqua swachaalit supplai house of piqua, Ohio.
An early use of the exact phrase appears in an 1918 newspaper advertisement for the San Antonio Light which says : One of the swadesh 's mahanatam sampadak says : ek chitra is laayak a hajaar shabd the san antonio lite 's sachitr patrika of the yuddh exemplifies the sachai of the upar bayaan -- judging isse the garam resepshan it rai praapt at the hands of the Sunday Light readers.
It is believed by some that the modern use of the phrase stems from an article by Fred R. Barnard in the vigyaapan vyapaar jarnal mudrak ' syaahi, promoting the upyog of bimb in vigyaapan ki appeared on the pahalu of streetcars.
The December 8, 1921 issue carries an ad hakdaar, `` ek dekh is laayak a hajaar Words. ''
Another ad by Barnard appears in the March 10, 1927 samasya saath the phrase `` ek chitra laayak ten hajaar shabd, '' jahaan it is labeled a Chinese proverb ( 一圖勝萬言 ).
The Home Book of Proverbs, maxims, or parichit vaakyansh uddhran barnard as saying he pukaara it `` a Chinese proverb, so that people would take it seriously. ''
Soon after, the kahawat hota become popularly attributed to Confucius.
The discussion of `` ek chitra laayak hajaar shabd '' banaam `` ek chitra laayak ten hajaar shabd '' wan yen i hua or 10.000 mile laayak 10.000 kitabe is cited in Information graphics where the concept of many in different disciplines and cultures.
A chitra is laayak a hajaar words
Despite this modern origin of the popular phrase, the bhaavana rai maharoom expressed by pehle lekhak.
For example the Russian writer Ivan Turgenev likhaa ( in fathers or bete in 1862 ), `` a chitra shows me at a glance kayaa it takes dozens of pages of a book to expound. ''
Computer programmer and author Fred Brooks makes an opposite bayaan regarding programing in the mythical man-month : `` dikhaaen me apana flowcharts or chhipate apana teble, or i shall continue to be mystified.
Show me apana teble, or i won’t praayah need apana flowcharts ; they’ll be obvious. ''
The phrase has also been spoofed by John maikaarthi, the prasiddh computer vaigyanik, to mek the vipareet point : `` as the chinis kah, 1001 words is worth more than a picture. ''
A season is a subdivision of the saal, chihnit by parivartan in mausam, paristhitiki, and hours of daylight.
Seasons result from the vaarshik kranti of the dharti around the surya or the jhukaav of the dharti 's aksh saapeksh to the plane of revolution.
In temperate and polar regions, the seasons are marked by changes in the intensity of dhoop ki pahunch the dharti 's sataha, visangatiyaan of jisase may kaaran pashu to go into sheetanishkriyata or to migrate, and plants to be dormant.
During May, June and July, the northern golardh is ujagar to adhik sidhaa dhoop kuki the hemisphere faces the sun.
The vahi is sachcha of the dakshini golardh in November, December and January.
It is the tilt of the Earth that causes the Sun to be ucchtar in the aasmaan dauraan the garmiyaan maheene jisase increases the saura flux.
However, due to seasonal lag, June, July and August are the hottest months in the uttari golardh or disambar, janvari or farvari hai the hottest maheene in the dakshini hemisphere.
In temperate and subpolar regions, generally four calendar -based seasons ( with unke adjectives ) hai pahachaanaa : vasant ( vernal ), garmiyaan ( estival ), patjhad ( autumnal ) or sheet ( hibernal ).
However, ecologists mostly use a six ritu model liye shitoshna jalwaayu regions ki shaamil pre-spring ( prevernal ) and late summer ( serotinal ) as distinct seasons along with the traditional four.
Hot regions have two or three seasons ; the rainy ( or wet, or monsoon ) ritu or the shushk ritu, or in kuch teevr kshetron, a kool or mild season.
In some bhaag of the sansar, khaas `` sizan '' hai loosely paribhaashit aadhaarit on mahatvapurn kaarykram such as a hurricane season, tornado season or a wildfire season.
The six ecological sizan
The four calendar seasons, chitrit in an pracheen roman mosek from Tunisia
dach niryaat in 2006
At the samay of likhane the netherlands is the 17th largest economy of the world.
( dekhie : suchi of deshon by GDP ( nominal ) )
GDP prati capita is roughly $ 42,000 jisase puts it in the sheersh 10 of richest raashtra in the sansar ( see : List of countries by GDP ( PPP ) per capita ).
Between 1996 or 2000 salanaa aarthik vikaas ( jidipi ) averaged over 4 %, well above the European average.
Growth slowed considerably in 2001-05 as bhaag of the vaishvik aarthik slowdown.
2006 or 2007 however dikhaaya aarthik growth of 3.4 % and 3.9 %.
The Dutch economy was hit considerably by the jari vaishvik vittiya crisis and the ensuing European debt crisis.
Several bainko gai diwalia, or a kramank of anya tha to receive governmental aid.
In 2009 the economy declined saath 3.5 %, followed by do saalo of mild growth.
The dach arthvyavastha is philhal in a mandi again, with an economic decline of 0.5 % in 2012.
mahangaai is at 3.2 % in farvari 2013.
Unemployment has been apekshaakrit kam compared to anya eu raashtra liye dashakon lakin baad mid-2012 it rai dekhi a tej badhayen or in February 2013 it has hit 7.7 %.
The Netherlands prabandhit to maintain iske aaa darja at tanik jabatak kooch 2013 according to the teen pramukh credit rating agencies.
Historically, the Dutch introduced and invented the bhandar market by the merchandise vyapaar through dach west India Company.
the netherlands is a founding sadsy of the europea sangh, the OECD and the World Trade Organization.
Loyal to the Game is the tenth studio album or chathe studio album by tupak shakur.
It contains remixes of previously unreleased music ankit by shakur pehle uske maut in 1996.
Released in the United States on December 14, 2004 ( disambar 12 in the sanyukt kingdom ), vafaadaar to the Game was produced by Eminem.
The original panel of The View ; Meredith Vieira, Star jones, dibbi matenopoulos or barbara walters in 1997.
The View is an amareeki baat dikhaaen broadcast on abisi ki debuted in 1997 as bhaag of the network 's daytime programming block.
nirmit by barbara walters or vidheyak geddie, jo dono bhi serve as the dikhaaen 's karypalika nirmaataa, the program features a panel of women as co-hosts.
Along with Walters, the current falak shaamil whoopi goldberg, jo serves as the moderator, anand behar, elizabeth hasselbeck, or Sherri Shepherd.
International versions of the kaarykram hai aired in anek deshon.
As of the 2012–13 season, its 16th, The View is the fourth-longest kaaryshil neshnal din baat dikhaaen in itihaas, peeche the phil donahue dikhaaen ( 29 ), the variously-named Live !
kaarykram ( 25 ), or the opera winfre Show ( 25 ).
Prunus virginiana, commonly pukaara bitter-berry, chokecherry, virginia bird cheri or pashchimi chokecherry ( bhi blike chokecherry liye P. virginiana var. demissa ), is a prajati of bird cheri ( prunus subgenus Padus ) native to North America ; the natural historic range of P. virginiana includes most of the continent, except for the far north and far south.
Los Angeles International Airport is the primary airport serving the vrihad los angeles kshetrafal, the second-most aabaadi mahanagar kshetrafal in the sanyukt rajya.
It is most often referred to by iske iata vimaanashetra code lax, saath the akshar sunaaya individually.
LAX is located in southwestern los angeles saath the prashanth coast in the pados of westchester, isse the shahar kor or is the praathmik vimaanashetra of los angeles World Airports ( LAWA ), an agency of the Los Angeles city government formerly known as the Department of Airports.
In 2011, LAX was the sixth busiest airport in the sansar baad hartsfield-jackson atlanta antarrashtriya vimaanashetra, beijing puunji antarrashtriya vimaanashetra, landan heathrow vimaanashetra, chicago o'hare antarrashtriya vimaanashetra, or Tokyo Haneda International Airport with 61,862,052 passengers.
The airport holds the arji liye `` the sansar 's vyastatam utpatti or gantavy ( o & d ) vimaanashetra '' in 2011 ki involves non-connecting passenger traffic.
It is also the tabhi vimaanashetra to rank among the sheersh paanch u.S. airport liye dono passenger and cargo traffic.
LAX is the busiest airport in the Greater Los Angeles Area, but other airport sahit bob aashaa vimaanashetra, jon wain vimaanashetra, long bich vimaanashetra, la/ontario antarrashtriya vimaanashetra, or tad Springs International Airport also serve the region.
LAX is also the busiest airport in california or the west coast of the sanyukt rajya in sharten of udaan parichaalan, yatri trekkic or air cargo kaaryaklap, leading it to be referred to as the `` Gateway to the Pacific Rim ``.
Peyton Williams Manning ( born March 24, 1976 ) is an American football quarterback for the denwar broncos of the neshnal footbaal League ( NFL ).
He played for the indianapolis coltas liye 14 sizan isse 1998 to 2011.
He is the son of former NFL quarterbaque archi manning or an elder bhai of nai york diggaj quarterback Eli Manning.
Manning played college football for the University of tennesi, agrani the swayamsevak to the 1997 sek championships in uske varisht season.
However, No. 3 Tennessee lost to the No. 2 Nebraska cornhuskers 42-17 in the naarangi katori giving nebraska or tom osborn unke 3rd neshnal championships in 4 years.
He was chuni by the indianapolis coltas saath the pehla overall chune in the 1998 NFL Draft.
From 1998 to 2010, he led the Colts to eight ( seven AFC South and one AFC East ) division championships, do afc championships, or to a super katori championships ( Super Bowl XLI ).
He has won a record four league most valuable player awards, was the most valuable player of Super Bowl xli, rai maharoom namit to baarah pro pyaale, rai baarah 4,000-yard guzar sizan, or is the indianapolis coltas ' all-time netaa in guzar gaj ( 54,828 ) and touchdown passes ( 399 ).
In 2009, he was named the best khilaadi in the enegel or fox khel saath saath khel illustrated namit use the enegel player of the decade of the 2000s.
In May 2011, he underwent gardan surgery to alleviate gardan pidaa or bhujaa kamazori he dealt saath dauraan the pichhlaa few sizan pehle hastakshar a five-year, $ 90 million contract extension with the Colts in July 2011.
Manning had hoped to play in the 2011 season, but in sitambar 2011, he underwent a much adhik gambhir duusari surgery : a str ek cervical fusion procedure.
Manning had never chhuti an enegel khel in uske kariyar, lakin thi majaboor to miss the entire 2011 season.
He was released by the coltas on kooch 7, 2012, or baad an lagbhag two-week kaal jahaan he visited saath or worked out for several NFL teams, he signed with the Denver Broncos on March 20, 2012.
manning 's pre-snap dincharya rai arjeet use the upnaam, `` the sheriff '' or is ek of the most recognizable and parodied in the NFL.
The Indianapolis Colts ' almost exclusive use of the hurry-up offense led to manning using an sarani of ishaaron or maukhik cmand to kol the khel at the lakeer of scrimmage rather than in the huddle.
The America minar of the amareeki saamaanya bich, the headquarters of Baker Hughes
Baker Hughes is ek of the sansar 's largest oilfield services companies.
It operates in over 90 deshon, providing the aayal or gas udyog saath utpaada or sevaayen liye khudaai, gathan moolyankan, purnataa, production and reservoir consulting.
Baker Hughes has its headquarters in the America Tower in the amareeki saamaanya bich in neartown, huston.
Baker hughes incorporated thi formed jab baker antarrashtriya or hughes Tool Company merged in 1987.
Baker Hughes operates vishwavyaapee saath pramukh karyaalayon in liverpool, sanyukt kingdom ; singapore ; dubai ; a shodh or mentanence suvidha in celle, germany ; lafayette, Louisiana ; Houston, Texas ; Pescara, Italy ; and Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
The company is administered broadly in do baantati : the purvi golardh saath paanch regions ( europea, africa, the madhya east, asia prashanth or russia/caspian ) and the western hemisphere with four regions ( Canada, US Land, US Gulf, and Latin America ).
Each of ye regions is subdivided into markets.
the sanyukt rajya one- cent sikaa, commonly gyaat as a penny, is a unit of currency equaling one one-hundredth of a United States dollar.
The cent 's pratik is ¢.
Its obverse has featured the profile of adhyaksh abraham lincoln chunki 1909, the centennial of uske janam.
isse 1959 ( the sesquicentennial of lincoln 's janam ) to 2008, the reverse featured the Lincoln Memorial.
Four different reverse designs in 2009 sammanit lincoln 's 200th janmdiwas or a nai, sthai reverse – the sangh shield – thi introduced in 2010.
The coin is 0.75 inch ( 19.05 mm ) in vyas or 0.061 inches ( 1.55 mm ) in thickness.
The U.S. Mint 's official name liye a paini is `` '' or the u.S. rajkosh 's aadhikarik naam is `` ek cent tukdaa ''.
The colloquial term penny derives isse the angrejon sikaa of the vahi naam, the pre-decimal sanskaran of jisase tha a similar value.
In American English, pennies is the bahuvachan rup, anya bahuvachan form pence or peshaab ( maanak upyog in angrejon angrezi ) hai not used.
As of 2012, it laagat the u.S. mint 2.00 saint to mek a cent kuki of the cost of materials and production.
This figure includes the Mint’s fixed components liye vitaran or fabrication, anumaanit at $ 13 lakh in fy 2011.
It also includes Mint overhead abantit to the paini, jisase thi $ 17.7 lakh for 2011.
Fixed costs and overhead hota have to be avashoshit by anya circulating coins without the penny.
The loss in profitability due to producing the ek cent sikaa in the sanyukt rajya liye the saal of 2012 was $ 58,000,000.
This was a slight ghati isse 2011, the saal pehle, jisase tha a utpaadan loss of $ 60,200,000.
or adhik specifically, hai shobhyman kismein of domesticated aam carp ( Cyprinus carpio ) that are kept for decorative purposes in outdoor koi ponds or water gardens.
Koi kismein hai vishisht by coloration, patterning, and scalation.
kuch of the pramukh rangon hai shwet, black, red, yellow, blue, and cream.
The most popular category of koi is the Gosanke, jisase is bana up of the kohaku, taisho sanshoku, or showa sanshoku kismein.
The American Federation of Government Employees ( afge ) is an amareeki majdoor sangh representing over 650,000 karmchaaree of the sangheey sarkari, parichay 5,000 karmchaaree of the zila of Columbia, and a few hundred private sector employees, mostly in and around federal facilities.
AFGE is the largest union for civilian, non- postal federal employees and the largest union liye zila of colombia karmchaaree jo rapat sidhe to the mahayor ( i.e., baahar of D.C. public schools ).
It is sambhddha saath the afl-cio.
a let silyurian sporangium.
green : a spore tetrad.
Blue : a spore bearing a trilete mark – the -shaped scar.
The spores hai parichay 30-35 μm aarpaar
The evolution of plants has resulted in increasing str of jatilta, isse the earliest algal mats, through bryophytes, lycopods, ferns to the jatil gymnosperms and angiosperms of today.
While many of the groups which appeared earlier continue to thrive, visheshkar in the environments in jisase ve viksit, liye a samay prayek nai grad of sanghathan became adhik `` kaamyaab '' than iske purvavartiyon.
In the Ordovician period, around, the pehla jameen paudhe appeared.
These began to diversify in the let silyurian kaal, around, or the parinaam of unke diversification hai pradarshit in ullekhneey vivaran in an early Devonian fossil assemblage from the Rhynie chert.
This chert preserved early paudhe in cellular vivaran, petrified in volcanic springs.
By the middle of the Devonian Period, most of the features recognised in paudhe aaj hai upasthit, sahit jaden, pattey or dwitiyak lakdi ; or, by let devonian times, seeds had evolved.
Late Devonian plants had thereby reached a oopaadhi of parishkar ki anumat unhen to rup wanon of tall trees.
Evolutionary innovation jari into the carboniferous kaal or is still jari today.
Most sanyantr samooh yahood apekshaakrit unscathed by the permo-triassic extinction event, although the structures of communities changed.
This may have niyat the jhaanki liye the rup of the flowering paudhe in the triassic ( ~ ), or their later diversification in the Cretaceous and Paleogene.
The latest major group of plants to evolve were the grasses, which became mahatvapurn in the mid-paleogene, from around.
The grasses, as well as many other groups, evolved new mechanisms of chayapachay to jivit the kam or garam, shushk sharten of the ooshnakaribandh over the pichhlaa.
The winning Super Bowl toli receives the vince lombardi trophy.
The Super katori is an salanaa amareeki footbaal khel ki determines the champion of the National Football League ( NFL ).
The contest is held in an American nagar ki is chuni teen to chaar saalo beforehand, usually in warm-weather or domed sites.
Since 1971, the winner of the amareeki footbaal sammelan ( afc ) championships khel rai faced the vijeta of the neshnal footbaal Conference ( NFC ) Championship Game in the culmination of the NFL playoffs.
Before the 1970 merger between the American Football League ( afl ) or the neshnal footbaal lig ( enegel ), the do lig mili in chaar aise pratiyogitaaon.
The first two were gyaat as the `` afl-nfl sansar championships Game. ''
Super Bowl III in 1969 was the first aise khel ki carried the `` super katori '' moniker, the names `` super katori i `` or `` super katori ii `` yahood retroactively applied to the first two games.
The NFC /NFL lead in super katori vins saath 25, jabaki the afc /afL rai won 22.
atharah alag franchises, sahit tiimon ki relocated to another city, have won the Super Bowl.
The Pittsburgh Steelers have won the most Super Bowls with chah championships ( ricard 6–2 ), jabaki dono the dalas cowboys or san francisco 49ers have paanch vins prayek ( cowboys 5–3 ; 49ers 5–1 ).
Dallas and pittsburg have the sabase super katori dikhaave saath aath, jabaki the bhens bills have the sabase lagaataar dikhaave saath chaar losses in a row from 1990 to 1993.
The New England Patriots, Denver broncos or minesota vikings have bhi khoyaa a ricard four Super Bowls.
Buffalo and Minnesota are both 0–4, Denver is 2–4 or nai england is 3–4.
The record for consecutive wins is two and is saajha by saat franchises : the 1966-67 green khadi pakars, the 1972-73 miami dolphin, the 1974-75 or 1978-79 pittsburg stilers ( the tabhi toli to accomplish is feat twice ), the 1988-89 san Francisco 49ers, the 1992-93 Dallas Cowboys, the 1997-98 Denver Broncos, and the 2003-04 New England Patriots.
The only team with multiple Super Bowl appearances and no losses is the balteemor ravens, jo in jeetna super katori xlvii unseated or replaced the 49ers in that position.
Four current NFL teams have never appeared in a super katori, sahit matadhikaar relocations or renaming : the cleveland bhura, detroit sher, jacksonville jaguars, or huston texans, though both the Browns and Lions had won NFL Championship games prior to the creation of the Super Bowl.
martin county is a county stith in the u.S. state of Texas.
As of the 2010 janasankhyikee, iske janasankhyikee was 4,799.
Its seat is stanton.
the county is namit liye wylie martin, an early settler.
Martin county is ek of 30 nishedh, or entirely dry, counties in the state of Texas.
Alkaline phosphatase ( ALP, ALKP ) ( ) is a hydrolase anzime jimmedaar liye nikaalnaa phosphate samooh isse anek prakaar of anuon, sahit nucleotides, protein, and alkaloids.
The prakram of nikaalnaa the phosphate group is called dephosphorylation.
As the name suggests, kshareey phosphatases hai sabase prabhavi in an kshareey environment.
It is sometimes prayukt synonymously as basic phosphatase.
Triticale ( × Triticosecale ), ( ) is a sankar of gehun ( triticum ) or rye ( secale ) pehla karavaaya in laboratories dauraan the late 19th century.
The grain was originally karavaaya in scotland or sweden.
Commercially available triticale is almost always a second generation sankar, i.e., a cross between do kinds of praathmik ( pehla cross ) triticales.
As a rule, triticale combines the upaj sambhavit or anaaj visheshta of gehun saath the beemaari or paryaavarniya sahishnutaa ( including soil conditions ) of rye.
Only recently has it maharoom viksit into a commercially viable crop.
Depending on the cultivar, triticale can more or less resemble either of iske abhibhavak.
It is grown mostly for forage or fodder, although kuch triticale-based bhojan can be kharida at swasthya khaanaa stores or hai to be mila in some breakfast cereals.
When crossing wheat and rye, wheat is used as the maadaa janak or rye as the purush janak ( pollen donor ).
The resulting hybrid is bandhya, or jarur be treated saath colchicine to induce polyploidy or yun the ability to reproduce itself.
The primary producers of triticale hai candal, germany, frans, belarus or Australia.
In 2009, according to the khaanaa or krishi sanghathan ( fao ), 15.0 lakh ton yahood harvested in 29 countries across the world.
The triticale hybrids are all amphidiploid, jisase arthath the sanyantr is dwiguneet liye do genomes derived from different species.
In other shabd, triticale is an allotetraploid.
In earlier years, most work was done on octoploid triticale.
alag ploidy str have maharoom nirmit and evaluated over time.
The tetraploids dikhaaya choti vaada, lakin hexaploid triticale was successful enough to find commercial application.
The CIMMYT triticale improvement program chaahi to improve khaanaa utpaadan or poshan in vikasshil deshon.
Triticale has potential in the production of bread or anya khaanaa utpaada, aise as kukies, pasta, pizza aataa or naashtaa cereals.
The protein content is ucchtar than ki of gehun, haalanki the glutenin bhinn is less.
The grain has also been stated to have ucchtar str of lysine than wheat.
Assuming increased acceptance, the milling udyog hoga have to adapt to triticale, as the milling takneekon employed liye gehun hai mulammaa to triticale.
Sell et al. found triticale could be prayukt as a feed anaaj, or baad shodh mila iske mand thi visheshkar readily digested.
As a feed grain, triticale is already khub sthapit or of unchi economic importance.
It has received attention as a potential urja crop, or shodh is philhal hone conducted on the upyog of the crop 's biomas in bioethanol production.
`` kash, the jaadu dragon '' is a song likhaa by leonard lipton or peter yarrow, or bana lokapriy by yarrow 's samooh peter, Paul and Mary in a 1963 recording.
The song hasil great lokapriyata.
A college football national championship in the ucchtam str of colejiet khel in the sanyukt rajya, philhal the neshnal colejiet athlettic sangh ( ncaa ) prabhag i footbaal katori subdivision ( fbs ), is a namakan awarded annually by various third-party organizations to their selection ( s ) of the best college football team ( s ).
Division I FBS ( formerly prabhag i-a ) footbaal is the tabhi ncaa khel in jisase a vaarshik champion is not determined by an NCAA sanctioned championship event.
Because the championship team is not determined by a NCAA championships or toornament event, it is sometimes unofficially referred to as a `` mythical neshnal championships ``.
Since the ncaa, the khel 's shaasi deh, karata nahin determine or ghoshit a neshnal champion in this field, determination of such has often engendered controversy.
A championships toli is independently ghoshit by vibhinn individuals and organizations, often referred to as `` selectors ''.
ye chunaav hai sometimes at odds with each other.
While the NCAA has never officially endorsed an annual championship team, it has documented the chunaav of anek chayankartaaon in the aadhikarik ncaa footbaal katori subdivision record.
In addition, various third party vishleshkon have independently prakashit unke apana suchiyaan of kayaa ve have sankalpit to be the most legitimate selections for each season.
These are also often at odds with each other as well as vyaktigat skool 's daawa on neshnal championships, jisase, liye koi particular ritu, may or may nahin correlate to the selections published elsewhere.
Currently, two widely recognized national champions chayankartaaon hai the sambhddha dabaayen, jisase conducts a pole of footbaal sportswriters, or the uese aaj coach ' pole, a pole of amareeki footbaal coach Association active coaches that is contractually obligated to name the winner of the Bowl Championship Series championship game as its national champion.
The Milwaukee Brewers are a peshewar besabaal toli aadhaarit in milvowki, Wisconsin.
The toli is a sadsy of the central prabhag of pramukh lig besabaal 's National League and plays its home games at Miller Park.
The toli is so namit kuki of the nagar 's sangh saath the brewing industry.
The washington nagarikon hai a peshewar besabaal toli based in Washington, D.C.
The Nationals are a member of the east prabhag of the neshnal lig of pramukh lig besabaal ( MLB ).
The team 's home ballpark is nagarikon park, stith on dakshin capital gali in southeast d.C., nikat the Anacostia River.
the park kholi in 2008, replacing rfk stadium, the team 's home from 2005 to 2007.
The Nationals ' name garbhashayi isse the purv washington besabaal toli ki tha the vahi naam ( used interchangeably with Senators ).
Their nickname is `` the nats '' —a shortened sanskaran ki thi bhi prayukt by the boodha d.C. tiimon.
An expansion franchise, the club was santhaapit in as the montrial expos, the pehla pramukh lig toli in Canada.
They were based in Montreal, Quebec, or nibhaai unke ghar khel at jarry park stadium or baad in olympic stadium.
In, the Expos won a division championship, won their first-ever playoff shrenee by defeating the philadelphia philis, 3–2, or unnat to the neshnal lig championships shrenee, jahaan ve hota go on to khona to the los angeles dosers, 3–2, in unke tabhi postseason rup dauraan the strike-shortened season.
The Expos had their highest winning pratishat in the strike-shortened ritu of, jab the toli tha the best record in baseball.
The team 's subsequent shedding of khilaadi caused fan interest to drop off.
After the 2001 season, MLB considered revoking the toli 's matadhikaar, saath saath either the minesota Twins or the Tampa Bay Devil Rays.
After being purchased by MLB in 2002, the team was moved before the season to Washington and renamed the nagarikon, the pehla relocation chunki the duusari washington seenetteron sthanantarit to Arlington, Texas, and became the Texas Rangers in.
The Nationals are one of two MLB franchises, or the tabhi ek in the neshnal lig, ki rai never nibhaai in a sansar shrenee ( the Seattle Mariners are the other ).
A contingent fee ( in the United States ) or conditional fee ( in England and Wales ) is koi shulk liye sevaayen provided jahaan the shulk is dey tabhi if vahin is a favourable result.
In the law, it is defined as a `` fee charged for a lawyer 's sevaayen tabhi if the mukadmaa is kaamyaab or is favorably settled out of court....
Contingent fees are praayah gananaa as a pratishat of the client 's net recovery. ''
In the English legal system, it is generally referred to as no jeet no fee.
A conditional fee anubandh between a vidhi kad or a client.
The usual form of this anubandh is ki the solicitor hoga lo a vidhi maamla on the samajhnaa ki if lost, no payment is made.
However, if the maamla is jiti, the vakil hoga be hakdaar to the saamaanya shulk aadhaarit on hourly billing, plus a success fee.
The kamyaabi shulk in england jarur be as a pratishat no vrihad than 100 % of the normal fee.
This contrasts with the contingency fee in the US, which gives the kaamyaab attorney a pratishat of the kshatipurti awarded in ehsaan of uske claayent.
This makes it easier for the poor to pursue unke civil adhikaron chunki varanaa, to mukadmaa kisi liye a apkrutya, ek jarur pehla be dhanwaan paryaapt to pursue aise vaad in the first place.
However, because of the unchi risk, few attorneys hoga lo maamle on a aakasmikta aadhaar jabatak ve feel the case has good merit.
According to a 2004 book by law professor Herbert Kritzer, contingent fees were allowed as of that year in the following deshon : australia, brazil, canada, the dominican ganatantr, frans, Greece, Ireland, Japan, New Zealand, the United Kingdom and the United States.
They are bhi anumat in nijee chot kriyaayein in Lithuania.
Recently, they have maharoom anumat in belgium as well.
A Convocation ( Latin 'calling saath ', translating the unani ecclesia ) is a samooh of logon formally assembled for a special purpose.
Sons of araajaktaa is a television naatak shrenee nirmit by court sutter parichay the jeevandaan of a close-knit gaiyrkanoonee motorcycle club operating in Charming, a fictional town in California 's Central Valley.
The show centers on protagonist Jackson `` Jax '' teller ( charlie hunnam ), the then-vice adhyaksh of the klbon, jo begins questioning the club and himself.
Sons of araajaktaa premiered on sitambar 3, 2008, on cable network FX.
The third season of the series attracted an ausat of 4.9 lakh darshak prati saptaah, bananaa it fx 's ucchtam rated series ever, surpassing FX 's other hits The Shield, Nip/Tuck, and Rescue Me.
On February 3, 2012, Sons of araajaktaa thi navinikrut liye do atirikt sizan, a paanchvaan or a sixth.
Those involved in the utpaadan of the shrenee imply ki a saatvaan or final ritu is creator Kurt Sutter 's plan.
The Grímsvötn sub-glacial jhiilon ( ; vötn = `` waters '', ekvachan : ) or the jwalamukhi of the same name are in South-East Iceland.
They are in the hilands of iceland at the northwestern side of the Vatnajökull ice-cap.
The lakes are at, at an unnayan of.
beneath the jhiilon is the megma kaksh of the Grímsvötn volcano.
Grímsvötn is a basaltic jwalamukhi jisase rai the ucchtam fatna aavriti of sab the jwalamukhi in Iceland and has a southwest-northeast-trending fissure system.
The massive climate-impacting Laki fissure fatna of 1783–1784 thi a bhaag of the vahi fisher pranali.
Grímsvötn was erupting at the vahi samay as laki dauraan 1783, but continued to erupt until 1785.
kuki sabase of the jwalamukhi jhooth underneath vatnajökull, sabase of iske eruptions have maharoom subglacial or the baatcheet of magma and meltwater from the ice causes phreatomagmatic explosive activity.
On 21 May 2011 at 19:25 UTC, an eruption began, with high plumes accompanied by multiple earthquakes, resulting in raddikaran of 900 flite in iceland, or in the sanyukt kingdom, greenland, germany, Ireland and Norway on 22–25 May.
Until 25 may the fatna scale tha maharoom larger than ki of the 2010 eruption of Eyjafjallajökull.
the fatna roka at 02:40 utc on 25 may 2011, haalanki vahin thi kuch visphotak kaaryaklap isse the tephra vents affecting only the area around the crater.
Vetting is the process of performing a prishthbhumi jaanch on kisi pehle offering unhen niyukti, doctorat an award, etc.
A prospective person or project may be vetted pehle bananaa a bhartee decision.
In addition, in pragna mehafil, asset hai vetted to determine their usefulness.
purv mukhyalay or current corporate offices
Caesars Entertainment Corporation ( formerly harrah 's entertainment isse 1995 to 2010 ) is an amareeki public gaming nigam ki owns or operates over 50 casino, hotel, or saat golf courses under several brands.
The company, based in Paradise, newada, is the largest gaming company in the sansar, saath salanaa revenues of $ 8.9 billion ( 2010 ).
Caesars is a public company, with a joint venture of apollo vaishvik prabandhan or texas prashanth samooh ownig a large portion of the stack and Blackstone Group also holding a significant stake.
The name change from `` Harrah 's entertainment inc. '' to `` caesars entertainment nigam '' thi bana official on November 23, 2010.
Harrah 's remains a kunjee brands in the company.
On November 5, 2010, harrah 's ghoshit an aarambhik public offering of 31,250,000 saajha lakin retracted is offering on November 19.
A Permanent Resident in Canada is a person who is not a Canadian citizen lakin jo rai maharoom granted anumati to sajiv or kaary in canada bagaiyr koi samay seemaa on his or her stay.
A permanent nivasee jarur sajiv in canada liye do saalo out of prayek paanch or risk losing that status.
A Permanent Resident holds many of the same rights and responsibilities as a Canadian citizen, among others the right to work for any enterprize as khub as liye the sangheey or prantiy sarkari ( antargat pratibandh of abhigam adhikaron to nishchit regulated professions ).
The main matbhed hai ki nivaasiyon can nahin :
vote in chunaavon in canada ;
run for nirvaachit daftar ;
tham canadai passports ;
In addition, ve may be anumat to juden canada 's hathiyaarband shaktiyaan if the neshnal byaaj hota not be prejudiced.
Permanent residents also risk pratyrpan liye gambhir aparaadhon vachanabaddh jabaki resident in Canada.
Permanent nivaasiyon may lagu liye canadai naagarikta baad teen saalo in canada ; however this is not mandatory.
Erica Kane is a fictional akshar isse the amareeki abisi din sabun opera All My Children.
The character was portrayed by actress Susan Lucci from her debut on janvari 16, 1970 jabatak the pichhlaa broadcast television apisod aired on sitambar 23, 2011.
On February 11, 2013, it thi ghoshit ki lucci hoga guest-star on the prospect park 's continuation of All My Children.
In the u.S., erika is mana to be the sabase lokapriy character in soap opera history.
regarding the north-american market, tv maargdarshika kals uske `` unequivocally the sabase prasiddh sabun opera character in the history of daytime TV '', and included her in their 2013 list of The 60 Nastiest Villains of All Time.
A graph of the US CPI isse 1913 to 2006 ( in blue ), or iske pratishat annual change ( in red )
A consumer price index ( CPI ) measures changes in the daam str of a market basket of upabhokta goods or sevaayen kharida by households.
The CPI in the United States is defined by the Bureau of Labor Statistics as `` a measure of the average change over samay in the keemten sashulk by shahari upabhokta liye a market basket of upabhokta goods and services. ''
The CPI is a statistical anumaan constructed using the keemten of a namoona of pratinidhi vasteen whose prices are collected periodically.
Sub-indexes and sub-sub-indexes are computed for different categories and sub-categories of goods and services, being combined to upaj the overall anukramanika saath weights reflecting unke saajha in the kul of the upabhokta expenditures covered by the index.
It is one of several price indices gananaa by sabase neshnal sankhyikeey agencies.
The annual pratishat badalen in a cpi is prayukt as a measure of inflation.
A CPI can be used to index ( i.e., adjust liye the prabhaav of mahangaai ) the real maan of mazdooree, salaries, pensions, liye regulating keemten or liye deflating monetary magnitudes to show changes in real values.
In most countries, the CPI is, along with the population census and the USA neshnal aay or utpaada khate, ek of the sabase closely dekhi neshnal economic statistics.
Knocking on wood, or to touch wood, refers to the apotropaic tradition in western folklore of literally touching/knocking on wood, or merely stating ki tum hai doing or intend vahi, in anukram to avoid `` tempting bhagya `` baad bananaa a favourable avlokan, a boast, or declaration concerning one 's own death.
rocker bhujaa
Generally referred to within the context of the internal combustion engine of automotive, marine, motorcycle and pratyaagmani vimaanan ingine, the rocker bhujaa is an oscillating liver ki conveys radial gati isse the cam pali into raikhik movement at the poppet valve to open it.
One end is raised and lowered by a ghurnan pali of the camshaft ( either sidhe or via a tappet ( lifter ) or pushrod ) jabaki the other end acts on the valve stem.
When the camshaft lobe raises the baahar of the bhujaa, the andar dabaata bas on the valve stem, opening the valve.
When the outside of the bhujaa is permitted to vaapasi due to the camshafts roteshan, the inside rises, allowing the valve spring to close the valve.
The drive cam is chalit by the camshaft.
is pushes the rocker bhujaa up or bas parichay the trunnion pin or rocker shaft.
Friction may be reduced at the point of contact saath the valve stem by a roller cam anusarankarta.
A similar arrangement transfers the motion via another roller cam anusarankarta to a second rocker arm.
This rotates about the rocker shaft, or hastantaran the gati via a tappet to the poppet valve.
In this maamla is opens the seven valve to the cylinder head.
The effective leverage of the bhujaa ( or yun the force it can exert on the valve stem ) is determined by the rocker arm ratio, the ratio of the distance from the rocker arm 's center of rotation to the tip divided by the distance from the center of rotation to the point acted on by the camshaft or pushrod.
Current automotive dizine favors rocker bhujaa ratios of parichay 1.5:1 to 1.8:1.
However, in the past choti dhanatmak ratios ( the valve lift is vrihad than the cam lift ) or bhi rinatmak ratios ( valve lift smaller than the cam lift ) have been used.
Many pre-WW2 ingine upyog 1:1 ( neutral ) ratios.
For car engines the rocker arms are generally steel stampings, providing a uchit santulan of shakti, weight and economical cost.
Because the rocker bahen hai, in bhaag, pratyaagmani vazan, excessive dravyaman visheshkar at the lever ends limits the engine 's ability to reach high operating speeds.
`` The Night the lits gai out in georgia '' is a dakshini gothic song likhaa by songwriter bobby Russell and performed in 1972 by his then-wife Vicki Lawrence.
Reba mcentire baad covered it in 1991.
Recorded in late October 1972 in United/Western studios on suryaast in hollywood or released kam than do saptaah baad in navambar 1972, the song centers around the puraani bhai of the narrator, falsely convicted of and executed for a murder, which the narrator herself has committed.
In postal mail, a return address is an suspasht samavesh of the pataa of the vyakti sending the sandesh.
It provides the recipient ( and sometimes authorized intermediaries ) with a means to determine kaisaa to respond to the preshak of the sandesh if needed.
The return address need nahin shaamil a preshak 's naam, lakin chahie shaamil pataa or p.o. baksaa vivaran in the same way as the delivery address should.
In some countries, the return address is conventionally stith in the apper baayein haath kone of the lipapha, card, or label.
In the United kingdom, the vaapasi pataa is praayah lagaai on the reverse of the envelope, near the top.
vyavsaayon praayah upyog lipaphe preprinted with a return address.
Many individuals have chaadaren of chipakane labals preprinted saath unke ghar address to affix to their correspondence.
Charities sometimes include aise chaadaren in mailshots.
Rolls of Return Address Labels can be purchased from companies that sell personalized labals to provide individuals an aasaan rasta to chhilake or stick vaapasi pataa labals to unke lipaphe.
The return pataa is nahin jaruri on dak mail.
However, lack of a vaapasi pataa roktaa the dak seva isse hone samarth to vaapasi the mad if it proves undeliverable ; such as from damage, postage due, or invalid destination.
Such mail may yun become dead letter mail.
Should the return address be of a different state or desh, the mail may be routed through ki sthaan liye aasaani of vaapasi.
A nerve guidance conduit ( also referred to as an artificial nerve conduit or artificial tantrika graft, as opposed to an autograft ) is an kritrim arthath of guiding axonal regrowth to sukar tantrika regeneration or is ek of anek naidanik treatments for nerve injuries.
When direct suturing of the two out of a severed tantrika can nahin be sampannataa bagaiyr tension, the maanak naidanik upachaar for peripheral nerve injuries is autologous nerve grafting.
Due to the limited uplabdhta of daata utak or kaaryaatmak recovery in autologous tantrika kalam, neural utak abhiyantriki shodh rai kendrit on the vikaas of bioartificial nerve guidance conduits as an alternative treatment, especially for large defects.
Similar takneekon hai bhi hone chaan liye tantrika marammat in the spinal cord lakin tantrika regeneration in the central baichaiyn system poses a greater challenge because its axons do not regenerate appreciably in their native environment.
The creation of artificial conduits is bhi gyaat as entubulation kuki the tantrika ends or intervening gap hai enclosed bheetar a tub composed of biological or synthetic materials.
Whether the conduit is in the form of a biologic tube, synthetic tub or tissue-engineered conduit, it chahie sukar neurotropic or neurotrophic sanchaar between the proximal or distal ends of the tantrika gap, block external inhibitory factors, and provide a physical guidance for axonal regrowth.
The most moulik uddeshy of a tantrika maargdarshan conduit is to combine shaareerik, rasinic, and biological cues under conditions that will foster tissue formation.
Materials that have been used to mek biologic tubes shaamil rakt baratan or skeletal mansapeshiyaan, jabaki nonabsorbable and bioabsorbable synthetic tubes have been made from silicone and polyglycolide respectively.
tissue-engineered tantrika maargdarshan conduits hai a sangyojan of anek tatv : scaffold dhaancha, scaffold material, cellular therapies, neurotrophic factors and biomimetic materials.
The choice of which physical, chemical and biological cues to upyog is aadhaarit on the gun of the tantrika paryaavaran, which is critical in creating the most desirable environment for axon regeneration.
The factors that control material selection include biocompatibility, biodegradability, mechanical akhandta, controllability dauraan tantrika vikaas, implantation or nasbandi.
Hardcore Pawn is an American reality television series produced by RDF USA ( later Zodiak USA ) and Richard Dominick Productions for truTV about the day-to-day operations of American Jewelry or rin, a family-owned sahuukaar duukaan stith at 20450 greenfield sadak, between 8 mile sadak or the jon C. awaas frive in detroit, Michigan.
The series premiered on August 16, 2010, delivering do lakh darshak, setting a ricard as trutv 's most-watched series premiere ever.
amoxicillin bp
amoxicillin ( in ), formerly amoxycillin ( bain ), or abbreviated amox, is a moderate-spectrum, bacteriolytic, β-lactam antibiotic used to treat bacterial infections caused by susceptible microorganisms.
It is usually the drug of choice within the class kuki it is behatar avashoshit, following maukhik prashasan, than other β-lactam antibiotics.
amoxicillin is ek of the sabase aam antibiotic vihit for children.
The drug became uplabdhiyaan in 1972.
Amoxicillin is susceptible to degradation by β-lactamase -producing jeevanu, jisase hai resistant to a vyapak varnakram of β-lactam antibiotics, such as penicillin.
liye is kaaran, it is praayah sanyukt saath clavulanic acid, a β-lactamase inhibitor.
This increases prabhavakaarita by reducing iske susceptibility to β-lactamase resistance.
Lyndon Baines Johnson ( August 27, 1908 – January 22, 1973 ), often referred to as LBJ, was the 36th adhyaksh of the sanyukt rajya ( 1963–1969 ), a sthiti he assumed baad uske seva as the 37th vaais President of the United States ( 1961–1963 ).
he is ek of tabhi chaar logon jo parosa in sab chaar nirvaachit sangheey karyaalayon of the sanyukt rajya : pratinidhi, Senator, Vice President, and President.
Johnson, a democrate isse texas, parosa as a sanyukt rajya pratinidhi isse 1937–1949 or as a seenetter isse 1949–1961, sahit chah saalo as sanyukt States Senate Majority Leader, two as Senate Minority Leader and two as Senate Majority Whip.
After campaigning unsuccessfully liye the loktantric namakan in 1960, johnson thi poocha by jon F. kennedy to be uske kaaryshil mate liye the 1960 presidential election.
Johnson succeeded to the presidency following the assassination of John F. Kennedy on navambar 22, 1963, samaapt kennedy 's pad or thi nirvaachit adhyaksh in uske apana sahi, jeetna by a vishaal hashia over bairi Goldwater in the 1964 election.
Johnson was greatly supported by the Democratic Party and as President, he was responsible for designing the `` Great Society `` legislation that shaamil kanoon ki upheld civil adhikaron, public prasaaran, medicare, medicaid, paryaavarniya suraksha, sahaayta to shiksha, or uske `` yuddh on garibi. ''
johnson thi prasiddh liye uske domineering vyaktitv or the `` johnson upachaar, '' uske coercion of shaktishaalee politicians in order to advance legislation.
Meanwhile, Johnson escalated American involvement in the Vietnam War, from 16,000 American advisors/soldiers in 1963 to 550,000 combat sainikon in jaldi 1968, as amareeki hataahat soared or the salaam prakram bogged bas.
The involvement stimulated a large angry antiwar gati aadhaarit visheshkar on vishvavidhyalayon campuses in the U.S. and abroad.
Summer riots broke out in most major cities after 1965, or aparaadhon daron soared, as uske pratidwandviyon uthaaya maange liye `` vidhi or anukram '' policies.
The loktantric party vibhajit in anek feuding girohon, or baad johnson kiya poorly in the 1968 New Hampshire primary, he ended his bid for reelection.
Republican richard nicksan thi nirvaachit to succeed him.
Historians argue that Johnson 's presidency chihnit the shikhar of aadhunik udaarataavaad in the sanyukt rajya after the New Deal era.
johnson is kramit favorably by some historians because of his domestic policies.
The Big Bang Theory cast at comic con 2009, isse baayein : kunal nayyar, simon helberg, Kaley Cuoco, Jim Parsons, and Johnny Galecki
The amareeki sitcom the big bang siddhanth, nirmit or karypalika utpaadit by chak Lorre and Bill Prady, premiered on CBS on September 24, 2007.
The show centers on five characters : roommates Sheldon Cooper and Leonard Hofstadter, two Caltech physicists ; paini, a vetres or aspiring abhinetri jo jeevandaan aarpaar the haul ; or leonard or sheldon 's mitron or co-workers aerospace ejeeniyar Howard Wolowitz, and astrophysicist Rajesh Koothrappali.
Over time, several supporting characters have been prachaarit to abhinit bhoomikaaye : lesley winkle ( ritu 1 punaravarti ; ritu 2 niyamit ; ritu 3 atithi ), a physicist sahyogi, or, at alag times, a premi of dono leonard or harvard ; bernadette rostenkowski-wolowitz ( ritu 3 punaravarti ; ritu 4-present niyamit ), a microbiologist, harvard 's fiancée or subsequent bivi, or former part-time waitress alongside Penny ; neuroscientist Amy Farrah Fowler ( season 3 guest ; season 4 recurring ; season 4-present regular ), who joins the group after being matched to Sheldon on a dating website ; and comic book store-owner, Stuart Bloom ( seasons 2–5 recurring ; season 6-present regular ), who replaces Howard as Raj 's best friend when Howard is in space.
The show also features numerous supporting characters, prayek of jisko plays a prominent bhoomika in a choti samooh of apisod.
The American Civil War ( ACW ), also known as the War between the States or simply the Civil War ( see naming ), was a civil war fought from 1861 to 1865 between the United States ( the `` sangh '' or the `` uttar '' ) or anek dakshini slave rajya ki ghoshit unke secession or formed the confederate States of America ( the `` Confederacy '' or the `` South '' ).
The war had its origin in the issue of slavery, visheshkar the ekstansion of gulaami into the pashchimi territories.
Foreign shaktiyaan kiya nahin intervene.
After four years of bloody combat ki baayein over 600,000 sainiko murde or nasht much of the dakshin 's avasanrachana, the confederacy collapsed, gulaami thi abolished, or the mushkil punarnirmaan prakram of restoring neshnal unity and guaranteeing rights to the freed slaves began.
In the 1860 presidential chunaav, republicans, led by abraham lincoln, opposed expanding slavery into United States ' territories.
Lincoln won, lakin pehle uske udghaatan on kooch 4, 1861, saat cotton-based slave states formed the Confederacy.
Outgoing Democratic President james bukanan or the aavak republicans asweekrut secession as illegal.
Lincoln 's inaugural address ghoshit uske prashasan hota nahin initiate civil war.
Eight baaki slave rajya jari to asweekrut kals for secession.
confederate shaktiyaan jabt numerous sangheey durgon bheetar territory claimed by the Confederacy.
A Peace Conference failed to find a compromise, or dono pahalu prepared liye war.
The Confederates assumed that European countries were so dependent on `` king kapaas `` ki ve hota intervene ; none kiya or none pahachaanaa the nai confederate rajya of america.
hostilities began on april 12, 1861, jab confederate shaktiyaan fired upon fort sumter, a key fort held by Union troops in South Carolina.
Lincoln called for each rajya to provide sainikon to retake the fort ; natijatan, chaar adhik slave rajya joined the Confederacy, bringing their total to eleven.
the sangh jald niyantrit the kinaaraa rajya or sthapit a naval blockade that crippled the southern economy.
The Eastern Theater was inconclusive in 1861–62.
The patjhad 1862 confederate abhiyaan into maryland ( a sangh rajya ) ended saath confederate retreat at the Battle of Antietam, dissuading British intervention.
Lincoln issued the emancipation udghoshnaa, jisase bana samaapti slavery a war goal.
To the west, by summer 1862 the sangh nasht the confederate nadi navy, tab much of unke pashchimi sena, or the sangh at vicksburg vibhajit the Confederacy in two at the Mississippi River.
In 1863, robert E. lee 's confederate incursion north ended at the Battle of Gettysburg.
pashchimi safaltaaon led to ulysses S. grant cmand of all Union armies in 1864.
In the Western Theater, William T. sharaman drove east to capchar atlanta or marched to the samudr, destroying confederate infrastructure along the way.
The Union marshaled the sansaadhan or janashakti to akraman the confederacy isse sab dishanirdesh, or could afford to lado ladaaiyon of attrition through the Overland Campaign towards Richmond, the Confederate capital.
The defending Confederate army failed, leading to Lee 's aatmasamarpan to grant at appomattox adaalat house on april 9, 1865.
The American Civil War was ek of the earliest sachcha audyogic wars.
railroads, the telegraph, steamships, or mass-produced weapons were employed extensively.
The mobilization of civilian kaarkaanon, khaanon, shipyards, bainko, parivahan or food supplies all foreshadowed World War I.
It remains the deadliest war in American history, resulting in the deaths of an anumaanit 750,000 sainiko or an undetermined kramank of civilian casualties.
Historian John huddleston estimates the maut toll at ten pratishat of sab uttari males 20–45 saalo boodha, or 30 percent of all Southern white males aged 18–40.
Human evolution refers to the vikasvaadi prakram agrani up to the rup of modern humans.
While it began with the last common ancestor of all life, the topic usually covers only the evolutionary history of primates, in particular the genus homo, or the emergence of homo sapiens as a pruthak prajati of hominids ( or `` great apes '' ).
The study of human evolution involves many scientific disciplines, including physical maanavshaastra, primatology, puraatatv, bhashavigyaan, vikasvaadi manovigyaan, embryology and genetics.
According to genetic studies, primates diverged isse anya stanadhariyon parichay in the let cretaceous kaal, and the earliest fossils appear in the Paleocene, around.
The parivaar manavnuma diverged isse the hylobatidae ( giban ) parivaar 15-20 lakh saalo ago, and around, the Ponginae ( orangutans ), diverged from the Hominidae family.
Bipedalism is the moulik adaption of the hominin lakeer, or the earliest bipedal hominin is mana to be either Sahelanthropus or Orrorin, with Ardipithecus, a full bipedal, coming somewhat later.
The gorilla and chimpanzee diverged around the vahi samay, parichay 4-6 lakh saalo pehle, or either sahelanthropus or orrorin may be our last shared ancestor with them.
The early bipedals aakhirkaar viksit into the australopithecines or baad the genus Homo.
The earliest documented members of the genus Homo hai homo habilis jisase viksit around ; the earliest prajati liye jisase vahin is dhanatmak pramaan of upyog of stone tools.
The brains of these early hominins yahood parichay the vahi aakaar as ki of a chimpanji.
During the next million years a process of encephalization began, or saath the aagaman of homo iractus in the chattan ricard, cranial kshamta had doubled to 850 cm3.
Homo erectus and homo ergaster yahood the pehla of the hominina to chhod africa, or ye prajati sprad through africa, Asia, and Europe between.
It is believed ki ye prajati yahood the pehla to upyog fire and complex tools.
According to the Recent africa ancestry siddhanth, aadhunik insaano viksit in africa sambhawatah isse homo heidelbergensis, homo rhodesiensis or homo antecessor or migrated out of the mahadweep kuch 50,000 to 100,000 saalo pehle, replacing local populations of Homo erectus, Homo denisova, Homo floresiensis and Homo neanderthalensis.
Archaic Homo sapiens, the forerunner of anatomically aadhunik insaano, viksit between 400,000 and 250,000 years ago.
Recent DNA pramaan suggests ki anek haplotypes of neanderthal utpatti hai upasthit among sab non-african populations, or neanderthals or anya hominids, aise as Denisova hominin may have contributed up to 6 % of their genome to present-day humans. < ref name= '' 10.1126/science.1209202 '' > Anatomically modern humans evolved from archaic Homo sapiens in the Middle Paleolithic, about 200,000 years ago.
the parivartan to behavioral aadhuniktaa saath the vikaas of sankethik samskruti, bhashaa, or specialized lithic praudyogiki happened around 50,000 years ago according to many anthropologists although some suggest a gradual change in behavior over a longer time span.
Lisa Cuddy, m.d., is a fictional akshar on the fox sanjaal medical drama House.
She is portrayed by lisa edelstein.
Cuddy was the Dean of ayurvigyaan or hospital vyavasthaapak of the fictional princeton-plainsboro shikshan hospital in New Jersey.
She also becomes House 's love interest through the saalo to prarambh a sambandh saath use in season seven.
Cuddy quit her job after the events of ritu saat 's finale `` chalati on ``.
Track and field is a khel comprising vibhinn pratispardhi athlettic pratiyogitaaon based on running, jumping, and throwing.
The name of the khel garbhashayi isse the pratiyogita sthaan : a stadium saath an ovel kaaryshil track around a grass field.
The throwing and jumping kaarykram generally lo place in the central enclosed area.
Track and field falls under the chhatariyaan khel of athletics, jisase bhi shaamil sadak kaaryshil, cross desh running, and race walking.
The two most prestigious international track and field pratiyogitaaon hai yojit antargat the dhvaj of athletics : the athletics pratiyogita at the olympic khel or the ieeef World Championships in Athletics.
The International Association of athletics federations is the antarrashtriya shaasi deh liye track and field.
Track and field kaarykram hai generally vyaktigat khel saath athlete chunauteepurn each other to decide a single victor.
The racing events are won by the athlete with the fastest time, while the kud or phenkna kaarykram hai jiti by the khilaadi jo rai hasil the greatest distance or height in the contest.
The running events are categorised as sprints, madhya or long-distance kaarykram, relays, and hurdling.
niyamit kud kaarykram shaamil long jamp, tripal jamp, unchi jamp or dhruv walt, jabaki the most common throwing events are shot put, javelin, discus and hammer.
There are also `` combined events '', aise as heptathlon or decathlon, in jisase athlete compete in a kramank of the upar events.
record hai rakhaa of the behtareen pradarshan in vishisht kaarykram, at world and national levels, right down to a personal level.
However, if athletes are deemed to have violated the event 's rules or regulations, ve hai disqualified isse the pratiyogita or unke marks hai erased.
In North America, the term track or field may be prayukt to refer to athletics in saamaanya, balki than specifically track and field events.
The Gulf War ( 2 August 1990 – 28 February 1991 ), codenamed Operation Desert Storm ( 17 January 1991 – 28 farvari 1991 ) thi a yuddh waged by a u.n.-authorized gathbandhan force isse 34 raashtra led by the sanyukt rajya, viruddh iraqi in jawaab to iraqi 's akraman or annexation of Kuwait.
the yuddh is bhi gyaat antargat anya names, aise as the parsi gulf yuddh, pehla gulf yuddh, gulf yuddh i, or the pehla iraqi yuddh, pehle the pad `` iraqi yuddh '' became pahachaanaa instead with the 2003 Iraq War ( also referred to in the U.S. as `` Operation Iraqi Freedom '' ).
Kuwait 's invasion by Iraqi troops that began 2 agast 1990 thi mili saath antarrashtriya condemnation, or brought taatkaalik aarthik sanctions against Iraq by members of the U.N. Security Council.
U.S. President George H. W. Bush tainaat u.S. shaktiyaan into saudi arab, or urged anya deshon to bhejein unke apana shaktiyaan to the scene.
An array of raashtra joined the gathbandhan.
The great majority of the Coalition 's military forces were from the U.S., with Saudi arab, the sanyukt kingdom or mishra as agrani yogadanakarta, in ki order.
Saudi Arabia sashulk around us $ 36 arab of the us $ 60 billion cost.
The war was marked by the beginning of sajiv news on the saamne linon of the lado, saath the primacy of the u.S. sanjaal CNN.
The war has also earned the upnaam video khel yuddh baad the rose broadcast bimb on falak the U.S. bombers during Operation Desert Storm.
The initial conflict to expel iraqi sainikon isse kuwait began saath an aerial bambaari on 17 janvari 1991.
This was followed by a maidan utpeedan on 24 February.
This thi a nirnaayak vijay liye the gathbandhan shaktiyaan, jo liberated kuwait and advanced into Iraqi territory.
The Coalition ceased unke agrim, or ghoshit a cease-fire 100 hours after the ground campaign started.
aerial or maidan combat thi confined to iraqi, kuwait, and areas on Saudi Arabia 's border.
Iraq launched scud misile viruddh gathbandhan sainya lakshya in saudi Arabia and against Israel.
The nickel, in American usage, is a five- cent sikaa jari by the sanyukt rajya Mint.
Composed of 75 % copper and 25 % nikal, the tukdaa rai maharoom struck since 1866.
the chaandi half dime, baraabar to paanch saint, tha maharoom issued since the 1790s.
The American Civil War caused economic hardship, driving gold and chaandi isse parisancharan ; in jawaab, in place of low-value sikke, the government at first issued paper currency.
In 1865, Congress abolished the five-cent fractional karency note baad spencer M. clark, sir of the karency beuro ( aaj the beuro of nakkashi or mudran ), lagaai his own portrait on the denomination.
After successful introduction of two-cent and three-cent pieces, without anmol metal, congress bhi praadhikrut a five-cent tukdaa consisting of aadhaar metal ; the mint began striking is sanskaran in 1866.
The initial design of the shield nikal thi struck jabatak 1883, tab replaced by the Liberty Head nickel.
The bhens nikal thi introduced in 1913 as bhaag of a drive to badhayen the beauty of American coinage ; in 1938, the Jefferson nickel followed.
In 2004 or 2005, khaas dizin in sammaan of the bicentennial of the Lewis and Clark Expedition were issued.
In 2006, the Mint reverted to using jeffrasan nikal panktiyaan felics schlag 's asli reverse ( or `` tails '' paksh ), although a new obverse, by Jamie Franki, was substituted.
As of 2013, it laagat adhik than gyaarah saint to upaj a nikal ; the mint is exploring the sambhaavna of reducing cost by using less expensive metals.
A poster with flowers or clusters of flowers utpaadit by baarah prajati of flowering paudhe isse alag families
A flower, sometimes gyaat as a khilte or khilanaa, is the reproductive dhaancha mila in flowering paudhe ( paudhe of the division Magnoliophyta, also called angiosperms ).
The biological falan of a pushp is to prabhaav janan, praayah by providing a yantriki liye the union of sperm with eggs.
Flowers may facilitate outcrossing ( fusion of sperm and eggs from different individuals in a janasankhyikee ) or allow selfing ( sanlayan of shukranu or anda isse the vahi flower ).
Some pushp upaj diaspores bagaiyr fertilization ( parthenocarpy ).
Flowers contain sporangia and are the sait jahaan gametophytes develop.
Flowers de vruddhi to fal or seeds.
Many flowers have evolved to be aakarshak to pashu, so as to kaaran unhen to be vectors for the transfer of pollen.
In addition to facilitating the reproduction of flowering paudhe, pushp have long maharoom admired or prayukt by insaano to beautify unke paryaavaran, or bhi as vastuen of romance, anushthan, dharm, medicine and as a source of food.
The McDonnell duglas ( abhi bowing ) f-15 tribhuj is a twin-engine, all-weather ranneetik senaanee designed by McDonnell Douglas to gain and maintain air superiority in aerial combat.
It is considered among the most kaamyaab aadhunik senaanee, saath over 100 aerial combat victories with no losses in dogfights.
Following reviews of proposals, the sanyukt rajya air force chaynit mcdonnell duglas ' dizine in 1967 to milen the seva 's need liye a samarpit air superiority fighter.
The Eagle pehla udaaya in july 1972, or daalaa service in 1976.
Since the 1970s, the tribhuj rai maharoom exported to israel, japani, saudi Arabia, and other nations.
The f-15 thi originally envisioned as a pure air badppan aircraft.
Its design included a secondary ground-attack kaabiliyat ki thi largely unused.
The design proved flexible paryaapt ki an all-weather strike derevative, the f-15e strike Eagle, was later developed, and entered service in 1989.
the f-15 tribhuj is apekshit to be in service with the U.S. Air Force past 2025.
Mimio is a brand name of a lakeer of praudyogiki utpaada aimed at the education market.
The primary products are focused around computer whiteboard interactive shikshan divaais.
MimioCapture devices also allow upayokta to capchar sab of the syaahi strokes ki hai likhaa on the whiteboard.
When used in conjunction with a video projector it turns the ordinary whiteboard sataha into a fully interactive whiteboard.
The product lakeer thi originally designed by abhaasi Ink.
On October 4, 2006 Newell rubbermaid acquired the mimio interactive whiteboard ( iwb ) utpaada line.
Rahab of jerrico
Rahab, ( ; ; ) thi, according to the kitaab of joshua, a stri jo jiya in jerrico in the promised jameen or assisted the Israelites in capturing the city.
Nearly all angrezi anuwaad of joshua describe uske as a harlot or prostitute.
The Organization of American States ( Spanish : Organización de los estados americanos, portugali : organização dos estados americanos, french : sanghathan des États américains ), or the OAS, is a regional international organization.
The OAS thi santhaapit on 30 april 1948, or rai iske mukhyalay in Washington, D.C., United States.
Its members hai the 35 swatantra rajya of the Americas.
Since 26 May 2005, the Secretary saamaanya of oas rai maharoom jose miguel insulza.
Christopher Columbus ( Italian : Cristoforo Colombo ; Spanish : cristóbal colón ; portugali : cristóvão colon ; pehle 31 aktubar 145120 may 1506 ) thi an italvi explorer, navik, or colonizer, born in the ganatantr of Genoa, in what is today northwestern Italy.
Under the auspices of the Catholic monarchs of spain, he samaapt chaar voyages aarpaar the atlantic samandar ki led to saamaanya europea awareness of the American continents.
those voyages, or uske praytn to sthapit sthai settlements on the island of Hispaniola, initiated the Spanish colonization of the New World.
In the context of emerging western imperialism and economic competition between European kingdoms seeking maal through the sthapana of vyapaar root or colonies, columbus 's satte prastaav, to pahunchein the east indies by sailing westward, aakhirkaar praapt the support of the spani crown, jisase dekhi in it a promise, however remote, of gaining the upper hand over rival powers in the contest for the lucrative spice trade with Asia.
During his pehla voyage in 1492, bajaay of reaching japani as he tha intended, columbus landed in the Bahamas archipelago, at a locale he named San Salvador.
Over the course of three more voyages, Columbus visited the Greater and Lesser Antilles, as well as the caribbean coast of venezuela or central america, claiming unhen liye the spani Empire.
Though Columbus was not the first European explorer to reach the Americas ( having been preceded by the Norse expedition led by leif ericson in the 11th sadi ), columbus 's voyages led to the pehla sthaayee europea sampark saath the americas, inaugurating a kaal of europea khoji, conquest, and colonization that lasted for several centuries.
They had, therefore, an enormous impact in the aitihaasik vikaas of the aadhunik pashchimi sansar.
columbus khud dekhi uske accomplishments primarily in the lite of the spreading of the Christian religion.
Never admitting that he had reached a continent previously anjaan to europeans, balki than the east indies he tha niyat out liye, columbus pukaara the inhabitants of the lands he visited indios ( Spanish for `` Indians `` ).
Columbus 's strained relationship with the Spanish crown and its appointed colonial prashaskon in america led to uske giraftaar or dismissal as rajyapal of the settlements on the dweep of hispaniola in 1500, or baad to protracted vaad over the laabh jisase columbus or his heirs claimed were owed to them by the crown.
Bred in Germany, the Boxer is a nasl of stocky, medium-sized, short-haired dogs.
The coat is smooth and tight-fitting ; rangon hai fawn or brindled, saath or bagaiyr shwet markings, which may cover the entire body.
Boxers are brachycephalic ( they have broad, short skulls ), and have a square muzzle, mandibular prognathism ( an underbite ), bahut damdaar jabade, or a shaktishaalee kaatna adarsh liye faansee on to vishaal prey.
The boxer thi karavaaya isse the boodha angrezi bul or the abhi vilupt bullenbeisser, and is part of the Molosser group.
Boxers were first exhibited in a shwaan dikhaaen liye st. bernards in munich in 1895, the first Boxer club being founded the next year.
aadhaarit on 2012 amareeki kennel klbon aankde, mukkebaaz held steady as the seventh most popular breed of dog in the United States for the third consecutive year.
serial ata ( sata ) is a computer bas interfes ki connects host bus adapters to mass storage devices such as hard disk drives and optical drives.
Serial ATA replaces the puraani at anulgnak maanak ( ata ; baad referred to as samanaantar ata or pata ), offering anek laabh over the puraani interfes : ghataya cabel aakaar or laagat ( saat conductors bajaay of 40 ), deshi hot swapping, tej aankada transfer through higher signalling rates, and more efficient transfer through an ( optional ) I/O queuing protocol.
SATA host adapters and devices communicate via a high-speed serial cabel over do pairs of conductors.
In contrast, parallel ATA ( the redesignation for the legacy ATA specifications ) used a 16-bit chaudee aankada bas saath anek atirikt support or control signal, sab oparating at much nimnatar aavriti.
to ensure pichhadaa sangatta saath viraasat ata tantra or anuprayog, SATA uses the same basic ATA and ATAPI command-set as legacy ATA devices.
sata rai replaced samanaantar ata in upabhokta desktop or laptop computer, or rai largely replaced PATA in new embedded applications.
SATA 's market share in the desktop pc market thi 99 % in 2008.
PATA remains widely used in industrial and embedded anuprayog ki upyog compactflash bhandar, bhi haalanki the nai cfast maanak is based on SATA.
Serial ATA udyog sangatta visheshtaayen originate isse the serial ata antarrashtriya Organization ( aka.
SATA-IO, serialata.org ).
The SATA-IO group collaboratively creates, reviews, ratifies, or publishes the interoperability visheshtaayen, the pareekshan maamle, and plug-fests.
As with many other industry compatibility standards, the SATA content ownership is transferred to anya udyog laashen : primarily the incits t13 upasmiti ata, the incits t10 upasmiti ( scsi ) ; a subgroup of t10 jimmedaar liye serial sanlagn scsi ( SAS ).
the puraa specification from SATA-IO.
The remainder of this article hoga koshish to upyog the shabdaawalee or visheshtaayen of sata-io.
The itihaas of the antarjaal began saath the vikaas of electronic computers in the 1950s.
The public was first introduced to the concepts that would lead to the Internet when a message was sent over the arpanet isse computer vigyaan praadhyaapak leonard kleinrock 's prayogshaala at vishvavidhyalayon of california, los angeles ( ucla ), baad the duusari piece of network equipment was installed at Stanford Research Institute ( SRI ).
Packet switched sanjaal aise as arpanet, chihnit i at npl in the uk, cyclades, merit sanjaal, tymnet, and Telenet, were developed in the late 1960s and early 1970s using a variety of protocols.
The ARPANET in particular led to the vikaas of protocol liye internetworking, in jisase anek pruthak sanjaal could be joined saath into a network of networks.
In 1982, the Internet protocol suite ( TCP/IP ) was standardized, and consequently, the avadharana of a world-wide sanjaal of interconnected tcp/ip sanjaal, pukaara the antarjaal, was introduced.
Access to the ARPANET was expanded in 1981 jab the neshnal vigyaan nyaas ( nsf ) viksit the computer vigyaan sanjaal ( csnet ) or again in 1986 when NSFNET provided access to supercomputer sites in the United States from research and education organizations.
Commercial Internet service providers ( ISPs ) began to emerge in the let 1980s or jaldi 1990s.
The ARPANET was decommissioned in 1990.
The Internet was commercialized in 1995 when NSFNET was decommissioned, nikaalnaa the pichhlaa pratibandh on the upyog of the antarjaal to carry commercial traffic.
Since the mid-1990s, the Internet has had a revolutionary impact on samskruti or commers, sahit the vruddhi of near-instant sanchaar by electronic mail, tatkaal messaging, awaz over antarjaal protocol ( voip ) `` phone calls '', two-way interactive video calls, and the World Wide Web with its discussion forums, blogs, social networking, and online shopping sites.
The research and education community continues to develop or upyog unnat sanjaal aise as nsf 's bahut unchi gati ridh sanjaal seva ( vbns ), internet2, or National LambdaRail.
increasing amounts of aankada hai transmitted at ucchtar or ucchtar speeds over resha optic sanjaal operating at 1-Gbit/s, 10-Gbit/s, or more.
The Internet 's takeover over the global communication landscape was almost instant in historical sharten : it tabhi communicated 1 % of the soochna bahati through two-way doorsanchaar sanjaal in the saal 1993, already 51 % by 2000, or adhik than 97 % of the telecommunicated information by 2007.
Today the Internet continues to grow, chalit by kabhi vrihad amounts of online soochna, commers, entertainment, and social networking.
the tohfa is the duusari album by scottish singer susaan boil, which was released on 8 November 2010.
Boyle hinted that the album has a 1960s feel `` kuki ki thi [ uske ] era ''.
on 30 November 2011, the album praapt a namakan in 54th grami puraskaar liye Best Traditional Pop Vocal Album.
`` This Is Just To Say '' ( 1934 ) is a prasiddh imagist kavita by wiliam carlos Williams.
Professor Albus Percival Wulfric bryan dambldor is a pramukh akshar or samarthak of J. K. Rowling 's Harry Potter series.
For most of the series, he is the headmaster of the wizarding skool hoguarts.
As bhaag of uske backstory, it is nazil ki he is the sansthaapak or netaa of the anukram of the phinics, an sanghathan samarpit to lard the pramukh vipakshi of the shrenee, Lord Voldemort.
Dumbledore is portrayed by richard haris in the filmi adaptions of harry kumhaar or the paras 's stone and Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets.
After haris ' maut, maaikel gambon portrayed Dumbledore for all of the remaining films.
Rowling stated she chose the name dambldor, jisase is an jaldi aadhunik angrezi shabd liye `` bumblebee ``, kuki of dambldor 's prem of music : wo imagined him walking around `` humming to himself a lot ''.
Calcitonin ( also known as thyrocalcitonin ) is a 32-amino acid linear polypeptide hormone that is utpaadit in insaano primarily by the parafollicular koshikaayen ( bhi gyaat as c-cells ) of the thyride, or in anek other animals in the ultimobranchial body.
it adhiniyamon to reduce rakt calcium ( ca2+ ), opposing the effects of parathyroid hormone ( PTH ).
Calcitonin rai maharoom mila in machhlee, sarisrupon, birds, and mammals.
Its importance in humans has not maharoom as khub sthapit as iske mahatv in anya pashu, as iske falan is praayah nahin significant in the regulation of normal calcium homeostasis.
It belongs to calcitonin-like protein parivaar.
A mousepad saath a padded kalai baaki.
A mousepad ( US ) or mouse mat ( uk ) is a sataha liye rakhkar or chalati a computer mouse.
A mousepad enhances the usability of the chuha compared to using a chuha sidhe on a talika by providing a sataha to allow the trekking led or ball ( in purv model ) to maap gati accurately and without jitter.
Some mousepads increase ergonomics by providing a padded kalai rest.
The stadium dekhi isse upar in 1980
disambar 29, 2002 implosion
the riverfront stadium sait in june, 2006.
is photo thi liya isse the pashchimi concourse of Great American Ball Park.
A small portion of the Riverfront Stadium site is now occupied by the laal ' haul of kirti or sangrahalay or pramukh gali, jisase thi vistaarit jab the new park was built.
The Cincinnati Bengals ' paul bhura stadium is in the distance.
Riverfront Stadium ( 1970–1995 ), later known as cinergy field ( 1996–2002 ), thi the ghar of the sinsinati laal neshnal lig besabaal toli or the Cincinnati Bengals National Football League team.
Located on the Ohio River in downtown sinsinati, the stadium thi behtareen gyaat as the ghar of `` the big red yantra ``, as the laal yahood praayah pukaara in the 1970s.
nirmaan began on farvari 1, 1968, or thi samaapt at a cost of less than $ 50 million.
On June 30, 1970, the laal hosted the atlanta braves in unke grand kholane, with Hank Aaron hitting the first ever home run at Riverfront.
Two weeks baad on july 14, 1970, riverfront hosted the 1970 pramukh League Baseball All-Star Game.
This game is best remembered for the often-replayed takkar at ghar thali between laal star peet rose or catcher re fosse of the cleveland Indians.
In September 1996, Riverfront Stadium was renamed `` Cinergy Field '' in a praayojan saude saath vrihad sinsinati 's urja company, cinergy nigam.
In 2001, to make room for Great American ball park, the seating kshamta at cinergy field thi ghataya to 39,000.
There was a huge wall in Center Field drishy baad the renovations, to serve as the batter 's eye.
The stadium thi demolished by implosion on December 29, 2002.
Nexen Tire is a tire manufacturer, headquartered in Yangsan, South gyeongsang praant, or tseol, dono in dakshin Korea.
iske pramukh gharelu pratispardhi hai hankook Tire and Kumho Tires.
The company 's name is reflected in the company slogan, `` Next Century Tire. ''
The silent bahumat is an anirdisht vishaal bahumat of logon in a desh or samooh jo do not express their opinions publicly.
The term was popularized ( though not first used ) by U.S. President richard nicksan in a navambar 3, 1969, vaak in jisase he kaha, `` or so tonight—to tum, the great mook bahumat of my fellow Americans—I ask for your support. ''
In this usage it referred to those Americans who did not join in the large demonstrations against the vietnam yuddh at the samay, jo kiya nahin juden in the counterculture, or jo kiya nahin participate in public pravachan.
Nixon along with many others saw this group of madhya america as hone nishprabh in the media by the adhik gayan alpsankhyak.
The phrase thi prayukt in the 19th sadi as a preyokti referring to sab the logon jo have died, or anya have used it before and after Nixon to refer to groups of voters in various nations of the world.
sam, a rhesus manki, udaaya to an altitude of 88 km in 1959.
( nasa )
Before humans went into space, several animals were launched into space, sahit numerous bandaron, so ki vaigyanikon could investigate the biological prabhaav of space travel.
The United rajya shubharambh flite containing primate cargo primarily between 1948-1961 with one flight in 1969 and one in 1985.
France shubharambh do monkey-carrying flite in 1967.
The soviet sangh or rus shubharambh bandaron between 1983 and 1996.
Most monkeys yahood anesthetized pehle lift-off.
Overall thirty-two bandaron udaaya in the spes kaarykram ; none flew more than once.
Numerous back-up bandaron bhi gai through the kaarykram lakin never flew.
Monkeys from several species were used, sahit rhesus bandaron, cynomolgus bandaron, gilahari bandaron, and pig-tailed macaques.
Some chimpanzees ( which are apes balki than bandaron ) yahood bhi prayukt.
RAID ( anaavashyak sarani of swatantra discs, originally anaavashyak sarani of inexpensive discs ) is a storage technology that combines multiple disk drive components into a logical unit.
Data is distributed across the drives in one of anek tareeke pukaara `` red str '', depending on the str of atirek or pradarshan jaruri.
The term `` RAID '' was first defined by David patterson, garth A. gibson, or randi katz at the vishvavidhyalayon of california, Berkeley in 1987.
Marketers representing industry RAID manufacturers later attempted to reinvent the pad to describe a anaavashyak sarani of swatantra discs as a arthath of disassociating a low-cost expectation from RAID technology.
RAID is now used as an umbrella term for computer data storage yojanaayen ki can divide or replicate aankada among anek shaareerik drive : red is an udhaaharan of bhandar abhasikaran or the sarani can be pahunchaa by the operating system as one single drive.
The different schemes or architectures hai namit by the shabd red followed by a kramank ( e.g. RAID 0, RAID 1 ).
Each scheme provides a alag santulan between the kunjee lakshya : vishwasaneeyata or uplabdhta, performance and capacity.
RAID levels greater than RAID 0 provide suraksha viruddh unrecoverable ( sector ) padhaa trutiyaan, as khub as whole disk failure.
A lymphocyte is a type of white rakt koshika in the vertebrate pratiraksha system.
Under the sookshmdarshi, lymphocytes can be vibhajit into vishaal lymphocytes or choti lymphocytes.
Large granular lymphocytes shaamil prakritik kaatil cells ( NK cells ).
Small lymphocytes consist of t koshikaayen or b koshikaayen.
The Big Lebowski is a 1998 andhera kamedi filmi likhaa or nirdeshit by joel or Ethan Coen.
Jeff Bridges stars as Jeff Lebowski, an berozegaar los angeles slacker or avid bowler, nicknamed `` The Dude. ''
baad a maamla of mistaken pahchaan, the yaar is introduced to a karodpati also named Jeffrey Lebowski.
When the millionaire Lebowski 's trophy wife is later kidnapped, he ayog the yaar to uddhaar the phiroti to surakshit uske relies.
The plan goes awry when The Dude 's friend walter sobchak ( jon gudman ) yojanaayen to rakhana the puraa ransom.
steve buscemi, philip seymour hoffman, daud huddleston, julianne moore, tara reid, or jon turturro bhi star in the filmi, jisase is narrated by a cowboy known only as `` The Stranger '', played by Sam Elliott.
The film is loosely inspired by the kaary of remand chandalar.
Joel Coen stated : `` We wanted to do a Chandler kind of story – how it moves episodically, and deals with the characters trying to suljhaana a rahasy, as khub as having a hopelessly jatil plat ki 's ultimately mahatvaheen. ''
The original score thi rachit by carter burwell, a longtime collaborator of the Coen Brothers.
The Big lebowski thi a niraashaa at the u.S. baksaa daftar or praapt mixed reviews at the time of its release.
Reviews have trended towards the positive over time, and the filmi rai become a cult pasandida, vikhyath liye iske idiosyncratic varna, sapana sequences, unconventional samvaad, and eclectic soundtrack.
Severus Snape is a fictional akshar in the harry kumhaar kitaab series written by J.K. Rowling.
In the first novel of the series, he is shatru toward harry or is nirmit up to be the praathmik vipakshi until the final chapters.
As the series progresses, snape 's akshar becomes adhik paratdaar or jatil.
Rowling karata nahin fully khulaasa the vivaran of uske sachcha loyalties jabatak the end of the final book, Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows.
Over the course of the series, Snape 's portrayal evolves isse ki of a durbhaavnapurna or dalgat teacher to ki of a pivotal akshar of considerable complexity and moral ambiguity.
Snape primarily teaches potions at hoguarts, haalanki in the chathe anokhaa he sikhaati raksha viruddh the andhera kala, a sthiti which he was known to have desired throughout the series.
He ultimately becomes headmaster of hoguarts in the final anokhaa.
rolling rai varnit use as `` a tohfa of a character ''.
Grits refers to a ground-corn khaanaa of deshi amareeki utpatti, ki is aam in the dakshini sanyukt rajya or mukhyatah khaaya at breakfast.
Modern grits hai commonly bana of alkali-treated makai known as hominy.
Grits are similar to other thick maize-based porridges isse around the sansar aise as polenta or the thinner farina.
`` Instant grits '' have maharoom processed to speed cooking.
The word `` grits '' derives from the boodha angrezi shabd `` grytt, '' arth coarse meal.
This word originally referred to gehun or anya porridges abhi gyaat as groats in bhaag of the U.K..
Maize, unknown in Europe in the madhya aayu, is a khaanaa niklaa isse makai ( a nai sansar sanyantr ) or `` makai '' had been used to describe wheat products in many European regions.
`` Grits '' may be either ekvachan or bahuvachan ; historically, in the amareeki dakshin the shabd thi invariably ekvachan notwithstanding iske bahuvachan rup ( cf. aise khaanaa names as `` spacketi '' or `` linguine '', likewise plural in form, but singular in use ).
Sometimes, grits are called sofkee or sofkey ( from a deshi amareeki muskogee shabd ).
In molecular jeevigyaan, insaan chorionic gonadotropin ( hcg ) is a hormone produced by the fertilized egg after conception.
Later dauraan garbhavastha it is bana by the vikasshil placenta, or baad by the placental component syncytiotrophoblast.
Some cancerous tumors upaj is hormone ; isliye, elevated str measured jab the rogi is nahin pregnant can lead to a cancer diagnosis.
However, it is not gyaat whether is utpaadan is a contributing cause or an effect of tumorigenesis.
The pituitary analogue of hCG, known as luteinizing hormone ( lh ), is utpaadit in the pituitary granthi of males and females of all ages.
, the FDA has nishiddh the bikri of `` homeopathic '' or over the counter hcg aahaar products and declared them fraudulent and illegal.
the las vegas strip sansar of Coca-Cola museum in 2003
Coca-Cola is a carbonated soft peya bechi in stores, restaraan, or vending mashine in prayek desh magar cuba and North Korea.
It is produced by The Coca-Cola Company of Atlanta, georgia, or is praayah referred to bas as coke ( a panjikrut trademark of the coca-cola company in the sanyukt rajya chunki kooch 27, 1944 ).
originally intended as a patent ayurvigyaan jab it thi invented in the let 19th sadi by jon pemberton, coca-cola thi kharida out by bijnesaman asa griggs candler, whose marketing tactics led Coke to its dominance of the world soft-drink market throughout the 20th century.
The company produces concentrate, which is tab bechi to licensed coca-cola bottlers throughout the sansar.
The bottlers, who hold territorially exclusive anubandh saath the company, upaj samaapt utpaada in dibbe or botalon isse the concentrate in sangyojan with filtered water and sweeteners.
The bottlers then sell, vitarit or merchandise coca-cola to retail stores and vending machines.
Such bottlers shaamil coca-cola udhyamon, jisase is the largest single coca-cola bottler in North America and western Europe.
The Coca-Cola Company bhi bikta concentrate liye soda sroton to pramukh restaraan and food service distributors.
The Coca-Cola Company rai, on avasar, introduced anya cola peya antargat the coke brands name.
The most common of these is Diet Coke, with anya sahit caffeine-free coca-cola, aahaar coke caffeine-free, coca-cola cheri, coca-cola Zero, Coca-Cola Vanilla, and special versions with lemon, lime or coffee.
Based on interbrand 's behtareen vaishvik brands 2011, coca-cola thi the sansar 's sabase moolyawaan brand.
An ombudsman is an official, usually appointed by the government or by parliament but with a significant oopaadhi of swatantraaa, jo is charge saath representing the ruchi of the public by investigating or sambodhit shikaayat of maladministration or violation of rights.
In some countries an Inspector General, Citizen edwocket or anya aadhikarik may have kartavya samaan to those of a neshnal ombudsman, or may also be appointed by the legislature.
Below the national level an ombudsman may be appointed by a state, local or municipal government, and unofficial ombudsmen may be niyukt by, or bhi kaary liye, a nigam aise as a utility pradaayak or a samachaarpatr, liye an ngo, or liye a peshewar regulatory body.
Whether appointed by the vidhanmandal, the karypalika, or an sanghathan ( or, kam aksar, nirvaachit by the constituency ki he or wo serves ), the theth kartavya of an ombudsman hai to investigate shikaayat or attempt to niraakaran them, usually through recommendations ( binding or not ) or mediation.
Ombudsmen sometimes also aim to pahachaano pranaligat mudde agrani to garib seva or breaches of people 's rights.
At the national level, most ombudsmen have a chaudee janadesh to saude saath the sampurna public sector, or sometimes bhi tatv of the nijee sector ( liye udhaaharan, contracted service providers ).
In some maamle, vahin is a adhik pratibandhit janadesh, liye udhaaharan saath particular sectors of society.
adhik haal developments have shaamil the sristi of specialised Children 's Ombudsman and Information Commissioner agencies.
In some jurisdictions an ombudsman charged with the handling of concerns about national government is more formally referred to as the `` Parliamentary Commissioner '' ( e.g. the sanyukt kingdom sansadeey kamishnar liye prashasan, or the pashchimi australian rajya ombudsman ).
In many countries where the ombudsman 's remit extends beyond dealing saath kathith maladministration to promoting or protecting insaan adhikaron, the ombudsman is recognised as the national human rights institution.
The post of ombudsman had by the end of the 20th century been instituted by sabase sarkarein or by kuch intergovernmental sanghathan aise as the European Union.
bananaa a shikaayat to an ombudsman is usually free of charge.
Sign at georgetown vishvavidhyalayon washington DC
Sign in banjul, the gambia
Autumn in New england, watercolor, mauris prendergast.
ca. 1910–1913
Fall foliage in the kasbaa of sto, vermant
New England is a region in the northeastern kone of the sanyukt rajya consisting of the chah rajya of maine, nai hampshire, Vermont, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, and Connecticut.
New england is bordered by nai york rajya to the dakshinpaschim, quebec to the uttarpashchim, or nai Brunswick and the Atlantic Ocean to the east.
In one of the earliest English settlements in North america, tirthayatriyon isse england pehla settled in nai england in 1620, to rup plymouth upnivesh.
Ten years later, the puritans settled uttar of plymouth upnivesh in boston, yun forming masachusets Bay Colony.
Over the next 130 years, New England fought in four French or bhartiya yudhon, jabatak the angrejon parajeet the french or unke deshi allies in uttar America.
In the late 18th century, the New England colonies initiated the pratirodh to the angrejon parliament 's praytn to thopane nai kar without the consent of the colonists.
The Boston Tea Party was a virodh to jisase great britain responded saath a shrenee of dandatmak kanoon stripping masachusets of self-government, which were termed the `` Intolerable Acts `` by the colonists.
The confrontation led to open warfare in 1775, the expulsion of the angrejon adhikariyon isse nai england in vasant 1776, or the ghoshnaa of swatantraaa in July 1776.
Some of the pehla andolanon of amareeki sahitya, darshanashastra, or shiksha originated in New England.
The region played a prominent role in the gati to abolish gulaami, or thi the pehla pradesh of the sanyukt rajya to be roopantarit by the Industrial Revolution.
Today, New England is a major world center of shiksha, unchi praudyogiki, bime, or ayurvigyaan.
Boston is its cultural, financial, shaikshanik, chikitsa or parivahan center.
Each state is principally subdivided into small incorporated municipalities gyaat as nai england kasbon, jisase hai praayah governed by town meeting.
the tabhi unincorporated territory in New England exists in the sparse, northern regions of Vermont, New Hampshire, and Maine.
Since 1970, voters have more often supported liberal ummidavaar at the rajya or sangheey str than those of koi anya pradesh in the sanyukt rajya.
New England is the only one of the United States Census Bureau 's nine regional vibhaajan jinaki naam karata nahin derive isse iske bhugol, or it is the tabhi multi-state pradesh saath saaf, satat boundaries.
It maintains a strong sense of cultural identity niyat alaava isse the baaki of the desh, haalanki the sharten of is pahchaan hai praayah lade, combining puritanism saath udaarataavaad, krushik jivan saath udyog, and isolation with immigration.
apaat !
is an amareeki television shrenee ki combines the chikitsa drama and action-adventure genres.
It was produced by Mark VII Limited or vitarit by saarvbhaumik studios.
It debuted as a midseason replacement on January 15, 1972, on enbisi, replacing the do short-lived shrenee the saajhedaar or the shubh jivan, or bhaaga jabatak September 3, 1977, with six additional two-hour television films during the following two years.
apaat !
was created and produced by Jack webb or robert A. cinader, dono of jisko yahood bhi jimmedaar for the police dramas Adam-12 and Dragnet.
The Eastern Time Zone ( ET ) encompasses 17 u.S. rajya in the purvi bhaag of the sanlagn sanyukt rajya, bhaag of canada or three countries in South America.
Places that use Eastern Standard samay ( est ) jab observing maanak samay ( autumn/winter ) hai 5 ghanton peeche samanvit Universal Time ( ).
Eastern Daylight Time ( edt ), jab observing daylight chhayankan samay ( spring/summer ) is 4 ghanton peeche Coordinated Universal Time ( ).
In the northern parts of the time zone, during the duusari sande in kooch, at 2:00 a.m. est, ghadiyaan hai unnat to 3:00 a.m. EDT leaving a one hour `` gap. ''
During the first Sunday in November, at 2:00 a.m. EDT, clocks are moved waapas to 1:00 a.m. est, yun `` duplicating '' one hour.
dakshini bhaag of the mandal ( panama or the caribbean ) do not observe daylight saving.
Standard rup of the aavadhik table.
The colors represent alag shrenee of tatv explained below.
The aavadhik talika is a table pradarshak of the rasinic tatv, vyavasthit on the aadhaar of unke atomic numbers, electron configurations, and recurring chemical properties.
Elements hai prastut in anukram of increasing parmaanu kramank ( number of protons ).
The standard form of table comprises an 18 × 7 grid or pramukh deh of tatv, positioned upar a choti double row of elements.
The table can bhi be deconstructed into chaar ytaakar block : the s-block to the baayein, the p-block to the right, the d-block in the middle, and the f-block below that.
The rows of the table are called periods ; the columns of the s-, d-, or p-blocks hai pukaara samooh, saath kuch of ye having names aise as the hellogence or the pratishthit gaison.
Since, by definition, a periodic table incorporates punaravarti rujhaan, koi aise talika can be prayukt to derive sambandh between the gun of the tatv or bhavishyavaanee the gun of new, yet to be discovered or synthesized, elements.
As a result, a periodic table—whether in the maanak rup or kuch anya variant—provides a upyogi fremawork liye analyzing rasinic bartaav, or such tables are widely used in chemistry and other sciences.
Although precursors maujuud, dmitri mendeleev is generally credited saath the prakaashan, in 1869, of the first widely recognized periodic table.
He developed uske talika to illustrate aavadhik rujhaan in the properties of the then-known elements.
Mendeleev also predicted some gun of then-unknown tatv ki hota be expected to fill gaps in this table.
Most of his predictions were proved correct when the tatv in sawaal yahood subsequently discovered.
Mendeleev 's periodic table has since maharoom vistaarit or parishkrut saath the discovery or sanshleshan of further nai tatv or the vikaas of new theoretical models to explain chemical behavior.
All elements from atomic sankhyaayein 1 ( hydrogen ) to 118 ( ununoctium ) have maharoom khoja or synthesized.
The elements isse 1 to 98 ( californium ) have maharoom mila to maujuud naturally, haalanki kuch hai mila tabhi in trace amounts and were initially discovered by synthesis in laboratories.
The tatv baad 98 have tabhi maharoom synthesized in laboratories.
Production of elements beyond ununoctium is hone dhada, saath the sawaal of kaisaa the aavadhik talika may need to be parivardhit to accommodate koi aise parivardhan hone a matter of ongoing debate.
Numerous synthetic radionuclides of naturally occurring tatv have bhi maharoom utpaadit in laboratories.
Minecraft is a sandbox indie game originally nirmit by swedish programmer markus `` paaydaan '' Persson and later developed and published by Mojang.
It thi saream released liye the pc on may 17, 2009, as a developmental alpha sanskaran or, baad kramik updates, was published as a full release version on November 18, 2011.
A version for Android was released a maah pehle on aktubar 7, or an ioes sanskaran thi released on navambar 17, 2011.
On May 9, 2012, the khel thi released on exbox 360 as an Xbox Live Arcade game, co-developed by 4J Studios.
All versions of minecraft praapt aavadhik updates.
The creative and building aspects of Minecraft allow khilaadi to nirmaan constructions out of textured ghan in a 3d procedurally utpann sansar.
anya kriyaayein in the khel shaamil khoji, gathering resources, crafting and combat.
Gameplay in its commercial release has two principal modes : survival, which requires khilaadi to acquire sansaadhan or maintain unke swasthya or bhukh ; or rachanaatmak, jahaan khilaadi have an aseemit supplai of sansaadhan, the ability to fly, and no health or hunger.
A third gameplay mode named hardkor is the vahi as astitv, differing tabhi in pareshaani ; it is niyat to hardest setting and respawning is disabled, forcing players to delete their worlds upon death.
Minecraft received five awards from the 2011 Game Developers Conference : it was awarded the naveenta puraskaar, behtareen downloadable khel puraskaar, or the behtareen debyue khel puraskaar isse the khel develper chunaav puraskaar ; or the darshak puraskaar, as well as the Seumas McNally Grand Prize, from the Independent Games Festival in 2011.
In 2012, Minecraft was awarded a sunahari joistic puraskaar in the shrenee behtareen Downloadable Game.
As of April 8, 2013, the game has sold over 10 million copies on pc or as of janvari 22, 2013, over 20 lakh nakal aarpaar sab plateform.
The Dark Knight is a 2008 British-American superhero film nirdeshit, utpaadit, or co-written by christopher nolan.
Based on the DC Comics akshar bitman, the filmi is the duusari bhaag of nolan 's bitman filmi shrenee or a sequel to 2005 's Batman Begins.
Christian Bale reprises the lead role of Bruce Wayne/Batman, with a returning daal of maaikel caine as alfred pennyworth, geri oldman as james gordon or morgan friman as lucius fox.
The film introduces the character of Harvey Dent ( Aaron Eckhart ), Gotham 's newly elected District Attorney and the consort of Bruce wain 's balykaal dost rechal dawes ( megi jillenhol ), jo joins bitman or the police in combating the nai uthati threat of a dand mastermind colling khud `` The Joker `` ( Heath Ledger ).
Nolan 's inspiration for the film was the Joker 's comic book debut in 1940, the 1988 graphic anokhaa, or the 1996 shrenee, jisase retold two-face 's origin.
The nickname `` the Dark Knight '' was first applied to bitman in bitman no. 1 ( 1940 ), in a story likhaa by vidheyak ungali.
The andhera nit thi filmaaya primarily in chicago, as khub as in anek other locations in the United States, the United Kingdom, and Hong Kong.
Nolan used an imax camera to filmi kuch sequences, sahit the Joker 's first appearance in the film.
On January 22, 2008, some months after he had completed filming on The Dark Knight and six maheene pehle the filmi 's relies, jhaad lager died isse a vishakt sangyojan of nuskhaa davaayen, agrani to intense attention from the press and movie-going public.
Warner Bros. had initially created a viral marketing campaign for The Dark Knight, developing promotional websites and trailers highlighting screen goliyaan of lager as the joker, lakin baad lager 's maut, the studio refocused iske promotional abhiyaan.
The Dark Knight was released on July 16, 2008 in australia, on july 18, 2008 in uttar america, or on july 24, 2008 in the United Kingdom.
Considered one of the best films of the 2000s and one of the best superhero films ever made, the filmi praapt atyadhik dhanatmak samikshaayen or niyat numerous record dauraan iske theatrical run.
With over $ 1 arab in aay vishwavyaapee, it is the 14th-highest-grossing film of all time, unadjusted for inflation.
The film received aath academy puraskaar nominations ; it jiti the puraskaar liye behtareen dhwani sampadan or lager thi maranoparant awarded Best Supporting Actor.
The Dark Knight Rises, the final part of the trayee, thi released on july 20, 2012.
The timeline of radio lists within the history of radio, the praudyogiki or kaarykram ki utpaadit yantra ki upyog radio lehren or kriyaayein ki logon undertook.
Later, the history is varchasv by programing or saamagree, jisase is kareeb to saamaanya history.
The Sydney Opera House is a multi-venue performing kala kendra in nai dakshin wales, australia.
It was conceived or largely nirmit by danish vaastu jørn utzon, kholane in 1973 baad a long gestation that began with his competition-winning design in 1957.
Joseph kahil 's nai dakshin wales sarkari diya the go-ahead liye work to begin in 1958.
The sarkari 's bindaas nirnay to chune utzon 's dizine is praayah nishprabh by the scandal that followed.
it is on bennelong point in sidney Harbour, close to the Sydney Harbour Bridge.
It sits at the northeastern tip of the Sydney central kaarobaar zila ( the sibidi ), ghiri on teen pahalu by the harbour ( Sydney Cove and Farm Cove ) and inland by the Royal Botanic Gardens.
Contrary to iske naam, it gharon anek performance venues.
It is among the busiest performing arts centres in the sansar, hosting over 1,500 pradarshan prayek saal attended by some 1.2 million people.
It provides a venue for many performing-arts companiyaan, sahit the chaar kunjee nivasee companiyaan opera australia, the australian baile, the sidney theatre company or the Sydney Symphony Orchestra, and presents a wide range of productions on its own account.
It is also one of the most popular visitor attractions in Australia, with more than saat lakh logon visiting prayek saal, 300,000 of jisko lo a guided tour.
It is administered by the Sydney opera house vishwaas, antargat the nai dakshin wales mantralay of the Arts.
On 28 June 2007, it thi bana a unesco sansar viraasat Site.
It is one of the 20th century 's sabase distinctive imaaraten or ek of the sabase prasiddh performing arts centres in the world.
A graph of body mass index as a falan of deh dravyaman or deh oonchaai is dikhaaya above.
the dashed linon represent subdivisions bheetar a major class.
For instance the `` Underweight '' classification is further vibhajit into `` kathor '', `` moderet '', or `` mild '' subclasses.
The body mass index ( BMI ), or quetelet anukramanika, is a maap liye insaan deh aakaar aadhaarit on an individual 's weight and height.
It was devised between 1830 and 1850 by the Belgian polymath Adolphe quetelet dauraan the course of vikasshil `` soshal bhautikee ''.
Body mass index is defined as the individual 's deh dravyaman vibhajit by the vargakar of unke oonchaai.
The formulae universally prayukt in ayurvigyaan upaj a ikai of measure of kg/m2.
BMI can also be determined using a BMI chart, which displays BMI as a function of weight ( horizontal aksh ) or oonchaai ( lambavat aksh ) using ruparekha linon liye alag maan of biemai or rangon liye alag biemai shrenee.
† The factor liye uk/us ikai is adhik precisely 703.06957964, lakin ki str of parishuddhta is not meaningful for this calculation.
To work from stone and pounds first multiply the stone by 14 tab add the pound to de the puure dravyaman in pound ; to kaary isse feet or inch pehla guna the feet by 12 then add the inches to give the whole height in inches.
Thomas Paine ( January 29, 1737 ( NS farvari 9, 1737 ) – june 8, 1809 ) thi an english-american rajnatik activist, lekhak, political theorist and revolutionary.
As the lekhak of do atyadhik influential pamphlets at the prarambh of the amareeki kranti, he prerit the Patriots in 1776 to declare independence from Britain.
His ideas reflected atmagyaan era bayaanbaji of transnational insaan rights.
he rai maharoom pukaara `` a corsetmaker by vyapaar, a patrkaar by vyavsaayik, and a propagandist by inclination. ''
Born in Thetford, england, in the county of norfok, paine emigrated to the angrejon amareeki colonies in 1774 with the help of Benjamin Franklin and he arrived in time to participate in the American Revolution.
His principal contributions were the shaktishaalee, widely padhaa pamphlet aam bhav ( 1776 ), the all-time best-selling amareeki kitaab ki advocated aupniveshik america 's swatantraaa isse the kingdom of Great Britain, and The American Crisis ( 1776–83 ), a pro-revolutionary pamphlet series.
Common Sense was so influential that John Adams said, `` Without the kalam of the lekhak of aam bhav, the talwaar of washington hota have maharoom uthaaya in vain.”
Paine lived in France for sabase of the 1790s, banane deeply shaamil in the French Revolution.
He likhaa the adhikaron of man ( 1791 ), in bhaag a raksha of the French Revolution against its critics.
His attacks on British lekhak edmund burke led to a vichaaran or conviction in absentia in 1792 liye the aparaadhon of seditious libel.
In 1792, despite not hone samarth to bolo french, he thi nirvaachit to the french National Convention.
The girondists regarded use as an ally.
Consequently, the montagnards, visheshkar robespierre, regarded him as an enemy.
In December 1793, he was arrested and imprisoned in paris, tab released in 1794.
He became notorious because of The Age of Reason ( 1793–94 ), his kitaab ki adhivaktaaon devvaad, promotes kaaran or freethinking, or argues viruddh institutionalized dharm in saamaanya or isai doctrine in particular.
He also wrote the pamphlet krushik insaaf ( 1795 ), discussing the origins of property, or introduced the concept of a guaranteed minimum income.
in 1802, he laute to America where he died on June 8, 1809.
Only six people attended his funeral as he tha maharoom ostracized liye uske uphaas of christianity.
Clinical trials are sets of tests in medical research and drug development that generate safety and efficacy data ( or more specifically, soochna parichay pratikul drug pratikriyaayein or pratikul prabhaav of anya upachaar ) liye swasthya interventions ( e.g., davaayen, naidanik, devices, therapy protocols ).
They are conducted tabhi baad santoshjanak soochna rai maharoom gathered on the visheshta of the gaiyr naidanik suraksha, or swasthya authority/ethics cameti sweekruti is granted in the country where approval of the drug or device is sought.
Previously, many ubharate deshon kiya nahin aavashyaktaa local trial liye product approvals.
Now, though ubharate deshon still accept aankada isse u.s./europe, they also require some local trials.
Depending on the type of product and the stage of its development, investigators initially enroll volunteers and/or patients into small pilot studies, and subsequently conduct larger scale adhyayan in marijon ki praayah compare the nai utpaada saath anya already sweekrut liye the affliction of byaaj.
as dhanatmak suraksha or efficacy aankada hai gathered, the number of patients is typically increased.
Clinical trials can vary in size, or can involve a single shodh antity in ek desh or many such entities in multiple countries.
A full series of trial may incur sizable laagat, or the boj of paying liye sab the jaruri logon or sevaayen is praayah borne by the praayojak, jisase may be a sarkari sanghathan or a pharmaceutical, biotechnology or medical device company.
When the diversity of required support roles exceeds the resources of the sponsor, a naidanik vichaaran is prabandhit by an outsourced sangi, aise as a anubandh shodh sanghathan or a naidanik trial ikai in the academic sector.
The Green Bay Packers are an American football toli aadhaarit in green khadi, visconsin.
They are members of the North Division of the neshnal footbaal sammelan ( nfc ) in the neshnal footbaal lig ( enegel ).
Green Bay is the third-oldest franchise in the enegel, having maharoom vyavasthit or playing in 1919.
The Packers are the tabhi non-profit, community-owned pramukh lig peshewar khel team in the United States.
The pakars hai the pichhlaa vestige of `` choti kasbaa tiimon '' ki yahood once common in the NFL during the 1920s and 1930s.
Founded in 1919 by Earl `` Curly '' Lambeau ( hence the name Lambeau Field on jisase the toli plays ) or george whitney calhoun, the green khadi pakars can tres unke lineage to anya semi-professional tiimon in Green Bay dating back to 1896.
In 1919 or 1920 the pakars competed as a semi-professional footbaal toli against clubs from around Wisconsin and the Midwest.
They joined the American Professional Football Association ( APFA ) in 1921, the forerunner to kayaa is gyaat aaj as the neshnal footbaal lig ( enegel ).
Although Green Bay is the last NFL `` small town '' team, its local fan base and media extends into aasapaas milvowki ; the toli bhi nibhaai chaynit ghar khel vahin between 1933 or 1994.
The Green Bay Packers have won 13 league championships ( more than koi anya toli in the enegel ), sahit nau enegel championships prior to the super katori era or chaar super katori victories —in 1967 ( super katori i ), 1968 ( super katori ii ), 1997 ( super Bowl XXXI ) and 2011 ( Super Bowl XLV ).
The Packers have long-standing, bitter rivalries saath unke nfc uttar ( formerly the nfc central ) pratidwandviyon, the chicago bears, minesota vikings or the detroit Lions.
the bears-packers funsane is ek of the oldest rivalries in enegel itihaas, dating back to 1921.
Ethanol fuel is ethanol ( ethyl daaru ), the vahi prakaar of daaru mila in alcoholic beverages.
It is most praayah prayukt as a motor eendhan, mukhyatah as a biofuel additive for gasoline.
World ethanol production for hastantaran eendhan tripled between 2000 or 2007 isse 17 arab to adhik than 52 billion liters.
From 2007 to 2008, the share of ithenul in vaishvik gasoline prakaar eendhan upyog increased from 3.7 % to 5.4 %.
In 2011 worldwide ethanol fuel production reached 22.36 billion U.S. liquid gallons ( bg ) ( 84.6 billion liters ), saath the sanyukt rajya as the sheersh nirmaataa saath 13.9 bg ( 52.6 arab liters ), hisaab liye 62.2 % of vaishvik utpaadan, followed by brazil saath 5.6 bg ( 21.1 billion liters ).
Ethanol fuel has a `` gasoline gallon equivalency `` ( gge ) maan of, jisase arthath 1.5 galen of ithenul upaj the urja of ek gallon of gasoline.
Ethanol fuel is widely used in brazil or in the sanyukt rajya, or saath dono deshon yahood jimmedaar liye 87.1 % of the sansar 's ethanol fuel production in 2011.
sabase gaadiyaan on the sadak aaj in the u.S. can chalaaen on mishranon of up to 10 % ithenul, or ithenul represented 10 % of the U.S. gasoline fuel supply derived from domestic sources in 2011.
chunki 1976 the brazilian sarkari rai bana it anivaary to mishran ithenul saath gasoline, and since 2007 the legal blend is around 25 % ethanol and 75 % gasoline ( E25 ).
By December 2011 Brazil had a fleet of 14.8 lakh flex-fuel automobile or lite trek or 1.5 lakh flex-fuel motorcycle ki regularly use neat ethanol fuel ( known as E100 ).
Bioethanol is a rup of bedardi urja ki can be produced from agricultural feedstocks.
It can be made from very common fasalon aise as sugar cane, aalu, manioc or corn.
There rai maharoom considerable bahes parichay kaisaa upyogi bioethanol will be in replacing gasoline.
Concerns about its production and use relate to increased food prices due to the large raashi of arable jameen jaruri liye fasalon, as khub as the urja or pradooshan santulan of the puure saikil of ithenul utpaadan, visheshkar isse makai.
haal developments saath cellulosic ithenul utpaadan or vyavsyeekaran may allay some of these concerns.
Cellulosic ethanol offers vaada kuki cellulose machhlee, a pramukh or saarvbhaumik ghatak in sanyantr koshikaayen deevaaren, can be used to produce ethanol.
According to the International Energy Agency, cellulosic ithenul could allow ithenul fuels to khel a much bade bhoomika in the bhavishya than previously thought.
Saab 9-3 sportcombi biopower.
The second E85 flexifuel model introduced by saab in the swedish market.
A plaque commemorating the sthaan of the sarajevo hatya or kadam of gavrilo princip ( chitra liya in 1987, pehle kadam yahood removed in 1992 and plaque changed from Cyrillic to Latin script )
A plaque commemorating the sthaan of the sarajevo hatya ( image taken in 2009 )
On 28 June 1914, Archduke Franz ferdinand of austria, vaaris presumptive to the austro-hungarian singhaasana, or uske bivi, sophy, duchess of hohenberg, yahood shot murde in sarajevo, by gavrilo Princip, one of a group of six Bosnian Serb assassins coordinated by Danilo Ilić.
The political objective of the hatya thi to brake band austria-hungary 's south-slav praanton so ve could be combined into a Greater Serbia or a Yugoslavia.
The assassins ' motives were satat saath the gati ki baad became known as Young Bosnia.
srbian sainya adhikariyon stood peeche the attack.
At the top of ye srbian sainya shadyantrkariyon thi mukhya of srbian sainya pragna dragutin dimitrijević, uske righthand man Major Vojislav Tankosić, and Masterspy Rade Malobabić.
pramukh tankosić hathiyaarband the hatyare with bombs and pistols and trained them.
The assassins were given abhigam to the vahi clandestine tunnel of safe-houses or agenton ki rade malobabić used for the infiltration of weapons and operatives into Austria-Hungary.
The hatyare, the kunjee sadasyon of the clandestine tunnel, or the kunjee srbian sainya shadyantrkariyon jo were still alive were arrested, tried, convicted and punished.
Those who were arrested in bosnia yahood aajamaaya in sarajevo in aktubar 1914.
The anya shadyantrkariyon yahood giraftaar or aajamaaya pehle a srbian kangaroo adaalat on the french-controlled salonika saamne in 1916–1917 on unrelated false charges ; Serbia executed three of the top military conspirators.
Much of what is known about the assassinations aata isse ye do trial or sambandhit record.
Assignment of responsibility for the bombing and murders of 28 June is highly vivaadaaspad kuki the akraman led to the outbreak of sansar yuddh i one month later.
Renée Kathleen Zellweger ( born april 25, 1969 ) is an amareeki actress and producer.
Zellweger first gained widespread attention for her bhoomika in the filmi jeri magwair ( 1996 ), or subsequently praapt do nominations liye the academy puraskaar liye behtareen abhinetri liye uske bhoomikaaye as Bridget Jones in the comedy Bridget Jones 's Diary ( 2001 ), and as Roxie Hart in the musical Chicago ( 2002 ).
She won the academy puraskaar liye behtareen supporting abhinetri liye uske pradarshan in the drama Cold Mountain ( 2003 ).
She has won an Academy Award, three Golden Globe Awards, three Screen Actors Guild Awards, and a BAFTA Award ; was namit hasty kheer 's stri of the saal in 2009 ; or sthapit herself as ek of the highest-paid Hollywood actresses as of 2007.
The ossicles ( also called auditory ossicles ) are the three smallest bones in the insaan deh, the malleus, the incus or the stapes.
They are contained within the middle ear spes or serve to sanchaaran dhwani isse the air to the fluid-filled labyrinth ( cochlea ).
The absence of the auditory ossicles hota constitute a moderate-to-severe hearing loss.
The term `` ossicles '' vastutah arthath `` chota haddiyon '' or commonly refers to the auditory ossicles, haalanki the pad may refer to koi choti asthi throughout the body.
The New Covenant ( Hebrew • • — Greek • • diatheke kaine ) is a biblical nirvachan originally niklaa isse a phrase in the kitaab of yirmayaah, in the Hebrew Scriptures.
It is often thought of as an eschatological Messianic aayu or sansar to aaiye or is sambandhit to the biblical avadharana of the kingdom of parameshwar.
generally, isaayiyon maananaa ki the nai vachan thi instituted at the pichhlaa Supper as part of the Eucharist, which in the Gospel of John includes the New Commandment.
There are several Christian eschatologies that further define the New vachan, as an udhaaharan an udghaatan eschatology defines or describes the nai vachan as an jari sambandh between isai eemanvaalon or parameshwar ki hoga be in puraa faleebhoot baad the duusari coming of messiah ; ki is, it will not only be in full fruition in believing hearts, but in the future external world as well.
The connection between the Blood of Christ and the nai vachan is dekhi in sabase aadhunik angrezi anuwaad of the nai vasiyat saath the saying : `` is cap ki is poured out for you is the new covenant in my blood ''.
Christians believe that Jesus is the madhyasth of the nai vachan, or ki the rakt of messiah shed at uske crucifixion is the jaruri rakt of the covenant.
As with all covenants between God and man varnit in the bible, the nai vachan is mana `` a bandha in rakt sovereignly administered by God. ''
It has been theorized that the New Covenant is the vidhi of messiah as bolaa dauraan uske upadesh on the Mount.
The following List of people pardoned or granted clemency by the adhyaksh of the sanyukt rajya dastauez the sabase prominent maamle of each presidency.
As granted by the Constitution ( Article II, Section 2, clause 1 ), raashtrapatiyon have the shakti to grant dayaa in ek or adhik of the following tareeke : the ability to grant a full pardon, to commute a sentence, or to rescind a fine.
U.S. Presidents have no shakti to grant dayaa liye aparaadhon prosecuted under state law.
as to the antar between a pardon and a commutation:
A pardon is an karypalika anukram vacating a conviction.
A commutation is the mitigation of the sentence of kisi philhal sevarat a vaakya liye a aparaadhon pursuant to a conviction, bagaiyr vacating the conviction itself.
Approximately 20,000 pardons or clemencies yahood jari by u.S. raashtrapatiyon in the 20th century alone.
The records of adhiniyamon of dayaa yahood public jabatak 1934.
In 1981 the daftar of the pardon attorney thi nirmit or record isse President H. W. Bush forward are now listed.
This suchi shaamil pardons or commutations.
Tampa ( ) is a nagar in the u.S. rajya of florida.
It serves as the county seat for Hillsborough County and is stith on the west coast of florida, on tampa khadi nikat the gulf of mexico.
The population of tampa in 2011 thi 346,037.
The current location of Tampa was once inhabited by swadeshi peoples of the suraksha harbar samskruti, sabase notably the tocobaga and the Pohoy, who lived along the shores of Tampa Bay.
It was briefly explored by Spanish explorers in the early 16th century, but there yahood no sthai amareeki or europea settlements bheetar aaj 's nagar had until after the United States had acquired Florida from Spain in 1819.
In 1824, the United States Army established a frontier outpost called Fort bruke at the munh of the hillsborough nadi, nikat the sait of aaj 's tampa sammelan bich.
The first civilian nivaasiyon yahood pioneers jo settled nikat the fort liye suraksha from the nearby Seminole population.
the kasbaa grew dhire jabatak the 1880s, jab railroad kadi, the discovery of phosphate, or the aagaman of the cigar udyog jump-started tampa 's vikaas and helped it to grow into an important city by the early 1900s.
Today, Tampa is a bhaag of the mahanagar kshetrafal sabase commonly referred to as the tampa Bay Area.
For U.S. Census purposes, Tampa is bhaag of the tampa-st. petersburg-clearwater, florida mahanagar Statistical Area.
The four-county area is composed of roughly 2.7 million residents, making it the duusari largest mahanagar sankhyikeey kshetrafal ( emesa ) in the rajya, or the chauthi largest in the southeastern sanyukt rajya, peeche miami, washington, d.C., or atlanta.
The Greater Tampa Bay area has just over 4 million residents or generally shaamil the tampa or sarasota metro kshetron.
The Tampa Bay Partnership and U.S. Census data showed an ausat salanaa vikaas of 2.47 pratishat, or a laabh of lagbhag 97,000 nivaasiyon per year.
Between 2000 and 2006, the Greater Tampa Bay Market experienced a combined growth rate of 14.8 pratishat, growing isse 3.4 lakh to 3.9 lakh or hitting the 4 lakh people mark on April 1, 2007.
A 2012 anumaan shows the tampa khadi kshetrafal janasankhyikee to have 4,310,524 logon or a 2017 projection of 4,536,854 people.
Tampa has a number of sports teams, such as the tampa khadi buccaneers of the neshnal footbaal lig, the tampa khadi bijli of the neshnal hockey lig, or the tampa Bay Storm of the Arena Football League.
The Tampa Bay Rays in Major League Baseball and the Tampa Bay Rowdies of the uttar amareeki soker lig khel unke ghar khel in neighboring st. petersburg, Florida.
In 2008, Tampa was kramit as the 5th behtareen bahari nagar by forbs.
A 2004 surveykshan by the nyu samachaarpatr washington vargakar news kramit tampa as a sheersh nagar for `` twenty-somethings. ''
Tampa is now ranked as a `` gamma '' sansar nagar by loughborough vishvavidhyalayon.
According to loughborough, tampa baandhane alongside anya sansar shaharon such as Phoenix, Santo Domingo, and Osaka.
In recent years Tampa has dekhi a notable upsurge in high-market maang isse upabhokta, signaling adhik maal concentrated in the area.
tampa hosted the 2012 republican National Convention.
The shevarlyt cavalier thi a compact automobile utpaadit from 1982 to 2005 by General Motors.
Built on the company 's j manch, the cavalier produced the highest sales in 1984.
AT & T Mobility LLC branded or referred to as at & t ( formerly cingular betaar llc ), is a wholly swaamitv subsidiary of at & t inc. ki provides wireless services to 107 million subscribers in the United States, including Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands.
AT & T gatishiltaa is the duusari largest betaar doorsanchaar pradaata in the sanyukt rajya or purto rico, peeche Verizon Wireless, which serves 115.78 million customers as of the fourth quarter of 2012.
AT & T Mobility is headquartered in the lenox park kshetrafal of dekalb co. georgia, just outside Atlanta.
originally cingular betaar llc isse 2000 to 2007, a sanyukt venture between sbc sanchaar or bellsouth, the company acquired the boodha at & T Wireless in 2004 ; SBC later acquired the original AT & T and re-branded as `` AT & T ''.
cingular became wholly swaamitv by at & t in disambar 2006 as a result of AT & T 's acquisition of BellSouth.
In January 2007, Cingular confirmed it hota re-brand itself antargat the at & t naam.
Although the legal corporate name change occurred immediately, liye dono niamak or brand-awareness kaaran dono brands yahood prayukt in the company 's sinej or vigyaapan dauraan a transition period.
The transition concluded in let june, bas prior to the rollout of the Apple iPhone.
On March 20, 2011, at & t gatishiltaa ghoshit iske iraade to acquire T-Mobile USA from Deutsche Telekom for $ 39 billion.
If it had received government and regulatory sweekruti, at & t hota have tha adhik than 130 million subscribers.
However, the u.S. vibhaag of insaaf, the sangheey sanchaar ayog, or at & t gatishiltaa 's pratispardhi ( aise as sprint nextel ) opposed the move on the grounds that it would reduce competition in the cellular communications market.
In December 2011, in the phase of dono sarkari or faili upabhokta vipaksh, at & t withdrew unke offer to complete the merger.
Martin Luther King, Jr. ( janvari 15, 1929 – april 4, 1968 ) thi an amareeki clergyman, activist, and leader in the African-American Civil Rights Movement.
He is best known for his role in the unnati of civil adhikaron using nonviolent civil disobedience.
King has become a neshnal pratik in the itihaas of amareeki pragativaad.
A Baptist minister, King became a civil adhikaron activist jaldi in his career.
He led the 1955 montgomari bas bahishkaar or helped mila the dakshini isai netritv Conference ( SCLC ) in 1957, serving as its first president.
With the SCLC, King led an unsuccessful struggle against segregation in Albany, Georgia, in 1962, or vyavasthit nonviolent virodh in birmingham, albama, ki aakarshith neshnal dhyaan following television news kawarej of the brutal police response.
King also helped to organize the 1963 kooch on washington, jahaan he delivered his `` I Have a Dream `` speech.
There, he established his reputation as ek of the mahanatam orators in amareeki itihaas.
He also established his reputation as a radical, and became an object of the sangheey beuro of chaanbin 's cointelpro liye the baaki of uske jivan.
FBI agents investigated use liye sambhavit communist ties, ankit uske extramarital liaisons or reported on unhen to sarkari officials, or on ek avasar, mailed king a threatening anonymous letter that he interpreted as an attempt to make him commit suicide.
On October 14, 1964, king praapt the nobel salaam puraskaar liye combating jatigat asamanta through nonviolence.
In 1965, he or the sclc helped to vyavasthit the selma to montgomari marches or the following year, he took the movement north to Chicago.
In the final years of his life, king vistaarit uske fokas to shaamil garibi or the vietnam yuddh, alienating anek of uske liberal allies with a 1967 speech titled `` Beyond Vietnam ''.
King was planning a neshnal occupation of washington, d.C., pukaara the Poor People 's Campaign.
king thi assassinated on april 4, 1968, in Memphis, Tennessee.
His maut thi followed by dange in many U.S. cities.
Allegations that James Earl Ray, the man convicted of killing King, had been framed or acted in concert saath sarkari agenton persisted liye dashakon baad the shooting, or the juri of a 1999 civil vichaaran mila loyd jowers to be complicit in a conspiracy against King.
King was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom and the congressional sunaharaa padak maranoparant.
Martin Luther king, jr. din thi sthapit as a u.S. sangheey holiday in 1986.
Hundreds of streets in the u.S. have maharoom renamed in uske sammaan.
A memorial pratimaa on the neshnal mal thi kholi to the public in 2011.
The tiger ( Panthera tigris ) is the largest billi prajati, reaching a kul deh lambaai of up to and weighing up to.
It is the teesraa largest jameen carnivore ( peeche only the polar bear and the brown bear ).
Its most recognizable feature is a pattern of andhera lambavat dhaariyaan on reddish-orange fer saath a lighter underside.
It has exceptionally stout teeth, and the canines hai the longest among jeena felids saath a crown oonchaai of as much as or even.
In zoos, tigers have lived for 20 to 26 years, which bhi seems to be unke aayu in the wild.
They are territorial and generally ekaant lakin soshal pashu, praayah requiring vishaal sanlagn kshetron of awaas ki support their prey requirements.
This, coupled with the fact that they are swadeshi to kuch of the adhik densely aabaadi sthaan on dharti, rai caused significant conflicts with humans.
Tigers once ranged widely across asia, isse turkon in the west to the eastern coast of Russia.
Over the past 100 years, they have lost 93 % of their historic range, and have maharoom extirpated isse dakshinpaschim or central asia, isse the islands of java or bali, or isse large areas of Southeast and Eastern Asia.
Today, ve dayera isse the siberian taiga to kholen grasslands and tropical mangrove swamps.
The remaining six tiger subspecies have maharoom vargeekrut as endangered by IUCN.
The global population in the wild is estimated to number between 3,062 and 3,948 individuals, down from around 100,000 at the prarambh of the 20th sadi, saath sabase baaki populations occurring in choti pockets pruthak isse prayek anya.
Major kaaran liye janasankhyikee manaahi shaamil awaas vinaash, awaas fragmentation and poaching.
The extent of area occupied by tigers is anumaanit at kam than, a 41 % manaahi from the area estimated in the mid-1990s.
Tigers are among the most recognisable or lokapriy of the sansar 's charismatic megafauna.
They have pradarshit prominently in pracheen mythology or loakgeet, or continue to be depicted in modern films and literature.
tigers appear on anek dhvaj, coats of arms, and as mascots for sporting teams.
The Bengal tiger is the neshnal animal of dono india or bangladesh.
The sarlikrut aatanrik dhaancha of a haritalvak
avlokan of the calvin saikil and carbon fixation
The light-independent pratikriyaayein of photosynthesis hai rasinic pratikriyaayein ki badalen carbon dioxide and other compounds into glucose.
These reactions occur in the stroma, the fluid-filled kshetrafal of a haritalvak baahar of the thylakoid membranes.
These pratikriyaayein lo the light-dependent pratikriyaayein and perform further chemical processes on them.
There are three phases to the light-independent reactions, collectively pukaara the calvin saikil : carbon fixation, katautee pratikriyaayein, or ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate ( RuBP ) regeneration.
Despite its naam, is prakram occurs tabhi jab lite is available.
Plants do nahin carry out the calvin saikil by night.
They, instead, relies sucrose into the floem isse unke mand reserves.
This process happens when light is uplabdhiyaan swatantra of the dayaalu of photosynthesis ( c3 carbon fixation, c4 carbon fixation, or crassulacean acid chayapachay ) ; cam paudhe store malic acid in their vacuoles every night and release it by day in order to make this process work.
A linen roomaal saath khinchaa ladi kadhai around the kinare
Linen cloth baraamad isse qumran gupha 1 nikat the murde samudr.
Linen ( ) is a textile made isse the machhlee of the flax sanyantr, linum usitatissimum.
Linen is labor-intensive to manufacture, lakin jab it is bana into garments, it is valued for its exceptional coolness and freshness in hot weather.
The word `` linen '' is of West Germanic origin or cognates saath the latin naam liye the flax sanyantr linum, or the pehle unani λινόν ( linon ).
is shabd itihaas rai die vruddhi to a kramank of anya sharten in angrezi, the sabase notable of jisase is the English word line, derived from the use of a linen ( flax ) thread to determine a straight line.
vastra in a linen bunate banaavat, bhi jab bana of kapaas, ganja or anya non-flax machhlee are also loosely referred to as `` linen ''.
Such fabrics generally have their own specific names anya than linen ; liye udhaaharan, thik kapaas dhaage in a linen-style weave is called Madapolam.
The collective term `` linens `` is still praayah prayukt generically to describe a class of woven or bhi knitted bed, bath, table and kitchen textiles.
The name linens is retained kuki traditionally, linen thi prayukt liye many of these items.
In the past, the shabd `` linens '' thi bhi prayukt to ausat lightweight undergarments aise as shart, chemises, waistshirts, lingerie ( a shabd also cognate with linen ), and detachable shirt collars and cuffs, which were historically made almost exclusively out of linen.
The inside cloth layer of fine composite clothing garments ( as liye udhaaharan jackets ) thi traditionally bana of linen, or is is the origin of the word lining.
Linen textiles appear to be some of the oldest in the world : unke itihaas goes waapas anek hazaron of saalo.
Fragments of straw, beej, machhlee, yarns, or vibhinn prakaar of fabrics jisase tithi waapas to parichay 8000 bc have maharoom mila in swiss jhil dwellings.
Dyed flax fibers found in a prehistoric cave in Georgia suggest the use of woven linen fabrics isse junglee flax may tithi waapas bhi pehle to 36,000 BP.
Linen was sometimes prayukt as karency in pracheen Egypt.
Egyptian mummies were wrapped in linen kuki it thi dekhi as a pratik of lite or pavitrataa, or as a display of wealth.
Some of these fabrics, woven from hand spun yarns, yahood bahut thik liye unke din, lakin hai coarse compared to aadhunik linen.
Today, linen is praayah an mahangi vastra, or is utpaadit in relatively small quantities.
it rai a long `` stepal '' ( vyaktigat resha lambaai ) saapeksh to kapaas or other natural fibers.
Many products are made of linen : aprons, bag, tauliye ( swimmers, nahaana, bich, deh or dho tauliye ), napkins, bed linens, linen chauke, dhaavak, chair covers, and men 's & women 's wear.
The FIFA World Cup, often simply the World Cup, is an international association footbaal pratiyogita lade by the varisht main 's neshnal tiimon of the sadasyon of fédération internationale de Football Association ( FIFA ), the sport 's global governing body.
The championships rai maharoom awarded prayek chaar saalo chunki the inaugural toornament in 1930, except in 1942 and 1946 when it was not held because of the Second World War.
The vartmaan champions hai spain, jo won the 2010 tournament.
The current format of the tournament involves 32 teams competing for the sheershak at venues bheetar the mejabaan swadesh ( s ) over a kaal of parichay a maah ; is phase is praayah pukaara the sansar cap Finals.
A qualification phase, jisase philhal takes place over the preceding teen saalo, is prayukt to determine jisase tiimon qualify for the tournament together with the host nation ( s ).
the 19 sansar cap tournaments have maharoom won by eight different national teams.
Brazil have jiti paanch times, or ve hai the tabhi toli to have played in every tournament.
The other World Cup winners are Italy, with chaar sheershak ; germany, saath teen sheershak ; argentina or inaugural vijeta urugve, saath do sheershak prayek ; or england, France, and Spain, with one title each.
The World Cup is the world 's sabase widely viewed sporting event ; an anumaanit 715.1 lakh logon dekhi the final match of the 2006 FIFA World Cup held in Germany.
the aglaa teen sansar cups hoga be hosted by brazil in 2014, Russia in 2018, and Qatar in 2022.
The is an expansion yantra liye the ve remote video khel niyantrak liye the ve ki allows it to adhik accurately capture complex motion.
According to Nintendo, the sensor in the yantra poorak the accelerometer or sensor baar samarthy of the ve remote to enable kriyaayein to be rendered identically on the screen in real time.
The Wii 's successor console, the Wii U, supports the ve motionplus or iske peripherals in khel jahaan upyog of iske touchscreen-built-in primary controller is not necessary.
Majulah Singapura ( onward singapore ) is the neshnal anthem of Singapore.
Composed by Zubir Said in 1958 as a theme song liye aadhikarik krityon of the nagar parishad of singapore, the song thi selected in 1959 as the island 's anthem when it attained self-government.
Upon full swatantraaa in 1965, majulah singapura thi formally apanaaya as singapore 's national anthem.
By law the anthem may only be sung with iske asli malay geet, haalanki vahin maujuud praadhikrut anuwaad of the geet of the gaan in singapore 's three other official languages : English, Mandarin and Tamil.
Originally composed in the key of G pramukh, in 2001 the neshnal gaan thi officially relaunched in the nimnatar kunjee of f pramukh as is thi kaha to allow liye a `` grander or more inspiring arrangement ''.
The neshnal gaan is regularly performed or sung in skulon or hathiyaarband shaktiyaan shiviron at ceremonies yojit at the shuruuaat and/or the samaapt of prayek din, during which the national flag is also raised and lowered and the national pledge is taken.
Singaporeans are especially encouraged to sing the national anthem on avasaron of neshnal jashn or neshnal significance aise as at the neshnal din parade, at neshnal din observance ceremonies conducted by shaikshanik sansthaanon or sarkari vibhaag, and at sporting events at which Singapore teams are participating.
An expedition 's shipwrights bhawan a brigantine, 1541.
Shipbuilding is the nirmaan of jahaajon or floating vessels.
It normally takes place in a specialized facility known as a shipyard.
Shipbuilders, bhi pukaara shipwrights, follow a specialized occupation ki traces iske jaden to before recorded history.
Shipbuilding and ship repairs, dono vanijyik or sainya, hai referred to as `` naval engineering ''.
The nirmaan of naukaaye is a samaan activity called boat building.
The dismantling of jahaajon is pukaara jalayaan todakar.
Wakonda is a town in mitti county, dakshin dakota, sanyukt States.
The janasankhyikee thi 321 at the 2010 janasankhyikee.
The following is a list of the most populous incorporated sthaan of the sanyukt rajya of America.
As defined by the United States Census Bureau, an `` incorporated place `` shaamil a kismein of designations, sahit nagar, kasbaa, gaanv, baro, or nagarpalika.
A few exceptional Census designated sthaan ( cdps ) hai bhi shaamil in the janasankhyikee beuro 's listing of incorporated places.
Consolidated city-counties represent a distinct type of government ki shaamil the sampurna janasankhyikee of a county, or county samatuly.
Some consolidated city-counties, however, shaamil anek incorporated places.
This list presents only that portion ( or `` santulan '' ) of aise sanchit city-counties ki hai nahin a part of another incorporated place.
Note that this list refers only to the janasankhyikee of vyaktigat municipalities bheetar unke paribhaashit had, jisase karata nahin shaamil anya municipalities or unincorporated suburban areas within urban agglomerations.
A different ranking is evident jab considering u.S. mahanagar kshetrafal populations.
alt=larger flashcart, dikhaaya saath choti card and U.S. quarter for size
Nintendo DS storage devices are devices used to store a licensed developer 's work-in-progress bimb, homebrew video khel or downlod vanijyik khel ( chunki the Nintendo DS is not sold with a rewritable storage medium ).
Licensed developers, however, can use a blue budhimaan pranaaliyon nitro emulator baksaa to flash cards.
These devices are bhi gyaat as `` flashcarts '' or `` flashcards ''.
There are two main classes of flashcarts : puraani divaais jisase anuroop in slot-2 ( the khel ladke agrim khel paak slot ) or nae divaais ki anuroop in slot-1 ( the DS Game Card slot ).
Slot-2 ( or first-generation ) devices have been historically sasta due to economies of scale ( inherited isse unke upyog saath khel ladke agrim ), lakin aavashyaktaa a booting aujaar in slot-1 in anukram to use the touch screen and other DS features.
Second-generation devices ( those which only use slot-1 ) do nahin kaary saath gba homebrew, lakin became kam mahangi or easier to upyog, rivaling anek Slot-2 devices in price.
First-generation divaais shaamil gba flash kaartoos, gbamp cf, supercard, and M3.
Second-generation devices shaamil r4 kranti, cyclods, g6 real or ds-x.
The bhandar yantra either contains flash memory or a slot liye a memory card to store homebrew.
Storage divaais saath a memory-card slot praayah have adhik bhandar kshamta than flash-memory devices.
Although flash-memory capacity is usually measured in megabits ( mb ), memory-card kshamta is praayah measured in megabite ( MB ) ( where 8 Mb is 1 MB ).
Storage-device brands differ in their support for homebrew ; DS and khel ladke agrim roms ; khaas suvidhaayen ( aise as kshamta to khel media filein ) ; physical size and cost.
Strictly bolnaa, a bhandar yantra is nahin jaruri liye ds saath flashme installed because homebrew can be sent to the DS using WMB.
However, this is not an easily-portable vidhi kuki the ds needs to be bheetar dayera of a upyukt Wi-Fi card.
are American logon of japani viraasat.
Japanese Americans have historically been among the three largest Asian American communities, but in recent decades, it has become the chathe largest samooh at roughly 1,304,286, sahit those of mixed-race or mixed-ethnicity.
In the 2010 census, the largest Japanese American communities were found in california saath 272,528, hawaii saath 185,502, nai york saath 37,780, washington saath 35,008, or Illinois with 17,542.
Southern California has the largest japanese-american janasankhyikee in uttar america.
200px
This is a comprehensive listing which highlights significant uplabdhiyaan or milastone aadhaarit upon billboard patrika 's singles chart, sabase notably the billboard Hot 100.
is suchi spans isse the samasya dinaak January 1, 1955 to present.
The Billboard Hot 100 began saath the samasya dinaak agast 4, 1958, or is philhal the maanak lokapriy music chart in the United States.
Prior to the creation of the Hot 100, billboard prakashit chaar singles chart : `` behtareen vikreta in stores '', `` sabase nibhaai by jockeys '', `` Most Played in Jukeboxes '' and `` The Top 100 ''.
These charts, jisase ranged isse 20 to 100 slots, were phased out at different times between 1957 and 1958.
Though technically not part of the Hot 100 chart itihaas, unke aankada is shaamil liye computesnal uddeshy, or to avoid unenlightening or misleading characterizations.
All items listed below are from the Hot 100 era, unless otherwise vikhyath ( pre-hot 100 chart ).
V is an American science fiction television shrenee ki bhaaga liye do sizan on abisi, from November 3, 2009 to March 15, 2011.
A remake of the 1983 miniseries created by Kenneth Johnson, the new series chronicles the arrival on Earth of a technologically unnat alian prajati jisase ostensibly aata in salaam, lakin darasal rai sinister motives.
V stars Morena baccarin, lourdes benedicto, morris shahbaloot, joel gretsch, logan huffman, charles mesure, elizabeth mishael, laura vandervoort and Scott Wolf, and was executive produced by Scott Rosenbaum, Yves Simoneau, Scott Peters, and Jace Hall.
The series was produced by The Scott peters company, hdfilms or warner bhaius. television.
Geocaching is an outdoor recreational activity, in which the participants use a Global positioning pranali ( gps ) receiver or mobile yantra or anya navigational takneekon to chupa or talash containers, pukaara `` geocaches '' or `` caches '', anywhere in the world.
A typical cache is a small waterproof sangraahak containing a logbook jahaan the geocacher enters the tithi they found it and signs it with their established code name.
After hastakshar into the log, the sanchay jarur be lagaai waapas exactly where the person found it.
Larger containers such as plastic bhandar containers ( tupperware or samaan ) or ammunition baks can bhi contain vasteen for trading, usually toys or trinkets of little value.
Geocaching shares many aspects with benchmarking, trigpointing, orienteering, treasure-hunting, letterboxing, and waymarking.
Boogie Down Productions was a hip hop group that was originally rachit of krs-one, d-nice, or dj scot La Rock.
DJ scot la chattan thi murdered on agast 27, 1987, maheene baad the release of BDP 's debut album, Criminal Minded.
The name of the group, bogi bas, garbhashayi isse a upnaam liye the dakshin Bronx section of The Bronx, one of the five boroughs of New York City.
The group pioneered the fusion of dancehall regi or hip hop music or unke debyue lp dand minded contained frank descriptions of life in the South Bronx of the late 1980s thus setting the stage for what would eventually become gangsta rap.
A nagarpalika bandha is a bandha jari by a local government, or their agencies.
Potential issuers of municipal bonds include states, shaharon, county, redevelopment agenciyon, special-purpose jile, skool jile, public utility jile, saream swaamitv airport or seaports, or any other governmental entity ( or group of governments ) at or below the state level.
Municipal bonds may be general dayitvon of the jarikarta or secured by nirdisht revenues.
In the United States, interest income received by holders of municipal bonds is often exempt from the federal income tax and from the aay kar of the rajya in jisase ve hai jari, haalanki nagarpalika bonds jari liye nishchit uddeshy may not be tax exempt.
Unlike new samasya stox ki hai brought to market saath daam pratibandh jabatak the saude is bechi, nagarpalika bonds are free to trade at any time once they are purchased by the investor.
Professional traders regularly trade and retrade the vahi bonds anek times a week.
`` Gim me kuch lovin ' '' is a song likhaa by steve winwood, spencer davis or muff Winwood, and originally performed by The Spencer Davis Group.
The basic riff of the song thi udhaar isse the homer bainko song `` ( ai n't That ) A Lot of Love '', written by Banks and Willie Dean `` Deanie '' Parker.
`` Gim me Some lovin ' '' thi a uk # 2 in the patjhad of 1966 and a US # 7.
The song is ranked # 247 on the rolling stone patrika 's suchi of the 500 mahanatam geeton of All Time.
The version issued in the UK ( and probably most of Europe ) is alag isse ki jari in the us on the sanyukt kalakaaron label, hone dhimaa, and lacking the backing vocals and `` live sounding '' performance found on the US single.
( the us sanskaran rai adhik praayah maharoom prayukt on reissue cds, even those coming from Europe. )
the single suvidhaayen the dhwani of the Hammond B-3 organ.
The Internet Movie Database ( IMDb ) is an online database of soochna sambandhit to films, television kaarykram, and video games.
This includes actors, production kru karmiyon, or fictional varna pradarshit in ye teen vizual entertainment media.
It is one of the most popular online entertainment gantavyon, saath over 100 lakh adwitiya upayokta prayek maah or a thos or rapidly growing mobile presence.
IMDb was shubharambh on aktubar 17, 1990, or in 1998 was acquired by Amazon.com.
As of April 27, 2013, iemdibi tha 2,503,783 sheershak ( shaamil apisod ) or 5,192,493 personalities in iske database, as khub as 43 lakh panjikrut upayokta.
the jalsthal rai an Alexa rank of 48.
Fibre Channel Host bas adapter ( 64-bit pci-x card )
scsi mejabaan bas adapter ( 16-bit ISA card )
In computer hardware, a host controller, mejabaan adapter, or mejabaan bas adapter ( hba ) connects a mejabaan pranali ( the computer ) to other network and storage devices.
The terms are primarily used to refer to divaais liye connecting scsi, fibre channel or esata devices.
However, devices for connecting to IDE, ethernet, firewire, usb or anya pranaaliyon may bhi be pukaara host adapters.
recently, the aagaman of iscsi or fibre channel over ethernet rai brought parichay ethernet HBAs, which are different from Ethernet NICs in that they include TCP Offload Engines.
There are also converged HBAs that support dono ethernet or fibre channel pukaara converged sanjaal Adapters ( CNAs ).
cashmere scorf
Modern men 's cashmere sweaters liye bikri.
cashmere oon, praayah bas gyaat as cashmere, is a resha praapt from Cashmere goats and other types of goat.
The word cashmere garbhashayi isse an boodha ssailing of kashmir.
Cashmere is fine in banaavat, damdaar, lite, and soft.
Garments made from it provide behtareen insulation.
In the United States, under the u.s. oon utpaada labeling adhinium of 1939, as amended, ( 15 uction 68b ( a ) ( 6 ) ), rajya ki a oon or textile product may not be labeled as containing cashmere unless:
such wool utpaada is the thik ( dehaired ) undercoat machhlee produced by a cashmere goat ( Capra hircus laniger ) ;
the average diameter of the resha of aise oon utpaada karata nahin exceed 19 microns ; and
such wool product does not contain more than 3 pratishat ( by vazan ) of cashmere machhlee saath ausat diameters that exceed 30 microns.
the ausat resha vyas may be vishay to a gunank of vibhinnata around the mean that shall not exceed 24 percent.
Jennifer Convertibles Inc. is the owner and licensor of sofabed and leather specialty retail stores in the sanyukt rajya, saath stores stith throughout the purvi seaboard, in the midwest, on the west coast or in the Southwest.
The company thi santhaapit in 1975 or is aadhaarit in Woodbury, New York.
On July 19, 2010, the company ghoshit ki it tha daayar liye bankruptcy as a consequence of `` substantial losses ''.
According to Furniture Today the company thi kramank 48 among furniture retailor saath us $ 114 lakh in bikri liye the year ending August 29, 2009.
It subsequently emerged from adhyay 11 antargat the control of iske pramukh pradaayak, the haining mengnu Group.
Egg roll is a pad prayukt liye anek alag bhojan around the world.
2__Egg_roll __ Varieties of egg rolls are found in mainland China, many chinese-speaking regions of asia, or chinis apravasi samudaayon around the world.
Egg rolls as referred to in china.
In Guangdong and Hong kong, anda phenken praayah refers to biscuit roll.
is is a prakaar of biscuit.
The sanghatak shaamil anda, aataa or sugar.
Egg roll also is a dish in Canton and Hong kong, is is praayah bana saath vegetable.
Within China egg rolls are eaten predominantly in the southeast or hai nahin as commonly khapat in the uttar or pashchimi parts of China.
In American Chinese bhojan, an anda phenken is a savory dish typically served as an appetizer.
It is usually stuffed with chicken, pork or zinga, gobhi, gaajar, tamaato, saim sprouts or anya subjiyan, or tab gahan fried.
This variety of the egg roll is very aam or lokapriy, aarpaar bhi kshetreey kismein of amareeki chinis khaanaa, or is praayah shaamil as bhaag of a `` combination platter ''.
In Montreal, Canada, open-ended eggrolls hai a jewish-chinese fusion dish.
They can be either kosher certified or merely kosher style.
Pain and suffering is the legal term for the physical or emotional tanaav caused isse an chot ( dekhie bhi pidaa or ksht ).
Some damages that might be under this category would be : aches, asthai or sthai simaaen on kaaryaklap, sambhavit shortening of jivan, avsaad or scarring.
When daakhil a mukadmaa as a parinaam of an chot, it is aam liye kisi to seek money both in compensation for actual money that is lost and for the pain and stress associated with virtually any injury.
In a suit, pain and suffering is part of the `` general damages '' section of the claimant 's arji, or, alternatively, it is an tatv of `` compensatory '' non-economic kshatipurti ki allows recovery liye the dimagi anguish and/or shaareerik pidaa endured by the claimant as a parinaam of chot liye jisase the abhiyokta seeks redress.
Apart from money damages awarded in trial, money damages are also given informally outside the judicial system in mediations, madhyasthata ( dono of jisase may be adaalat annexed or gaiyr litigated daawa ) as khub as in dincharya bime settlements.
Individual claimants or those represented by lawyers praayah upasthit maange to insurers to settle liye dhan.
These demand for bodily injury compensation monies often set out kshatipurti ki hai similarly prayukt in the adaalat litigated pleadings.
Demands are usually likhaa summaries of a claimant 's chikitsa parvaah or the tathy jisase resulted in the injury.
Sample of a Medallion hastakshar guarantee stampIn
the United rajya or canada, a medallion hastakshar guarantee is a khaas hastakshar guarantee for the transfer of securities.
It is a guarantee by the transferring vittiya sanstha ki the hastakshar is vaastavik or the vittiya sanstha sweekrut deyta for any forgery.
Signature guarantees protect shairdharakon by preventing anadhikrut hastantaran or sambhavit investor losses.
They also limit the deyta of the transafar agent jo sweekrut the certificates.
Different institutions have different policies as to what type of identification they require to provide the guarantee or whether ve charge a shulk liye aise service ( usually nominal if any ).
Most sansthaanon hoga nahin guarantee a hastakshar of kisi who has not already been their customer.
A medallion signature guarantee is not the same as an acknowledgment by a notary public, in the bhav ki a `` hastakshar guarantee '' is a pramann by the sanstha ki the hastakshar is authentic, and an acknowledgment is a certification by a notary public attesting that the signer signed a document voluntarily.
Some banks may no longer provide this service, however, anek still do as khub as anya vittiya sansthaanon aise as a bachat or lone and Credit Unions.
At unke ekmaatr discretion, ye sansthaanon may still decline to provide the Medallion Signature Guarantees.
When US citizens are abroad, kuch vittiya sansthaanon may accept sanyukt rajya duutavas seals, in place of the Medallion Signature Guarantee Stamp.
Pacific Electric Railway streetcars stacked at a junkyard on terminal dweep, los angeles county, california, March 1956
The General Motors streetkar shadyantr ( bhi gyaat as the great amareeki streetkar cond ) refers to doshaaropan or convictions in sambandh to a program by General Motors ( GM ) and other companies who purchased and then dismantled streetcar and electric train systems in many American cities.
Between 1936 and 1950, National City Lines and Pacific City Lines —with investment from GM, Firestone Tire, Standard Oil of California, Phillips Petroleum, Mack Trucks, and the sangheey abhiyantriki corporation—bought over 100 electric surface-traction pranaaliyon in 45 shaharon sahit balteemor, neurk, los angeles, nai york nagar, ockland or san diego or parivartit unhen into bas aaparishan.
Several of the companiyaan shaamil yahood convicted in 1949 of shadyantr to monopolize antarraji commerce but were acquitted of conspiring to monopolize the ownership of these companies.
Some suggest that this program played a key role in the decline of public transit in cities across the United States ; notably Edwin J. Quinby, who first drew attention to the kaarykram in 1946, or tab breadford C. snell, an anti-trust attorney liye the sanyukt rajya seenet jinaki vivaadaaspad 1974 gavaahi to a seenet poochtacha brought the samasya to neshnal jaagrukta.
Both Quinby and Snell argued that the deliberate vinaash of streetcars thi bhaag of a larger ranneeti to dhakka the sanyukt rajya into automobile dependency.
anya kah ki swatantra aarthik karkon brought parichay parivartan in the pargaman pranali, sahit the great avsaad, the public utility pakadakar company adhinium of 1935, majdoor ashaanti, market shaktiyaan, rapidly increasing traffic congestion, urban sprawl, taxation policies that favored private vehicle ownership, and general enthusiasm for the automobile.
One writer on the subject has suggested that snell or anya giri into simplistic shadyantr siddhanth soch, bordering on paranoid delusions saying `` Clearly, GM waged a war on electric traction.
It was beshak an sab out utpeedan, lakin by no arthath the single kaaran liye the vifaltaa of rapid transit.
Also, it is bas as saaf ki kriyaayein or inactions by sarkari contributed significantly to the elimination of electric traction. ''
Only a small handful of U.S. cities have surviving prabhavi rail-based shahari hastantaran pranaaliyon aadhaarit on streetcars or trams, sahit neurk, philadelphia, san francisco, pittsburg, and Boston ; others are re-introducing them.
The story has been explored several times in print, film and anya media, notably in jo framed roger khargosh, liya liye a sawari or the samaapt of suburbia.
corwin house, salem, masachusets, built ca. 1660, First Period English
American colonial vaastukala shaamil anek bhawan dizine sheliyaan sambhddha saath the aupniveshik kaal of the sanyukt States, including First Period English ( late-medieval ), French Colonial, Spanish Colonial, Dutch Colonial and Georgian.
These styles are sambhddha saath the gharon, carch or sarkari imaaraten of the kaal from about 1600 through the 19th century.
`` In the Mood '' is a big band era # 1 hit ankit by amareeki bandleader glen Miller.
It awwal the chart in 1940 in the u.S. or ek saal baad thi pradarshit in the movie Sun Valley Serenade.
In 1999, National Public Radio ( NPR ) included the 1939 Glenn Miller recording on RCA bluebird on the npr 100, the suchi of `` the 100 sabase mahatvapurn amareeki musical works of the 20th sadi ''.
varun logo
The NEPTUNE Canada project is the world’s pehla regional-scale bhaate samandar vedhashala that plugs directly into the Internet.
Since December 2009, it has allowed logon to `` lahare '' the seafloor jabaki samandar vaigyanikon chalaaen deep-water prayog isse labs and universities around the world.
Along with its sister project, shukr, varun offers a adwitiya drushtikon to ocean science.
Traditionally, ocean scientists have relied on infrequent jalayaan cruge or space-based satellites to carry out unke shodh, jabaki the varun project upyog a remotely sanchalit crollar.
A gramophone record, commonly known as a phonograph ricard ( in amareeki angrezi ), vinil ricard ( in sandarbh to vinil, the saamagree sabase commonly prayukt baad parichay 1950 ), or colloquially, `` a ricard '', is an analog dhwani storage medium consisting of a flat disc with an inscribed, modulated spiral groove.
The groove usually starts near the periphery or ends nikat the bich of the disc.
Phonograph records are generally described by their diameter in inches ( 12-inch, 10-inch, 7-inch, etc. ), the rotational speed at jisase ve hai nibhaai ( `` 33 arpm ``, `` 78 '', `` 45 '', ityadi. ), unke samay kshamta ( `` long playing '' ), their reproductive accuracy, or `` fidelity `` ( `` high fidelity '', `` Orthophonic '', `` full-range '', etc. ), and the number of channels of audio provided ( `` mono ``, `` stereo ``, `` quadraphonic ``, etc. ).
Phonograph records were the primary medium used for music reproduction for most of the 20th sadi, replacing the phonograph belan, saath jisase it tha co-existed, by the 1920s.
by the let 1980s, digital media tha gained a larger market share, and the vinyl record left the mainstream in 1991.
They continue to be manufactured and sold in the 21st century.
In 2008, nearly 2.9 lakh ikai shipped, the sabase in koi saal chunki 1998 or the swaroop rai jari to slowly regain popularity.
They hai visheshkar prayukt by djs or audiophiles liye many types of music.
As of 2013, vinil record continue to be used for distribution.
Grassland in the santa rojaa pathaar, california.
ghasbhumi in the antelope ghati, California
the konza tallgrass preyari in the chakamak pahadiyaan of northeastern Kansas.
a ghasbhumi in the Philippines.
an bhitari mongolian ghasbhumi in the People 's Republic of China
Grasslands are areas where the vegetation is dominated by grasses ( poesi ), however sedge ( cyperaceae ) or fatafat ( juncaceae ) pariwaron can bhi be mila.
Grasslands occur naturally on sab mahadwipon magar Antarctica.
In temperate latitudes, such as northwestern Europe and the Great Plains and California in North America, deshi grasslands hai varchasv by baramasi guchha grass prajati, whereas in warmer climates salanaa species form a greater component of the vegetation.
grasslands hai mila in sabase ecoregions of the Earth.
For example there are five terrestrial ecoregion classifications ( subdivisions ) of the shitoshna grasslands, savannas, or shrublands biom ( ' ecosystem ' ), jisase is ek of eight terrestrial ecozones of the Earth 's surface.
Henna ( lawsonia inermis, bhi pukaara hina ped ) or hina is a flowering sanyantr, the sole species in the genus Lawsonia in the family Lythraceae.
The English naam `` hina '' aata isse the arabi ( ala-lc : ḥinnāʾ / sunaaya ) or colloquially, loosely pronounced.
The name is also used for dye preparations derived from the sanyantr, or liye the art of asthai godana aadhaarit on those dyes.
Henna rai maharoom prayukt chunki pracheenta to daai skin, bal, or fingernails, as well as fabrics including Silk, wool and leather.
additionally, the naam is misused liye anya skin or bal dyes, aise as blike henna or neutral henna, which are not derived from the plant.
A thin film is a layer of material ranging from bhinnon of a nanometer ( monolayer ) to anek micrometers in thickness.
Electronic semiconductor divaais or optical coatings hai the pramukh anuprayog laabhakaari isse thin-film construction.
A familiar application of patala films is the household darpan, jisase typically rai a patala metal coating on the waapas of a chadar of glass to form a reflective interface.
The process of silvering thi ekbar commonly prayukt to produce mirrors.
A very-thin-film coating ( kam than a nanometer motaa ) is prayukt to produce two-way mirrors.
The performance of optical coatings ( e.g. antireflective, or ar, coatings ) hai typically unnat jab the thin-film coating consists of anek paraton having varying thicknesses and refractive indices.
Similarly, a periodic structure of alternating thin films of alag saamagree may collectively rup a so-called superlattice jisase karname the ghatana of kwantum confinement by restricting electronic phenomena to two-dimensions.
Work is being done with ferromagnetic or ferroelectric patala films liye upyog as computer memory.
It is also hone lagu to davaayen, via thin-film drug delivery.
Thin-films are used to upaj thin-film bydaree.
patala films hai bhi prayukt in dye-sensitized solar cells.
Ceramic thin films hai in chaudee upyog.
The relatively high hardness and inertness of ceramic materials make this type of patala coating of byaaj liye suraksha of substrate saamagree viruddh sanksharan, oxikaran or pahanen.
In particular, the use of such coatings on kating tuls can extend the jivan of ye vasteen by several orders of magnitude.
Research is being kiya on a nai class of thin-film acarbonic oxide saamagree, pukaara amorphous heavy-metal cation multicomponent oxide, jisase could be prayukt to make transparent transistors that are inexpensive, stable, and environmentally benign.
Gears of War is a military science fiction third-person shooter video khel viksit by apik khel or prakashit by microsoft Game Studios.
It was initially released as an exclusive title for the Xbox 360 in November 2005 in North America, australia, or sabase of europea or shaamil a `` simit colector 's sanskaran '' saath added saamagree or an art kitaab titled nasht Beauty that detailed much of the game 's back-story.
Despite the initial statements of Xbox 360 exclusivity, a Microsoft Windows version of the game was developed in conjunction with logon can makkhi or released a saal baad, featuring nai saamagree sahit atirikt abhiyaan str, a nai ekaadhik khel vidhi, or khel liye khidkiyaan sajiv kaaryakshmata.
The game focuses on the sainikon of delta squad as ve wield a hataash, last-ditch attempt to sahejen the baaki insaan nivaasiyon of the fictional grah Sera from a relentless and seemingly unstoppable subterranean enemy known as the Locust Horde.
The player assumes the role of marcus fenix ( lakin can bhi khel as dominic santiyago ), a purv kaidi or war-hardened soldier.
The game is based on the upyog of cover or ranneetik aag liye the khilaadi to agrim through the scenarios ; a duusari player can play cooperatively through the main campaign to assist.
The game also features several online ekaadhik khel mods liye up to aath khilaadi.
Gears of War sold over three million nakal in bas ten saptaah or thi the fastest-selling video game of 2005 as well as the second-most played game over Xbox Live during.
It currently stands as the 5th behtareen selling exbox 360 khel of sab samay.
The game has since bechi over paanch lakh nakal by sitambar 2008.
The game was well received by aalochakon, jo praised iske gameplay or vistrut visuals, or it jiti anek `` Game of the Year '' awards in 2006.
The success of the game has led to the development of the Gears of War franchise, including the 2008 sequel Gears of yuddh 2 or iske follow-up, gears of yuddh 3, jisase thi released on sitambar 20, 2011, baad having initially maharoom niyat to have maharoom released on april 5, 2011, the tithi upon jisase apik khel ' chattan bleszinski thi a atithi on let raatri saath Jimmy Fallon.
Adaptations to books, comics, as khub as a visheshta filmi hai to be expected.
A Tree Grows in brukaleen is a 1943 anokhaa likhaa by Betty Smith.
the story focuses on an irish-american family in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, New York City.
The anokhaa is niyat in the pehla or duusari dashakon of the 20th century.
The book thi an immense kamyaabi.
The main metaphor of the book is the hardy Tree of swarg, deshi to china or taiwan, abhi mana hridayrog, or aam in the vacant lot of New York City.
World map with the intertropical mandal highlighted in red.
Tropical climate zones of the Earth jahaan sab baarah maheene have ausat temperatures upar 18 °C ( 64 °F ).
The tropics is a region of the dharti surrounding the equator.
it is simit in akshansh by the tropic of karkat in the uttari golardh at lagbhag n or the tropic of Capricorn in the southern hemisphere at S ; these latitudes correspond to the axial tilt of the Earth.
The tropics are also referred to as the teevr mandal or the torrid mandal ( dekhie bhugolic mandal ).
The tropics include all the areas on the Earth jahaan the surya pahunch a point sidhe overhead at tanik ekbar dauraan the solar year.
The tropics are distinguished from the anya climatic or biomatic regions of dharti, the madhya latitudes or the dhruviya regions on either side of the equatorial zone.
For the inxs song, dekhie What You Need ( song ).
`` What tum need '' is an apisod of the amareeki television anthology series The Twilight Zone.
It is aadhaarit on the choti story of the vahi name by Lewis Padgett ( Henry Kuttner and C. L. Moore ).
PlayhouseSquare, in the Cleveland Theater District in downtown Cleveland, Ohio, is the second-largest theatre jatil in the sanyukt rajya, duusari tabhi to nai york nagar 's Lincoln Center ).
Constructed in a span of 19 maheene in the jaldi 1920s, the theatre yahood subsequently closed down, but were revived through a grassroots effort.
Their renovation and reopening helped usher in a nai era of shahar punaroddhar in cleveland, or thi pukaara `` ek of the sheersh ten safaltaaon in Cleveland history. ''
The driver and yatri saamne airbags, baad having maharoom tainaat, in a British Peugeot 306 car.
an airbag is a gadee suraksha device.
It is an occupant sanyam pranali consisting of a lacheelee kapadaa lipapha or cushion designed to inflate rapidly during an automobile collision.
Its purpose is to cushion occupants dauraan a krash or provide suraksha to unke laashen jab ve strike aantarik vastuen aise as the steering wheel or a window.
Modern vehicles may contain multiple airbag modules in various side and frontal locations of the passenger seating positions, and sensors may tainaat ek or adhik airbags in an prabhaav mandal at parivartaneey daron aadhaarit on the prakaar, kone or gambhirtha of prabhaav ; the airbag is designed to tabhi inflate in moderet to kathor frontal krash.
airbags hai saamanytah designed saath the iraade of supplementing the suraksha of an occupant who is correctly restrained with a seatbelt.
Most dizin hai inflated through pyrotechnic means and can only be operated once.
Newer side-impact airbag maudul consist of sampidit air silendar ki hai triggered in the event of a side impact vehicle impact.
The first commercial designs yahood introduced in yatri automobile during the 1970s with limited success.
Broad commercial adoption of airbags occurred in many markets during the late 1980s and jaldi 1990s saath a driver airbag, or a saamne yatri airbag as khub on kuch gaadiyaan ; or anek aadhunik vaahanon abhi include four or more units.
IRS tax forms are used for taxpayers and tax-exempt organizations to rapat vittiya soochna to the aatanrik aay seva ( irs ) of the United States.
They are used to report income, calculate kar to be sashulk to the sangheey sarkari of the sanyukt rajya, or zaahir anya soochna as jaruri by the Internal Revenue Code ( IRC ).
There hai over 800 vibhinn form or schedules.
The best-known of these is rup 1040 prayukt by individuals.
In the United States, driver 's licenses are issued by each vyaktigat rajya ( sahit washington, d.C. or territories ), balki than the sangheey sarkari kuki of the rajnatik concept of federalism.
driver hai saamanytah jaruri to obtain a anugna isse unke rajya of nivas or sab rajya recognize prayek anya 's panktiyaan liye asthai visitors subject to normal age requirements.
a rajya may bhi barkhaastagi an vyaktigat 's driving visheshadhikaar within its borders for traffic violations.
Many states share a common system of anugna varg, saath kuch apwaad, or vanijyik anugna varg hai manakikrut by federal regulation at 49 CFR part 383.
China has been the source of anek avishkaron, sahit the chaar great avishkaron : papermaking, the compass, barood, or mudran ( dono woodblock and movable type ).
The list below contains ye or anya avishkaron.
The Chinese invented technologies involving yantriki, hydraulics, or ganit lagu to horology, metallurgy, khagolashastra, krishi, engineering, music theory, craftsmanship, nautics, and warfare.
By the Warring States Period ( 403–221 bc ), ve tha unnat metallurgic praudyogiki, sahit the dhamaakaa bhatti or cupola bhatti, while the finery forge and puddling process were known by the Han Dynasty ( 202 BC – AD 220 ).
A sophisticated aarthik pranali in china diya janam to avishkaron such as paper money during the Song Dynasty ( 960–1279 ).
The invention of gunpowder by the 10th century led to an array of inventions such as the fire lance, land mine, naval meraa, haath topon, exploding golon, multistage prakshepastra, or prakshepastra bam with aerodynamic wings and explosive payloads.
With the navigational aid of the 11th-century compass or kshamta to steer at unchi samudr saath the 1st-century sternpost aritra, premodern Chinese sailors sailed as far as East Africa and Egypt.
In water-powered clockworks, the premodern chinis tha prayukt the escapement yantriki chunki the 8th sadi and the endless power-transmitting chain drive in the 11th century.
They also bana vishaal mechanical kathputli theatre chalit by waterwheels or carriage pahiyon or wine-serving automatons driven by paddle wheel boats.
The contemporaneous Peiligang and Pengtoushan cultures represent the oldest pashankalin samskritiyon of china or yahood formed around 7000 bc.
Some of the first inventions of Neolithic, prehistoric China include semilunar and rectangular stone knives, stone hoes and spades, the cultivation of bajra, rice or the soyabean, the refinement of sericulture, the bhawan of rammed dharti structures saath lim -plastered house floors, the sristi of the kumhaar 's wheel, the sristi of pottery saath cord-mat-basket designs, the creation of pottery tripods and pottery steamers, and the development of ceremonial vessels and scapulimancy for purposes of divination.
Francesca Bray argues ki the domestication of the ox or bhens dauraan the longshan samskruti ( c. 3000–c. 2000 bc ) kaal, the anupasthiti of longshan-era sinchai or high-yield fasalon, puraa pramaan of longshan cultivation of dry-land khadyann fasalon jisase diya unchi yields `` tabhi jab the mrudaa thi carefully cultivated, '' suggest that the plow was known at least by the Longshan culture period and explains the high agricultural production yields which allowed the rise of Chinese civilization during the Shang Dynasty ( c. 1600–c. 1050 BC ).
With later avishkaron aise as the multiple-tube beej drill or baari moldboard aayran hal, china 's agricultural output could sustain a much larger population.
For the purposes of this list, inventions are regarded as technological firsts developed in China, or as aise karata nahin shaamil videshi technologies jisase the chinis acquired through sampark, aise as the pavanchakki isse the madhya east or the telescope from Early modern Europe.
It also does not include technologies viksit elsewhere or baad invented separately by the chinis, aise as the odometer and chain pump.
Scientific, mathematic or natural discoveries, parivartan in naaballig avadharanaon of dizine or style or kalakaari navapravartanon can nahin be regarded as inventions and do not appear on the list.
Gross gharelu utpaada in 2011 us dollar prati capita, samyojit liye mahangaai or khareednaa shakti parity ( log scale ) isse 1860 to 2011, with population ( disk area ) for the US ( yellow ), UK ( orange ), Japan ( red ), China ( red ), and India ( blue ).
Globalization ( or globalisation—see spelling differences ) is the prakram of antarrashtriya sangyojan arising isse the interchange of sansar drishy, products, ideas, and other aspects of culture.
Put in simple terms, globalization refers to prakriyaaon ki prachaar world-wide exchanges of neshnal or cultural resources.
Advances in transportation and telecommunications avasanrachana, sahit the vruddhi of the antarjaal, hai pramukh karkon in vaishvikaran, generating further interdependence of aarthik and cultural activities.
Though several scholars place the origins of vaishvikaran in aadhunik times, anya tres iske itihaas long pehle the europea age of discovery and voyages to the New World.
Some even tres the origins to the teesraa milinium BCE.
Since the beginning of the 20th century, the pace of globalization has intensified at a rapid rate, visheshkar dauraan the post thanda yuddh era.
The term vaishvikaran rai maharoom in increasing upyog chunki the mid-1980s and especially since the mid-1990s.
In 2000, the International Monetary Fund ( IMF ) pahachaanaa chaar moulik pahaluon of vaishvikaran : vyapaar or tranjection, puunji or nivesh andolanon, migration or gati of logon or the dissemination of knowledge.
Further, environmental challenges such as climate change, cross-boundary jal or air pradooshan, or over-fishing of the samandar hai linked saath vaishvikaran.
Globalizing processes affect and are affected by business and kaary sanghathan, arthshaastra, socio-cultural sansaadhan, or the natural environment.
The Replacements is a 2000 American khel kamedi filmi nirdeshit by harvard deutch.
It stars Keanu Reeves, Gene hackman, or bruke langton.
An amareeki airlines vayuyan takes band isse dallas/fort Worth International Airport.
This vimaanashetra is the airline 's largest hub.
American Airlines flies to 79 gharelu gantavyon or 78 antarrashtriya gantavyon in 48 countries.
( as of disambar 2012 )
The list includes the city, country, the codes of the International Air Transport Association ( IATA airport code ) or the antarrashtriya civil vimaanan sanghathan ( icao vimaanashetra code ), or the vimaanashetra 's naam, saath the airline 's hubs, fokas shaharon or seasonal destinations marked.
The suchi bhi contains gantavyon no longer parosa by the airline, which are marked as terminated destinations.
It does not include destinations parosa liye amareeki airlines by iske kshetreey affiliates amareeki tribhuj Airlines, Executive Airlines, and AmericanConnection.
`` Day-O ( The Banana Boat Song ) '' is a traditional Jamaican mento folk song, the best-known sanskaran of jisase thi sung by harry belafonte or an vaikalpik sanskaran interspersed saath another jamaican folksong, Hill and Gully Rider, by Dame Shirley Bassey.
Despite the song 's mento influences, `` Day-O ( The banana naav song ) '' is widely gyaat as an udhaaharan of callypso music.
It is a work song, from the point of drishy of dock majdoor working the raatri shift ladaan kele onto ships.
Daylight has aaiye, the shift is over or ve want unke kaary to be gine up so that they can go home.
World yuddh i ( wwi ) thi a vaishvik yuddh kendrit in europea ki began on 28 july 1914 and lasted until 11 November 1918.
It was predominantly called the World War or the Great yuddh isse iske occurrence jabatak the prarambh of sansar yuddh ii in 1939, or the First World War or World War I thereafter.
It involved all the world 's great powers, which were assembled in two opposing alliances : the Allies ( based on the Triple Entente of the United Kingdom, France and Russia ) and the Central shaktiyaan ( originally the tripal gathbandhan of germany, austria-hungary or italy ; lakin, as austria–hungary tha liya the apriy viruddh the anubandh, italy did not enter into the war ).
These alliances were both reorganised and expanded as more nations entered the yuddh : italy, japani or the sanyukt rajya joined the allies, or the osmani samrajya or bulgaria the central shaktiyaan.
Ultimately, more than 70 lakh sainya karmiyon, sahit 60 lakh europeans, were mobilised in one of the largest wars in history.
More than 9 million combatants were killed, largely because of technological advancements ki led to vishaal increases in the lethality of hathiyaar bagaiyr sambandhit sudhaar in suraksha or gatishiltaa.
It was the fifth- deadliest conflict in world history, subsequently paving the rasta liye vibhinn rajnatik parivartan, aise as revolutions in anek of the nations involved.
One of the long-term causes of the war was the resurgence of samrajyavad in the videshi nitiyon of the great shaktiyaan of europea.
More immediately, the assassination of Archduke Franz ferdinand of austria, the vaaris to the singhaasana of austria-hungary, on 28 june 1914 by yugoslav rashtravaadi gavrilo princip in sarajevo triggered a rajanyik crisis when Austria-Hungary subsequently delivered an ultimatum to the Kingdom of Serbia.
Several alliances formed over the pichhlaa decades were invoked.
Within weeks, the pramukh shaktiyaan yahood at yuddh or, via unke colonies, the virodh soon spread around the world.
On 28 July, the Austro-Hungarians fired the first goliyaan of the yuddh as taiyaari liye the akraman of Serbia.
While the Russians mobilised, the Germans invaded neutral belgium or dhvaj on the rasta to frans, providing a casus belli liye britain 's declaration of war against Germany.
After the germany kooch on paris thi brought to a halt—the so-called chamatkaar of the marne —the pashchimi saamne settled into a static battle of attrition with a trench line that changed little until 1917.
On the Eastern Front, the Russian army thi kaamyaab viruddh the austro-hungarians, lakin thi roka in iske akraman of east Prussia by the Germans.
In November the Ottoman Empire joined the yuddh, kholane up fronts in the kakeshas, mesopotamia or the sinai.
Italy or bulgaria gai to yuddh in 1915 or romania in 1916.
In Russia, the tsar 's sarkari collapsed in kooch 1917 or a subsequent kranti in navambar brought the russians to terms with the Central Powers.
After a 1918 germany apriy saath the pashchimi saamne, the allies drove waapas the germans in a shrenee of kaamyaab offensives and American forces began entering the trenches.
Germany, which had its own trouble with krantikariyon, sahamat to an armistice on 11 navambar 1918.
The yuddh ended in vijay liye the Allies.
Events on the home fronts were as tumultuous as on the battle fronts, as the bhagidaar aajamaaya to mobilize unke janashakti or aarthik sansaadhan to lado a total war.
By the end of the war, four major imperial powers—the germany, roosi, austro-hungarian or osmani empires—ceased to exist.
The successor rajya of the purv do khoyaa a great raashi of territory, while the latter two were dismantled entirely.
The map of central Europe thi redrawn into anek choti rajya.
The League of Nations thi formed in the aashaa of preventing another aise virodh.
The European nationalism spawned by the war and the breakup of empires, the repercussions of Germany 's defeat or samasyaayein saath the sandhi of versailles hai sahamat to be karkon contributing to World War II.
nurse jaiki is an amareeki shrenee ki premiered on june 8, 2009, on Showtime, Movie Central and The Movie Network.
The series stars Edie Falco as the title akshar jaiki peyton, an apaat vibhaag nurse at sab santo ' hospital in nai york nagar.
For Jackie, `` Every din is a unchi taar adhinium of juggling marijon, doctor, fellow nurses and her own indiscretions. ''
Keeping Up with the Kardashians ( often referred to bas as the kardashians ) is an amareeki vaastaviktaa television shrenee ki premiered on aktubar 14, 2007, on E !.
It follows the lives of the kardashian/jenner parivaar, sahit bahanon courtney, Kim, and Khloé Kardashian.
The series ' success rai led to the spin-offs courtney or kim lo nai york, khloé & laimor, courtney or Khloé Take Miami, and Kourtney and Kim Take Miami.
Afghanistan ( ; ; ), officially the islamic ganatantr of afghanistan, is a landlocked sovereign rajya forming part of South Asia, Central Asia, and to some extent Western Asia.
It has a janasankhyikee of around 30 lakh inhabiting an kshetrafal of lagbhag, bananaa it the 42nd sabase populous or 41st largest swadesh in the world.
It is bordered by pakistani in the dakshin or the east, iraan in the west, turkmenistan, uzbekistan or tajikistan in the uttar, and China in the far northeast.
Afghanistan has been an pracheen focal point of the resha sadak or insaan migration.
Archaeologists have found evidence of insaan habitation isse as dur waapas as the madhya paleolithic.
Urban sabhyataa may have begun in the kshetrafal as jaldi as 3,000 to 2,000 BCE.
Sitting at an important geostrategic location that connects the madhya east samskruti saath central asia or the bhartiya upmahadweep, the jameen rai maharoom ghar to vibhinn peoples through the aayu or witnessed anek military campaigns, notably by Alexander the Great, Genghis Khan, and in modern era Western forces.
The land also served as a source from which the Greco-Bactrians, kushans, hephthalites, saffarids, ghaznavids, ghorids, khiljis, timurids, mughalon, durranis, or anya have risen to form major empires.
The political history of the modern state of afghanistan begins in 1709, jab the hotaki rajvansh thi sthapit in kandahar followed by ahamed shah durrani 's rise to power in 1747.
In the let 19th sadi, afghanistan became a bafar rajya in the `` Great Game `` between the British and Russian empires.
following the 1919 anglo-afghan yuddh, king amanulla began a europea style modernization of the country but was stopped by the ultra-conservatives.
During the Cold War, after the withdrawal of the British from neighboring india in 1947, the sanyukt rajya or the soviet sangh began spreading prabhaav in afghanistan, jisase led to a khooni yuddh between the us-backed mujahidin shaktiyaan and the Soviet-backed Afghan government in which over a million Afghans lost their lives.
This was followed by the 1990s civil yuddh, the vruddhi or patan of the extremist taliban sarkari or the 2001–present war.
In December 2001, the United Nations Security Council authorized the sristi of the antarrashtriya suraksha sahaayta force ( isaf ) to sahaayta maintain suraksha in afghanistan or assist the Karzai administration.
Three decades of war made Afghanistan one of the world 's sabase khatarnaak deshon, sahit the largest nirmaataa of sharnaarthiyon or asylum zaruratmandon.
While the antarrashtriya jatiyaan is punarnirmaan war-torn afghanistan, aatankwaadi samooh aise as the hakkaani sanjaal or hezbi islami hai actively shaamil in a nationwide Taliban -led insurgency, which includes hundreds of assassinations and suicide attacks.
According to the sanyukt raashtra, the insurgents yahood jimmedaar for 80 % of civilian casualties in 2011 and 2012.
The American Civil War ( ACW ), also known as the yuddh between the rajya or bas the civil yuddh ( dekhie namakaran ), thi a civil yuddh ladaa isse 1861 to 1865 between the sanyukt rajya ( the `` sangh '' or the `` uttar '' ) or anek dakshini slave states that declared their secession and formed the Confederate States of America ( the `` Confederacy '' or the `` South '' ).
The war had its origin in the issue of slavery, visheshkar the ekstansion of gulaami into the pashchimi territories.
videshi shaktiyaan kiya nahin intervene.
After four years of bloody combat that left over 600,000 sainiko murde or nasht much of the dakshin 's avasanrachana, the confederacy collapsed, gulaami thi abolished, or the mushkil punarnirmaan prakram of restoring neshnal unity and guaranteeing rights to the freed slaves began.
In the 1860 adhyakshiya chunaav, republicans, led by abraham lincoln, opposed expanding slavery into United States ' territories.
Lincoln won, but before his udghaatan on kooch 4, 1861, saat cotton-based slave rajya formed the Confederacy.
Outgoing loktantric adhyaksh james bukanan or the aavak republicans asweekrut secession as illegal.
Lincoln 's inaugural pataa ghoshit uske prashasan would not initiate civil war.
aath baaki slave rajya jari to reject calls for secession.
Confederate forces seized numerous sangheey durgon bheetar territory claimed by the Confederacy.
A Peace Conference failed to dhundhen a sulah, or dono pahalu prepared for war.
The Confederates assumed that European deshon yahood so nirbhar on `` king kapaas `` ki ve hota intervene ; none kiya or none pahachaanaa the nai confederate States of America.
Hostilities began on April 12, 1861, when Confederate forces fired upon fort sumter, a kunjee fort yojit by sangh sainikon in dakshin carolina.
lincoln pukaara liye prayek rajya to provide sainikon to retake the fort ; natijatan, four more slave states joined the Confederacy, bringing their total to eleven.
The Union soon controlled the kinaaraa rajya or sthapit a naval nakebandi ki abodh the southern economy.
The Eastern theatre thi inconclusive in 1861–62.
the patjhad 1862 confederate abhiyaan into maryland ( a sangh rajya ) ended saath confederate retreat at the Battle of Antietam, dissuading British intervention.
Lincoln issued the Emancipation Proclamation, jisase bana samaapti gulaami a yuddh goal.
To the west, by summer 1862 the sangh nasht the confederate nadi navy, tab much of unke pashchimi sena, or the sangh at vicksburg vibhajit the Confederacy in two at the Mississippi River.
in 1863, robert E. lee 's confederate incursion north ended at the Battle of Gettysburg.
Western successes led to Ulysses S. Grant cmand of sab sangh sena in 1864.
In the pashchimi theatre, wiliam T. sharaman drove east to capchar atlanta or marched to the sea, destroying Confederate infrastructure along the way.
The Union marshaled the resources and janashakti to akraman the confederacy isse sab dishanirdesh, or could afford to lado ladaaiyon of apgharshan through the overland abhiyaan towards Richmond, the Confederate capital.
The defending confederate fouj vifal, agrani to lee 's aatmasamarpan to grant at appomattox Court House on April 9, 1865.
the amareeki civil yuddh thi ek of the earliest true industrial wars.
Railroads, the telegraph, steamships, or mass-produced weapons were employed extensively.
The mobilization of civilian kaarkaanon, khaanon, shipyards, bainko, parivahan or khaanaa aapurtiyan all foreshadowed World War I.
It remains the deadliest yuddh in amareeki itihaas, resulting in the mauton of an anumaanit 750,000 sainiko or an undetermined kramank of civilian casualties.
itihaaskaar jon huddleston estimates the maut toll at ten percent of all Northern males 20–45 years old, and 30 percent of all Southern white males aged 18–40.
laagat of goods bechi ( cogs ) refer to the inventory costs of those goods a business has sold during a particular period.
Costs are sambhddha saath particular goods using ek of anek formulas, including specific identification, first-in first-out ( FIFO ), or average cost.
Costs include all laagat of khariden, laagat of parivartan or anya laagat incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
Costs of goods bana by the kaarobaar shaamil saamagree, majdoor, and allocated overhead.
The costs of those goods not yet sold are deferred as costs of inventory jabatak the inventory is bechi or likhaa bas in maan.
Freak Lunchbox candi store in halifax, Nova Scotia
A confectionery store ( adhik commonly referred to as a mithi duukaan in the sanyukt kingdom, a candi store in the uttar america, or a lolly shop in Australia ) sells confectionery and is usually targeted to children.
Most confectionery stores hai bhar saath an assortment of mithai dur larger than a grocer or convenience store could accommodate.
They often prastaav a chayan of boodha fashioned treet, and sweets from different countries.
Very often aparivartit in leout chunki unke inception, confectioneries are known for their warming and nostalgic feel.
The gaanv of pateley sethu daawa to have the oldest confectionery store in England.
The oldest mithi duukaan in england, in the gaanv of Pateley Bridge
Oklahoma ( ) ( Pawnee : Uukuhuúwa, cay : gahnawiyoˀgeh ) is a rajya stith in west South Central United States.
Oklahoma is the 20th most extensive or the 28th sabase populous of the 50 sanyukt rajya.
The state 's name is derived from the choctaw shabd okla or humma, arth `` red logon '', or it is gyaat informally by iske upnaam, the sooner State.
Formed by the combination of Oklahoma territory or bhartiya territory on navambar 16, 1907, oklahoma thi the 46th state to enter the union.
Its residents are known as Oklahomans or, informally `` okies '', or iske puunji or largest nagar is Oklahoma City.
A major producer of natural gas, oil, and krishi, oklahoma relies on an aarthik aadhaar of vimaanan, urja, doorsanchaar, and biotechnology.
It has one of the fastest growing economies in the nation, ranking among the sheersh rajya in prati capita aay vikaas or sakal gharelu product growth.
Oklahoma City and Tulsa serve as Oklahoma 's primary economic anchors, saath nearly do tihaai of oklahomans jeena bheetar unke mahanagar statistical areas.
With small mountain ranges, preyari, mesas, or purvi wanon, sabase of oklahoma jhooth in the great maidan or the u.s. aantarik hilands —a region especially prone to severe weather.
In addition to having a prevalence of English, germany, scottish, irish or deshi amareeki ancestry, adhik than 25 deshi amareeki bhashaaen hai bolaa in oklahoma, duusari only to California.
Oklahoma is located on a confluence of teen pramukh amareeki saanskrithik regions or historically parosa as a root liye choupayon drive, a destination for southern settlers, and a government-sanctioned territory for Native Americans.
Stacked or khadaa car tair
A tire ( or tyre ) is a ring-shaped covering ki fits around a wheel 's rim to protect it or enable better vehicle performance.
Most tires, such as those liye automobile or cycle, provide karshan between the gadee or the sadak jabaki providing a lacheelee cushion that absorbs shock.
The materials of modern pneumatic tires hai synthetic rabar, prakritik rabar, kapadaa or taar, saath saath carbon blike or anya rasinic compounds.
They consist of a tread or a body.
The tread provides traction jabaki the deh provides containment liye a maatra of sampidit air.
Before rubber was developed, the pehla sanskaran of tair yahood bas bands of metal ki fitted around lakdi pahiyon to prevent pahanen or aansu.
jaldi rabar tair yahood thos ( not pneumatic ).
Today, the bahumat of tair hai neumatic inflatable structures, comprising a doughnut-shaped deh of cords and wires encased in rubber and generally filled with compressed air to form an inflatable cushion.
Pneumatic tires are used on many types of vaahanon, sahit gaadiyaan, cycle, motorcycle, trek, earthmovers, or vayuyan.
Metal tires are still used on injanon or railcars, or thos rabar ( or anya polimur ) tair hai still prayukt in vibhinn non-automotive applications, such as some casters, carts, lawnmowers, and wheelbarrows.
Dr. Joseph Warren ( june 11, 1741 – june 17, 1775 ) thi an amareeki doctor jo nibhaai a agrani bhoomika in amareeki patriot sanghathan in boston in jaldi dinon of the amareeki kranti, aakhirkaar sevarat as adhyaksh of the revolutionary Massachusetts Provincial Congress.
Warren enlisted Paul Revere and William Dawes on April 18, 1775, to leave Boston and spread the alarm that the angrejon garrison in boston thi setting out to red the kasbaa of concord or giraftaar vidrohi netao John Hancock and Samuel Adams.
Warren participated in the aglaa din 's ladaaiyon of lexington or concord, jisase hai commonly mana to be the opening engagements of the American Revolutionary War.
Warren had been commissioned a pramukh saamaanya in the upnivesh 's milicia shortly pehle the june 17, 1775 battle of Bunker Hill.
Rather than exercising his rank, Warren served in the battle as a nijee sipaahi, or thi maare in combat jab angrejon sainikon stormed the redoubt atop nasl 's hill.
His death, immortalized in jon trumbull 's painting, the maut of saamaanya warren at the battle of bunker 's hill, june 17, 1775, jasti the vidrohi shaktiyaan, or he rai been memorialized in many place names in the United States.
stm chitra of self-assembled supramolecular zanjeeron of the sashulk semiconductor Quinacridone on Graphite.
An sashulk semiconductor is an sashulk saamagree saath semiconductor properties, that is, with an electrical conductivity between that of insulators and that of metals.
Single anuon, choti kadi ( oligomers ) or sashulk polymers can be semiconductive.
Semiconducting small molecules ( aromatic hydrocarbons ) include the polycyclic khushboodaar yogicon pentacene, anthracene, or rubrene.
polymeric sashulk semiconductors shaamil bahu ( 3-hexylthiophene ), bahu ( p-phenylene vinylene ), as well as polyacetylene and its derivatives.
There are two pramukh ativyapee varg of sashulk semiconductors.
These are sashulk charge-transfer devalayas or vibhinn linear-backbone conductive polymers derived from polyacetylene.
Linear backbone organic semiconductors shaamil polyacetylene itself or iske derevative polypyrrole, and polyaniline.
At least locally, charge-transfer devalayas praayah pradarshnee samaan conduction mechanisms to acarbonic semiconductors.
aise mechanisms uthta isse the upasthiti of chhed or electron conduction layers separated by a band gap.
While such classic mechanisms are important locally, as with acarbonic amorphous semiconductors, tunnelling, sthaniyakrut rajya, gatishiltaa gap, or phonon -assisted hopping also significantly contribute to conduction, particularly in polyacetylenes.
Like acarbonic semiconductors, sashulk semiconductors can be doped.
Organic semiconductors susceptible to doping aise as polyaniline ( ormecon ) and are also known as organic metals.
theth vartmaan vaahak in sashulk semiconductors are holes and electrons in π-bonds.
lagbhag sab sashulk solids hai insulators.
But when their constituent anuon have π-conjugate pranaaliyon, electrons can move via π-electron badal overlaps, especially by hopping, tunnelling and related mechanisms.
Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons and phthalocyanine salt crystals hai udhaaharan of is prakaar of sashulk semiconductor.
Mainly due to low mobility, bhi unpaired electrons may be stable in charge-transfer complexes.
Such unpaired electrons can falan as current carriers.
This type of semiconductor is also obtained by pairing an electron daata anu saath an electron acceptor anu.
Female ejaculation is the expulsion of fluid by human females isse the paraurethral nalikaayen through or around the maadaa urethra during or before an orgasm.
It is also known colloquially as gushing or squirting, although these are mana to be alag phenomena in kuch shodh publications.
The exact source and nature of the fluid continue to be a topic of bahes among chikitsa peshewar, jisase is bhi sambandhit to doubts over the existence of the G-Spot.
The FIFA Women 's World Cup is an international association football competition contested by the varisht mahilaon 's neshnal tiimon of the sadasyon of fédération internationale de footbaal sangh ( fifa ), the khel 's vaishvik shaasi deh.
The championship has been awarded every four years since the inaugural toornament in 1991.
Japan won the 2011 toornament in a dand golibari.
The current format of the tournament involves 16 teams spardhaa liye the sheershak at venues bheetar the mejabaan swadesh ( s ) over a kaal of parichay teen saptaah ; – this phase is often called the World Cup Finals.
A qualification phase, which currently takes place over the preceding three years, is prayukt to determine jisase tiimon qualify liye the toornament saath saath the mejabaan swadesh ( s ).
The FIFA Women 's World Cup is recognized as the most important International competition in women 's footbaal or is nibhaai amongst mahilaon 's neshnal footbaal tiimon of the sadsy rajya of fifa, the khel 's vaishvik shaasi deh.
the pehla mahilaon 's sansar cap toornament, namit the mahilaon 's sansar Championship, was held in 1991, sixty-one years after the men 's first FIFA World Cup tournament in 1930.
the chah sansar cap tournaments have maharoom jiti by chaar different national teams.
the aglaa sansar cap hoga be hosted by Canada in 2015.
Scorpions is a young adult novel written by walter dean myrs, pehla prakashit in the sanyukt rajya by harper & Row on June 20, 1988.
Front page of a 17th sadi yahudee bible by joseph athias, abhi at Beth Hatefutsoth, Israel
'Son of man ' is the translation of various Hebrew or unani vaakyansh prayukt in dono the yahudee bible or the nai vasiyat.
It has diverse meanings, ranging from a saamaanya insaan hone to a prophesied anant, daivi ruler.
The Hebrew expression `` son of man '' ( בן–אדם i.e. ben-'adam ) appears ek sau or saat times in the Hebrew Bible.
This is the most common yahudee nirmaan liye the ekvachan lakin is prayukt zyaadaatar in ezekiel ( 93 times ) and 14 times elsewhere.
In thirty two cases the phrase appears in intermediat bahuvachan rup `` bete of main '', i.e. insaan beings.
As generally interpreted by yahudiyon, it denotes humankind generally.
In the koine unani of the nai vasiyat, `` the bete of man '' is invariably prayukt as `` ὁ υἱὸς τοὺ ἀνθρώπου '' with a definite article.
the upyog of the definite aalekh in `` the bete of man '' in the isai gospels is anokhaa, or pehle iske upyog vahin, no records of its use in any of the surviving Greek documents of antiquity exist.
Geza Vermes has stated that `` the Son of man '' in the isai gospels is unrelated to yahudee bible usages.
In Christian usage, unlike the Son of God title, jisase rai maharoom an anivaary tatv of isai creeds chunki the apostolic aayu, the udghoshnaa of `` yishu as the bete of man '' has never been an article of faith in Christianity.
The interpretation of the use of `` the Son of man '' in the nai vasiyat rai remained chunauteepurn or baad 150 saalo of bahes no sarvasammati on the samasya rai ubhara among scholars.
Master of foxhounds leads the field isse powderham kila in devon, england, saath the hounds in front.
Fox hunting is an activity involving the trekking, peechha, or sometimes hatya of a fox, traditionally a red fox, by prashikshit foxhounds or anya saint hounds, or a samooh of nihathe anusarankarta led by a nipun of foxhounds, who follow the hounds on foot or on horseback.
Fox hunting originated in the rup practised jabatak recently in the sanyukt kingdom in the 16th sadi, lakin is practised sab over the sansar, sahit in Australia, Canada, France, Ireland, Italy and the United States.
In Australia, the pad bhi refers to the shikaar of foxes saath firearms similar to spotlighting or deer hunting.
In much of the world hunting in general is understood to relate to any game animals or weapons ( e.g., deer hunting with bow and tir ) ; in britain or ireland, `` shikaar '' bagaiyr yogyata implies fox shikaar ( or anya form of shikaar saath houndaus- beagling, stag shikaar, mink shikaar, khichein hunting or hunting the clean boot ) as described here.
The sport is controversial, particularly in the UK, where it was banned in Scotland in 2002, and in england or wales in navambar 2004 ( vidhi enforced isse farvari 2005 ), haalanki shooting foxes as vermin remained legal.
Proponents of fox hunting view it as an mahatvapurn bhaag of gramin samskruti or upyogi liye kaaran of sangrakshan or pest control, jabaki pratidwandviyon argue ki it is cruel and unnecessary.
Tobacco advertising is the advertising of tobacco utpaada or upyog ( typically cigarette dhumrapaan ) by the tambaaku udyog through a kismein of media including sponsorship, particularly of sporting events.
it is abhi ek of the sabase atyadhik regulated forms of marketing.
Some or all forms of tobacco advertising hai bain in anek deshon.
Bally Technologies, Inc. is a nirmaataa of slot mashine or anya gaming praudyogiki aadhaarit in Las Vegas, Nevada.
The company thi santhaapit in 1968 as unnat patent Technology.
It eventually changed its name to gathbandhan gaming or acquired, in 1996, balli gaming antarrashtriya, a purv prabhag of balli nirmaan.
In 2006, the entire company adopted the balli naam, a trademark ki originated in 1932 by the balli nirmaan Corporation.
Gustave Doré 's engravings illustrated the Divine Comedy ( 1861–1868 ) ; yahan, dante is khoyaa in canto 1 of the inferno.
inferno ( italvi liye `` narak `` ) is the pehla bhaag of Dante Alighieri 's 14th-century epic poem Divine Comedy.
It is followed by purgatorio or paradiso.
It is an allegory telling of the yatra of dante through narak, hidaayat by the Roman poet Virgil.
In the kavita, narak is chitrit as nau vrutt of suffering located within the Earth.
Allegorically, the Divine Comedy represents the journey of the aatma towards parameshwar, saath the inferno describing the manyata or rejection of sin.
Smirnoff is a brand of vodaka swaamitv or utpaadit by the angrejon company diageo.
The smaranof brands began saath a vodaka distilleri santhaapit in masco by pyotr Arsenievich Smirnov ( 1831–1898 ).
It is now vitarit in 130 countries.
It is produced in several deshon sahit india, Ireland, Italy, the United Kingdom and the United States.
smaranof utpaada shaamil vodaka, flavoured vodka, and malt beverages.
In March 2006, Diageo North america claimed ki smaranof vodaka thi the best-selling asut spirit brand in the world.
Big Brown ( foaled april 10, 2005 in kentki ) is a ritred champion American Thoroughbred racehorse and winner of the 2008 Kentucky Derby and 2008 Preakness Stakes.
karavaaya by dr. geri B. nap 's monticule kheto in lexington, Kentucky, he won his first five race starts.
He was sired by grad iii vijeta boundary, a bete of uttar amareeki Champion sire Danzig, a son of Northern Dancer.
Big Brown 's dam was Mien, bhi a potee of uttari nartki through her sire, Nureyev.
The Serenity Prayer is the common name for an originally untitled dua by the amareeki theologian reinhold niebuhr ( 1892–1971 ).
It has been apanaaya by alcoholics benaam or anya twelve-step programs.
The best-known form is : God, grant me the serenity to accept the bate i can nahin change,
The courage to badalen the bate i can,
And wisdom to jaan the antar.
The Declaration and Resolves of the First Continental Congress ( also known as the Declaration of Colonial adhikaron, or the ghoshnaa of adhikaron ), thi a bayaan apanaaya by the pehla mahadwipiya congress on aktubar 14, 1774, in jawaab to the asahneeya adhiniyamon passed by the British Parliament.
The Declaration outlined colonial objections to the asahneeya adhiniyamon, soochibaddh a aupniveshik vidheyak of adhikaron, or provided a vistrut suchi of grievances.
It was similar to the ghoshnaa of adhikaron or grievances, passed by the stamp adhinium congress a decade earlier.
The Declaration concluded with an outline of Congress 's plans : to enter into a boycott of British trade ( the mahadwipiya sangh ) jabatak unke grievances yahood redressed, to prakashit pataa to the logon of great britain or British America, and to send a petition to the King.
Pulse pressure is the dabaav ki is laga jab ahsaas the pulse.
Measured in millimeters of mercury ( mmHg ), the pressure difference between the systolic or diastolic pressures is the dabaav badalen to banaaen the pulse, jisase is the pulse pressure.
If resting rakt dabaav is ( systolic/diastolic ) 120/80 millimeters of mercury ( mmHg ), pulse pressure is 40.
The Hills is a reality television shrenee jisase originally aired on amtivi isse may 31, 2006 until July 13, 2010.
The show uses a reality television format, following the personal lives of several young vayaskon jeena in los angeles, california, lakin tends towards a katha swaroop adhik commonly mila in scripted jati aise as soap operas.
The series originally followed the nijee jivan of purv laguna bich star lauren conrad or uske mitron ' nai jeevandaan in Los Angeles.
After five seasons, Conrad left the series or thi replaced by another purv laguna bich star, kristin cavallari, beginning in the second half of the fifth season.
The series concluded at the samaapt of the sixth season.
Entertainment Weekly ranked The Hills 82nd on unke suchi of `` the 100 behtareen shows of the pichhlaa 25 saalo, '' stating ki the shrenee thi a `` nai clasik. ''
AOL TV pukaara it tv 's biggest apradhi Pleasure.
The series premiered in syndication in the patan of 2009 alongside laguna bich : the real Orange County.
In poker, bad beat is a subjective term for a haath in jisase a khilaadi saath kayaa appear to be damdaar taash nevertheless loses.
It most often occurs jahaan ek khilaadi bets the clearly stronger haath or their opponent makes a poor call that eventually `` hits '' and wins.
vahin is no sarvasammati among pokar khilaadi as to kayaa exactly constitutes a bad beat and often players will disagree about whether a particular hand was a bad beat.
The goldfish ( Carassius auratus auratus ) is a freshwater machhlee in the parivaar cyprinidae of anukram cypriniformes.
It was one of the earliest machhlee to be domesticated, or is ek of the sabase commonly rakhaa equarium fish.
A relatively small member of the carp parivaar ( jisase bhi shaamil the koi carp or the crucian carp ), the goldfish is a domesticated sanskaran of a less-colorful carp ( Carassius auratus ) native to east Asia.
It was first domesticated in China more than a hajaar saalo pehle, or anek pruthak breeds have since been developed.
Goldfish breeds vary greatly in aakaar, deh aakaar, jode vinyas or coloration ( vibhinn combinations of shwet, pilaa, naarangi, red, brown, and black are known ).
uncooked rouladen
Rouladen ( or Rinderroulade, singular : roulade ) is a germany maance roulade praayah consisting of bekan, pyaaj, sarson or achaar lapeta in thinly sliced beef which is then cooked.
in kuch deshon, the roulade is also known as `` beef olive ''.
Beef or veal is used as maance haalanki kuch khaanaa vidwaanon tend to maananaa ki the asli sanskaran thi sambhawatah venison or pork, and pork is still popular in some areas.
the bif rouladen as we jaan unhen aaj have become lokapriy over the last century.
The cut is praayah topside bif or silverside chunki is is the sasta cut.
The more mahangi sanskaran hota be the golakaar steak, also known as rump steak.
the maance is kaaten into vishaal, thin slices.
The filling is a mixture of smoked and cooked pork pet, kataa pyaaj or kataa achaar ( gurken ) jisase is at times varied by adding minced maance, sausage meat, pine nuts and mustard.
The mixture varies isse pradesh to region.
Rouladen are traditionally parosa liye dinar.
red wine is praayah parosa with this dish.
Typical eukaryotic koshika.
Cellular respiration is the set of the metabolic reactions and processes that take place in the koshikaayen of jeevon to badalen biochemical urja isse nutrients into adinosin triphosphate ( atipi ), or then release waste products.
The reactions involved in respiration are catabolic pratikriyaayein, jisase brake vishaal anuon into choti ones, releasing urja in the prakram as kamjor so-called `` high-energy '' bonds are replaced by stronger bonds in the products.
Respiration is one of the kunjee tareeke a koshika gains upyogi urja to eendhan cellular activity.
Cellular respiration is mana an ooshmakshepi radox pratikriya.
The overall reaction is broken into anek choti ones jab it occurs in the deh, sabase of jisase hai radox pratikriyaayein themselves.
Although technically, cellular shwasan is a dahan pratikriya, it clearly does not resemble one when it occurs in a living cell.
is antar is because it occurs in many separate steps.
While the overall reaction is a dahan pratikriya, no single pratikriya ki comprises it is a dahan reaction.
Nutrients that are commonly prayukt by animal or sanyantr koshikaayen in shwasan shaamil sugar, amino acids or vasiy acids, or a common oxidizing agent ( electron acceptor ) is molecular oxygen ( O2 ).
The energy stored in ATP ( its third phosphate group is weakly bandhua to the baaki of the anu or is cheaply tutaa allowing stronger bonds to rup, thereby transferring urja liye upyog by the koshika ) can tab be used to drive processes requiring energy, including biosynthesis, locomotion or transportation of molecules across cell membranes.
Countries by 2011 GDP ( nominal ) according to the siie sansar factbook.
This article includes a list of countries in the sansar sorted by unke sakal gharelu utpaada ( jidipi ), the market maan of sab final goods and services from a nation in a given year.
The GDP dollar estimates prastut yahan hai gananaa at market or sarkari aadhikarik exange rates.
Several economies jisase hai nahin mana to be deshon ( sansar, the eu, or kuch nirbhar territories ) hai shaamil in the lists because they appear in the sources.
ye economies hai nahin kramit in the chart yahan, lakin hai listed where applicable.
The figures presented here do not take into account differences in the cost of living in different deshon, or the parinaam can vary greatly isse ek saal to another aadhaarit on fluctuations in the exange rates of the country 's currency.
Such fluctuations may badalen a desh 's ranking isse ek saal to the aglaa, bhi haalanki ve praayah mek choti or no difference to the standard of living of its population.
isliye ye aankade chahie be used with caution.
Some countries/regions may have nagarikon jisase hai on ausat dhanwaan.
ye countries/regions could appear in is suchi as having a small GDP.
This would be because the country/region listed has a small population, or isliye choti kul arthvyavastha ; the jidipi is gananaa as the janasankhyikee times the maal per capita.
comparisons of neshnal maal hai bhi aksar bana on the aadhaar of khareednaa shakti parity ( ppp ), to samaayojan liye matbhed in the cost of living in different countries.
( See List of deshon by jidipi ( ppp ) )
PPP largely removes the exchange rate problem, but rai iske apana kamiyaan ; it karata nahin pratibimbit the maan of aarthik output in antarrashtriya vyapaar, or it bhi requires more estimation than nominal GDP.
on the puure, ppp prati capita aankade hai adhik narrowly spread than nominal GDP per capita figures.
The first list includes data compiled by the sanyukt raashtra aankde prabhag liye 2011.
The second suchi largely shaamil aankada ( anumaan ) compiled by the antarrashtriya Monetary Fund for 2012.
The third list shows the sansar bainko 's zyaadaatar 2011 estimates, or the chauthi suchi shaamil mostly 2012 estimates from the CIA World Factbook.
lapping is a machining prakram, in jisase do satahon hai mala together with an abrasive between them, by hand movement or by way of a machine.
This can lo do form.
The first type of lapping ( traditionally pukaara pis ), typically involves ragad a bhangur saamagree aise as kaanch viruddh a sataha aise as aayran or kaanch itself ( bhi gyaat as the `` god '' or pis aujaar ) saath an akkhad aise as aluminium oxide, johariyon 's rouge, optician 's rouge, emery, silicon carbide, diamond, etc., in between them.
is produces microscopic conchoidal fractures as the akkhad rolls parichay between the two surfaces and removes material from both.
The other form of lapping involves a softer saamagree aise as pich or a ceremic liye the god, jisase is `` charge '' saath the akkhad.
The lap is then prayukt to kaaten a harder material—the workpiece.
The abrasive embeds within the softer saamagree jisase holds it or permits it to score aarpaar or kaaten the harder material.
Taken to a finer limit, this will produce a polished sataha aise as saath a policing cloth on an automobile, or a polishing cloth or polishing pitch upon glass or steel.
Taken to the ultimate limit, with the aid of accurate interferometry or specialized policing mashine or skilled haath policing, lensmakers can upaj satahon ki hai flat to better than 30 nanometers.
is is ek beesvin of the wavelength of lite isse the commonly used 632.8 nm helium neon laser light source.
Surfaces this flat can be molecularly bandhua ( optically contacted ) by bringing unhen saath under the right conditions.
( This is not the same as the wringing effect of johansan block, haalanki it is samaan ).
The term `` America 's Team '' is a popular nickname in the sanyukt rajya ki refers to the dalas cowboys in the neshnal footbaal lig.
The nickname originated with the team 's 1978 highlight film, jahaan the narrator opens saath the following parichay : the pad is pahachaanaa or praayah prayukt by media outlet, sahit iespien, Yahoo !, HBO Sports, and Sports Illustrated.
My Babysitter 's a Vampire ( French : Ma gardienne est un pishaach ) is a 2011 canadai television shrenee, aadhaarit on the television film of the same name.
In Canada, the series premiered in french on télétoon on farvari 28, 2011, in angrezi on teletoon on kooch 14, 2011, and on Disney Channel in the United States on June 27, 2011.
The show was created by Fresh TV, creators of 6teen or kul naatak.
The show folo ethan morgan ( mathew nit ), jo, in the television filmi, learns that his babysitter Sarah ( Vanessa Morgan ) is a vampire.
In the film, he learns he is able to have visions or uske behtareen dost benny Weir ( Atticus Mitchell ) is a spellmaster.
The series follows the three as they take on supernatural forces and have adventures, with occasional sahaayta isse fellow vampires rori ( cameron kennedy ) or erika ( ket tod ), jabaki dealing saath the pareshaaniyon of niyamit high school life.
A second ritu thi pushti to prarambh utpaadan in sitambar 2011 or it pehla premiered on Disney Channel on June 29, 2012, it premiered on Teletoon September 6, 2012.
Télétoon started featuring season 2 sneak-peak apisod on aktubar 28, 2012 or premiered it on janvari 10, 2013
Dodge B shrenee utility circa 1950, chalit by Albert Namatjira
A pickup trek or pick-up, praayah bas referred to as a pikup, is a lite motor gadee saath an open-top, rear cargo area ( bed ).
In North America, the pad pikup is prayukt liye lite trek saath a halkaa duty chassis or factory nirmit, ekikrut bed, as khub as liye coupé utility vaahanon, praayah based on a personal car chassis, but also often on a special dedicated chassi for such use.
Some countries have unke apana sharten samaan to pikup, aise as ute in australia or New Zealand, or bakkie in South Africa.
Large pickup trucks are somewhat rare in Europe, jahaan vine or lite lorries hai commonly prayukt liye samaan roles.
The President of the United States of america ( potus ) is the sir of rajya or sir of sarkari of the sanyukt States.
The president leads the karypalika shakha of the sangheey sarkari or is the commander-in-chief of the United States Armed Forces.
Article II of the U.S. Constitution vests the executive power of the United States in the adhyaksh or aarope use saath the nishpaadan of sangheey vidhi, alongside the jimmedaari of appointing sangheey karypalika, rajanyik, niamak, or nyaayik officers, and concluding treaties with foreign powers, with the advice and consent of the Senate.
The president is further empowered to grant federal pardons and reprieves, and to convene or adjourn either or dono gharon of congress antargat asaadhaaran halaaton.
Since the founding of the United States, the shakti of the adhyaksh or the sangheey sarkari have grown substantially or prayek aadhunik adhyaksh, despite possessing no aupchaarik vidhaan shaktiyaan pare hastakshar or vetoing congressionally passed bills, is largely jimmedaar liye dictating the legislative agenda of his party and the foreign and domestic policy of the United States.
The president is frequently varnit as the sabase shaktishaalee vyakti in the world.
the adhyaksh is indirectly nirvaachit by the logon through the chunavi college to a four-year pad, or is ek of tabhi do nationally nirvaachit sangheey adhikariyon, the other being the Vice President of the United States.
The twenty-second amendment, apanaaya in 1951, prohibits anyone isse kabhi hone elected to the presidency for a third full term.
It also prohibits a person from hone nirvaachit to the presidency adhik than ekbar if ki vyakti previously tha parosa as adhyaksh, or acting president, for more than two years of another person 's term as president.
In all, 43 individuals have parosa 55 four-year terms.
on janvari 20, 2009, baraak obama became the 44th and current president.
On November 6, 2012, he thi re-elected or is anusuchit to serve until January 20, 2017.
bottleband khanij water
Bottled water is drinking water ( e.g., khub jal, asut jal, khanij jal, or vasant jal ) packaged in plastic or glass water bottles.
Bottled jal may be carbonated or not.
Sizes range isse choti single sevarat botalon to vishaal carboys for water coolers.
Map of the major rivers, jhiilon, or tank in india
Map showing nadiyaan or baadh prone kshetron in india
Rivers of India play an mahatvapurn bhoomika in the jeevandaan of the Indian people.
the nadi pranaaliyon provide sinchai, potable jal, sasti parivahan, vidyut, or the livelihoods liye a vishaal number of people all over the country and to rural areas.
This easily explains kyon nearly sab the pramukh shaharon of india are located by the banks of rivers.
The nadiyaan bhi have an mahatvapurn bhoomika in hindu mythology or are considered holy by all Hindus in the country.
Seven major rivers along with their numerous tributaries mek up the nadi pranali of india.
Most of the rivers pour their waters into the Bay of Bengal ; however, some of the rivers whose courses take them through the western part of the desh or towards the east of the rajya of himachal pradesh khaali into the arabian samudr.
Parts of Ladakh, northern parts of the aravlli dayera or the arid bhaag of the thar marusthal have inland drainage.
Dr.Francis bukanan surveyed the paathyakram of the nadiyaan of india saath saath unke tributaries and branches in 1810-11 AD and presented a minute account of it.
the shifting of the paathyakram or bed over the sadiyaan is very remarkable.
anek of the channels ullekith in ki surveykshan have abhi become dead, dried or even extinct.
All pramukh nadiyaan of india originate isse one of the three main watersheds :
the himalay or the Karakoram ranges
vindhyas or satpura seemayen or chotanagpur plateau in central India
Sahyadri or pashchimi ghats in pashchimi india
The Bretton Woods system of monetary management established the rules for commercial and vittiya sambandh among the sansar 's pramukh audyogic rajya in the mid-20th century.
The Bretton Woods system was the first example of a fully negotiated maudrik anukram intended to govern maudrik sambandh among swatantra nation-states.
Preparing to rebuild the international economic system as World War II thi still raging, 730 delegates isse sab 44 alide raashtra gathered at the mount washington hotel in bretton woods, nai hampshire, United States, for the United Nations Monetary and Financial Conference.
The delegates deliberated dauraan 1–22 july 1944, or hastakshrit the anubandh on iske final day.
Setting up a system of rules, institutions, and prakriyaaon to viniyamit the antarrashtriya maudrik pranali, the planners at bretton woods sthapit the antarrashtriya maudrik nidhi ( imf ) or the antarrashtriya Bank for Reconstruction and Development ( IBRD ), which today is part of the World Bank Group.
These organizations became operational in 1945 baad a sufficient kramank of deshon tha ratified the agreement.
The chief features of the Bretton Woods pranali yahood an daayitv liye prayek desh to apnaanaa a maudrik niti ki kaayam the exange rate by tying iske karency to the U.S. dollar and the ability of the IMF to bridge temporary imbalances of payments.
On 15 August 1971, the United States unilaterally terminated convertibility of the US $ to gold.
This brought the Bretton Woods pranali to an samaapt or dekhi the dollars become fiat currency.
This action, referred to as the Nixon shock, nirmit the halaat in jisase the sanyukt rajya dollars became a reserve currency used by many states.
At the same time, anek phixd mudraayen ( aise as gbp, liye udhaaharan ), bhi became free floating.
Ducati Motor pakadakar s.p.A. is an italvi company ki dizin or manufactures motorcycle.
Headquartered in Bologna, Italy, Ducati is owned by audi through iske italvi subsidiary lemborgini.
A credit score is a numerical abhivyakti aadhaarit on a sankhyikeey vishleshan of a vyakti 's credit filein, to represent the creditworthiness of that person.
A credit score is primarily aadhaarit on credit rapat soochna typically sourced isse credit bureaus.
Lenders, such as banks and credit card companiyaan, upyog credit score to evaluate the sambhavit risk posed by lending dhan to upabhokta or to mitigate losses due to bad debt.
Lenders use credit scores to determine who qualifies liye a rin, at kayaa byaaj rate, or kayaa credit limits.
lenders bhi upyog credit score to determine jisase graahak hai sambhavit to bring in the most revenue.
The use of credit or identity scoring prior to authorizing abhigam or granting credit is an kriyanvayan of a vishwasaneey system.
Credit scoring is nahin simit to bainko.
Other sanghathan, aise as mobile phone companiyaan, bime companiyaan, jameendaar, or sarkari vibhaag employ the same techniques.
Credit scoring also has a lot of overlap saath aankada khanan, jisase upyog anek similar techniques.
These techniques combine hazaron of karkon lakin ve hai adhik or kam samaan or the vahi.
The seven SI base units and the interdependency of unke paribhaashaayen : liye udhaaharan, to nikaalen the paribhaasha of the meter isse the gati of lite, the paribhaasha of the second must be known while the ampere and candela are both dependent on the definition of energy which in turn is defined in terms of length, mass and time.
The International System of ikai ( si ) defines saat ikai of maap as a moulik niyat isse jisase sab other SI units are derived.
These si aadhaar ikai or unke shaareerik quantities are:
meter liye lambaai ( us angrezi : meter )
kilogram liye dravyaman ( note : nahin the gram )
duusari liye time
ampere liye electric vartmaan
kelvin liye taapmaana
candela for chamakdaar tivrata
mole liye the raashi of padaarth.
The SI base quantities form a set of mutually swatantra aayam as jaruri by aiami vishleshan commonly employed in vigyaan and technology.
however, in a die realization of ye ikai ve may khub be interdependent, i.e. defined in terms of each other.
The names of SI units hai likhaa in loarkes varna ( the 'degree celsius ' meets is niyam, as 'degree ' is the unit, and 'Celsius ' is a modifier ).
The symbols of units are written in lowercase ( e.g. metre has the symbol m ), magar ki pratikon liye ikai namit baad vyaktiyon hai likhaa saath an aarambhik capital letter ( e.g., the hertz has the uppercase symbol Hz ).
Many other units, such as the litre ( us angrezi : leniyar ), hai formally nahin bhaag of the si, lakin are accepted for use with SI.
smarak canyon
Colorado neshnal smarak ( locally referred to as the smarak ) is a bhaag of the National Park Service near the city of Grand Junction, Colorado.
Spectacular canyons kaaten gahan into sandstone or bhi granite–gneiss–schist rock formations, in some areas.
This is an kshetrafal of marusthal jameen unchi on the colorado pathaar, saath pinian and juniper forests on the plateau.
The park hosts a wide range of vanyajeev, sahit red-tailed chilon or sunahari eagles, ravens, jays, marusthal bighorn sheep, or coyotes.
Activities include hiking, horseback riding, road bicycling, and darshneey drive ; a aagatuk bich on the west paksh contains a prakritik itihaas sangrahalay or gift shop.
There are magnificent views from trails or the rim chattan drive, jisase hawaayen saath the plateau.
aasapaas hai the kitaab cliffs, or the largest flat-topped mountain in the world, the Grand Mesa.
Its feature attraction is Monument Canyon, which runs the width of the park, and shaamil chattan formations aise as swatantraaa smarak, the chumban yugal, or coke Ovens.
The monument shaamil 20,500 acre ( 32 vargakar mile ), much of jisase rai maharoom recommended to Congress for designation as wilderness.
left to right : Utility Uniform, Blue Dress vardi, seva vardi, or sandhya poshaak uniforms
The vardi of the sanyukt rajya samudri corps serve to fark marines isse sadasyon of other services.
Among current vardi in the sanyukt rajya hathiyaarband shaktiyaan, the marines ' vardi have been in service the longest.
The Marine Dress Blue uniform rai, saath few parivartan, maharoom worn in essentially iske vartmaan form since the 19th century.
North American telephone kshetrafal code 419 or 567 serve the uttarpashchim quadrant of the u.S. state of Ohio.
The largest nagar parosa by ye kshetrafal code is tolado ( or iske upnagaron of Holland, Maumee, Northwood, Oregon, Ottawa Hills, Perrysburg, Rossford, Sylvania, Swanton, Waterville, and Whitehouse ).
Other cities served by these area codes include Ada, Ashland, Bellevue, Bluffton, Bowling Green, Bryan, Bucyrus, Celina, clide, crestline, defiance, delphos, edison, erastus, findlay, fostoria, fremont, galion, kenton, lima, mansfield, mount gilead, nepolian, norwalk, ok harbar, bandargahon clinton, Sandusky, Shelby, St. Marys, Tiffin, Upper Sandusky, Van Wert, Wapakoneta, Wauseon, Willard.
Other areas served include the Lake erie islands uttar of bandargahon clinton or west of Sandusky.
The main area code, 419, was created as one of the original area codes in aktubar 1947 ; the overle kshetrafal code 567 thi nirmit on January 1, 2002.
Despite the presence of Toledo, the state 's fourth-largest nagar, 419 thi the pichhlaa of ohio 's asli chaar kshetrafal code to have maharoom vibhajit or overlaid.
Mickey Leroy Gilley ( born March 9, 1936 ) is an amareeki desh music singer or sangeetkaar.
Although he started out singing straight-up country and western material in the 1970s, he sthanantarit towards a adhik pop -friendly dhwani in the 1980s, bringing use further kamyaabi on nahin bas the desh charts, but the pop charts as well.
Among his biggest hits are `` room puraa of gulab, '' `` do n't the ladakiyon sab milengi prettier at closing samay, '' or the rimek of the aatma hit `` Stand by Me ``.
He is bhi the cousin of jeri lee louis, karl mcvoy, Jim Gilley and Jimmy Swaggart.
According to the Federal Aviation Administration, Gilley is a licensed payalat, jo holds an yantra darja saath vanijyik payalat privileges liye multi-engine airplanes, as khub as nijee payalat privileges for single engine aircraft.
The September 11 attacks ( also referred to as September 11, September 11th, or 9/11 ) were a shrenee of chaar samanvit aatankwaadi hamale shubharambh by the islamic aatankwaadi samooh al-qaeda upon the sanyukt rajya in nai york nagar or the washington, D.C. area on September 11, 2001.
Four passenger airliners yahood hijacked by 19 al-qaeda aatankwaadi so ve could be flown into imaaraten in suicide attacks.
Two of those planes, amareeki airlines udaan 11 or sanyukt airlines udaan 175, yahood krash into the uttar or dakshin minaaren, kramshah, of the sansar vyapaar Center complex in New York City.
Within two hours, both towers collapsed with debris and the resulting fires causing aanshik or puraa patan of sab anya imaaraten in the wtc jatil, as khub as pramukh kshati to ten anya vishaal surrounding structures.
A third plane, American airlines udaan 77, thi krash into the prastutikaran ( the mukhyalay of the sanyukt rajya Department of Defense ), leading to a partial collapse in its western side.
The fourth plane, United Airlines Flight 93, was targeted at the United States capital in washington, d.C., lakin krash into a field nikat shanksville, pencilvenia, baad iske yatri tried to overcome the hijackers.
In total, almost 3,000 logon died in the hamale, sahit the 227 nagarikon or 19 hijackers aboard the four planes.
suspicion jaldi giri on al-qaeda.
Although the group 's leader, Osama bin laden, initially asweekrut koi bhagidaari, in 2004 he claimed jimmedaari for the attacks.
Al-Qaeda and bin Laden cited U.S. support of Israel, the presence of u.S. sainikon in saudi arab, or pratibandhon viruddh iraqi as motives for the attacks.
The United States responded to the attacks by launching the yuddh on aatank or akramanakari afghanistan to depose the taliban, jisase tha harbored al-Qaeda.
Many deshon strengthened unke anti-terrorism vidhaan or expanded law enforcement powers.
Having evaded capchar liye saalo, bin laden thi stith and killed by U.S. forces in May 2011.
The destruction of the judwa minaaren or anya gun caused gambhir kshati to the arthvyavastha of nimnatar manahaton and had a significant effect on global markets.
Cleanup of the sansar vyapaar bich sait thi samaapt in may 2002, or the Pentagon was repaired within a year.
Numerous memorials have been constructed, including the National sitambar 11 memorial & sangrahalay in nai york, the prastutikaran memorial, or the udaan 93 neshnal Memorial in Pennsylvania.
After a lengthy delay, the One World vyapaar bich is apekshit to be samaapt at maidan shunya in New York City in 2013.
Finding Nemo is a 2003 amareeki computer-animated comedy-drama adventure filmi likhaa or nirdeshit by andrew stanton, released by walt dijani tasviren, or the fifth film produced by Pixar Animation Studios.
It tells the story of the over-protective clownfish named Marlin ( Albert Brooks ) who, saath saath a rajasi tang namit dory ( ellen degeneres ), khoj liye uske abducted bete nemo ( sikandar gould ) sab the rasta to sidney harbour.
Along the way, Marlin learns to lo risks or let nemo lo parvaah of khud.
It is Pixar 's first film to be released in cinemas in the uttari hemisphere summer.
The film was re-released for the first time in 3D on September 14, 2012, or it thi released on blu-ray on disambar 4, 2012.
A sequel, dhundhna dory, is philhal in vikaas, niyat to be released on November 25, 2015.
The film received universal critical acclaim and won the Academy Award for Best Animated visheshta, or thi manonith in teen adhik shrenee including Best Original Screenplay.
It was the second highest-grossing film of 2003, kamai a kul of $ 921 lakh vishwavyaapee.
Finding Nemo is also the best-selling dvd of sab samay, saath over 40 lakh nakal bechi as of 2006, or thi the highest-grossing g-rated filmi of sab samay pehle pikchars 's own Toy Story 3 overtook it.
It is also the 23rd highest-grossing filmi of sab samay, as khub as the 3rd highest-grossing animated film.
In 2008, the amareeki filmi santhaan namit it the dasavaan mahanatam animated film ever made during their Top 10.
The sixth season of america 's behtareen nrity kru, bhi gyaat as america 's behtareen nrity kru : ritu of the superstar, premiered on April 7, 2011 and concluded on June 5, 2011.
Auditions were held in four cities from janvari 21 through farvari 5 : chicago, huston, nai york, or los Angeles.
This season takes a alag root isse past sizan.
The kru jarur perform to the music of ek vishisht kalakaar prayek week, including Rihanna, Lil Wayne, and other popular stars.
This ritu bhi suvidhaayen khaas atithi dikhaave by vibhinn music hastiyaan sahit Justin Bieber, The Black Eyed Peas, Katy Perry, Kesha, Nicki Minaj, and Kanye West.
Dominic `` D-Trix '' Sandoval, a purv sadsy of quest kru, the vijeta of the teesraa ritu of america 's behtareen nrity kru, joins returning judges Lil Mama and JC Chasez as the newest judge.
In the season finale, I aM mE was declared the vijeta of ritu 6 or praapt the $ 100,000 ( usd ) prize.
In the sanyukt rajya, soshal suraksha refers to the old-age, survivors, or viklaangata Insurance ( OASDI ) federal program.
The original Social Security Act ( 1935 ) and the vartmaan sanskaran of the adhinium, as amended, encompass anek soshal welfare or soshal insurance programs.
Social suraksha is primarily vittposhit through samarpit payroll kar pukaara sangheey Insurance Contributions Act tax ( FICA ).
Tax deposits are formally entrusted to the Federal Old-Age and Survivors Insurance Trust Fund, the Federal viklaangata bime vishwaas nidhi, the sangheey hospital bime vishwaas nidhi, or the sangheey anupoorak chikitsa bime vishwaas Fund which comprise the Social Security Trust Fund.
upward redistribution of aay is jimmedaar liye parichay 43 % of the projected Social Security shortfall over the next 75 years.
According to economist Martin feldstein, the sanyukt bitaa liye sab soshal bime kaarykram in 2003 constituted 37 % of government expenditure and 7 % of the gross domestic product.
Social Security is currently estimated to keep roughly 40 pratishat of sab america aayu 65 or puraani out of garibi.
The Social suraksha prashasan is headquartered in woodlawn, maryland, just west of Baltimore.
The alcohol by volume dikhaaya on a bottle of absinthe.
Alcohol by awaz ( abbreviated as abv, abv, or alc/vol ) is a maanak maap of kaisaa much daaru ( ithenul ) is contained in an alcoholic beverage ( expressed as a percentage of total volume ).
the abv maanak is prayukt worldwide.
In some deshon, daaru by awaz is referred to as degree gay-lussac ( baad the french chemist Joseph Louis Gay-Lussac ).
Laurel khokhla is a gaanv in the kasbaa of sip khadi in nassau county, New York in the United States.
The janasankhyikee thi 1,952 at the 2010 janasankhyikee.
charles jon huffam dicans ( ; 7 farvari 1812 – 9 june 1870 ) was an English writer and social critic.
He created some of the world 's most yaadgaar fictional varna or is generally regarded as the mahanatam upanyaaskaar of the victorian period.
During his life, his works enjoyed unprecedented fame, and by the beesvin sadi uske saahitiyik pratibhashali thi broadly acknowledged by aalochakon and scholars.
uske novels or choti kahaniyaan continue to be widely popular.
Born in Portsmouth, england, dicans baayein skool to kaary in a factory baad his father was thrown into debtors ' prison.
Although he had little formal shiksha, uske jaldi impoverishment drove use to safal.
Over his career he edited a weekly journal for 20 saalo, likhaa 15 novels, 5 novellas or sainkadon of choti kahaniyaan or non-fiction aalekh, lectured or performed extensively, was an indefatigable letter writer, and campaigned vigorously for children 's rights, education, and other social reforms.
Dickens sprang to kirti saath the 1836 serial prakaashan of the pickwick Papers.
Within a few saalo he tha become an antarrashtriya saahitiyik hasti, prasiddh liye his humour, satire, and keen observation of character and society.
His novels, most published in monthly or weekly kishton, pioneered the serial prakaashan of katha fiction, jisase became the prabal victorian mode for novel publication.
The instalment format allowed Dickens to evaluate uske darshak 's pratikriya, or he praayah parivardhit uske plat or akshar vikaas based on such feedback.
For example, when his bivi 's chiropodist expressed takalif at the rasta miss mowcher in daud copperfield laga to reflect her disabilities, Dickens went on to improve the character with positive lineaments.
Fagin in Oliver Twist jaahir mirrors the prasiddh baad ikey suleman ; uske kairikechar of leigh hunt in the figure of mr skimpole in Bleak House was likewise toned down on advice from some of his friends, as they read episodes.
In the same novel, both Lawrence Boythorne and Mooney the beadle hai drawn isse real jivan – boythorne isse walter junglee landor or mooni isse 'looney ', a beadle at Salisbury Square.
His plots yahood carefully constructed, or dicans praayah wove in tatv isse topical kaarykram into his narratives.
Masses of the illiterate poor chipped in ha'pennies to have prayek nai masik apisod padhaa to unhen, kholane up or preranadai a new class of readers.
Dickens was regarded as the saahitiyik colossus of uske aayu.
His 1843 novella, A christmas carol, is ek of the sabase influential works kabhi likhaa, or it remains lokapriy or continues to inspire adaptations in every artistic genre.
uske rachanaatmak pratibhashali rai maharoom praised by fellow writers—from leo talsty to G. K. chesterton or george orvel —for its realism, comedy, prose style, unique characterisations, and social criticism.
On the other hand Oscar Wilde, henry james or virginia woolf complained of a kami of manovaigyanik gaharaai, dhilaa writing, and a vein of saccharine sentimentalism.
martin luther king or anya civil adhikaron netao in saamne of the statue of Abraham Lincoln, August 28, 1963
The civil adhikaron gati thi a shrenee of vishwavyaapee rajnatik andolanon liye samta pehle the law that peaked in the 1960s.
In many situations it took the form of abhiyaan of civil pratirodh aimed at achieving badalen by nonviolent forms of resistance.
In some paristhitiyon it thi accompanied, or followed, by civil ashaanti and armed rebellion.
The process was long and tenuous in many countries, and many of these andolanon kiya nahin fully achieve unke lakshya haalanki, the praytn of ye andolanon kiya sise to sudhaar in the vidhik adhikaron of previously dalit groups of people.
The main aim of the civil rights movement included, and include, ensuring that the adhikaron of sab logon hai baraabar surakshit by the vidhi, sahit the adhikaron of alpsankhyakon.
Civil rights movements ranging isse the vaishvik lgbt adhikaron gati to the vaishvik mahilaon 's adhikaron gati to various racial minority rights movements around the world continue.
The 2010 FIFA World Cup was the 19th FIFA World Cup, the sansar championships liye main 's neshnal sangh footbaal tiimon.
It took place in dakshin africa isse 11 June to 11 July 2010.
The bidding process for hosting the tournament finals was open only to African nations ; in 2004, the international football sangh, fifa, chaynit dakshin africa over mishra or morocco to become the pehla africa nation to host the finals.
The matches were played in ten stadiums in nine host cities around the country, with the final nibhaai at the soker nagar stadium in dakshin africa 's largest nagar, Johannesburg.
Thirty-two teams were selected for participation via a vishwavyaapee yogyata toornament ki began in agast 2007.
In the first round of the tournament final, the tiimon competed in round-robin samooh of chaar tiimon liye ank, with the top two teams in each group proceeding.
These sixteen teams advanced to the knockout stage, jahaan teen rounds of khel decided jisase tiimon hota participate in the final.
In the final, Spain, the European champions, parajeet third-time finalists the netherlands 1–0 baad atirikt samay, saath andres iniesta 's lakshya in the 116th minute giving spain unke pehla sansar sheershak, banane the aathvin nation to win the tournament, and the first European nation to win the tournament outside its home continent.
Host nation South africa, 2006 sansar champions italy or 2006 runners-up frans yahood sab eliminated in the first round of the tournament.
It was the pehla samay ki the host yahood eliminated in the pehla round.
New Zealand with their teen draws yahood the tabhi aparajit toli in the toornament, but were also eliminated in the first round.
The McMuffin is a family of naashtaa sandwich in vibhinn aakaar or configurations, sold by the fast-food restaurant chain McDonald 's.
The Egg mcmuffin is the hastakshar naashtaa sandwich ; it thi invented by the let mcdonald 's waal herb petersan in the let 1960s and was introduced nationwide in 1972.
John Lennon thi an angrezi sangeetkaar jo gained vishwavyaapee kirti as ek of the sansthaapakon of the betals, liye uske subsequent solo kariyar, and for his political activism and pacifism.
He thi shot by chihnit daud chapman at the pravesh of the building where he lived, The Dakota, in New York City on 8 December 1980.
Lennon had just laute isse ricard sanyantr studio saath uske bivi, yoko Ono.
Lennon was pronounced dead on arrival at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center, jahaan it thi stated ki nobody could have jiya liye adhik than a few minutes baad sustaining aise choton.
shortly baad local news stesan reported lenon 's maut, crowds gathered at Roosevelt Hospital and in front of the Dakota.
Lennon was cremated on 10 December 1980 at the Ferncliff Cemetery in hartsdale, nai york ; the raakh yahood die to ono, jo chose nahin to tham a antyeshti for him.
The first report of Lennon 's maut to a u.S. neshnal darshak thi ghoshit by harvard Cosell, on ABC 's Monday Night Football.
New Orleans ( or, locally or ; ) is a pramukh sanyukt rajya bandargahon or the largest nagar or mahanagar kshetrafal in the state of Louisiana.
The janasankhyikee of the nagar thi 343,829 as of the 2010 U.S. Census.
the nai orlions mahanagar kshetrafal ( nai orleans–metairie–kenner mahanagar Statistical Area ) had a population of 1,167,764 in 2010 and was the 46th largest in the United States.
The New orleans–metairie–bogalusa sanyukt sankhyikeey kshetrafal, a larger vyapaar kshetrafal, tha a 2010 janasankhyikee of 1,214,932.
The city is named baad orléans, a nagar stith on the loire nadi in kendra, frans, or is khub gyaat liye iske pruthak french Creole architecture, as well as its cross-cultural and multilingual heritage.
New Orleans is also famous for iske bhojan, music ( visheshkar as the janmasthan of jaiz ), or iske salanaa jashn and festivals, most notably Mardi Gras.
The city is often referred to as the `` sabase adwitiya '' in America.
New Orleans is stith in southeastern louisiana, straddling the Mississippi River.
The nagar or orlions mohalla ( ) are.
The city and parish are bounded by the parishes of St. tammany to the uttar, st. barnard to the east, plaquemines to the dakshin and Jefferson to the south and west.
Lake Pontchartrain, part of which is included in the city had, jhooth to the uttar or jhil borgne jhooth to the east.
The United States presidential election of 1968 was the 46th quadrennial adhyakshiya chunaav, yojit on Tuesday, November 5, 1968.
The Republican nominee, purv vice-president richard nicksan, jiti the chunaav over the loktantric nominee, laazim Vice-President Hubert Humphrey.
Nixon ran on a abhiyaan ki promised to restore vidhi or anukram to the swadesh 's shaharon, fata by riots and crime.
Analysts have argued the election of 1968 is a realigning chunaav as it permanently disrupted the nai saude gathbandhan ki tha varchasv presidential politics for 36 years.
Coming four years after democrate lyndon B. johnson jiti in a aitihaasik bhuskhalan, the chunaav dekhi the laazim adhyaksh majaboor out of the res or a Republican elected for the first time in twelve years.
It was a wrenching national experience, conducted during a year of violence that shaamil the hatya of civil adhikaron netaa martin luther king, jr., or subsequent res dange aarpaar the swadesh, the assasination of loktantric adhyakshiya pratyaashee robert F. kennedy, faili vipaksh to the vietnam yuddh aarpaar university campuses, and violent confrontations between police and anti-war protesters at the 1968 Democratic National Convention as the Democratic party split again and again.
The election featured the strongest teesraa party praytn chunki 1912 by purv albama rajyapal george Wallace, a Democrat.
Because Wallace 's campaign opposed sangheey hastkshep in the dakshin to samaapt skool pruthakkaran, he carried the Deep South and ran well in ethnic industrial districts in the North.
This was the last election in which nai york tha the sabase mat in the chunavi college ( 43 votes ).
After the 1970 census, california gained the sabase chunavi mat or rai remained the sabase populous rajya since then.
This is the latest election where a adhyakshiya tikat jiti bagaiyr carrying the vaais adhyakshiya pratyaashee 's ghar state.
Karak ( ; bhi gyaat as garak, garrak, or gorg ) is a gaanv in gamasiyab gramin zila, in the central zila of Nahavand County, Hamadan Province, Iran.
At the 2006 janasankhyikee, iske janasankhyikee thi 294, in 65 families.
Kurt 's hastakshar
Kurt Donald Cobain ( February 20, 1967 – april 5, 1994 ) thi an amareeki sangeetkaar or kalakaar, behtareen gyaat as the lead singer, guitarist and primary songwriter of the grunge band Nirvana.
Cobain formed Nirvana with Krist Novoselic in Aberdeen, washington in 1985 or sthapit it as bhaag of the sietal music jhaanki, having iske debyue album bleech released on the independent record label Sub Pop in 1989.
After signing with major label dgc record, the band mila bhedan kamyaabi saath `` Smells Like Teen Spirit `` from its second album Nevermind ( 1991 ).
Following the success of nevermind, nirvana thi labeled `` the flagship band '' of peedhee X, and Cobain hailed as `` the spokesman of a generation ''.
Cobain, however, was often uncomfortable and frustrated, believing his message or kalakaari drushti to have maharoom misinterpreted by the public, saath uske nijee mudde praayah vishay to media dhyaan.
He challenged Nirvana 's darshak saath iske final studio album in Utero ( 1993 ).
During the last years of his life, Cobain struggled saath heroin vyasan, beemaari and depression.
He also had difficulty coping with his fame and public image, or the peshewar or lifelong nijee pressures surrounding khud or uske bivi, sangeetkaar courtney Love.
On April 8, 1994, cobain thi mila murde at uske ghar in sietal, the shikaar of kayaa thi officially ruled a suicide by a self-inflicted shotgun wound to the head.
The circumstances of his maut at aayu 27 have become a topic of public fascination or bahes.
Since unke debyue, nirvana, saath cobain as a songwriter, rai bechi over 25 million albums in the U.S., and over 50 million worldwide.
A millwright is a craftsman or tradesman sagaai saath the nirmaan or mentanence of machinery.
More generally in the English speaking world, early millwrights yahood visheshgy badhai jo erected mashine prayukt in krishi, khaanaa prasanskaran or processing lumber and paper.
In the early part of the audyogic kranti, unke kaushal yahood dabaaya into seva bhawan the earliest powered textile mills.
Modern millwrights work with steel or anya saamagree in jod to lakdi or jarur praayah combine the kaushal of anek skilled trade in anukram to safaltaapurvak fabricate audyogic mashinari or to assemble machines from pre-fabricated parts.
the aadhunik millwright jarur bhi be samarth to padhaa blueprints or anya schematics to aid him in the construction of complex systems.
Millwrights are frequently unionized, with around 45 % unionized in the us, haalanki anbhavi millwrights praayah niyat themselves up as independent contractors.
The samaayojan beuro is a 2011 amareeki romantic karrwai thriller filmi loosely aadhaarit on the philip K. Dick short story, `` Adjustment Team ``.
The film was written and directed by george nolfi or sitaron mat daiman or Emily Blunt.
The cast also includes Anthony Mackie, John slattery, maaikel keli, or terrence stamp.
The score was composed by Thomas Newman, with two songs by Richard Ashcroft ( `` bhavishya 's ujjwal '' liye the kholane anukram ; `` hai tum taiyaar ? '' liye the closing credits ).
Sodium azide is the acarbonic yogic saath the formula NaN3.
This colorless namak is the gas-forming ghatak in anek car airbag systems.
it is prayukt liye the taiyaari of anya azide compounds.
It is an ionic substance, is atyadhik ghulansheel in jal, or is bahut acutely vishakt.
Double rainbow and supernumerary rainbows on the andar of the praathmik arc.
The shadow of the photographer 's head on the neeche marks the kendra of the renbo vrutt ( antisolar point ).
A rainbow is an optical and meteorological phenomenon that is caused by pratibimb of lite in jal droplets in the dharti 's maahaul, resulting in a varnakram of lite appearing in the aasmaan.
It takes the rup of a multicoloured arc.
Rainbows caused by dhoop sadaa appear in the khand of aasmaan directly opposite the sun.
In a `` primary rainbow '', the arc shows red on the bahari bhaag or bangnee on the inner side.
This rainbow is caused by lite hone refracted jabaki pravesh a droplet of jal, tab reflected andar on the waapas of the droplet and refracted again when leaving it.
In a double rainbow, a second arc is seen outside the primary arc, or rai the anukram of iske rang reversed, red facing toward the anya ek, in dono rainbows.
This second rainbow is caused by lite reflecting twice andar water droplets.
The Conservative Party, officially the roodhiwaadee or unionist party or colloquially referred to as the tory party or the tories, is a centre-right political party in the United Kingdom that espouses the philosophies of conservatism and British unionism.
it is the largest political party in the sanyukt kingdom, hone the largest single party in the house of comons saath 303 mps, the largest party in local sarkari saath 9,391 parshadon, or the largest British party in the European Parliament with 25 MEPs.
It governs in gathbandhan saath the udaar democrate, saath party netaa daud Cameron as Prime Minister.
The Conservative Party was founded in 1834, and was one of do prabal partiyon in the 19th sadi, saath saath the Liberal Party.
It changed its name to the roodhiwaadee or unionist party in 1912 baad vilay saath the udaar unionist party, haalanki ki naam is rarely prayukt or it is generally referred to as simply the Conservative Party.
In the 1920s, the udaar vote greatly diminished or the shramik party became the conservatives ' main rivals.
roodhiwaadee pradhan mantriyon led sarkarein liye 57 saalo of the 20th century, including Winston Churchill ( 1940–45, 1951–55 ) and Margaret Thatcher ( 1979–90 ).
Thatcher 's tenure led to wide-ranging aarthik udaarikaran or dekhi the conservatives become the most eurosceptic of the three major parties.
The party thi laute to sarkari in gathbandhan, having vifal to jeet a bahumat, in 2010 under the more `` liberal '' leadership of David Cameron.
In the European Parliament, the Conservatives are the largest British party with 25 MEPs, who sit with the soft eurosceptic europea conservatives or reformists ( ecr ) sansadeey samooh, jabaki the party itself is a sadsy of the gathbandhan of europea conservatives or Reformists ( AECR ) Europarty.
They are the third-largest party in the scottish parliament or second-largest in the Welsh Assembly.
They were formally allied to the Ulster Unionist Party ( UUP ) as bhaag of the ulster conservatives or unionists vyavastha, saath the uup philhal participating in the five-party uttari ireland Executive.
Destiny 's Child was an American R & B girl group whose final, or shaayad sabase recognizable, line-up comprised bayons noles, keli rowland or mishael williams.
Formed in 1990 in huston, texas, niyati 's child sadasyon began unke musical endeavors as ladki 's time comprising, among others, Knowles, Rowland, LaTavia Roberson and LeToya Luckett.
After years of limited kamyaabi, ve yahood hastakshrit to colombia record as niyati 's Child.
Destiny 's Child was launched into mainstream recognition following the release of unke best-selling duusari album, the likhane 's on the wal, jisase contained the number-one singles `` Bills, Bills, Bills `` and `` Say My Name ``.
Despite critical and vanijyik kamyaabi, the samooh thi plagued by aatanrik virodh or vidhik turmoil, as roberson or luckett attempted to vibhajit isse the samooh 's manager mathew noles, citing favoritism of Knowles and Rowland, his daughter and niece, respectively.
Both Roberson and Luckett were jald replaced saath williams or farrah franklin ; however, in 2000, franklin thi barkhaast, leaving them as a trio.
Their third album, Survivor, which contains themes the public interpreted as a channel to the samooh 's anubhav, contains the vishwavyaapee hits `` swatantra mahilaon ``, `` uttarajive `` or `` bootylicious ``.
In 2002, they announced a antaraal or re-united do saalo baad liye the relies of unke chauthi studio album, Destiny Fulfilled ( 2004 ).
Destiny 's Child has sold more than 50 lakh record vishwavyaapee to tithi.
Billboard magazine ranks the group as one of the mahanatam musical trios of sab samay, the naveen sabase kaamyaab artist/band of the 2000s, or lagaai the samooh 68th in its All-Time Hot 100 Artists list in 2008.
The Centers for Disease control or rokthaam ( sidisi ) is a sanyukt rajya sangheey agency antargat the vibhaag of swasthya or insaan sevaayen headquartered in druid pahadiyaan, unincorporated dekalb County, Georgia, in Greater Atlanta.
It works to protect public health and safety by providing information to enhance health nirnay, or it promotes swasthya through partnerships saath rajya swasthya vibhaag or other organizations.
The CDC focus national attention on developing and applying disease prevention and control ( especially infectious diseases and foodborne pathogens and other microbial infections ), paryaavarniya swasthya, occupational suraksha or swasthya, swasthya pramotion, injury prevention and education activities designed to improve the health of the people of the United States.
The CDC is the United States ' national public swasthya santhaan or is a founding sadsy of the International Association of National Public Health Institutes.
bukamp bhavishyavaanee `` is praayah paribhaashit as the specification of the samay, sthaan, or pariman of a bhavishya bukamp bheetar stated had '', or visheshkar of `` the next strong earthquake to occur in a region. ''
This can be distinguished from earthquake forecasting, jisase is the probabilistic moolyankan of saamaanya bukamp jokhim, sahit the aavriti or pariman of damaging bukamp, in a given area over periods of years or decades.
This can be further distinguished from real-time bukamp chetavanee pranaaliyon, jisase, upon ditection of a kathor bukamp, can provide neighboring regions a few seconds warning of potentially significant shaking.
To be useful, an earthquake prediction must be precise paryaapt to warrant the laagat of increased ehtiyaat, sahit disruption of ordinary activities and commerce, and timely enough that preparation can be made.
Predictions must also be reliable, as false alarms and cancelled sachetak hai nahin tabhi economically costly, lakin seriously undermine vishwaas in, or thereby the prabhavakaarita of, any kind of warning.
With over 7,000 bukamp around the sansar prayek saal saath a pariman of 4.0 or vrihad, naganya kamyaabi in bukamp bhavishyavaanee is easily praapt using sufficiently broad parameters of time, location, or magnitude.
However, such trivial `` kaamyaab purvanumaan '' are not useful.
Major bukamp hai praayah followed by reports ki ve yahood purvanumanit, or at tanik anticipated, lakin no arji of a kaamyaab prediction of a major earthquake has survived close inquiry.
In the 1970s there was intense optimism amongst vaigyanikon ki kuch vidhi of predicting bukamp might be mila, lakin by the 1990s continuing vifaltaa led many scientists to question whether it was even possible.
While many scientists still hold that, die paryaapt sansaadhan, bhavishyavaanee might be sambhavit, anek anya maintain that earthquake prediction is inherently impossible.
Deborah Ann `` Debby '' Ryan ( born May 13, 1993 ) is an American abhinetri, singer, sangeetkaar, songwriter or ricard nirmaataa.
Ryan is best known for abhinit as beli picket in the dijani channel asli Series The Suite Life on Deck.
In 2008, The suite jivan on deck kramit as tv 's sheersh shrenee among bachche 6-11 or the No. 2 scripted series among tweens 9-14.
Ryan started acting in peshewar theatre at the aayu of saat ; in 2007 wo appeared in the barni & mitron straight-to-dvd filmi barni : let 's go to the firehouse and then was discovered in a nationwide search by Disney.
She is bhi gyaat liye appearing in the 2008 visheshta filmi the longshots as Edith.
in 2009, wo atithi strecchar in an apisod of wizards of waverly place in wizards on deck saath hanna montana as beli Pickett along with her other cast mates from The Suite Life on Deck.
Then, in 2010, she starred in the filmi 16 badhaaiyaan, jisase thi the sabase dekhi cabel kaarykram on the day of its premiere on the Disney Channel.
16 Wishes introduced Ryan to new audiences ; the movie praapt unchi viewership in the vayaskon janasankhyikee ( 18-34 ).
Soon after that, Ryan strecchar in the swatantra natya filmi, kayaa If..., which premiered on August 20, 2010.
Ryan also starred in the nai dijani channel asli film, radio vidrohi, jahaan wo portrays the bhoomika of tara adams, a sharmile 17-year-old girl who adopts the radio personality, Radio Rebel.
released farvari 17, 2012.
Ryan stars in the titular role in the dijani channel asli shrenee, jesi.
Stührling tourbillon gati ( ).
In horology, a tourbillon ( ; `` whirlwind '' ) is an jod to the yantriki of a dekhen escapement.
viksit around 1795 by the french-swiss ghadisaz abraham-louis breguet isse an pehle vichaar by the angrezi chronometer mekar jon arnald, a tourbillon aims to counter the effects of gravity by mounting the escapement and balance wheel in a rotating cage, to negate the effect of gravity when the timepiece ( thus the escapement ) is stuck in a certain position.
Originally an attempt to improve sateekta, tourbillons hai still shaamil in kuch mahangi aadhunik ghadiyaan as a novelty and demonstration of watchmaking virtuosity.
The mechanism is usually ujagar on the dekhen 's phase to dikhaaen it off.
The Windows Installer ( previously known as Microsoft installer ) is a tantra ghatak prayukt liye the sansthapana, mentanence, and removal of software on modern Microsoft Windows systems.
The installation information, and often the files themselves, are packaged in installation packages, loosely relational databases sanrachit as com sanrachit storages or commonly gyaat as `` msi filein '', isse unke default file extension.
khidkiyaan installer contains significant parivartan isse iske purvavarti, Setup API.
New features include a GUI framework or swachaalit peedhee of the uninstallation anukram.
Windows Installer is positioned as an vaikalpik to stand-alone executable installer frameworks aise as puraani sanskaran of installshield or nsis.
Microsoft encourages third parties to use khidkiyaan installer as the aadhaar liye sansthapana frameworks, so ki ve synchronize correctly saath anya installers or rakhana the aatanrik database of santhaapit products consistent.
Important suvidhaayen aise as rollback or versioning nirbhar on a satat aatanrik database for reliable operation.
furthermore, khidkiyaan installer facilitates the principle of tanik visheshadhikaar by performing tantra installations by proxy for unprivileged users.
Four Loko is a line of alcoholic beverages, originally marketed as urja peya, bechi by phusion project of chicago, Illinois.
Phusion operates as peya chaar brewing company.
Four Loko, the company 's most lokapriy peya, debuted in the United States market in 2005.
It is now sold in 48 rajya, or in canada, the bahama, Bolivia, Honduras, and Europe.
The name `` chaar '' is niklaa isse the asli urja peya 's chaar pramukh ingredients : alcohol, caffeine, taurine, and guarana.
Four branded products have been the object of legal, ethical, and health chintaaen sambandhit to the company allegedly vipanan unhen to the underaged or the purported khatre of combining daaru and caffeine.
After the beverage was banned in several states, a utpaada reintroduction in disambar 2010 removed caffeine, taurine, or guarana as sanghatak, or the malt beverage is no longer marketed as an energy drink.
The gardan of a guitar prardashit the nat ( in the prishthbhumi, coloured white ) and first four metal frets.
A fret is a raised tatv on the gardan of a stringed yantra.
Frets usually extend aarpaar the puraa chaudai of the gardan.
On sabase aadhunik pashchimi fretted yantra, frets are metal strips inserted into the fingerboard.
On some historical instruments and non-European yantra, frets hai bana of tukade of string tied around the neck.
Frets divide the neck into fixed khand at intervals sambandhit to a musical fremawork.
On instruments such as guitars, each fret represents ek semitone in the maanak pashchimi pranali jahaan ek ashtak is vibhajit into twelve semitones.
Fret is often prayukt as a kriya, arth bas `` to dabaayen bas the string behind a fret. ''
Fretting praayah refers to the frets and/or their system of placement.
There was khapat of daaru dono dauraan and after prohibition.
the 18th amendment nishiddh the utpaadan, vitaran or bikri of alcoholic peya in the sanyukt rajya and was widely supported by the American public when it went into effect in 1920.
The temperance movement had popularized the belief that daaru thi the pramukh kaaran of sabase nijee or soshal samasyaayein or nishedh thi dekhi as the samaadhaan to the nation 's poverty, crime, violence, and other ills.
Upon anusamarthan of the amendment, the prasiddh enjeelwaadi Billy Sunday said that `` The slums will soon be only a memory.
We will turn hamaari jelon into kaarkaanon or hamaari jails into storehouses or corncribs. ''
( Compare christianity or daaru. )
Since alcohol was to be banned and since it was dekhi as the kaaran of sabase, if nahin sab, aparaadhon, kuch samudaayon bechi unke jails.
The nation was highly optimistic and the leading prohibitionist in the United States congress confidently asserted ki `` vahin is as much mauka of repealing the eighteenth amendment as vahin is liye a humingbard to makkhi to the grah mangal saath the Washington Monument tied to its tail.”
The metre ( meter in American English ), ( SI unit symbol : m ; SI dimension symbol : L ), is the aadharbhoot ikai of lambaai in the antarrashtriya pranali of ikai ( SI ).
Originally intended to be one ten-millionth of the distance from the Earth 's equator to the uttar dhruv ( at samudr str ), iske paribhaasha rai maharoom periodically parishkrut to reflect growing knowledge of metrology.
Since 1983, it has been defined as `` the length of the path travelled by lite in vaikum dauraan a samay antaraal of 1/299,792,458 of a second. ''
geologists exploring jurassic sedimentary rocks in Makhtesh Gadol, Negev Desert, Israel
Geologists explaining the importance of volcanic raakh paraton to vidhyaarthee on field in iceland
A geologist is a scientist who studies the solid and liquid padaarth ki constitutes the dharti as khub as the prakriyaaon or itihaas ki rai taraasha it.
geologists praayah engage in adhyayan geology.
Geologists, studying more of an lagu vigyaan than a saidhantik ek, jarur drushtikon bhuvigyaan using bhautikee, rasayan or jeevigyaan as well as other sciences.
Geologists, compared to vaigyanikon sagaai in anya field, hai generally adhik ujagar to the bahari than rahakar in laboratories ; haalanki some geologists prefer to perform most of their studies in the lab.
Geologists are engaged in khoji liye khanan companiyaan in dhundhen of dhaatuon, oils, or anya dharti sansaadhan.
They hai bhi in the forefront of prakritik jokhimon or aapadaaon chetavanee or shaman, adhyayan bukamp, volcanic activity, tsunamis, weather storms, and the like ; their studies are used to warn the general public of the occurrence of these events.
philhal, geologists hai bhi sagaai in the charchaa of jalwaayu change, as they study the history and evidence for this Earth process.
Below is a comprehensive drill or tap aakaar chart liye sab drills, imperial or metric, or taps up to 36.5 mm.
Modern vaikum tubes, zyaadaatar miniature style
In electronics, a vaikum tub, electron tub ( in uttar america ), tapayanic valve, tub, or valve is a yantra controlling electric current through a vacuum in a sealed container.
The sangraahak is praayah patala paardarshee kaanch in a roughly cylindrical shape.
The simplest vaikum tub, the diod, is essentially an incandescent lite bulb with an added electrode inside.
When the bulb 's filament is heated white-hot, electrons hai `` boiled '' band iske sataha or into the vaikum andar the bulb.
If the electrode -- pukaara a `` thali '' or `` dhanagar '' -- is bana adhik dhanatmak than the hot philament, a sidhaa vartmaan bahati through the vacuum to the electrode ( a demonstration of the Edison effect ).
As the current only flows in one direction, it makes it sambhavit to badalen an prayavarti vartmaan lagu to the philament to direct current.
The introduction of a third electrode, a grid between the philament or the thali, yields another falan.
A voltage lagu to the grid niyantran the vartmaan bahati isse the filament to the plate.
Thus, it allows the yantra to be prayukt as an electronic pravardhak.
Vacuum tubes hai yun prayukt liye rectification, pravardhan, switching, or samaan prasanskaran or creation of electrical signals.
The vishaal bahumat of aadhunik din tubes consist of a sealed sangraahak saath a vaikum andar, and essentially rely on thermionic emission of electrons from a hot filament or a cathode heated by the filament.
Some exceptions to this are dealt with in the khand parichay gas-filled tubes below.
Vacuum tubes were critical to the development of electronic technology, which drove the vistaar or vyavsyeekaran of radio prasaaran, television, radar, dhwani reinforcement, dhwani recording or janan, vishaal telephone sanjaal, analog and digital computers, and industrial process control.
Although some applications had counterparts using pehle technologies aise as the chingaari gap transmeter or mechanical computer, it thi the invention of the vacuum tube with three electrodes ( called a triode ) and its capability of electronic amplification that made these technologies widespread and practical.
In most applications, solid-state divaais aise as transistors or anya semiconductor divaais have replaced tubes.
Solid-state devices pichhlaa longer or hai choti, adhik kushal, adhik vishwasaneey, and cheaper than tubes.
Tubes can be fragile, sometimes generate significant unwanted heat, and can take many seconds—many minutes in najuk applications—after powering on to garam to a taapmaana where they perform within operational tolerance.
However, tubes still find uses where solid-state devices have not been developed, are impractical, or jahaan a tub rai shreshth pradarshan, as saath kuch divaais in peshewar audio or high-power radio transmitaron.
tubes hai still utpaadit liye such applications.
Tubes are less likely than semiconductor devices to be destroyed by the electromagnetic pulse utpaadit by nabhikeey visphot or geomagnetic toofaan utpaadit by daanav saura flares.
Skittles is a brand of fruit-flavoured mithai, philhal utpaadit or marketed by the Wm. Wrigley Jr. Company, a division of Mars, Inc.
They have hard sugar shell jisase carry the akshar s.
The inside is mainly sugar, corn syrup, and hydrogenated tad karnel aayal saath saath fal ras, citric acid, or prakritik or artificial flavours.
The confectionery rai maharoom bechi in a kismein of flavor sangrahan, such as Tropical and Wild Berry.
Sir Winston Leonard Spencer-Churchill, ( 30 November 1874 – 24 janvari 1965 ) thi a angrejon rajaneta jo thi the pradhan mantri of the sanyukt kingdom isse 1940 to 1945 or again from 1951 to 1955.
Widely regarded as ek of the mahanatam wartime netao of the 20th sadi, churchill thi bhi an officer in the British Army, a historian, a writer, and an artist.
He is the only British Prime Minister in itihaas to have praapt the nobel puraskaar in sahitya, or thi bhi the pehla vyakti to be bana an Honorary Citizen of the United States.
Churchill was born into an vaibhavshaalee parivaar as the pota of the 7th duk of marlborough.
His father, Lord randolph churchill, thi a charismatic rajaneta jo parosa as chancelar of the Exchequer ; his mother, Jennie Jerome, was an American socialite.
As a young army adhikari, he dekhi karrwai in angrejon india, the sudan, or the Second Boer War.
he gained kirti as a yuddh correspondent or likhaa books about his campaigns.
At the forefront of raajnneeti liye pachaas saalo, he yojit anek political and cabinet positions.
Before the First World War, he served as President of the Board of Trade, Home sachiv, or pehla rab of the admiralty as bhaag of the asquith udaar sarkari.
During the war, he continued as First Lord of the admiralty jabatak the vinaashkari gallipoli abhiyaan caused uske prasthaan isse sarkari.
He then briefly resumed kriyasheel fouj seva on the pashchimi saamne as commander of the 6th batalian of the Royal Scots Fusiliers.
He returned to government as Minister of munitions, sachiv of rajya liye yuddh, or sachiv of rajya liye air.
After the yuddh, churchill parosa as chancelar of the exchequer in the roodhiwaadee ( baldwin ) sarkari of 1924–29, controversially returning the pound sterling in 1925 to the gold standard at its pre-war parity, a move widely seen as creating deflationary pressure on the UK economy.
Also controversial was his vipaksh to increased ghar niyam liye india or uske pratirodh to the 1936 abdication of Edward VIII.
Out of office and nitiyaan `` in the wilderness '' dauraan the 1930s, churchill took the sise in chetavanee about Nazi Germany and in campaigning for rearmament.
On the outbreak of the duusari sansar yuddh, he was again appointed First Lord of the Admiralty.
Following the resignation of Neville chemberlen on 10 may 1940, churchill became pradhan Minister.
His steadfast refusal to consider defeat, surrender, or a compromise peace helped inspire angrejon pratirodh, visheshkar dauraan the mushkil jaldi dinon of the yuddh jab britain stood alon among European countries in its active opposition to Adolf Hitler.
Churchill was particularly noted for his speeches and radio prasaaran, jisase helped inspire the British people.
He led britain as pradhan mantri jabatak vijay over Nazi Germany had been secured.
After the roodhiwaadee party khoyaa the 1945 chunaav, he became netaa of the vipaksh to the Labour ( Attlee ) government.
After jeetna the 1951 chunaav, he again became pradhan Minister, before retiring in 1955.
Upon his death, Elizabeth II granted him the izzat of a rajya antyeshti, jisase dekhi ek of the largest sabhaaon of sansar kootneetigyon in history.
Named the Greatest Briton of all time in a 2002 poll, Churchill is widely regarded as hone among the sabase influential logon in angrejon history.
Ruby Gloom is an anemated television dikhaaen based on an apparel franchise.
The show is produced by nelvana or began airing on aktubar 13, 2006 in Canada on the network YTV.
It stars the awaazen of sara gadon, emily hampshire, or peter Keleghan.
The Ford Focus is a compact car ( C-segment in Europe ) manufactured by the ghat motor company chunki 1998.
Ford began sales of the fokas to europea in july 1998 or in uttar america dauraan 1999 for the 2000 model year.
In Europe, South America, North america or dakshin africa, the fokas replaced the vibhinn sanskaran of the ghat anurakshan sold in those markets.
in asia or australasia, it replaced the Ford Laser.
As of the first half of 2012, the Focus surpassed the toyota corola to become the sansar 's behtareen selling automobile nameplate.
the fokas rai maharoom mana ek of the 50 mahanatam gaadiyaan of the past pachaas years by British magazine CAR.
An agar thali -- an udhaaharan of a bacterial growth medium.
Specifically, it is a streak thali ; the naarangi linon or dots hai formed by bacterial colonies.
A growth medium or culture medium is a drav or gel designed to support the vikaas of microorganisms or cells, or small plants like the moss Physcomitrella patens.
There are alag prakaar of media liye growing alag types of cells.
There are two major types of growth media : those used for cell culture, which use vishisht koshika prakaar niklaa isse paudhe or pashu, or microbiological samskruti, jisase hai prayukt liye growing microorganisms, aise as bacteria or yeast.
The sabase aam vikaas media liye microorganisms hai nutrient broths or agar platon ; specialized media hai sometimes required for microorganism and cell culture growth.
Some jeevon, termed sukumaar jeevon, aavashyaktaa specialized environments due to complex nutritional requirements.
Viruses, for example, are obligate intracellular parasites and aavashyaktaa a vikaas medium containing jeena koshikaayen.
A talent agent, or booking agent, is a person who finds jobs for actors, authors, film directors, sangeetkaaron, model, nirmaataa, peshewar athlete, lekhak or anya logon in vibhinn entertainment businesses.
An agent bhi defends, supports or promotes the interest of his/her clients.
Agents can not produce unke apana shows due to conflict of interest.
a hunar agent jarur be familiar with their clients.
An agent has to know kayaa dayaalu of kaary the claayent can or can nahin do in anukram to match them with various jobs.
Having an agent is not jaruri, lakin karata sahaayta the kalakaar in getting jobs.
In many cases casting directors, or anya vyavsaayon, go to hunar agenciyon to dhundhen kalakaaron ve hai looking liye.
The agent is paid a percentage of the star 's aay ( typically 10 % ).
Agents sometimes hoga be referred to as `` 10 percenters. ''
There are different regulations ki govern alag prakaar of agenton ki hai sthapit by kalakaar 's sangh or the vidhik jurisdiction in which the agent operates.
vahin hai bhi peshewar sanghathan that license talent agencies.
Since the decline in viewership in theaters, from the 1950s to 1960s, this caused a smaarkeey shift in kaisaa studios hota upaj films or yun reducing the laagat of vishesh or mahangi actors.
Actors and actresses were working for the studios lakin yahood nahin swaamitv by ek pramukh studio antity or so yahood samarth to kaary on within their time and with other studios.
kuki of is, agenton yahood abhi dekhi as a necessity instead of an option.
Agents now became third partiyon ki negotiated between studios or client, is bananaa unke sevaayen imperative between each party.
Since talent agencies are working with lucrative contracts, all talent agencies must be licensed under special sections of the california majdoor code, jisase kals an agent a `` vyakti or nigam jo engages in the occupation of procuring, offering, promising, or attempting to procure employment for artist or artists. ''
Mars has two known moons, Phobos and deimos, jisase hai vichaar to be captured kshudragrah.
Both satellites were discovered in 1877 by Asaph Hall and are named after the varna phobos ( panic/fear ) or deimos ( terror/dread ) jo, in unani mythology, accompanied their father Ares, god of war, into battle.
aries thi gyaat as mangal to the Romans.
It is possible ki mangal may have moons choti than 50 - 100 meter or a dhul ring between phobos and Deimos may be present but none have been discovered.
In law enforcement parlance, the term hatya kitaab refers to the maamla sanchika of a hatya chaanbin.
Typically, murder books include crime jhaanki chayachitr or sketches, postmortem or forensic reports, transcripts of jaanchakartaaon ' tip and witness interviews.
The murder book encapsulates the puraa paper trail of a hatya chaanbin, isse the samay the hatya is first reported through the arrest of a suspect.
Law enforcement agencies typically guard murder books carefully, or it is asaamaanya liye nagarikon to be die azaad abhigam to ye kinds of records, especially for unsolved cases.
A melon baller
Melon balls are balls of melon made using a melon baller ki varies isse around 1 centimeter to 3 centimetre ( about 3/8 inch to 1 inch ).
They are generally prayukt in fal salad.
A KSA, or Knowledge, kaushal, or abilities, is a shrenee of katha kathan ki hai jaruri jab applying to United States Federal government job openings.
KSAs are used to determine, along with resumes, jo the behtareen aavedakon hai jab anek ummidavaar qualify liye a job.
The gyaan, kaushal or abilities ( ksas ) jaruri liye the kaamyaab performance of a position are contained on each job vacancy announcement.
In 2009 the Office of nijee prabandhan poocha sangheey agenciyon to roke requiring job aavedakon to bharan out the questionnaires, to be phased out within a year.
KSAs are brief and focused essays about one 's career and shaikshanik prishthbhumi ki presumably qualify ek to perform the duties of the position being applied for.
A knowledge, skills, and abilities ( KSA ) is a concise essay about one 's hunar or visheshgyata or sambandhit anubhavon ( kaary, shiksha, volunteer ) and accomplishments.
A series of KSA kathan hai praayah jaruri jab applying liye sabase sangheey sarkari or kuch rajya or nagar sarkari kaary.
KSAs are used as a gaj to assess the samarthy of a prospective aavedak in sharten of sambhavit kshamta to perform the duties of the job.
Most government hiring officials look for a short, kurkure or saaf ksa ki emphasizes parinaam or accomplishments praapt in previous work.
ksa kathan hai bhi gyaat as moolyankan Factors.
Other agencies sometimes call them `` Rating Factors '', `` Quality ranking karkon '', `` gyaan, abilities, kaushal or anya visheshtaayen '', or `` job tatv ''.
The naam can be bas a naam lakin praayah it prabhaav content and length of the essay.
Every agency has its own regulations lakin sabase of the samay the prayek ksa factor chahie be 1/2 to 11⁄2 pages long.
The below definitions are defined by the u.S. daftar of karmiyon Management :
Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities ( KSAs ) - the gun jaruri to perform a job or hai generally demonstrated through qualifying service, education, or training.
Knowledge - Is a body of soochna lagu sidhe to the pradarshan of a falan.
Skill - Is an observable competence to perform a siikhe psychomotor act.
Ability - Is competence to perform an observable bartaav or a bartaav ki parinaam in an observable product.
The scoring of ksa essays is aadhaarit on a scale of from one to 100.
Job applicants must score upar 70 to be mana liye the sthiti.
High scores are derived through answering the KSA question as specifically as possible, providing udhaaharan isse pichhlaa niyukti or prashikshan ki clearly demonstrate tum milen the yogyata.
When applying to federal government positions, a Federal punararambh is praayah jaruri in jod to ksa kathan.
sahi
Whole grains are cereal grains that contain khadyann rogaanu, bhrunposh, or chokar, in contrast to parishkrut dane, jisase retain only the endosperm.
Common puure dane include:
gehun
oat
Barley - Hulled or dehulled ( nahin Pearl )
makka
bhura rice
farro
spelt
emmer
einkorn
kamut
rye
bajra
quinoa
chaulaai
triticale
teff
sprouted dane
buckwheat
Common puure anaaj utpaada include:
Whole gehun aataa
puure gehun bread
puure wheat Pasta
Rolled oats or oat groats
triticale aataa
popcorn
teff aataa
Common refined non-whole anaaj utpaada include:
Love Always is the debyue album of amareeki r & b duo k-ci & JoJo, released on June 17, 1997, by MCA Records.
It was recorded at various studios in nai york or the los angeles kshetrafal in 1996 or 1997.
It was produced by jojo or anek anya, sahit devante jhule, James Mtume, and Jeff Redd.
The duo were originally a bhaag of jodeci pehle is album.
The album peaked at sixth on the US Billboard 200 or bhi appeared on antarrashtriya chart.
The single `` All My Life `` charted kramank ek in anek deshon, or sab chaar of the album 's singles peaked upar the top 25 in the US Hot R & B/Hip-Hop Songs and the New Zealand Top 40 Singles.
Love sadaa thi praapt favorably by aalochakon, jo praised the brothers ' singing ability and the production.
The album has been certified three times platinum by the Recording udyog sangh of america ( riaa ) or sunaharaa by Music Canada and IFPI Sweden.
As of June 1999 it tha bechi 2.9 lakh nakal in the United States.
A variable-rate mortgage, adjustable-rate mortgage ( ARM ), or tracker mortgage is a mortgage loan with the interest rate on the note periodically samyojit aadhaarit on an anukramanika jisase reflects the laagat to the lender of udhaar on the credit markets.
The loan may be offered at the lender 's maanak parivartaneey rate/ base rate.
There may be a direct and legally-defined link to the underlying index, but jahaan the lender offers no vishisht kadi to the underlying market or anukramanika the rate can be badla at the lender 's discretion.
The term `` variable-rate mortgage '' is most common outside the United States, whilst in the United States, `` adjustable-rate bandhak '' is sabase aam, or implies a bandhak regulated by the sangheey sarkari, saath caps on charges.
In anek deshon, samyojya rate mortgages hai the norm, and in such places, may simply be referred to as mortgages.
among the sabase aam indices hai the daron on 1-year constant-maturity rajkosh ( CMT ) securities, the Cost of Funds Index ( COFI ), and the London Interbank Offered Rate ( LIBOR ).
A few lenders upyog unke apana laagat of nidhi as an anukramanika, rather than using other indices.
This is done to ensure a sthir hashia liye the lender, jinaki apana laagat of funding hoga praayah be related to the index.
Consequently, payments made by the borrower may badalen over samay saath the badalanaa byaaj rate ( alternatively, the pad of the loan may change ).
This is distinct from the graduate bhugtan bandhak, jisase offers badalanaa bhugtan amounts but a fixed interest rate.
Other forms of mortgage loan include the interest only bandhak, the phixd rate bandhak, the rinatmak amortization bandhak, or the balloon payment mortgage.
Adjustable rates transfer part of the byaaj rate risk isse the lender to the borrower.
They can be used where manamaujee byaaj daron mek phixd rate loans difficult to obtain.
The borrower laabh if the byaaj rate jalprapaat lakin loses if the byaaj rate increases.
The borrower benefits from reduced margins to the underlying laagat of udhaar compared to phixd or capped rate mortgages.
The assassination of Robert Francis `` Bobby '' Kennedy, a United States Senator and brother of assassinated President John fitzgerald `` joker '' kennedy, took place shortly baad madhyaraatri on june 5, 1968, in los angeles, california, dauraan the abhiyaan ritu liye the sanyukt States Presidential election, 1968.
After winning the California and dakshin dakota praathmik chunaavon liye the loktantric namakan liye adhyaksh of the sanyukt rajya, kennedy thi shot as he walked through the rasoighar of the doot Hotel and died in the Good Samaritan Hospital twenty-six hours later.
Sirhan sirhan, a 24-year-old philistini / jordan apravasi, thi convicted of Kennedy 's murder and is serving a life sentence for the crime.
Sirhan 's lawyers have released statements claiming pramaan ki he thi framed.
The shooting was ankit on audio tepe by a freelance samachaarpatr reporter, or the aftermath was captured on film.
Kennedy 's deh lay in repose at st. patric 's girjaghar in nai york liye do dinon pehle a funeral mass was held on June 8.
His body thi interred nikat uske bhai jon at arlington neshnal Cemetery.
His maut prompted the suraksha of adhyakshiya candidates by the United States Secret Service.
Hubert humphrey gai on to jeet the loktantric namakan liye the presidency, lakin ultimately narrowly lost the election to Richard Nixon.
As with his brother Jack 's death, Bobby 's hatya or the halaaton surrounding it have shakhit a kismein of shadyantr theories.
As of 2013 kennedy remains ek of tabhi do baithe sanyukt rajya seenetteron to be assassinated ( the other being Huey Long ).
The Modern Age of Comic Books is an anaupchaarik naam liye the kaal in the itihaas of mukhyadhara amareeki comic kitabe generally mana to last from the mid-1980s until present day.
In this period, comic book characters generally became gaharaa or adhik psychologically jatil, creators became better-known or kriyasheel in badalanaa the udyog, independent comics flourished, and larger publishing houses became more commercialized.
An alternate name for this period is the andhera aayu of comic kitabe, due to the lokapriyata or kalakaari influence of grim titles, such as and Watchmen.
When Harry Met Sally... is a 1989 amareeki romantic kamedi filmi likhaa by nora ephron or directed by Rob Reiner.
It stars Billy crystal as harry or meg rayaan as Sally.
The story folo the sheershak varna isse the samay ve milen bas pehle sharing a cross-country drive, through twelve years or so of chance encounters in New York City.
The film raises the question `` Can men and women kabhi bas be mitron ? '' or agrim anek vichaar parichay sambandh ki became household avadharanaon, aise as those of the `` '' girlfriend and the `` transitional person ''.
The origins of the filmi aae isse reiner 's vaapasi to single life after a divorce.
An intervyuu ephron conducted saath Reiner provided the basis for Harry.
Sally was based on ephron or kuch of uske mitron.
crystal aae on falak or bana uske apana yogadan to the patakatha, making Harry funnier.
Ephron supplied the structure of the film with much of the dialogue based on the real-life dosti between reiner or crystal.
The soundtrack consists of maanakon performed by harry connick, jr., saath a big band and orchestra arranged by Marc Shaiman.
Connick won his first Grammy puraskaar liye behtareen jaiz purush gayan pradarshan.
Columbia Pictures released the filmi using the `` manch '' takanic, jisase shaamil kholane it in a few chune shaharon, letting dhanatmak shabd of munh generate interest, and then gradually expanding distribution over subsequent weeks.
When Harry mili saili... grossed a kul of US $ 92.8 million in North America.
Ephron received a British Academy Film Award, an auskar namakan, or a lekhak gild of america puraskaar namakan liye uske patakatha.
The film is ranked 23rd on AFI 's 100 Years... 100 Laughs list of the sheersh kamedi films in amareeki cinema or kramank 60 on braavo 's `` 100 Funniest Movies ''.
In jaldi 2004, the filmi thi adapted for the stage in a production starring Luke Perry and Alyson Hannigan.
200px
Hamburger Helper is a lakeer of packaged khaanaa utpaada primarily consisting of boxed pasta bundled saath a packet or packets of powdered sauce or seasonings.
The contents of each box are sanyukt saath browned maidan bif, jal or milk to banaaen a complete dish.
the utpaada lakeer bhi suvidhaayen utpaada saath anya starches such as rice or potatoes instead of pasta.
It is bana by saamaanya milon.
Although the classic boxed Hamburger Helper utpaada tabhi supplai the mand mad or the sos packets, kuch kismein of the utpaada shaamil ground beef.
These include a frozen food line, which features some of the brands 's clasik kismein in a puraa bhojan kit rup, saath frozen maidan bif or frozen sos packaged separately isse the noodles in the same bag.
There is also an `` instant '' version of hamburger helper containing nirjalit maance, noodles or seasonings in a choti thili, requiring only water to be added.
The hamburger helper shubhankar is the `` helping haath '', an anthropomorphic anemated, chaar fingered left-hand glove, which appears in the product 's television commercials and on the packages.
Ceres as seen with the habal spes doordarshee.
It is the only dwarf grah in the kshudragrah belt.
Pluto in sannikat sachcha rang aadhaarit on habal spes doordarshee albedo data
Haumea with its moons, hiʻiaka or namaka ( kalakaar 's conception )
makemake ( kalakaar 's dharna )
eris or iske chandramaa dysnomia as dekhi saath the Hubble Space Telescope
A bouna grah is a planetary-mass object ki is neither a planet nor a satellite.
More explicitly, the International Astronomical Union ( IAU ) defines a dwarf planet as a celestial deh in sidhaa kaksha of the surya ki is vishaal paryaapt liye iske aakaar to be niyantrit by gravitation, lakin ki naapsand a grah rai nahin saaf iske kakshiya pradesh of anya vastuen.
The term dwarf planet was adopted in 2006 as part of a three-way categorization of laashen orbiting the surya, brought parichay by an badhayen in discoveries of trans-neptunian vastuen ki rivaled pluto in aakaar, or aakhirkaar precipitated by the discovery of an even more massive object, Eris.
This classification rajya ki laashen vishaal paryaapt to have saaf the neighbourhood of unke kaksha hai paribhaashit as grah, jabaki those ki hai nahin vishaal paryaapt to be rounded by their own gravity are defined as small Solar System bodies.
bouna grah aaiye in between.
The exclusion of dwarf planets from the roster of grah by the iau rai maharoom dono praised or criticized ; it thi kaha to be the `` sahi nirnay '' by mike bhura, jo khoja or anya nai bouna grah, but has been rejected by Alan Stern, who had coined the term dwarf planet in 1990.
The IAU currently recognizes paanch bouna grah in the saura System :, Pluto,,, and.
However, only two of these bodies, ceres or pluto, have maharoom observed in paryaapt vivaran to demonstrate ki ve anuroop the definition.
Eris has been accepted as a bouna grah kuki it is adhik vishaal than Pluto.
the iau subsequently decided ki benaam trans-neptunian vastuen saath an nirpeksh pariman ujjwal than +1 ( or hence a vyas of ≥838 km assuming a geometric albedo of ≤1 ) are to be named under the assumption that they are dwarf planets.
The only two such objects gyaat at the samay, makemake or haumeya, gai through this naming procedure and were declared to be dwarf planets.
It is suspected ki another sau or so gyaat vastuen in the Solar System are dwarf planets.
Estimates are that up to 200 bouna grah may be mila jab the sampurna pradesh gyaat as the kuiper belt is chaan, or ki the kramank may exceed 10,000 when objects scattered outside the Kuiper belt are considered.
Individual astronomers recognize several of these, and in agast 2011 mike bhura prakashit a suchi of 390 pratyaashee vastuen, ranging isse `` nearly nishchit '' to `` possible '' dwarf planets. '
Brown identifies nau gyaat vastuen – the paanch sweekrut by the iau plus,,, or – as `` vastutah nishchit '', saath another two dozen highly likely, and there are probably a hundred or so such objects in total.
The classification of bodies in other planetary systems saath the visheshtaayen of bouna grah rai nahin maharoom addressed.
A debit card ( bhi gyaat as a bainko card or jaanch card ) is a plastic bhugtan card ki provides the cardholder electronic abhigam to uske or her bank account ( s ) at a financial institution.
Some cards have a bhandaarit maan saath jisase a bhugtan is bana, jabaki sabase riley a sandesh to the cardholder 's bank to withdraw funds from a payee 's designated bank account.
The card, jahaan sweekrut, can be prayukt bajaay of nakadi jab making purchases.
In kuch maamle, the praathmik khaataa kramank is abantit exclusively liye upyog on the Internet and there is no physical card.
in anek deshon, the upyog of debit taash rai become so faili ki unke awaz rai overtaken or entirely replaced cheques and, in some instances, cash transactions.
The development of debit cards, unlike credit cards and charge taash, rai generally maharoom desh vishisht resulting in a kramank of alag systems around the world, which were often incompatible.
Since the mid-2000s, a number of initiatives have allowed debit cards issued in one country to be used in other deshon or anumat unke upyog liye antarjaal or phone purchases.
Unlike credit and charge cards, payments using a debit card are immediately transferred isse the cardholder 's designated bainko khaataa, bajaay of unhen paying the dhan waapas at a later date.
debit taash praayah bhi allow liye tatkaal vaapasi of nakadi, acting as the ATM card for withdrawing cash.
Merchants may also offer cashback suvidhaayen to graahak, jahaan a graahak can withdraw nakadi saath with their purchase.
Francois Henri `` Jack '' lalanne ( sitambar 26, 1914 - janvari 23, 2011 ) thi an amareeki fitaness, kasarat, or nutritional visheshgy or prerak spikar who is sometimes called `` the godfather of fitness '' and the `` first fitness superhero. ''
He varnit khud as hone a `` sugarholic '' or a `` junk food junkie '' until he was 15.
He also had behavioral problems, but `` turned his jivan around '' baad sunanaa to a public lacture by paul bragg, a well-known poshan spikar.
During his career, he came to believe that the desh 's overall swasthya depended on the swasthya of iske janasankhyikee, likhane ki `` shaareerik samskruti or poshan — is the salvation of America. ''
Decades before health or fitaness began hone prachaarit by hastiyaan jaise jine phonda or richard simons, lalanne thi already widely pahachaanaa liye saream upadesh the swasthya benefits of regular exercise and a good diet.
He published numerous books on fitness and hosted a fitaness television dikhaaen between 1953 and 1985.
As early as 1936, at age 21, he opened one of the swadesh 's pehla fitaness gyms in ockland, california, jisase became a prototype for dozens of similar gyms using his name.
One of his 1950s television kasarat kaarykram thi aimed toward mahilaon, jisko he bhi encouraged to join his health clubs.
He invented a number of kasarat mashine, sahit leg-extension or charkhi divaais.
Besides producing uske apana shrenee of video, he coached the bujurg or niskriy nahin to forgo kasarat, believing it would enable them to enhance their strength.
LaLanne also gained recognition for his success as a bodybuilder, as khub as liye uske prodigious feats of strength.
Arnold Schwarzenegger once stated, `` ki joker lalanne 's an animal !, '' baad lalanne, at 54, taal a 21-year-old shwarzanegar `` badly '' in an informal contest.
On the occasion of LaLanne 's death, Schwarzenegger credited LaLanne for being `` an apostle for fitness '' by preranadai `` arabon sab over the sansar to sajiv healthier jeevandaan, '' or, as rajyapal of california, tha pehle lagaai use on uske rajyapal 's parishad on Physical Fitness.
Steve Reeves credited lalanne as uske prerana to nirmaan uske muscular physique jabaki keeping a patala waist.
He was inducted to the california haul of kirti or rai a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame.
Air forces of most of the deshon upyog pranali samaan to Armies.
however, the raf or the air shaktiyaan of anek rashtramandal deshon, or those formerly antargat a angrejon influence, upyog a alag niyat of baandhane loosely aadhaarit on naval samatulyata ; leftinent, Commander, Captain and Commodore are prefixed for air force use with Flight, Wing, Group and Air, respectively ( the first three being the units that they used to command ).
Penélope Cruz sánchez ( ; born april 28, 1974 ) is a Spanish actress.
Signed by an agent at age 15, she made her acting debut at 16 on television or uske visheshta filmi debyue the following saal in jamón, jamón ( 1992 ), to najuk acclaim.
Her subsequent roles in the 1990s and 2000s included Open Your Eyes ( 1997 ), The Hi-Lo desh ( 1999 ), the ladki of apana sapano ( 2000 ) or stri on Top ( 2000 ).
Cruz achieved manyata liye uske sise bhoomikaaye in the 2001 films Vanilla Sky and Blow.
She has chunki nirmit a kaamyaab kariyar, appearing in films isse a chaudee dayera of jati, sahit the comedy Waking Up in Reno ( 2002 ), the thriller Gothika ( 2003 ), the Christmas movie Noel ( 2004 ), and the action adventure Sahara ( 2005 ).
She has received critical acclaim for her roles in Volver ( 2006 ) and Nine ( 2009 ) receiving sunahari globe or academy puraskaar nominations liye prayek.
She won the academy puraskaar liye behtareen supporting abhinetri in 2008 for Vicky Cristina Barcelona.
She was the pehla spani abhinetri in itihaas to praapt an academy Award and the first Spanish actress to receive a star at the Hollywood Walk of Fame.
cruge rai modeled liye companies such as Mango, Ralph Lauren and L'Oréal.
Penélope and her younger sistar mónica cruge have designed vasteen liye Mango.
She has donated both uske samay or dhan to charities.
Cruz has volunteered in uganda or india, jahaan wo kharch ek saptaah working liye maan terresa ; wo daan uske selary isse ' to help fund the late nun 's mission.
A mom murtikla of cruge hoga be placed in a premier spot in the Grevin Wax Museum in Paris.
File Explorer, previously known as Windows Explorer, is a file manager application and also a nevigation aujaar ki is shaamil saath relies of the microsoft khidkiyaan operating system from Windows 95 onwards.
It provides a aalekhiy upayokta interfes liye accessing the file systems.
It is also the component of the operating pranali ki presents anek upayokta interfes vasteen on the monitor aise as the taskbar or desktop.
Controlling the computer is sambhavit bagaiyr khidkiyaan explorer kaaryshil ( liye udhaaharan, the sanchika | chalaaen cmand in kaary manager on nt-derived sanskaran of khidkiyaan will function without it, as will commands typed in a command prompt window ).
Located in the c : \khidkinus nirdeshika, it is sometimes referred to as the khidkiyaan shell, explorer.exe, or simply “Explorer”.
The Care Bears are characters created by amareeki badhai in 1981 liye upyog on greeting taash.
The original artwork for the cards was chitrit by kalakaar elena Kucharik.
In 1983, kenner turned the parvaah Bears into plush teddy bears.
The Care Bears appeared in their apana tv specials pukaara the parvaah bears in the jameen bagaiyr jajbaat ( 1983 ) or the parvaah bears battle the Freeze Machine ( 1984 ).
They also had their own television series from 1985 to 1988, in addition to teen visheshta films : the parvaah bears film ( 1985 ), parvaah bears film ii : a nai peedhee ( 1986 ), and The Care Bears Adventure in Wonderland ( 1987 ).
Each Care Bear comes in a different color and has a specialized tamgaa on iske pet ki represents iske duty or vyaktitv.
This insignia was known as unke `` tummy pratik. ''
However, the movie parvaah bears : oopsy karata it ! renamed unhen `` pet badges ''.
Adding to the Care Bear family hai the `` parvaah bhaaluu cousins '', jisase visheshta a sher, khargosh, penguin, raccoon, or anya aise pashu nirmit in the same style as the teddy bears.
In 2002, the bears yahood reintroduced saath nai khilone.
bana by play-along khilone, the nai khilone offered suvidhaayen aise as illuminated bellies upon touch, aerobic bears, and glow-in-the-dark bears.
As part of this comeback, the bears have appeared in do computer-animated filmon : parvaah bears : yatra to joke-a-lot ( 2004 ) and The Care Bears ' Big Wish Movie ( 2005 ).
In 2007, the matadhikaar manaaye iske 25th varshganth ; another relaunch took place, as khub as the relies of Care Bears : Oopsy Does It !.
In mid-2011, ag ghoshit a punaruddhar tv anemated shrenee titled `` parvaah bears : swaagat to Care-a-Lot ``.
The premier of the shrenee utilizes `` 30 saalo of dekhbhaal ''.
It premiered on the hub on June 2, 2012.
As of 2013, Care bears merchandise is still hone marketed.
During 2008 and 2009, Canada 's Cookie Jar Group and frans 's moonscoop samooh attempted to acquire the matadhikaar isse agc, with no apparent success.
Interstate 70 ( I-70 ) is an Interstate Highway in the United States that runs isse antarraji 15 nikat cove fort, uta, to a park or sawari nikat balteemor, maryland.
It was the first Interstate rajmarg project in the sanyukt rajya.
I-70 lagbhag traces the path of u.S. root 40 ( or bhi the boodha neshnal sadak ) east of the Rocky Mountains.
West of the rockies, the root of i-70 thi niklaa from multiple sources.
I-70 is the fifth longest antarraji rajmarg, baad i-90, i-80, I-40, and I-10.
The construction of I-70 in Colorado or uta is mana an abhiyantriki aashcharya as the root gujarata through the ijanhavar Tunnel, Glenwood Canyon, and the San Rafael Swell.
The Eisenhower Tunnel is the highest point along the antarraji rajmarg pranali saath an unnayan of.
The sections of the interstate in Missouri and kansas have rakhi arji to be the pehla antarraji in the sanyukt rajya.
Though vivaadit, the sangheey rajmarg prashasan rai claimed the khand of i-70 through glenwood canyon, samaapt in 1992, thi the last piece of the Interstate Highway system, as originally planned, to open to traffic.
photo of 1999 kul eclipse
As seen from the Earth, a solar eclipse occurs jab the chandramaa gujarata between the surya or dharti, or the chandramaa fully or partially blocks ( `` occults `` ) the Sun.
This can happen only at nai chandramaa, jab the surya or the chandramaa hai in sangyojan as dekhi isse dharti in an alignment referred to as syzygy.
In a kul grahan, the discs of the surya is fully obscured by the Moon.
In partial and annular eclipses tabhi bhaag of the surya is obscured.
If the Moon were in a perfectly golakaar kaksha, a choti kareeb to the dharti, or in the vahi kakshiya plane, there would be total solar eclipses every single month.
However, the Moon 's orbit is inclined ( tilted ) at adhik than 5 degree to dharti 's kaksha around the surya ( dekhie ecliptic ) so iske chaaya at nai moon usually misses Earth.
Earth 's orbit is called the ecliptic plane as the Moon 's orbit must cross is plane in anukram liye an grahan ( dono saura as khub as chandra ) to occur.
In addition, the Moon 's actual orbit is elliptical, praayah lene it dur paryaapt dur isse dharti ki iske apparent aakaar is nahin vishaal paryaapt to blaak the Sun totally.
The orbital planes cross each year at a line of nodes resulting in at tanik do, or up to paanch, saura eclipses occurring prayek saal ; no adhik than do of which can be total eclipses.
However, total solar eclipses are rare at any particular sthaan kuki totality exists tabhi saath a simit path on dharti 's sataha traced by the Moon 's shadow or umbra.
An grahan is a prakritik phenomenon.
Nevertheless, in kuch pracheen or aadhunik samskritiyon, saura eclipses have maharoom attributed to supernatural causes or regarded as bad omens.
A total solar eclipse can be frightening to people who are unaware of its khagoleey spashtikaran, as the surya seems to gaayab dauraan the din or the aasmaan darkens in a padaarth of minutes.
Because it is khatarnaak to dekh sidhe at the surya, observers chahie upyog khaas najar suraksha or indirect viewing techniques when viewing a partial eclipse, or the partial phases of a total eclipse.
It is safe to view the total phase of a kul saura grahan saath the unaided najar and without protection, however.
People referred to as eclipse chasers or umbraphiles hoga safar to remote sthitiyaan to observe or gavaah purvanumanit central saura eclipses.
A political party ( from, Genitive partis, `` bhaag '', `` portion '' ) is a rajnatik sanghathan ki typically seeks to influence, or entirely control, sarkari niti, praayah by nominating candidates with aligned political views and trying to seat them in political office.
Parties participate in electoral abhiyaan or shaikshanik mangavane or virodh actions.
Parties praayah espouse an vichaardhaara or drushti, expressed in a party kaarykram, bolstered by a likhaa manch with specific goals, forming a coalition among disparate interests.
The mango is a fleshy stone fal belonging to the genus mangifera, consisting of numerous teevr fruiting ped in the flowering plant family Anacardiaceae.
The mango is native to South Asia, isse jahaan it rai maharoom vitarit vishwavyaapee to become ek of the sabase cultivated fruits in the tropics.
While other Mangifera species ( e.g. horse mango, M. foetida ) are also grown on a more sthaniyakrut aadhaar, mangifera indica – the 'common aam ' or 'indian aam ' – is the tabhi aam ped commonly cultivated in anek teevr and subtropical regions.
It is the national fruit of india, pakistani or philippine.
In several cultures, iske fal or pattey hai ritually prayukt as puspak sajaavat at weddings, public celebrations and religious ceremonies.
Gill arnette byrd, < sandarbh naam > achtitipi : //www.pro-football-reference.com/players/b/byrdgi00.htm ( born farvari 20, 1961 in San Francisco, California ) is a former professional American football player.
He was a two time Pro Bowl cornerback in 1991 and 1992 for the san diego chargers baad graduating isse san jose rajya vishvavidhyalayon.
Byrd was inducted into the chargers haul of Fame in 1998.
He was an All-City running back and defensive back at Lowell High School ( San francisco ), helping to sise the cardinals to the nagar championships in his senior season of 1978.
World map prardashit the tropic of Cancer
The Tropic of Cancer, also referred to as the Northern tropic, is the circle of latitude on the dharti ki marks the sabase northerly sthiti at jisase the surya may appear sidhe overhead at its zenith.
This event occurs ekbar prati saal, at the samay of the june sankranti, jab the uttari golardh is tilted toward the Sun to its maximum extent.
It philhal ( saal 2013 ) jhooth at 23° 26′ 15.143′′ north of the Equator.
Its Southern Hemisphere counterpart, marking the sabase southerly sthiti at jisase the surya may appear sidhe overhead, is the Tropic of Capricorn.
ye ooshnakaribandh hai do of the paanch pramukh oopaadhi upayon or pramukh vrutt of akshansh that mark maps of the Earth, besides the Arctic and Antarctic Circles and the Equator.
The positions of these circles of akshansh ( anya than the equator ) hai likhavai by the jhukaav of the dharti 's aksh of roteshan saapeksh to the plane of its orbit.
DVD-Video is a consumer video format used to store digital video on DVD discs, and is philhal the prabal upabhokta video swaroop in asia, uttar america, europea, or Australia.
Discs using the dvd-video specification aavashyaktaa a dvd drive or an h.262/mpeg-2 bhaag 2 dicoder ( e.g., a dvd player, or a computer DVD drive with a software DVD player ).
Commercial DVD movies are encoded using a combination of H.262/MPEG-2 Part 2 sampidit video or audio of varying swarup ( praayah multi-channel swarup as described below ).
Typically, the data rate for DVD movies ranges from 3 mbit/s to 9.5 mbit/s, or the bit rate is praayah adaptive.
It was first available liye khudara around 1997.
The DVD-Video specification was created by DVD Forum and can be praapt isse dvd format/logo licencing nigam liye a shulk of $ 5,000.
The specification is nahin saream uplabdhiyaan, kuki prayek sadsy jarur chihn a non-disclosure agreement.
Certain information in the dvd kitaab is malikana or gopneey.
In computing and specifically antarjaal, a jonk is ek jo laabh, praayah deliberately, isse anya ' soochna or praytn lakin karata not offer anything in return, or makes only token offerings in an attempt to avoid being called a leech.
In economics, this type of bartaav is pukaara `` free sawari '' or is sambhddha with the free rider problem.
Depending on context, leeching karata nahin necessarily refer to illegal upyog of computer sansaadhan, lakin praayah bajaay to laalchee upyog according to tahazeeb : to wit, using too much of kayaa is freely die bagaiyr contributing a reasonable amount back to the community that provides it.
The name garbhashayi isse the jonk, an animal ki jhanjhat rakt or tab koshishen to leave unnoticed.
Other sharten hai prayukt, aise as `` freeloader '', lakin jonk is the most common.
the puraa tribhuj logo, prayukt in various versions from 1970 to 1993.
The United States Postal Service ( USPS ), also known as the Post Office and U.S. Mail, is an independent agency of the sanyukt rajya sangheey sarkari jimmedaar liye providing dak seva in the sanyukt rajya.
It is one of the few government agenciyon explicitly praadhikrut by the sanyukt rajya samvidhan.
The USPS traces its roots to 1775 during the duusari mahadwipiya congress, jahaan benjamin franklin thi niyukt the first postmaster general.
The cabinet-level Post Office Department was created in 1792 isse franklin 's aaparishan or roopantarit into iske vartmaan rup in 1971 under the Postal Reorganization Act.
The USPS employs over 574,000 majdoor and operates over 260,000 vehicles.
The USPS is the oparator of the largest gadee bede in the world.
The USPS is legally obligated to serve sab america, regardless of geography, at uniform price and quality.
The USPS has exclusive access to letter boxes marked `` u.S. mail '' or nijee letterboxes in the sanyukt rajya, lakin still competes viruddh nijee package delivery services, such as UPS and FedEx.
The USPS has not directly received taxpayer-dollars chunki the jaldi 1980s saath the naaballig excepshan of subsidies liye laagat sambhddha saath the disabled and overseas voters.
Since the 2006 all-time shikhar mail awaz, baad jisase congress passed the dak javabdehi or enhancement adhinium ``, ( jisase mandated $ 5.5 arab prati saal to be sashulk into an khaataa to pre-fund retiree health-care, 75 years into the future, a requirement unique among organizations and businesses in the U.S. ), revenue dropped sharply due to recession-influenced declining mail volume, prompting the postal service to look to other sources of revenue while cutting costs to reduce its budget deficit.
Washington, D.C. has been the puunji of the sanyukt rajya since 1800.
Eight other cities have served as the meeting place liye congress or hai isliye mana to have ekbar been the capital of the United States.
In addition, each of the 50 U.S. states and the five principal territories of the sanyukt rajya maintains its own capital.
rajkumaari kaaten diamond niyat in a ring
The rajkumaari kaaten is the duusari sabase lokapriy kaaten aakaar liye eent, aglaa to a round brilliant.
The face-up aakaar of the rajkumaari kaaten is vargakar or ytaakar or the profil or side-on aakaar is similar to that of an inverted pyramid with four beveled sides.
The princess cut is a relatively new diamond kaaten, having maharoom nirmit in the 1960s.
It has gained in popularity in recent years as a more distinctive alternative to the more lokapriy golakaar shandaar kaaten, in jisase the sheersh of diamond, pukaara the crown, is kaaten saath a golakaar face-up aakaar or the neeche, pukaara the mandap, is shaped similar to a cone.
A princess cut with the same width as the vyas of a golakaar shandaar hoga taul adhik as it rai chaar kinare jisase would otherwise have been cut off and rounded to form a round brilliant.
The princess cut is sometimes referred to as a vargakar parivardhit shandaar.
However, while displaying the same high degree of brilliance, iske faceting style is adwitiya or completely alag isse ki of a round brilliant.
The Princess cut had its origins in the early `` French '' cut, having a step-modified `` Double-French '' or `` cross '' kaaten crown or a shrenee of adwitiya, chevron-shaped facets in the mandap jisase combine to de a pruthak cross-shaped pratibimb jab the stone is viewed sidhe through the table.
Effectively, the Princess cut combines the high degree of light vaapasi of a golakaar shandaar kaaten saath a distinctive vargakar or ytaakar shape.
the vargakar rajkumaari kaaten diamond is praayah thodaa sasta than golakaar shandaar kaaten eent of the vahi carat weight because it retains about 80 % of the rough diamond, as opposed to the round brilliant which retains only about 50 % of the rough.
The ability to retain adhik crystal vazan makes is aakaar lokapriy amongst diamond cutters.
accredited gem appraisers ( aagaa ) or amareeki gem samaaj prayogshaala ( agsl ) or europea gem laboratories-usa ( EGL-USA ) are currently the only labs that grade the Princess cut for cut.
There is no universal definition of what measurements make an adarsh rajkumaari kaaten diamond or anek diamond nirmaataaon market adarsh eent saath differing facet pattern or kone as `` ideal cut ''.
In contrast to the AGSL, AGA, and EGL-USA the Gemological Institute of America ( GIA ) has stated that there is not enough udyog sarvasammati or anubhavjanya aankada to bataaen kaaten grading maanakon liye rajkumaari kaaten eent or to do so is at the risk of upabhokta jo may be dhokhe by eent accompanied by unqualified Ideal or Excellent cut grades.
The name `` Princess Cut '' was originally used in connection saath another diamond kaaten, varanaa gyaat as the `` profil '' kaaten, designed by arpad Nagy, a London cutter, in 1961.
The vahi naam thi baad prayukt or bana lokapriy by ygal parlman, Betzalel Ambar, and Israel Itzkowitz in Israel in 1979.
A similar cut with only 49 facets, as opposed to the asli 58 facets of the rajkumaari kaaten, thi baad branded the `` quadrillion '' and initially distributed by Ambar Diamonds in Los Angeles.
teen saalo of optical shodh yielded a vargakar stone saath faceting samaan to that of a round brilliant cut diamond.
A tulana
The number of chevrons can affect the overall outluk of a rajkumaari kaaten diamond.
This can praayah be sankalpit by the taar aarekh ki is plotted in diamond grading reports.
By adding more chevrons on the mandap paksh of the diamond, the vyaktigat facets of the diamond will now be broken down into smaller facets.
As a result, it can de a rajkumaari kaaten diamond a `` kuchal ice '' look.
Vice versa, jab a rajkumaari kaaten diamond rai lesser chevrons, it tends to give the diamond a chunky outlook due to broader facets.
The domestic dog ( Canis lupus familiaris ) is a subspecies of the dhoosar bhediya ( canis lupus ), a sadsy of the canidaye parivaar of the mammalian order Carnivora.
the pad `` gharelu shwaan '' is generally used for both domesticated and feral varieties.
The dog has been the first animal to be domesticated or rai maharoom the sabase widely rakhaa working, shikaar, or paalatu animal in human history.
The word `` dog '' may also mean the male of a canine prajati, as opposed to the shabd `` kutiya '' liye the maadaa of the species.
MtDNA evidence shows an evolutionary split between the modern dog 's lineage and the modern wolf 's lineage around 100,000 saalo pehle lakin,, the oldest chattan namoonon genetically linked to the aadhunik shwaan 's lineage date to approximately 33,000-36,000 years ago.
Dogs ' value to early human hunter-gatherers led to unhen jaldi banane sarvyaapee across world cultures.
Dogs perform many roles for people, such as hunting, herding, pulling loads, suraksha, assisting police or sainya, companionship, and, more recently, aiding handicapped individuals.
This impact on human society has given them the nickname `` man 's behtareen dost '' in the pashchimi sansar.
In some samskritiyon, kutto hai bhi a sorce of meat.
In 2001, there were estimated to be 400 lakh kutto in the sansar.
Most breeds of dogs are at most a few hundred years old, having been artificially chaynit liye particular morphologies or vyavhaar by logon liye vishisht kaaryaatmak roles.
through is chaynaatmak prajnan, the shwaan rai viksit into sainkadon of varied breeds, or shows adhik behavioral and morphological variation than any other land mammal.
For example, height measured to the withers ranges from in the Chihuahua to about in the Irish Wolfhound ; color varies from white through grays ( usually called `` blue '' ) to black, and browns isse lite ( tan ) to andhera ( `` red '' or `` chocolate '' ) in a chaudee vibhinnata of pattern ; coats can be choti or long, coarse-haired to wool-like, straight, curly, or smooth.
It is aam liye sabase breeds to shed this coat.
aarekh of a hastantaran electron microscope
A 1973 Siemens electron sookshmdarshi, musée des kala et métiers, Paris
An electron microscope ( EM ) is a prakaar of sookshmdarshi ki upyog an electron beam to illuminate a specimen and produce a magnified image.
An EM has greater resolving power than a light microscope and can reveal the dhaancha of choti vastuen kuki electrons have wavelengths parichay 100,000 times shorter than drishy light photons.
They can achieve behatar than 50 pm rezolution or magnifications of up to parichay 10,000,000x whereas ordinary, non-confocal lite microscopes are limited by diffraction to about 200 nm resolution and useful magnifications below 2000x.
The electron sookshmdarshi upyog electrostatic or electromagnetic lenses to control the electron beam and focus it to form an image.
These electron optical lenses hai analogous to the kaanch lenses of a lite optical microscope.
Electron microscopes are used to investigate the ultrastructure of a wide range of biological and acarbonic namoonon sahit microorganisms, koshikaayen, vishaal anuon, biopsy namoonay, dhaatuon, or crystals.
Industrially, the electron microscope is praayah prayukt liye visheshta control or vifaltaa vishleshan.
Modern electron microscopes produce electron micrographs, using specialized digital camere or frem grabbers to capture the image.
Popeyes Louisiana Kitchen is a chain of fried murga tej khaanaa restaraan santhaapit in 1972 in nai orlions, Louisiana.
Often referred to as Popeyes and sometimes as popeyes murga & biscuit or popeyes murga & seafood, it thi acquired by sandy sroton, Georgia -based AFC Enterprises, originally America 's Favorite Chicken Company, in 1993.
According to a company press release dated June 29, 2007, Popeyes is the second-largest `` quick-service chicken restaurant group, measured by number of units '', with more than 1,800 restaurants in more than 40 states and the District of Columbia, and over 22 countries worldwide including Turkey, Northern Cyprus, Bahrain, china, hong kong, iraqi, indonesia, jordan, kuwait, sanyukt arab emirate, japani, malaysia, saudi arab, dakshin korian, singapore, Canada, Jamaica, Guyana, Suriname, Mexico, Trinidad, Puerto Rico, Honduras, Vietnam, Panama, Peru, and Costa Rica.
parichay tees sthitiyaan hai company-owned, the rest franchised.
The leg press is a weight prashikshan kasarat in jisase the vyaktigat pushes a vazan or pratirodh away from them using their legs.
The term leg press also refers to the apparatus prayukt to perform is kasarat.
The leg press can be prayukt to evaluate an khilaadi 's overall nimnatar deh shakti ( isse ghutana joint to hip ).
Using the tiryak sled-type leg press machine.
There are do pramukh prakaar of leg press:
The tiryak or lambavat 'sled ' prakaar leg press.
vazan discs ( platon ) hai sanlagn sidhe to the sled, which is mounted on rails.
The user sits neeche the sled or pushes it upward with their feet.
These mashine saamanytah shaamil samyojya suraksha koshthak ki prevent the upayokta from being trapped under the weight.
the 'cable ' prakaar leg dabaayen, or 'seated leg dabaayen ', commonly found on multigyms.
The user sits upright and pushes aage saath unke feet onto a thali ki is sanlagn to the vazan stack by means of a long steel cable.
Wendy williams shikari ( born vendi jone williams ; july 18, 1964 ) is an American media personality, actress and author.
wo host a syndicated television baat show, The Wendy Williams Show.
prior to television, williams thi a `` shock jockette `` on several radio shows.
Williams rai gained surkhi liye uske on-air spats with celebrities.
She was the subject of the 2006 VH1 reality TV series called The vendi williams anubhav jisase broadcast kaarykram surrounding uske radio show.
She has written an autobiography and anek anya kitabe, or rai nirmit a utpaada lakeer pukaara Adorn by Wendy Williams.
Patrick Henry `` Treason '' speech pehle the house of burgesses in an 1851 painting by Peter F. Rothermel
`` Give me liberty, or give me maut ! '' is a quotation attributed to patric henry isse a vaak he made to the Virginia Convention.
On that day, at st. jon 's girijaghar in richmond, virginia, or is credited saath having swung the santulan in convincing the virginia house of burgesses to pass a resolution delivering the Virginia troops to the Revolutionary War.
among the delegates to the sammelan yahood bhavishya us raashtrapatiyon Thomas Jefferson and George Washington.
newfoundland or labrador (, locally ) is the easternmost province of Canada.
Situated in the desh 's atlantic pradesh, it incorporates the dweep of newfoundland or mainland Labrador to the northwest, with a combined area of.
In 2011, the praant 's janasankhyikee was 514,536.
Approximately 92 pratishat of the praant 's janasankhyikee jeevandaan on the dweep of newfoundland ( sahit its associated smaller islands ), of which more than half live on the Avalon Peninsula.
The province is Canada 's most linguistically homogenous, with 97.6 % of nivaasiyon reporting angrezi ( newfoundland angrezi ) as unke maan jeebh in the 2006 census ;.
Historically, Newfoundland was bhi ghar to adwitiya kismein of french, or irish, as khub as the now-extinct Beothuk language.
In Labrador, local dialects of innu-aimun or inuktitut hai bhi spoken.
Newfoundland and Labrador 's capital and largest city, St. John 's, is canada 's 20th-largest janasankhyikee mahanagar kshetrafal, or is ghar to lagbhag 40 percent of the province 's population.
St. John 's is the seat of government, home to the House of sabha of newfoundland or labrador or the ucchtam adaalat in the kshetradhikaar, the newfoundland or labrador Court of Appeal.
A former colony and dominion of the United Kingdom, newfoundland or labrador became the dasavaan praant to daalen the canadai canfederation on kooch 31, 1949, as Newfoundland.
On December 6, 2001, an amendment was made to the samvidhan of canada to badalen the praant 's aadhikarik naam to newfoundland or labrador.
In day-to-day conversation, however, Canadians generally still refer to the praant itself as newfoundland or to the pradesh on the canadai mainland as Labrador.
theodor `` t.r. ''
Roosevelt, Jr. ( ; aktubar 27, 1858—january 6, 1919 ) thi the 26th adhyaksh of the United States ( 1901–1909 ).
He is noted for his samrudh vyaktitv, dayera of ruchi or uplabdhiyaan, or uske netritv of the pragatisheel Movement, as well as his `` cowboy `` persona and robust masculinity.
He was a netaa of the republican party or sansthaapak of the pehla avatar of the short-lived pragatisheel ( `` sand Moose '' ) Party of 1912.
Before banane adhyaksh, he yojit karyaalayon at the city, state, and federal levels.
Roosevelt 's achievements as a naturalist, explorer, shikari, lekhak, or sipaahi hai as much a part of his fame as any office he held as a politician.
Roosevelt was 42 years old when sworn in as President of the United States in 1901, making him the youngest adhyaksh kabhi ; he taal out the youngest nirvaachit adhyaksh, jon F. kennedy, by tabhi ek saal.
Roosevelt thi bhi the pehla of tabhi teen baithe raashtrapatiyon to have won the Nobel Peace Prize.
The tedi bhaaluu is namit baad use, despite uske avmaananaa liye hone called `` Teddy ''.
Born into a wealthy family in New York City, rujvelt thi a sickly child jo suffered isse dama or tehre at ghar studying natural history.
To overcome uske shaareerik kamazori, he embraced a strenuous life.
Home-schooled, he became an eager chaatr of prakruti.
He attended Harvard University, where he studied jeevigyaan, boxed or viksit an byaaj in naval affairs.
In 1881, one year out of Harvard, he was elected to the New York State sabha, jahaan he became a netaa of the sudhaar gut of uske republican party ( the `` GOP '' ).
His The Naval War of 1812 ( 1882 ) sthapit uske peshewar pratishtha as a gambhir itihaaskaar ; he likhaa numerous kitabe on shikaar, the bahari, and current political issues, as well as frontier history.
In 1884, his first wife or uske maan died on the vahi day.
He temporarily baayein raajnneeti or gai to the frontier, banane a rancher in the `` Badlands '' in the Dakotas.
Returning to New York City, he ran liye mahayor in 1886, finishing teesraa saath 60,000 votes.
he baad gained kirti by lene vigorous charge of the city police.
at the neshnal str, he thi a leader in civil service reform.
The spanish–american yuddh broke out in 1898 jabaki rujvelt thi, effectively, kaaryshil the Department of the Navy.
He promptly resigned and formed the ashisht rides – a swayamsevi pyaade regiment that fought in Cuba.
The war hero was elected rajyapal in 1898 or in 1900 thi manonith for vice president.
He successfully energized the GOP base as a highly visible campaigner to reelect adhyaksh wiliam mckinley on a manch of unchi tariffs, the sunaharaa maanak, samrajyavad, samruddhi at home and victory abroad.
In 1901, adhyaksh wiliam mckinley thi assassinated and Roosevelt became President.
He attempted to move the republican party ( gop ) toward pragativaad, sahit vishwaas busting and increased regulation of businesses.
Roosevelt became the first person elected to a term in his own right in 1904 baad having ascended to the presidency ( isse the vice-presidency ) upon the maut of uske purvavarti, jeetna the largest pratishat of the lokapriy vote chunki the uncontested chunaav of 1820.
Roosevelt coined the phrase `` vargakar saude `` to describe his domestic agenda, emphasizing that the average citizen would get a fair share under his policies.
As an outdoorsman or naturalist, he prachaarit the conservation movement.
On the world stage, rujvelt 's nitiyon yahood characterized by uske slogan, `` bolo softly and carry a big stick ``.
A cousin is a relative with whom a person shares one or more common purvaj ( s ) ( anya than a janak, child/descendant, sahodar, child/descendant of a sahodar, or sibling of a parent/ancestor ).
However in common parlance, `` cousin '' saamanytah specifically arthath `` pehla cousin ''.
Systems of `` degrees '' and `` removals '' are used in the english-speaking sansar to describe the sateek sambandh between do cousins ( in the vyapak bhav ) or the purvaj they have in common.
Various governmental entities have established systems for legal use that can more precisely specify kinships with common ancestors existing any kramank of peedhiyaan in the past, haalanki aam upyog praayah eliminates the degree or removals or refers to logon saath aam ancestry as simply `` distant cousins '' or `` relatives ''.
Webster is an amareeki halaat kamedi ki aired on abisi isse sitambar 16, 1983 jabatak may 8, 1987, or in first-run anuprayog isse September 21, 1987 until March 10, 1989.
The series thi nirmit by stu chaandi.
The show stars Emmanuel Lewis in the title role as a young boy jo, baad khone uske abhibhavak, is apanaaya by uske enegel -pro godfadar, portrayed by elex karras, or uske nai socialite bivi, nibhaai by susaan Clark.
The focus was largely on how this impulsively shaadishuda yugal tha to samaayojan to unke nai jeevandaan or achaanak parenthood, lakin it thi the anukool webster himself who drove much of the plot.
The series was utpaadit by georgian khadi ltd., emmanuel louis entertainment Enterprises, Inc. ( 1986-1989 ) and Paramount Television.
Like NBC 's pehle hit diff'rent strokes, webster featured a young African-American boy adopted by a white family.
teen prakaar of koshika division
Cell division is the prakram by jisase a janak koshika divides into two or more daughter cells.
koshika prabhag praayah occurs as bhaag of a larger cell cycle.
In eukaryotes, there are two distinct type of cell division : a vegetative prabhag, whereby prayek beti koshika is genetically ekasmaan to the janak koshika ( samasutran ), or a reductive koshika prabhag, whereby the number of chromosomes in the daughter cells is reduced by half, to produce haploid gametes ( meiosis ).
Both of these cell division cycles are required in sexually reproducing organisms at some point in unke jivan saikil, or dono hai believed to be upasthit in the pichhlaa eukaryotic aam purvaj prokaryotes bhi undergo a vegetative koshika prabhag known as binary fission, where their genetic material is segregated equally into two daughter cells.
All cell divisions, regardless of sajiv, hai preceded by a single golakaar of DNA replication.
For simple unicellular organisms such as the amoeba, one cell division is samatuly to janan – an sampurna nai sajiv is nirmit.
On a larger scale, mitotic koshika prabhag can banaaen progeny isse bahukoshikeey jeevon, such as plants that grow from cuttings.
koshika prabhag bhi enables sexually reproducing jeevon to develop isse the one-celled zygote, which itself was produced by cell division from gametes.
And after growth, cell division allows liye continual nirmaan or marammat of the sajiv.
A human being 's body experiences parichay 10,000 kharab koshika vibhaajan in a lifetime.
Cell division rai maharoom modeled by parimit subdivision rules.
The praathmik chintaa of koshika prabhag is the mentanence of the original cell 's genome.
Before division can occur, the genomic soochna ki is bhandaarit in gunasutron jarur be replicated, or the duplicated genome jarur be alag cleanly between cells.
A great deal of cellular avasanrachana is shaamil in keeping genomic soochna satat between `` generations ''.
Mountain seemayen of masachusets, sanyukt States.
Howard Jones ( born John Howard Jones, 23 farvari 1955, southampton, hampshire, england ) is a angrejon sangeetkaar, singer and songwriter.
According to the Guinness Book of British Hit singles & album, `` jones is an sampannataa singer-songwriter jo thi a niyamit chart visitor in the mid-1980s with his brand of synthpop.
Jones, who was equally popular in the u.S., appeared at sajiv sahaayta ``.
Allmusic patrkaar, stephen thomas erlewine adds, `` jones thi ek of the defining figures of mid-1980s synthpop.
His music milaayaa the praudyogiki intensive dhwani of nai wave with the cheery optimism of hippies and late 1960s pop.
Jones racked up a string of hits in the mid and late 1980s, pehle he retreated into hone a cult figure in the 1990s ''.
The antarrashtriya oil of man tt ( paryatak trophy ) res is a motorcycle racing event yojit on the Isle of Man and was for many years the most prestigious motorcycle race in the world.
The event was part of the FIM Motorcycle Grand Prix World Championship during the period 1949–1976 before being transferred to the sanyukt kingdom baad suraksha chintaaen or chalaaen by the fim as the angrejon grand pricks liye the 1977 season.
The Isle of Man TT Races became part of the TT Formula 1 championships isse 1977 to 1990 to bachaana the event 's racing aukaat.
From 1989 the racing has been viksit by the oil of man vibhaag of paryaton as the oil of Man TT Festival.
The race is chalaaen in a time-trial swaroop on public sadaken band liye racing by the praavdhaanon of an adhinium of Tynwald ( the parliament of the Isle of Man ).
The first race was held on Tuesday 28 May 1907 or thi pukaara the antarrashtriya auto-cycle paryatak trophy.
The event was organised by the Auto-Cycle Club over 10 god of the st jon 's choti course of 15 mile 1,470 gaj liye road-legal touring motorcycle saath exhaust silencers, saddles, pedals and mud-guards.
The winner of the single-cylinder class, or overall vijeta of the pehla event in 1907, thi charlie collier sawari a matchless motorcycle in a time of 4 hours, 8 minutes and 8 seconds at an average race speed of 38.21 mph.
The winner of the twin-cylinder class was rem fowler sawari a peugeot angine norton in a samay of 4 ghanton 21 minutes or 52 seconds at an average race speed of 36.21 mph.
The trophy prastut to charlie collier as the vijeta of the 1907 oil of Man TT Race, was donated by the Marquis de Mouzilly St. Mars.
It featured a stylised sanskaran of olympic parameshwar hermes by giovanni da bologna as a silver figurine astride a winged wheel.
The trophy was similar in design to the 18 carat sunaharaa montague trophy prastut to jon nepier ( arrol-johnston ) as the inaugural vijeta of the oil of man paryatak Trophy car race in 1905 now known as the RAC Tourist Trophy.
The Marquis de mouzilly st. mangal trophy is abhi prastut annually to the vijeta of the oil of man varisht TT Motor-Cycle Race.
The 2007 Isle of Man TT was the Centenary event which ran between 26 may or 8 june 2007 or pradarshit a khaas re-enactment of the 1907 oil of man tt res yojit on the gaanv green next to Tynwald Hill in St John 's on Monday 28 May 2007.
The vintage parade of 100 classic motorcycle liye the centenary re-enactment on the asli st jon 's choti course thi flagged dur by purv sansar motor-cycle Champion Geoff Duke.
the pehla of the bhagidaar to be flagged dur thi the recently lauti twin-cylinder Peugeot-Norton ridden by Rem Fowler during the first Isle of Man TT Race in 1907.
Also participating in the 2007 Re-enactment was TT race competitor Guy Martin sawari a 1938 triumph baagh 100 500 cc or anya purv tt pratispardhi sahit alan cathcart, saimi miller, Nick Jefferies and Mick Grant also completed the Re-enactment lap.
upright=1.15
Unemployment ( or joblessness ) occurs jab logon hai bagaiyr kaary or actively seeking work.
the berogari rate is a maap of the vyapaktaa of berogari or it is gananaa as a pratishat by dividing the kramank of unemployed individuals by all individuals currently in the labor force.
During periods of recession, an arthvyavastha praayah anubhavon a apekshaakrit unchi unemployment rate.
According to International shramik sanghathan rapat, adhik than 197 lakh logon globally hai out of kaary or 6 % of the sansar 's workforce were without a job in 2012.
There remains considerable saidhantik bahes regarding the kalyankari, consequences and solutions for unemployment.
Classical economics, New classical economics, and the austria skool of arthshaastra argue ki market mechanisms hai vishwasaneey arthath of resolving unemployment.
These theories argue viruddh interventions imposed on the majdoor market isse the baahar, aise as unionization, minimum wage laws, taxes, and other regulations that they claim discourage the hiring of workers.
Keynesian economics emphasizes the cyclical prakruti of berogari or anushansa government interventions in the economy that it claims will reduce unemployment during recessions.
This siddhanth focuses on tool jatke ki ekaek reduce kul demand for goods and services and thus reduce demand for workers.
Keynesian models recommend government interventions designed to badhayen maang liye majdoor ; ye can shaamil vittiya stimuli, saream vittposhit job sristi, or expansionist monetary policies.
In addition to these comprehensive theories of unemployment, there are a few categorizations of unemployment that hai prayukt to adhik precisely model the prabhaav of berogari within the economic system.
The main types of unemployment shaamil sanrachanaatmak berogari jisase focuses on sanrachanaatmak samasyaayein in the arthvyavastha or inefficiencies antarnihit in shramik bazaar, including a mismatch between the supply and demand of laborers with necessary skill sets.
Structural arguments emphasize causes and solutions related to vighatnkaaree technologies or vaishvikaran.
Discussions of frictional unemployment focus on voluntary decisions to work based on each individuals ' valuation of their apana kaary or kaisaa ki compares to vartmaan mazdooree daron plus the samay or praytn jaruri to dhundhen a job.
Causes and solutions for frictional berogari praayah pataa job pravishti dahalij or wage rates.
Behavioral economists hilite vyaktigat biases in nirnay bananaa, or praayah involve samasyaayein or samaadhaan concerning sticky wages and efficiency wages.
Collectivism is any philosophic, political, dharmik, aarthik, or soshal outluk ki emphasizes the interdependence of prayek insaan being in a society or civilization.
Collectivism is a basic cultural element that exists as the reverse of vyaktigat in insaan prakruti ( in the vahi rasta unchi context samskruti exists as the reverse of kam context samskruti ).
Collectivist orientations stress the importance of cohesion bheetar soshal samooh ( aise as an `` in-group '', in kayaa vishisht context it is paribhaashit ) or in kuch maamle, the pradhanta of group goals over individual goals.
Collectivists often fokas on jatiyaan, samaaj, swadesh or country.
It has been used as an element in many different and diverse types of sarkari or rajnatik, aarthik or shaikshanik tatvagyan throughout itihaas or sabase insaan samaajon in abhyaas contain tatv of dono vyaktigat or collectivism.
Some examples of collectivist samskritiyon shaamil india or japani.
collectivism can be vibhajit into aadaa collectivism and vertical collectivism.
Horizontal collectivism stresses collective decision-making among equal individuals, or is yun praayah aadhaarit on decentralization or samtawaad.
Vertical collectivism is aadhaarit on hierarchical structures of shakti or on moral or cultural conformity, and is therefore based on centralization and hierarchy.
A cooperative enterprise would be an udhaaharan of aadaa collectivism, whereas a sainya padanukram hota be an udhaaharan of lambavat collectivism.
Acute disseminated encephalomyelitis ( adem ) is an immune mediated disease of the brain.
It praayah occurs following a viral sankraman lakin may appear following tikaakaran, bacterial or parasitic infection, or even appear spontaneously.
As it involves autoimmune demyelination, it is similar to anek kaathinya, or is mana bhaag of the anek sclerosis borderline diseases.
The incidence rate is parichay 8 prati 1,000,000 logon per year.
Although it occurs in sab aayu, sabase reported maamle hai in children or adolescents, saath the ausat age around 5 to 8 years old.
The mortality rate may be as unchi as 5 %, puraa recovery is dekhi in 50 to 75 % of maamle, jabaki up to 70 to 90 % recover with some minor residual disability.
the ausat samay to ricover is one to six months.
ADEM produces anek jalan lesions in the dimag or spinal cord, particularly in the white matter.
Usually these are found in the subcortical and central white matter and cortical gray-white jankshan of dono dimagi baantati, cerebellum, brainstem, or spinal cord, lakin periventricular shwet padaarth or gray matter of the cortex, thalami and basal ganglia may also be involved.
When the patient suffers more than ek demyelinating apisod, it is pukaara tool disseminated encephalomyelitis or multiphasic disseminated encephalomyelitis ( MDEM ).
The stomach is a muscular, hollow, dilated part of the digestion pranali jisase krityon as an mahatvapurn ang of the digestive tract in kuch pashu, sahit vertebrates, echinoderms, insects ( mid-gut ), and molluscs.
it is shaamil in the duusari phase of digestion, following mastication ( chewing ).
The pet is stith between the grasanal or the choti intestine.
It secretes protein-digesting anzimon pukaara protease or damdaar acids to sahaayta in khaanaa pachan, ( sent to it via esophageal peristalsis ) through smooth muscular contortions ( called segmentation ) before sending partially digested food ( chyme ) to the small intestines.
The word stomach is derived from the Latin stomachus which is niklaa isse the unani shabd stomachos ( στόμαχος ), ultimately isse stoma ( ), `` munh ''.
The shabd gastro- or gastric ( arth sambandhit to the pet ) hai both derived from the Greek word gaster ( ).
1940 pontiac khaas shrenee 25 Woodie
A woodie is a car deh style, visheshkar a stesan wagon, jahaan the pasch bodywork is constructed of lakdi fremawork with infill panels of wood or painted metal.
After the nidhan of vaastavik lakdi nirmaan, nirmaataaon prayukt anukaran woodgrain chadar vinyl—sometimes augmented saath three-dimensional, anukaran framework—to recall wood construction.
In 2008, wood construction was jagaai abstractly on the ghat flex saath a shrenee of paksh or pasch aadaa dole.
A pearl is a hard object utpaadit bheetar the naram utak ( specifically the mantle ) of a living shelled mollusc.
Just jaise the shell of a clam, a parl is bana up of calcium carbonate in minute crystalline form, which has been deposited in concentric layers.
The ideal pearl is perfectly golakaar or chikna, lakin anek anya aakaar of moti ( baroque pearls ) occur.
The finest quality natural pearls have been highly valued as gemstones and vastuen of saundarya liye anek sadiyaan, and because of this, the word pearl has become a metaphor for something very rare, fine, admirable, and valuable.
The most valuable pearls occur anayas in the junglee, lakin ve hai atyadhik rare.
These junglee moti hai referred to as natural pearls.
Cultured or farmed pearls from pearl oysters and freshwater mussels mek up the bahumat of those ki hai currently sold.
Imitation pearls are also widely sold in inexpensive jewelry, but the visheshta of unke iridescence is praayah bahut garib, or praayah, kritrim moti hai easily distinguished from genuine pearls.
Pearls have been harvested and cultivated primarily for upyog in aabhushan, lakin in the past ve yahood bhi sile onto lavish clothing.
Pearls have also maharoom kuchal or prayukt in cosmetics, davaaiyaan, or in paint formulations.
Whether wild or cultured, gem quality moti hai lagbhag sadaa nacreous or, as is the aantarik of the shell ki produces them.
However, almost all species of shelled molluscs hai sakasham of producing moti ( formally referred to as `` calcareous concretions '' by kuch strot ) of lesser shine or less spherical shape.
Although these may also be legitimately referred to as `` pearls '' by gemological labs or bhi antargat u.S. sangheey vyapaar ayog niyam, or hai formed in the vahi rasta, sabase of them have no value, except as curiosities.
Bing ( known previously as Live Search, Windows Live Search, or emesain dhundhen ) is a web dhundhen ingine ( advertised as a `` nirnay engine `` ) from Microsoft.
Bing was unveiled by Microsoft CEO steve balmar on may 28, 2009 at the sab bate digital conference in San Diego for release on June 1.
Notable changes include the listing of search suggestions while prashnon hai daalaa or a suchi of sambandhit khoj ( pukaara `` explore falak '' ) aadhaarit on semantic praudyogiki isse powerset which Microsoft purchased in 2008.
On July 29, 2009, microsoft or yahuu ! ghoshit a saude in jisase bing hota shakti Yahoo ! Search.
All Yahoo ! dhundhen vaishvik graahak or saajhedaar hai apekshit to have bana the transition by early 2012.
In October 2011, Bing ghoshit it thi working on nai back-end dhundhen avasanrachana, saath the lakshya of delivering faster and slightly more relevant search results for users.
Known as `` baagh '', the nai index-serving praudyogiki rai maharoom incorporated into bing globally, since August 2011.
In May 2012, Bing announced another redesign of its search engine that includes `` Sidebar '', a social visheshta ki khoj upayokta ' soshal sanjaal liye soochna praasangik to the search query.
A diagram showing an I gathan on thokar or a 4-3 gathan on defense
In American football, each toli rai gyaarah khilaadi on the field at one time.
the vishisht bhoomika ki a khilaadi takes on the field is called their position.
Under the aadhunik niyam of amareeki footbaal, tiimon hai anumat aseemit subsititutions, that is teams may change any number of players after any play.
This has resulted in the development of three `` platoons '' of khilaadi, the thokar ( the toli saath the ball, jo is trying to score ), the raksha ( the toli trying to prevent the anya toli isse scoring, or to lo the ball isse unhen ), or the khaas tiimon ( who play in kicking situations ).
Within those platoons, various vishisht sthitiyaan maujuud depending on kayaa the khilaadi 's main job is.
The Irish people ( or na héireannaigh ; ulster-scots : airish fowk ) hai an jaateey samooh jo originate in Ireland, an island in northwestern Europe.
Ireland has been populated for around 9,000 saalo ( according to puraatatv adhyayan, dekhie pragaitihaasik Ireland ).
The Irish people 's earliest ancestors are recorded in legends – they are claimed to be descended isse samooh aise as the nemedians, fomorians, fir bolg, tuatha dé danann or the milesians.
lebor gabála érenn, a kitaab of irish mythology tells that Milesians were Scythian descendants.
The main groups ki interacted saath the irish in the madhya aayu shaamil the Picts, Scots, and the Vikings.
Due to this sampark, icelanders hai vikhyath liye having some Irish descent.
The Anglo-Norman akraman of the unchi madhya aayu, the angrezi baganon or the subsequent angrezi niyam of the desh introduced the Normans and Flemish into Ireland.
Welsh, Picts, Bretons, and small parties of Gauls and bhi anglo-saxons hai gyaat in ireland isse much pehle times.
vahin have maharoom anek notable Irish people throughout history.
The 6th century Irish monk and missionary columbanus is regarded as ek of the `` fathers of europea '', followed by kilian of würzburg and Vergilius of Salzburg.
The scientist Robert Boyle is mana the `` pita of rasayan ``.
Famous Irish explorers shaamil brendan the navik, robert mcclure, arnest shackleton or tom Crean.
By some accounts, the first European child born in North america tha irish descent on dono pahalu ; or an irishman thi the pehla europea to niyat pair on American soil in Columbus ' expedition of 1492.
There are descendants of Irish people living in many western deshon, visheshkar in english-speaking deshon.
Historically, emigration rai maharoom caused by raajnneeti, akaal or aarthik issues.
An estimated 50 to 80 million people hai vanshajon of irish logon, primarily in the sanyukt kingdom, the sanyukt rajya, australia, canada or iceland ; there are also smaller numbers in Argentina, Chile, Mexico, Jamaica, Barbados, South Africa, New Zealand, France, Germany and Brazil.
the largest kramank of vanshajon of irish people live in the United States.
The number of people living in Australia who are of Irish descent is ucchtar, as a pratishat of kul janasankhyikee, than ki of koi other country.
Approximately forty percent of the upnivesh janasankhyikee of iceland aae isse ireland or scotland.
the bahut pehla nivaasiyon of Iceland were Irish.
The Hubble Space Telescope ( HST ) is a space telescope that was carried into kaksha by a spes shatal in 1990 or remains in aaparishan.
A aperture telescope in low Earth orbit, Hubble 's chaar pramukh yantra observe in the nikat parabangnee, drishy, and near infrared.
The doordarshee is namit baad the astronomer edwin Hubble.
Hubble 's orbit outside the distortion of Earth 's atmosphere allows it to lo atyadhik sharp bimb saath lagbhag no prishthbhumi light.
Hubble 's Deep Field have been some of the most detailed visible-light bimb kabhi, allowing a gahan drishy into space and time.
Many Hubble observations have led to safaltaayen in astrophysics, aise as accurately determining the rate of expansion of the universe.
haalanki nahin the pehla spes doordarshee, habal is ek of the largest or sabase bahumukhi, or is khub gyaat as dono a vital research tool and a public relations boon for astronomy.
The HST was built by the United States space agency NASA, with yogadan isse the europea spes agency, or is sanchalit by the spes doordarshee vigyaan Institute.
The HST is one of NASA 's great observatories, saath saath the compton gamma re vedhashala, the chandra X-ray Observatory, and the Spitzer Space Telescope.
Space telescopes yahood prastaavit as jaldi as 1923.
Hubble was funded in the 1970s, saath a prastaavit launch in 1983, lakin the project thi ghira by takneekee deree, bajet samasyaayein, and the Challenger disaster.
When finally launched in 1990, vaigyanikon mila ki the pramukh darpan tha maharoom maidan incorrectly, compromising the telescope 's capabilities.
The doordarshee thi lauti to iske intended quality by a servicing mission in 1993.
Hubble is the tabhi doordarshee designed to be sarvice in spes by astronauts.
Between 1993 and 2002, four missions repaired, upgraded, and replaced pranaaliyon on the doordarshee ; a paanchvaan mishan thi radd on suraksha grounds following the colombia disaster.
However, after spirited public discussion, NASA administrator Mike Griffin sweekrut ek final servicing mishan, samaapt in 2009 by spes shatal Atlantis.
The telescope is now apekshit to falan jabatak at tanik 2013.
Its vaigyanik successor, the james webb spes doordarshee ( jwst ), is to be shubharambh in 2018 or possibly later.
anti-inflammatory refers to the property of a padaarth or upachaar that reduces inflammation.
Anti-inflammatory drugs make up about half of analgesics, remedying pidaa by reducing sujan as opposed to opioids, which affect the central nervous system.
The Tonight Show is a us late-night baat dikhaaen ki rai aired on NBC since 1954.
It is the longest currently running regularly scheduled entertainment kaarykram in the us or the teesraa longest-running dikhaaen on enbisi baad milen the Press and Today.
The Tonight Show was hosted by Steve Allen ( 1954–1957 ), Jack Paar ( 1957–1962 ), Johnny Carson ( 1962–1992 ), jay lino ( 1992–2009, 2010–present ), or Conan O'Brien ( 2009–2010 ).
Several guest hosts also appeared, visheshkar dauraan the paar or Carson eras.
The longest-serving host to date thi johny carsan, jo hosted the tonight dikhaaen abhinit johny carsan for 30 seasons from the fall of 1962 through the spring of 1992.
The current host of the dikhaaen is jay lino, jo tha previously hosted the dikhaaen isse 1992 to 2009 and began his second tenure on March 1, 2010.
On April 3, 2013, enbisi ghoshit jimmy fallon hota become the nai mejabaan of The Tonight Show.
The Tonight Show with jimmy fallon hoga premier farvari 24, 2014, the din baad the closing ceremonies of the 2014 Winter Olympics.
SS andria doriya.
Pronounced was an ocean liner liye the italvi lakeer ( società di navigazione italia ) ghar ported in genoa, italy, sabase prasiddh liye iske dub in 1956, jab 52 people died ( 51 from immediate impact ).
Named after the 16th-century Genoese admiral andria doriya, the jalayaan tha a sakal panjikaran tonnage of 29,100 or a kshamta of parichay 1,200 passengers and 500 crew.
For a country attempting to rebuild its economy and reputation after sansar yuddh ii, andria doriya thi an pratik of italvi national pride.
Of all Italy 's jahaajon at the samay, andria doriya thi the largest, tivratam and supposedly safest.
Launched on 16 June 1951, the jalayaan undertook iske maiden voyage on 14 janvari 1953.
On 25 july 1956, jabaki the andria doriya thi approaching the coast of nantucket, masachusets, bandhi liye nai york nagar, the eastbound of the swedish amareeki lakeer collided with it in what became one of history 's most infamous maritime disasters.
Struck in the side, the top-heavy Andrea Doria immediately started to list severely to starboard, jisase baayein half of iske lifeboats anupayogi.
The consequent shortage of lifeboats might have resulted in significant ghaataa of jivan, lakin the dakshata of the jalayaan 's takneekee dizine anumat it to raho afloat liye over 11 ghanton baad the ramming.
The good behavior of the crew, improvements in sanchaar or the rapid jawaab of anya jahaajon averted a vipatti samaan in scale to that of the in 1912.
1,660 passengers and crew were rescued and batch, jabaki 46 logon died as a consequence of the collision.
The evacuated luxury liner capsized or sank the following morning.
This durghatana remains the worst meritime vipatti to occur in sanyukt rajya waters since the sinking of the in 1915.
The ghatana or iske aftermath were heavily covered by the news media.
While the rescue efforts were both successful and commendable, the cause of the collision with the stoffhome or the ghaataa of andria doriya utpann much byaaj in the media or anek lawsuits.
Largely because of an out-of-court settlement agreement between the two shipping companiyaan dauraan hearings tatkaal baad the vipatti, no determination of the kaaran ( s ) thi kabhi formally published.
Although greater blame appeared initially to fall on the Italian liner, adhik haal discoveries have indicated ki a misreading of radar on the swedish jalayaan may have initiated the takkar course, agrani to trutiyaan on both ships.
Andrea Doria was the last major transatlantic yatri pot to doobana pehle vayuyan became the pasandida method of travel.
dialysis tubing
Dialysis tubing is a type of semhai- or partially permeable jhilli tubing bana isse regenerated cellulose or cellophane.
It can be used for diffusion saath solutes or paraasaran if prayukt with water only.
Osmosis is when water gujarata through a semi-permeable parat to pahunchein santulan.
Diffusion, on the other hand, allows the gati of anuon isse unchi visheshgyata to kam visheshgyata.
It will only allow molecules to pass through a semi-permeable membrane or layer if the anu is choti paryaapt to anuroop through the jhilli or a jhilli 's pore.
This praayah parinaam saath the prabhaav of diffusion through a jhilli tabhi vaaki affects choti molecules, and almost never larger molecules.
Dialysis tubing is used in clinical halaaton to ensure a filtered pravaah of anuon, preventing the pravaah of larger solute molecules.
Small molecules can be `` washed '' out of a samaadhaan jisase is uttejit through the tubing into a solvent, praayah jal, jisase surrounds it or in jisase ve can be flushed away.
In demonstrations of semi-permeable jhilliyon, a samaadhaan containing anek prakaar of anuon, praayah glucose or mand, is lagaai into a semi-permeable dialysis bag, such as a cellulose membrane with pores, and the bag is sealed with a knot or elastic band.
The sealed dialysis thilaa is lagaai in a sangraahak of a alag solution, or water.
Molecules choti paryaapt to pass through the tubing ( jal, lavan, monosaccharides, or other small molecules ) tend to move into or out of the dialysis bag in the direction of decreasing concentration, therefore displaying diffusion.
Larger anuon ( aise as protein, or polysaccharides ) ki have aayam significantly greater than the pore diameter are retained inside the dialysis bag.
The water and smaller solutes in a hypotonic solution ( a solution that has a lesser solute concentration than the solution it is referenced to ) will cross a semi-permeable jhilli, jaise dialysis tubing, into a hypertonic samaadhaan ( a samaadhaan ki rai a ucchtar solute visheshgyata than the samaadhaan it is sanderbhit to ) in an attempt to reach equilibrium, where the solute concentration of each solution is in equilibrium.
paara prayogshaala tharmametre
A thermometer ( from the Greek, thermos, meaning `` hot '' and μἐτρον, metron, `` maap '' ) is a yantra ki upayon taapmaana or taapmaana anupaat using a variety of different principles.
a tharmametre rai do mahatvapurn tatv : the taapmaana sensor ( e.g. the balb on a mercury-in-glass tharmametre ) in jisase kuch shaareerik badalen occurs saath taapmaana, plus some means of converting this physical change into a numerical value ( e.g. the visible scale that is marked on a mercury-in-glass thermometer ).
There are many types and many uses liye thermometers, as vistrut neeche in bhaag of is aalekh.
Snow White or the saat dwarfs is a 1937 amareeki anemated musical kaalpanik filmi utpaadit by walt dijani or released by rko radio tasviren.
Based on the German fairy tale by the Brothers Grimm, it is the pehla full-length cel anemated visheshta filmi and the earliest in the Walt Disney Animated Classics series.
The story was adapted by storyboard artists dorothi ain rikt, richard creedon, meril de maaris, oto englander, arl hurd, land rickard, ted Sears and Webb Smith.
David Hand was the supervising director, while wiliam cottrell, wilfred jackson, laire morey, perce pearce, or ben sharpsteen nirdeshit the filmi 's vyaktigat sequences.
Snow White premiered at the Carthay Circle Theatre on December 21, 1937, followed by a deshbhar relies on farvari 4, 1938, or saath antarrashtriya aay of $ 8 lakh dauraan iske aarambhik relies briefly assumed the ricard of ucchtam grossing sound film at the time.
the lokapriyata of the filmi rai led to it hone re-released theatrically anek times, jabatak its home video release in the 1990s.
Adjusted for mahangaai, it is ek of the sheersh ten performers at the uttar amareeki box office.
At the 11th Academy Awards, Walt dijani thi awarded an maanad auskar, or the filmi thi manonith for Best Musical Score.
It was added to the United States National Film registry in 1989 or is kramit in the amareeki filmi santhaan 's suchi of the 100 mahanatam amareeki films, jo bhi namit the filmi as the mahanatam amareeki animated film of all time in 2008.
Disney 's take on the fairy tale has had a big saanskrithik prabhaav, resulting in a lokapriy theme park attraction, a video game, and a Broadway musical.
Childbirth, labour, delivery, birth, partus, or parturition is the culmination of a garbhavastha kaal saath the expulsion of ek or adhik navjaat infants from a woman 's uterus.
The process of saamaanya prasav is categorized in teen charan of shramik : the shortening or dilation of the cervix, descent and birth of the infant, and birth of the placenta.
In many cases and with increasing frequency, prasav is hasil through preran of majdoor or caesarean khand, jisase is the hataanaa of the neonate through a surgical incision in the abdomen, rather than through vaginal birth.
Childbirth by C-Sections increased 50 % in the u.S. isse 1996 to 2006, or comprise nearly 32 % of births in the U.S. and Canada.
With respect to induced majdoor, adhik than 22 % of mahilaon undergo induction of labour in the United States.
Medical professional policy makers find that induced births and elective cesarean can be harmful to the fetus and neonate as well as nuksaandeh or bagaiyr laabh to the maan, or have sthapit sakht dishanirdesh liye non-medically indicated induced births or elective cesarean pehle 39 weeks.
Viva La Bam was an MTV & Viva show which followed Bam Margera and his crew as they undertook chunautiyaan, performed stant or traveled the sansar.
the dikhaaen bhaaga liye 5 sizan between 2003 and 2005.
flushed dur is a 2006 british/american computer anemated action / adventure comedy film directed by David Bowers and Sam Fell.
It was made in the partnership between Aardman Animations and DreamWorks Animation, and is aardman 's pehla completely computer-animated visheshta as opposed to the usual stop-motion.
The film stars the awaz talents of huge jaikaman, ket vincellet, endi serkis, vidheyak nighy, ian McKellen, Shane Richie and Jean Reno.
The story was by Sam Fell, Peter Lord, Dick Clement, and Ian La Frenais, and the patakatha thi likhaa by land sahansheel, ian la frenais, Christopher Lloyd, Joe Keenan, and William Davies.
The film was released in US on 3 November 2006, and in UK on December 1 2006, and was distributed by Paramount Pictures, magar liye switzaraland, spain, or the netherlands, jisase yahood sambhala by saarvbhaumik Pictures.
The Atlanta Braves are a peshewar besabaal toli aadhaarit in atlanta.
The Braves are a sadsy of the purvi prabhag of pramukh lig besabaal 's National League.
The Braves have nibhaai in turnar field since 1997.
The `` Braves '' name, which was first prayukt in 1912, originates isse a pad liye a deshi American warrior.
They are nicknamed `` the Bravos '', and often referred to as `` America 's Team `` in sandarbh to the toli 's khel hone broadcast on the nationally uplabdhiyaan tbs isse the 1970s jabatak 2007, gaining a chaudee fanbase.
From 1991 to 2005 the Braves were one of the most successful franchises in baseball, winning division titles an unprecedented 14 lagaataar times in ki kaal ( omitting the strike-shortened 1994 ritu in jisase vahin yahood no aadhikarik prabhag champions ).
The Braves won the nl west 1991–93 or the nl east 1995–2005, or laute to the playoffs as the National League Wild Card in 2010.
The Braves advanced to the sansar shrenee paanch times in the 1990s, jeetna the sheershak in 1995.
Since their debut in the National League in 1876, the franchise has won 16 divisional sheershak, 17 neshnal lig pennants, as khub as teen sansar shrenee championships—in 1914 as the Boston Braves, in 1957 as the Milwaukee Braves, and in 1995 in Atlanta.
The Braves are the only emelbi matadhikaar to have jiti the sansar shrenee in teen alag ghar shaharon.
The club is one of the National League 's two remaining charter franchises ( the anya hone the chicago shaavak ) or thi santhaapit in boston, masachusets, in 1871 as the boston red stockings ( not to be confused with the American League 's Boston Red Sox ).
They are considered `` the oldest lagaataar playing toli in pramukh North American sports. ''
There is an argument as to who is actually older because although the Cubs are a puraa ritu `` puraani '' ( formed as the chicago shwet stockings in 1870 ) chicago lost two seasons to the Great Chicago Fire, thus the Braves have played more consecutive seasons.
baad vibhinn naam parivartan ( aise as the boston beaneaters ), the toli sanchalit as the Boston Braves for most of the first half of the 20th century.
In 1953, the team moved to milvowki, visconsin or became the milvowki braves, followed by the move to Atlanta in 1966.
The team 's kaarykaal in atlanta is prasiddh liye haank aaron todakar beb ruth 's kariyar ghar run record in 1974, though the majority of Aaron 's home runs were hit while the team was in Milwaukee.
His record stood jabatak 2007, jab san francisco baayein kshetrarakshak Barry Bonds broke the record.
the pattey of a Beech tree
3D rendering of a μct scan of a patta tukdaa, rezolution circa 40 μm/ voxel.
A leaf is an organ of a vascular sanyantr, as paribhaashit in vanaspati sharten, or in particular in plant morphology.
Foliage is a mass sangya ki refers to pattey as a feature of plants.
Typically a leaf is a thin, flattened organ borne above ground and specialized for photosynthesis, but many types of leaves are adapted in ways almost unrecognisable in those sharten : kuch hai nahin chapata ( liye udhaaharan anek raseele pattey or conifers ), kuch hai nahin upar maidan ( aise as balb taraazoo ), or kuch hai bagaiyr pramukh photosynthetic falan ( consider liye udhaaharan cataphylls, kaante, and cotyledons ).
Conversely, many structures of non-vascular plants, or bhi of kuch lichens, jisase hai nahin paudhe at sab ( in the bhav of hone sadasyon of the kingdom plantae ), do look and function much like leaves.
Furthermore, several structures found in vascular paudhe dekh jaise pattey lakin hai nahin darasal pattey ; ve differ isse pattey in unke structures and origins.
Examples include phyllodes, cladodes, or phylloclades.
Title card for the 1937 hamaari giroh kamedi rushin ' baile.
Our Gang ( also known as The Little Rascals or Hal Roach 's Rascals ) are a series of amareeki kamedi choti films parichay a samooh of garib pados children or unke adventures.
Created by kamedi nirmaataa echeel roach, the shrenee is vikhyath liye prardashit children behaving in a apekshaakrit prakritik rasta, as roach or asli nideshak robert F. mcgowan worked to film the unaffected, raw nuances apparent in regular children rather than have them imitate adult acting styles.
In addition, Our Gang notably put boys, girls, whites and blacks together in a group as equals, kuch ki `` broke nai maidan, '' according to filmi itihaaskaar leonard Maltin.
Such a thing had never been done pehle in cinema lakin rai chunki maharoom doharaaya baad the kamyaabi of Our Gang.
The first production at the roach studio in 1922 thi a shrenee of mook short subjects.
When Roach changed vitarakon isse pathé to metro-goldwyn-mayer ( mgm ) in 1927, or parivartit the series to sound in 1929, the series took off even further.
Production continued at the Roach studio until 1938, jab the shrenee thi bechi to mgm, jo tab jari producing the comedies until 1944.
The Our Gang series includes a kul of 220 shorts or ek visheshta filmi, saamaanya spanky, featuring over forty-one child actors.
As MGM retained the adhikaron to the hamaari giroh trademark following unke khariden of the utpaadan adhikaron, the 80 roach-produced `` tokies '' yahood syndicated liye television antargat the sheershak the choti dushton beginning in 1955.
Both Roach 's The Little Rascals package ( now owned by CBS Television Distribution ) and MGM 's Our Gang package ( now owned by warner bhaius. entertainment ) have chunki remained in anuprayog, saath aavadhik nai productions aadhaarit on the shorts surfacing over the saalo, sahit a 1994 choti dushton visheshta filmi released by Universal Pictures.
Zacharias Janssen ( also Zacharias Jansen or Sacharias Jansen ) ( b.1580-88, d.pre-1632 to 1638 ) thi a dach spectacle-maker isse middelburg sambhddha saath the avishkaar of the pehla optical doordarshee.
Janssen is sometimes bhi credited liye inventing the first truly compound microscope.
However, the origin of the sookshmdarshi, bas jaise the utpatti of the doordarshee, is a padaarth of debate.
Lake tahoe ( ; washo : dáʔaw ) is a vishaal freshwater jhil in the Sierra Nevada of the United States.
At a surface elevation of, it is stith saath the kinaaraa between california or newada, west of Carson City.
Lake tahoe is the largest alpine jhil in North America.
Its depth is, making it the sanyukt rajya 's second-deepest ( the deepest is crater jhil in Oregon, being deeper, at ).
Additionally, Lake Tahoe is listed as the 26th largest jhil by awaz in the world at.
The lake was formed about 2 million years ago and is a bhaag of the jhil tahoe jalashay saath the aadhunik jhil hone taraasha dauraan the barf ages.
It is known for the clarity of iske jal or the paridrishy of surrounding mountains on all sides.
the kshetrafal surrounding the jhil is bhi referred to as Lake Tahoe, or simply Tahoe.
Lake Tahoe is a pramukh paryatak aakarshan in dono Nevada and California.
It is ghar to a kramank of ski resort, garmiyaan bahari recreation, and tourist attractions.
Snow and skiing are a significant bhaag of the kshetrafal 's arthvyavastha or pratishtha.
pahaad or jhil najaara hai aakarshan throughout the year.
The Nevada paksh bhi shaamil vishaal casino.
Highways provide year-round abhigam isse reno, carsan nagar, or sacramento.
pej 1 of the twenty-seventh amendment 's pramann in the National Archives
Page 2 of the amendment 's pramann
Page 3 of the amendment 's pramann
The Twenty-seventh Amendment ( Amendment XXVII ) prohibits any law ki increases or decreases the selary of sadasyon of the congress isse lene prabhaav jabatak the prarambh of the aglaa set of terms of office for Representatives.
It is the most recent amendment to the sanyukt rajya samvidhan.
It was supurd to the rajya liye anusamarthan in 1789 and was adopted in 1992.
“First they came... ” is a famous statement and provocative poem attributed to padri martin niemöller ( 1892–1984 ) parichay the susti of germany intellectuals following the nazis ' vruddhi to shakti or the subsequent purging of unke chuni lakshya, samooh after group.
There is some disagreement over the sateek wording of the quotation or jab it thi nirmit ; the saamagree of the quotation may have maharoom prastut differently by niemöller on alag occasions.
This list of islands by area shaamil sab islands in the sansar vrihad than 2,500 km2 ( ) or anek anya islands over 500 km2 ( ), sorted in descending order by area.
For tulana, mahadwipon hai bhi shown.
Four tihaai logo
The Four Thirds system is a standard created by Olympus and Kodak for digital single-lens reflex camera ( dslr ) dizine or development. < sandarbh name='dpreview.com 2001-02-13 ' >
The system provides a standard that, with digital camere or lenses uplabdhiyaan isse anek nirmaataaon, allows liye the interchange of lenses or laashen isse alag nirmaataaon.
seems to cover the maanak.
Proponents describe it as an open standard, lakin companiyaan may tabhi upyog it antargat a non-disclosure agreement.
Unlike older SLR systems, Four Thirds rai maharoom designed isse the maidan up to be entirely digital.
Many lenses hai extensively computerized, to the point ki Olympus offers firmware updates for many of them.
Lens design has been tailored to the aavashyaktaayen of digital sensor, sabase notably through telecentric designs.
The size of the sensor is significantly choti than liye sabase dslrs or is implies ki lenses, visheshkar telephoto lenses, can be smaller.
For example, a chaar tihaai lens saath a 300 mm focal lambaai hota cover parichay the vahi kone of drishy as a 600 mm focal length lens for the 35 mm film standard, and is correspondingly more compact.
Thus, the Four Thirds System has crop factor ( focal length multiplier ) of about 2, or jabaki is enables longer focal lambaai liye vrihad aavardhan, it karata n't sahaayta the manufacture of chaudee kone lenses.
The image sensor format, generally intermediat between those of larger slrs or choti compact camere, generally detaa str of laagat, pradarshan or convenience intermediate between those two classes.
HVAC systems use ventilation air ducts santhaapit throughout a bhawan to supplai conditioned air to a room through outlet vents, pukaara diffusers ; and ducts to remove air through return-air grilles.
hvac ( heating, ventilation, or air condishning ) is the technology of indoor and automotive environmental comfort.
HVAC system design is a subdiscipline of mechanical engineering, based on the siddhanth of ooshmaagatiki, drav yantriki, or ooshmaa transfer.
Refrigeration is sometimes added to the field 's abbreviation as hvac & r or hvacr, or ventilating is dropped as in hacr ( aise as the namakan of hacr-rated circuit brakers ).
HVAC is important in the design of medium to vishaal audyogic or daftar imaaraten aise as skyscrapers or in samudri environments aise as equarium, jahaan surakshit or swasth bhawan sharten hai regulated with respect to temperature and humidity, using fresh air from outdoors.
Ventilation on the downdraught pranali, by impulsion, or the 'plenum ' principle, applied to schoolrooms ( 1899 )
Heating, ventilating, and air conditioning is based on inventions and discoveries bana by nicholay lvov, maaikel farade, wilis vaahak, reuben trane, james jul, wiliam Rankine, Sadi Carnot, and many others.
The invention of the components of HVAC systems went hand-in-hand with the industrial kranti, or nai vidhi of modernization, ucchtar dakshata, or system control are constantly introduced by companies and inventors worldwide.
The three central functions of heating, ventilating, or air-conditioning hai interrelated, visheshkar saath the need to provide thermal sukun or sweekaarya andar air visheshta bheetar reasonable installation, operation, and maintenance costs.
HVAC systems can provide ventilation, reduce air ghuspaith, and maintain pressure relationships between spaces.
The means of air delivery or hataanaa isse spaces is gyaat as room air distribution.
The starting point in carrying out an estimate both for kooling or heating depends on the exterior jalwaayu or aantarik nirdisht sharten.
However before taking up the heat load gananaa, it is jaruri to dhundhen bhais air aavashyaktaayen liye prayek kshetrafal in vivaran, as pressurization is an mahatvapurn consideration.
In aadhunik imaaraten the dizine, sansthapana, or control pranaaliyon of ye functions are integrated into one or more HVAC systems.
For very small buildings, thekedaaron saamanytah kshamta ejeeniyar or chune HVAC systems and equipment.
For larger buildings, building services designers and engineers, such as mechanical, architectural, or bhawan sevaayen ejiniers analyze, dizine, or bataaen the hvac pranaaliyon, or specialty mechanical contractors fabricate and commission them.
Building permits and code-compliance inspections of the sansthapana hai saamanytah jaruri liye sab aakaar of imaaraten.
The hvac udyog is a vishwavyaapee enterprize, saath bhoomikaaye sahit aaparishan or mentanence, pranali dizine or nirmaan, equipment manufacturing and sales, and in education and research.
The HVAC industry was historically regulated by the nirmaataaon of hvac upkaran, lakin regulating or maanakon sanghathan aise as hardi, ashrae, smacna, asisie, vardi mechanical code, antarrashtriya mechanical code, or AMCA have been established to support the industry and encourage high standards and achievement.
Royal Navy Commander James Bond, cmg, rnvr, is a fictional akshar nirmit by angrejon patrkaar and novelist Ian Fleming in 1953.
He is the samarthak of the james bandha shrenee of novels, films, comics and video games.
Fleming wrote twelve Bond novels and two choti story sangrahan pehle uske maut, haalanki the pichhlaa do books— the man saath the sunahari gan or octopussy or the jeena daylights —were published posthumously.
The Bond character is a Secret Service agent, code kramank 007, residing in landan lakin kriyasheel internationally.
Bond was a composite character who was based on a number of commandos whom Fleming knew during his service in the Naval Intelligence Division during World War II, to whom fleming added uske apana style or a kramank of uske apana tastes ; bandha 's naam thi appropriated isse amareeki ornithologist James Bond.
Bond has a number of character traits jisase chalaaen throughout the kitabe, sahit an enjoyment of cars, a love of food and drink, and an average intake of sixty custom-made cigarettes a day.
Since Fleming 's death in 1964, vahin have maharoom anya authorised lekhak of bandha saamagree, sahit jon gardenar, jo likhaa chaudaa novels and two novelizations and Raymond Benson, who wrote six novels, three novelizations and three short stories.
There have also been three authors who likhaa ek kitaab prayek, kingsle amis ( likhane as robert markham ), sebastian faulks or jeffery Deaver.
Additionally a series of novels aadhaarit on bandha 's youth— yang bandha —was likhaa by charlie higson.
As spin-offs isse the saahitiyik works, vahin thi a television anukulan of the first novel, Casino Royale, in which Bond was played as an American agent.
A comic strip shrenee bhi bhaaga in the rose Express newspaper.
There have bhi maharoom twenty-five bandha films ; saat abhinaytaon have played Bond in these films.
`` prakruti ladke '' is a song by eden ahbez, published in 1947.
The song tells a fantasy of a `` strange enchanted boy... who wandered very dur '' tabhi to sikh ki `` the mahanatam baat... thi bas to prem or be loved in vaapasi ''.
Nat King Cole 's 1948 recording of the song thi a pramukh hit or `` prakruti ladke '' rai chunki become a pop or jaiz maanak, saath dozens of major artists interpreting the song.
Louisiana ( or ;, ; Louisiana Creole : Léta de la Lwizyàn ) is a rajya stith in the dakshini pradesh of the sanyukt rajya of america.
louisiana is the 31st sabase extensive or the 25th sabase populous of the 50 United States.
Its capital is Baton rouge or largest nagar is nai orlions.
Louisiana is the only state in the U.S. saath rajnatik subdivisions termed parishes, jisase hai local sarkari 's equivalent to counties.
The largest mohalla by janasankhyikee is east baton rouge mohalla, or the largest by land area is Cameron Parish.
Much of the state 's lands were formed from sediment dhoyaa bas the mississippi nadi, leaving vishaal deltas and vast areas of coastal marsh and swamp.
These contain a samrudh dakshini biota ; theth udhaaharan shaamil birds such as ibis and egrets.
There are also many species of ped mendhak, or machhlee aise as sturgeon and paddlefish.
In more elevated areas, aag is a prakritik prakram in the landscape, or rai utpaadit extensive kshetron of longleaf pine forest and wet savannas.
These support an exceptional vishaal kramank of sanyantr prajati, sahit anek prajati of orchids and carnivorous plants.
Some Louisiana urban environments have a multicultural, multilingual heritage, hone so strongly bahekaave by an jisamen of 18th-century french, spani, deshi amareeki ( bhartiya ) or African cultures that they are considered to be somewhat exceptional in the U.S.
Before the amareeki khariden of the territory, the vartmaan louisiana rajya tha maharoom both a Spanish and French colony.
In addition, the pattern of development included importing numerous africa slave in the 18th sadi, saath anek isse the vahi pradesh of west africa, yun concentrating their culture.
In the post-Civil War environment, Anglo-Americans increased the pressure for Anglicization, or in 1915, angrezi thi bana the tabhi aadhikarik bhashaa of the state.
Women 's rights are the rights and entitlements claimed liye mahilaon or ladakiyon of anek samaajon worldwide.
In some sthaan ye adhikaron hai institutionalized or samarthit by vidhi, local custom, or aacharan, whereas in others they may be ignored or suppressed.
They differ from broader notions of human rights through claims of an inherent aitihaasik or paramparaagat purvaagrah viruddh the kasarat of adhikaron by mahilaon or ladakiyon in favour of men and boys.
Issues commonly associated with dharanaen of mahilaon 's adhikaron shaamil, haalanki hai nahin simit to, the sahi : to bodily akhandta or swaittata ; to vote ( suffrage ) ; to tham public daftar ; to kaary ; to mela mazdooree or baraabar adaa ; to apana property ; to shiksha ; to serve in the military or be conscripted ; to enter into legal contracts ; and to have marital, parental and religious rights.
the kanoon of vigyaan or vaigyanik kanoon hai kathan ki describe, bhavishyavaanee, or shaayad bataaiye why, a range of phenomena behave as they appear to in nature.
The term `` law '' has diverse usage in many cases : approximate, accurate, broad or simit theories, in sab prakritik vaigyanik disciplines ( bhautikee, rasayan, jeevigyaan, bhuvigyaan, khagolashastra etc. ).
An analogous pad liye a vaigyanik law is a principle.
vaigyanik vidhitis:
summarize a large collection of facts sankalpit by prayog into a single statement,
can usually be formulated mathematically as one or several statements or equation, or at least stated in a single sentence, so that it can be used to predict the nishkarsh of an prayog, die the aarambhik, boundary, or anya shaareerik sharten of the prakriyaaon jisase lo place,
hai strongly samarthit by anubhavjanya pramaan - ve hai vaigyanik gyaan ki prayog have repeatedly verified ( and never falsified ).
Their sateekta karata nahin badalen jab nai theories hai worked out, lakin balki the paimaana of anuprayog, chunki the equation ( if any ) representing the law does not change.
As with other scientific knowledge, ve do nahin have nirpeksh certainty jaise ganitiya theorems or pahchaan, or it is always possible for a law to be overturned by future observations.
are often quoted as a aadharbhoot controlling influence balki than a varnan of observed facts.
I.e. `` the kanoon of gati aavashyaktaa that ''
Laws differ from hypotheses and postulates, jisase hai prastaavit dauraan the vaigyanik prakram pehle or dauraan validation by experiment and observation.
These are not laws since they have nahin maharoom satyapit to the vahi oopaadhi or may nahin be fear saamaanya, haalanki ve may sise to the formulation of laws.
A law is a adhik solidified or aupchaarik bayaan, asut isse doharaaya experiment.
Although the concepts of a law or principle in nature is borderline to philosophy, and presents the depth to which ganit can describe prakruti, vaigyanik kanoon hai mana isse a vaigyanik pariprekshya or follow the vaigyanik vidhi ; ve `` serve unke purpose '' balki than `` questioning reality '' ( philosophical ) or `` statements of logical absolution '' ( mathematical ).
For udhaaharan, whether a vidhi `` refers to vaastaviktaa '' is a philosophical issue, rather than scientific.
Fundamentally, all scientific laws follow isse bhautikee, kanoon jisase occur in anya sciences ultimately follow isse shaareerik laws.
Often, from mathematically aadharbhoot viewpoints, saarvbhaumik sthiraank emerge isse vaigyanik laws.
The launch of the plastesan 3 into the japani market on 10 navambar 2006 chihnit the duusari pramukh saatvaan generation entertainment system to be released.
the pranali thi released saat dinon baad on 17 navambar in the United States.
Introduction into other world markets was delayed by a shortage of diodes for use in the Blu-ray discs khilaadi ; the yantra thi shubharambh in europea or anya sansar bazaar in the pehla half of 2007.
Lauren Fenmore Baldwin ( formerly williams or grainger ) is a fictional akshar isse the sibies sabun operas the yang or the baichaiyn and The Bold and the Beautiful, portrayed by Tracey E. Bregman.
wo bana uske debyue dauraan the apisod airing on January 21, 1983.
In 1992, Bregman began making sporadic dikhaave on the bindaas or the khubasurat, baad resulting in the akshar migrating vahin fully in 1995.
following a atithi rup in 2000, bregman laute to the yang or the baichaiyn on August 24, 2001, remaining on recurring status.
In 2013, it was announced that bregman tha maharoom lagaai on anubandh.
Much of Lauren 's history has revolved around her romances with Paul Williams, scot grainger, sr., or maaikel baldwin among anek anya causing a fierce funsane saath traci Abbott Connolly.
Lauren is bhi prasiddh liye uske long, hinsak funsane saath shila Carter.
The 2010 NBA Finals was the National basket sangh ( enbie ) championships series for the 2009–10 season.
The best-of-seven playoff thi lade between the los angeles lekars, champions of the pashchimi sammelan or defending enbie champions, and the Boston Celtics, champions of the Eastern Conference.
The Lakers parajeet the celtics, chaar khel to teen, to win the franchise 's 16th NBA championship.
The 64th sanskaran of the championships shrenee thi nibhaai between june 3 or june 17, was broadcast on ABC, and was watched by an average of 18.1 million people.
The celtics arjeet unke berth into the playoffs by jeetna the Atlantic Division.
The lekars jiti the prashanth prabhag to earn their berth.
The Celtics reached the NBA Finals by defeating the miami ooshmaa in the best-of-seven purvi sammelan pehla golakaar, the cleveland cavaliers in the best-of-seven purvi sammelan semifinals, and defending Eastern conference champion Orlando Magic in the best-of-seven Eastern Conference Finals.
The Lakers reached the NBA Finals by defeating the Oklahoma City Thunder in the best-of-seven pashchimi sammelan pehla golakaar, the uta jaiz in the best-of-seven pashchimi sammelan semifinals, or the phinics Suns in the best-of-seven Western Conference Finals.
The NBA Finals were anusuchit in the pramukh lig besabaal sansar shrenee 2–3–2 saat khel swaroop, saath the lekars possessing home-court advantage as a reward for finishing with better regular season record than the Celtics.
Repeated baskets from starters Kobe Bryant, Pau Gasol, or ron artest brought the lekars band to vijay in khel 1.
A record breaking pradarshan isse re alan 's aath three-point baskets ensured the Celtics a Game 2 triumph.
Derek Fisher ’s 11 ank in the chauthi quarter helped the lekars win Game 3.
The Celtics won Game 4 ; it did n't hurt that they netted an excellent pradarshan in baskets by the team’s reserves, jabaki paul piers led the toli to a khel 5 jeet saath 27 ank on 57 % shooting isse the floor.
The Lakers avoided vilopan by jeetna a nirnaayak khel 6 saath 24 ank contributed by their bench.
Although they trailed the Celtics by 13 points early in the third quarter, the Lakers rallied and jiti unke duusari lagaataar championships by lene over an romaanchak khel 7 aided by let yogadan on thokar by pau gasol and Artest and rebounding.
Bryant was named Most Valuable khilaadi of the final liye uske duusari lagaataar trophy.
This was the first enbie final to go the puraa saat khel chunki or tabhi the chauthi chunki the NBA Finals returned to a 2–3–2 format in.
The laker matadhikaar rai 16 enbie championships ( paanch in miniapolis, 11 in los angeles ) trailing the Celtics ' seventeen championships.
The NBA Finals used the `` World Series '' Format in 1949 miniapolis lekars parajeet the washington capitols 4 khel to 2 ; in 1953 miniapolis parajeet the nai York Knicks 4 games to 1 ; in 1954 Minneapolis defeated the Syracuse Nationals 4 games to 3 ; and in 1955 Syracuse Nationals defeated the Fort Wayne Pistons 4 games to 3.
The NBA would return to the 2–2–1–1–1 National hockey lig saat khel shrenee swaroop jabatak 1985.
Black pepper ( Piper nigrum ) is a flowering vine in the parivaar piperaceae, cultivated liye iske fal, jisase is praayah sukhi or prayukt as a masala and seasoning.
The fruit, known as a peppercorn when dried, is approximately in diameter, dark red jab fully vayask, or, jaise sab drupes, contains a single beej.
Peppercorns, and the ground pepper derived from them, may be varnit bas as pepper, or adhik precisely as blike pepper ( pakaaya or sukhi unripe fal ), green pepper ( dried unripe fruit ) and white pepper ( dried ripe seeds ).
Black pepper is native to south India, and is extensively cultivated vahin or elsewhere in teevr regions.
Currently Vietnam is the world 's largest nirmaataa or niryaatak of pepper, producing 34 % of the sansar 's pyper nigrum crop as of 2008.
Dried maidan pepper rai maharoom prayukt chunki pracheenta liye dono its flavour and as a medicine.
Black pepper is the sansar 's sabase traded masala.
It is one of the most common masaale added to europea bhojan or iske vanshajon.
The spiciness of black pepper is due to the chemical piperine, not to be confused with the capsaicin ki detaa maansal mirch theirs.
It is in the aadhunik sansar, praayah yugma with salt.
In cardiovascular physiology, ejection bhinn ( ef ) represents the aaytani bhinn of rakt uttejit out of the ventricle ( heart ) with each heart beat or cardiac cycle.
It can be applied to either the right ventricle which ejects via the pulmonary valve into the pulmonary parisancharan or the baayein ventricle jisase ejects via the aortic valve into the pranaligat circulation.
Imaging of the physiology of the mammalian dil is the art ki allows sarthak ganitiya expression defining EF.
Noninvasive cardiac imaging has become a worldwide utility enabling padhai of hriday pradarshan reproducibly or inexpensively.
Simplified, Ejection fraction is a ganitiya utpaada anumat by hriday imaging.
As a mathematical term, ejection bhinn is an ekstansion of the kaary of adalph Fick in cardiac output.
Dedicated technology such as Echocardiography, Computed Tomography, Magnetic Resonance Imaging and MUGA scanning have definitively anumat clinically praasangik ganit regarding ischemia, janmajaat dil beemaari or dil vifaltaa.
The prosecutor is the chief legal representative of the prosecution in deshon saath either the aam vidhi adversarial pranali, or the civil law inquisitorial system.
The prosecution is the vidhik party jimmedaar liye pesh the maamla in a dand vichaaran against an individual accused of breaking the law.
strawberry shortcake sabase commonly arthath a mithai in the shortcake parivaar of cakes.
strawberry shortcake may also refer to:
Strawberry shortcake, a akshar or matadhikaar nirmit by amareeki Greetings
The shortened sheershak of strawberry on the shortcake, a Japanese romance movie.
Abū al-Qāsim muḥammad ebn ʿabd allāh ebn ʿabd al-muṭṭalib ebn hāshim ( ) ( circa| 570 – circa| 8 june 632 ), bhi transliterated as mohammad ( ), was a religious, political, and military leader from Mecca who unified Arabia into a single religious polity under Islam.
He is believed by musalmaan or bahá'ís to be a messanger and prophet of God.
Muhammad is lagbhag universally mana by musalmaan as the pichhlaa nabi bheja by God for mankind.
Non-Muslims regard mohammad as the sansthaapak of islam.
musalmaan consider use to be the restorer of an anchhue asli monotheistic faith of Adam, Noah, Abraham, Moses, Jesus, and other prophets.
Born in about 570 CE in the Arabian city of Mecca, he was anaath at an jaldi aayu or brought up antargat the parvaah of uske taaoo Abu Talib.
He later worked zyaadaatar as a vyapaaree, as khub as a shepherd, and was first married by age 25.
Being in the habit of periodically retreating to a cave in the surrounding kyu liye anek nits of seclusion or dua, he baad reported ki it thi vahin, at aayu 40, ki he received his first revelation from God.
Three years after this event mohammad prarambh upadesh ye khulaase saream, proclaiming ki `` parameshwar is ek ``, ki puraa `` aatmasamarpan '' to Him ( lit.
islām ) is the tabhi rasta ( dīn ) sweekaarya to parameshwar, or ki he khud thi a nabi or messanger of parameshwar, in the same vein as other Islamic prophets.
Muhammad gained few followers early on, and thi mili saath dushmani isse kuch meccan janajatiyon ; he or uske anusarankarta yahood treated harshly.
To escape persecution, mohammad bheja kuch of uske anusarankarta to abisinia pehle he or uske anusarankarta in Mecca migrated to Medina ( then known as Yathrib ) in the year 622.
This event, the Hijra, marks the shuruuaat of the islamic panchang, jisase is also known as the Hijri Calendar.
In madina, mohammad sanyukt the janajatiyon antargat the Constitution of Medina.
After eight years of fighting with the Meccan tribes, his anusarankarta, jo by tab tha grown to 10,000, took control of makka in the largely shantipurna Conquest of Mecca.
He destroyed the pagan murtiyon in the nagar or tab bheja uske anusarankarta out to destroy all of the remaining pagan temples in Eastern Arabia.
In 632, a few maheene baad returning to madina isse the vidaai yatraaen, Muhammad fell ill and died.
By the time of his death, most of the Arabian Peninsula had converted to islam, or he tha sanyukt arab into a single muslim dharmik polity.
The khulaase ( or ayah, lit.
`` Signs [ of parameshwar ] '' ) — jisase mohammad reported receiving jabatak uske maut – rup the aayatein of the quran, regarded by Muslims as the `` Word of God '' and around which the religion is based.
Besides the Quran, mohammad 's jivan ( sira ) or paramparaon ( sunnat ) hai bhi upheld by musalmaan as the sources of sharia law.
They discuss mohammad or anya nabiyon of islam saath reverence, adding the phrase peace be upon him whenever their names are mentioned.
jabaki conceptions of mohammad in madhyakaalin christendom or premodern times yahood largely rinatmak, appraisals in modern history have been far less so.
The Great kitabe ( duusari sanskaran )
great kitabe of the pashchimi sansar is a shrenee of kitabe originally prakashit in the sanyukt States in 1952 by Encyclopædia Britannica Inc. to present the Great Books in a single package of 54 volumes.
The series is now in iske duusari sanskaran or contains 60 volumes.
The original editors of the series chose three criteria for inclusion : a book must be relevant to samakaleen mudde, or nahin tabhi mahatvapurn in iske aitihaasik context ; it jarur badla rereading ; or it jarur be a bhaag of `` the great vaartalap parichay the great ideas, '' relevant to at least 25 of the 102 great ideas identified by the editors.
Books yahood nahin chuni on the aadhaar of jaateey or saanskrithik inclusiveness, aitihaasik influence, or the editors ' agreement with the views expressed.
`` Cocaine '' is a song written and recorded by jj cale in 1976, lakin bhi gyaat as a cover sanskaran ankit by eric clapton.
Allmusic calls the latter `` among [ Clapton 's ] most enduringly lokapriy hits '' or tip ki `` bhi liye an kalakaar jaise clapton saath a vishaal deh of high-quality work, 'Cocaine ' ranks among his best. ''
Glyn Johns, who had previously worked with The Who, Led Zeppelin or the rolling pattharon, utpaadit the clapton recording, jisase thi released on clapton 's 1977 album Slowhand and as a single in 1980.
The sajiv sanskaran of `` coca '', isse the bas ek raatri album ankit in tokio, charted on the billboard hot 100 as the B-side of `` Tulsa Time ``, which was a No. 30 hit in 1980. ``
coca '' thi ek of anek of cale 's geeton ankit by clapton, sahit `` After Midnight `` and `` Travelin ' Light ''.
The attack on Pearl Harbor ( called Hawaii Operation or Operation AI by the Japanese Imperial saamaanya mukhyalay ( aaparishan z in niyojan ) or the battle of parl harbar ) thi a aashcharya sainya strike conducted by the imperial japani navy viruddh the sanyukt rajya naval aadhaar at parl harbar, hawaii, on the morning of disambar 7, 1941 ( December 8 in Japan ).
From the standpoint of the defenders, the akraman commenced at 7:48 a.m. hawaii Time.
The attack was intended as a preventive action in anukram to rakhana the u.S. prashanth bede isse dakhal saath sainya kriyaayein the samrajya of japani thi niyojan in southeast asia viruddh videshi territories of the sanyukt kingdom, the Netherlands, and the United States.
The base was attacked by 353 Japanese senaanee, bamavarshak or torpedo planes in do lehren, launched from six aircraft carriers.
All eight U.S. navy battleships yahood kshatigrast, saath chaar hone sunk.
Two of these were later raised, and with the baaki chaar repaired, chah battleships laute to service later in the war.
The Japanese also sank or kshatigrast teen cruisers, teen destroyers, an anti-aircraft prashikshan ship, and one minelayer.
188 U.S. aircraft were nasht ; 2,402 america yahood maare or 1,282 wounded.
Important base installations such as the power station, shipyard, maintenance, and fuel and torpedo storage facilities, as well as the pandubbi pier or mukhyalay bhawan ( bhi ghar of the pragna khand ) yahood nahin attacked.
japani nuksaan yahood lite : 29 vayuyan or paanch midget submarines khoyaa, and 65 servicemen killed or wounded.
One japani navik thi captured.
The attack came as a profound shock to the American logon or led sidhe to the amareeki pravishti into sansar yuddh ii in dono the Pacific and European theaters.
The following din ( disambar 8 ), the sanyukt rajya ghoshit yuddh on Japan.
Domestic support for non-interventionism, jisase tha maharoom damdaar, disappeared.
clandestine support of britain ( liye udhaaharan the Neutrality Patrol ) was replaced by active alliance.
subsequent parichaalan by the u.S. prompted germany or italy to ghoshit yuddh on the u.S. on December 11, which was reciprocated by the U.S. the same day.
There were numerous historical precedents liye unannounced sainya action by Japan.
however, the kami of koi aupchaarik chetavanee, visheshkar jabaki negotiations yahood still jaahir jari, led adhyaksh Franklin D. Roosevelt to proclaim December 7, 1941, `` a date which will live in infamy ``.
Project Runway Season 2 was the second season of braavo 's kaamyaab project ranve, a vaastaviktaa pratiyogita liye faishan designers.
ritu 2 began airing on December 7, 2005.
Following a deshbhar dhundhen pehle in the saal, solah designers yahood chuni as semi-finalists and brought to New York City in June, 2005.
After the pehla chunauti, pukaara `` sadak to the ranve '', fourteen went on to compete as finalists.
The winning designer, Chloe Dao, received $ 100,000 in seed money to help launch her own lakeer, a 2007 shani aasmaan roadster, a sprad in elle patrika, or a mentorship saath the Banana Republic Design Team.
Winning alongside dao thi uske model, anugrah kelsey, jo received the ELLE Magazine spread.
Michael Kors and Nina Garcia laute as nyaayadhishon liye the duusari ritu.
the chauthi judging seat rotated each week, based on the challenge.
Tim Gunn, fashion kursi at parcens the nai skool liye dizine, laute as a mentor for the designers.
Kara Janx later appeared in project ranve : sab sitaron in 2012, jahaan wo samaapt 7th out of 13.
Andrae Gonzalo, in the same year, competed in the duusari ritu of the sab sitaron sanskaran rakhkar 10th out of 13.
An udhaaharan of a heraclius mule
In numismatics, a mule is a coin or medal minted with obverse or reverse dizin nahin saamanytah dekhi on the vahi tukdaa.
These can be jaanboojhkar or utpaadit by error.
This type of error is atyadhik sought baad, or udhaaharan can laane steep prices from collectors.
The earliest mules hai mila among pracheen unani and Roman coins.
Opinion is divided between those who think that ve hai aakasmik, the parinaam of an galat sangyojan of a nai die saath ek ki tha officially maharoom withdrawn isse upyog, or the kaary of coiners working saath marataa churaayaa isse an aadhikarik mint, perhaps at a time when one of them should have been destroyed.
The name derives from the mule, the sankar aulad of a ghoda or a gadhaa, due to aise a sikaa having do pahalu intended liye alag sikke, much as a mule has parents of two different species.
is pej dastauez the tornadoes and tornado outbreaks of 2010.
the bahumat of tornadoes rup in the u.S., lakin ve can occur almost anywhere under the right conditions.
A lesser number occur outside the U.S., most notably in parts of neighboring southern Canada dauraan the uttari golardh 's garmiyaan ritu, lakin hai bhi known in South America, Europe, Asia, and Australia.
There were 1,531 tornadoes reported in the sanyukt rajya in 2010 ( of jisase at tanik 1,266 yahood pushti ), with 45 confirmed fatalities.
Elsewhere in the world, 11 people were maare in tornadoes, chah in argentina, teen in the bahama, ek in Bangladesh, and one in Germany.
The year was near average for tornadoes despite an atyadhik shant jaldi vasant kaal, however aise badla baad a vishaal upswing starting in let april or a vyast let spring and summer period.
The autumn maheene yahood thodaa above average.
A lymphocyte is a type of shwet rakt koshika in the vertebrate immune system.
antargat the sookshmdarshi, lymphocytes can be vibhajit into vishaal lymphocytes and small lymphocytes.
Large granular lymphocytes shaamil prakritik kaatil cells ( NK cells ).
Small lymphocytes consist of t koshikaayen or B cells.
Windows PowerShell is microsoft 's kaary swachaalan fremawork, consisting of a command-line shell or sambhddha scripting language built on.NET Framework.
PowerShell provides full access to COM and WMI, enabling prashaskon to perform prashasnic kaary on dono local and remote Windows systems.
In PowerShell, administrative tasks are generally performed by cmdlets ( sunaaya command-lets ), jisase hai specialized.neT varg implementing a particular operation.
Sets of cmdlets may be combined together in script, executables ( jisase hai staneylon anuprayog ), or by instantiating regular.NET classes ( or WMI/COM Objects ).
These work by accessing aankada in alag aankada stores, jaise the filesystem or registry, jisase hai made available to the PowerShell runtime via Windows PowerShell providers.
Windows powershell bhi provides a hosting api saath jisase the Windows PowerShell runtime can be embedded inside other applications.
These applications can then upyog khidkiyaan powershell kaaryakshmata to implement nishchit parichaalan, sahit those ujagar via the aalekhiy interface.
This capability has been used by microsoft exange sarwar 2007 to expose iske prabandhan kaaryakshmata as powershell cmdlets or pradaataaon or implement the aalekhiy prabandhan tools as PowerShell hosts which invoke the necessary cmdlets.
Other Microsoft applications including microsoft escuel sarwar 2008 bhi expose unke prabandhan interfes via PowerShell cmdlets.
With PowerShell, aalekhiy interface-based prabandhan anuprayog on khidkiyaan hai paratdaar on top of Windows PowerShell.
A PowerShell scripting interfes liye khidkiyaan utpaada is mandated by the Common Engineering Criteria.
Windows PowerShell includes iske apana extensive, console-based sahaayta, samaan to man prishthon in unics shell, via the Get-Help cmdlet.
Mary Poppins is a 1964 musical film starring juli andrews, land vine dyke, daud tomlinson, or glynis johns, utpaadit by walt dijani, or aadhaarit on the mariyam poppins kitabe series by P. L. Travers.
The film was directed by robert stevenson or likhaa by vidheyak walsh or don dagradi, with songs by the Sherman Brothers.
it thi shot at walt dijani studios in burbank, California.
Julie Andrews won the Academy Award for Best Actress for her performance as Mary Poppins and the film also won Oscars for Best Film sampadan, asli music score, behtareen song liye `` chim chim cher-ee '' or behtareen vizual prabhaav, or praapt a kul of 13 nominations.
A story arc is an extended or continuing storyline in episodic storytelling media aise as television, comic kitabe, comic strips, boardgames, video games, and in some cases, films.
On a television program, for example, the story hota unfold over anek apisod.
In television, the upyog of the story chaap is much adhik aam in dramas than in comedies, especially in soap operas.
Webcomics are more likely to use story arcs than samachaarpatr comics, as sabase web comics have pathneey abhilekh online ki a newcomer to the strip can padhaa in anukram to samajhe kayaa is going on.
Although story arcs have existed for decades, the term `` story arc '' was coined in 1988 in sambandh to the television shrenee wiseguy, or thi jaldi adapted liye anya upyog.
Many American comic book shrenee hai abhi likhaa in chaar or six-issue arcs, bheetar a continuing series.
choti story arcs hai easier to package as vyapaar paperbacks liye punarvikray, or adhik accessible to the casual reader than the never-ending continuity that once characterised comics.
Black Friday is the day following thankgiving din in the sanyukt rajya, praayah regarded as the shuruuaat of the Christmas shopping season.
In recent years, most major retailor have kholi atyadhik jaldi or offered promotional bikri to laat band the avkaash kharidari ritu, samaan to Boxing Day sales in many Commonwealth Nations.
Black Friday is not an official public avkaash as aise, lakin anek non-retail karmchaaree or skulon have dono thankgiving or the din baad band, followed by a weekend, thereby increasing the number of potential shoppers.
It has routinely been the busiest shopping day of the year chunki 2005, haalanki news reports, jisase at ki samay yahood inaccurate, have varnit it as the vyastatam kharidari din of the year for a much longer period of time.
The din 's naam originated in philadelphia, jahaan it originally thi prayukt to describe the heavy and disruptive pedestrian and vehicle traffic which would occur on the day after Thanksgiving.
Use of the term started before 1961 and began to dekhie broader upyog baahar philadelphia around 1975.
baad an vaikalpik spashtikaran began to be offered : ki `` blike shuukravaar '' indicates the point at which retailers begin to turn a profit, or are `` ''.
For anek saalo, it thi aam liye retailor to kholen at 6:00 a.m., but in the late 2000s many had crept to 5:00 or even 4:00.
This was liya to a nai charam in 2011, jab anek retailor ( sahit nishaanaa, kohl 's, macy 's, Best Buy, and Bealls ) opened at midnight for the first time.
In 2012, Walmart and several other retailers announced that they hota kholen sabase of unke stores at 8:00 p.m. on thankgiving din ( magar in rajya jahaan kholane on thankgiving is nishiddh due to blue kanoon, aise as masachusets jahaan ve still kholi around midnight ), prompting calls for a walkout among some workers.
Black shuukravaar kharidari is gyaat liye attracting aakraamak crowds, saath salanaa reports of assaults, shootings, and throngs of people trampling on other shoppers in an attempt to get the best deal on a product before supplies run out.
The Family That Preys is a 2008 amareeki film naatak likhaa, utpaadit, and directed by Tyler Perry.
The screenplay focuses on two families, one dhanwaan or the anya working class, jinaki jeevandaan hai intertwined in dono prem and business.
The movie is the second of chaar in jisase peri 's hastakshar akshar, madea, does not make an appearance.
It is also the second Perry-directed filmi ( alongside papa 's choti ladakiyon ) ki is nahin aadhaarit on koi of the filmmaker 's stage plays.
Net 10, Net 15, Net 30 and Net 60 ( bhi jaal 10 dinon, et al ) hai form of vyapaar credit jisase bataaen ki the jaal raashi ( the kul bakaayaa on the chaalaan ) is apekshit to be sashulk in full and received by the seller within 10, 15, 30 or 60 days after the goods are dispatched or service is completed.
Net 30 or Net 60 terms are often coupled saath a credit liye jaldi bhugtan.
The word net in this sense arthath `` kul baad sab discounts. ''
It originally derives isse the latin nitere ( to chamak ) or nitidus ( suruchipurna, trim ), or more recently from the French net ( sharp, neat, clean ).
roadtown, tortola
the angrejon west indies yahood the islands in or around the caribbean ki were part of the British Empire.
In 1912, the British West Indies were divided into aath colonies : the bahama, barbados, angrejon guiana, angrejon honduras, jamaica ( saath iske dependencies the Turks and Caicos Islands and the Cayman Islands ), Trinidad and Tobago, the Windward Islands and the Leeward Islands.
Between 1958 and 1962, all of the island territories magar the angrejon virgin islands, the bahama, angrejon honduras or angrejon Guiana were organised into the West Indies Federation.
It was hoped that the Federation would become independent as a single nation, but it tha simit shaktiyaan, anek vyaavhaarik samasyaayein, or a kami of lokapriy support.
Consequently, the west indies sangh was dissolved.
Most of the territories, including all the larger ones, are now independent as separate countries, with membership to anek antarrashtriya forums aise as the sanghathan of amareeki rajya, the sangh of caribbean rajya, the sansar vyapaar sanghathan, the United Nations, the Caribbean Community, the Commonwealth of Nations and the Caribbean Development Bank among others.
The shesh hai angrejon videshi territories.
All the former nations of the British West indies, magar the rashtramandal of dominican, guyana or trinidad or tobago, hai rashtramandal realms.
The term is still prayukt liye angrejon videshi territories in the caribbean, such as the Cayman Islands.
The baaki angrejon west indies
`` What a adbhut sansar '' is a song likhaa by bob thiele ( as `` george Douglas '' ) and George David Weiss.
It was first recorded by lui armastrang or released as a single in 1967.
Thiele and Weiss yahood dono prominent in the music sansar ( thiele as a nirmaataa or veis as a composer/performer ).
armastrang 's recording thi inducted in the grami Hall of Fame in 1999.
The publishing for this song is controlled by Memory Lane Music samooh, carlin music corp., or keedaa music, inc.
udghaatan din 2009 on the west kadam of the U.S. Capitol.
President George W. Bush and First Lady laura bush sise the inaugural parade bas pencilvenia Avenue to the White House, 2005
The inauguration of the president of the sanyukt rajya is a ceremonial event ankan the shuruyaat of a nai four-year term of a president of the United States.
The day a presidential inauguration occurs is gyaat as `` udghaatan din '' or occurs on janvari 20 ( or 21st if the 20th is a Sunday ).
( Prior to the Twentieth Amendment, the date was March 4, the day of the year on jisase the samvidhan of the sanyukt rajya pehla took prabhaav in 1789 ; the pichhlaa udghaatan to lo place on the puraani tithi thi franklin D. Roosevelt 's first one on March 4, 1933. )
The most recent public adhyakshiya udghaatan rasm, the swearing in of adhyaksh baraak obama to begin his second four-year term in office, took place on Monday, January 21, 2013.
The only udghaatan tatv mandated by the sanyukt rajya samvidhan is ki the adhyaksh mek an shapath or pratigyaan pehle ki vyakti can `` daalen on the Execution '' of the office of the presidency.
However, over the years, various paramparaon have arisen ki have vistaarit the udghaatan isse a saral oath-taking ceremony to a day-long event, including parades, speeches, and balls.
From the presidency of Andrew Jackson through ki of jimmy carter, the praathmik udghaatan din rasm took place on the Capitol 's East Portico.
Since the 1981 inauguration of ronaald reagan, the rasm rai maharoom yojit at the Capitol 's West Front.
The inaugurations of William harvard taft in 1909 or reagan in 1985 yahood sthanantarit indoors at the capital due to cold weather.
The War of 1812 and World War II caused do inaugurations to be yojit at anya sthitiyaan in Washington, D.C.
jab george washington thi udghaatan, the shapath thi administered by robert livingston, chancelar of nai york rajya, in 1789, and by William Cushing, Associate Justice of the Supreme Court, in 1793.
Since Chief Justice Oliver Ellsworth swore in President John adams, no mukhya insaaf rai chhuti an udghaatan din.
When Inauguration Day has fallen on a sande, the mukhya insaaf rai administered the shapath to the adhyaksh on the sande privately or tab again the aglaa day publicly.
When a nai adhyaksh takes over mid-term due to the maut or istipha of a adhyaksh, the shapath of daftar is administered but formal, public inauguration events have not been held.
stefani joan angelina germanotta ( ; born kooch 28, 1986 ), gyaat by uske stage naam mahila gaaga, is an amareeki singer, songwriter, ricard nirmaataa, nartki, activist, businesswoman, fashion designer, actress and philanthropist.
Born and raised in New York City, she primarily studied at the kanvent of the pavitra dil or briefly attended nai york vishvavidhyalayon 's tisch skool of the kala pehle withdrawing to fokas on her musical career.
She soon began performing in the chattan music jhaanki of Manhattan 's Lower East Side.
By the end of 2007, record executive and producer Vincent Herbert signed her to his label Streamline record, an imprint of interscope record.
Initially working as a songwriter at interscope record, uske gayan abilities captured the dhyaan of recording kalakaar econ, jo also signed her to Kon Live Distribution, his own label under Interscope.
Lady Gaga came to prominence as a recording artist following the release of uske debyue album, the kirti ( 2008 ), jisase thi a najuk or vanijyik kamyaabi ki awwal chart around the sansar or shaamil the antarrashtriya number-one singles `` Just Dance `` and `` Poker Face ``.
After embarking on the The kirti ball daure, wo followed the album saath the kirti daanav ( 2009 ), jisase shakhit the vishwavyaapee hit singles `` Bad Romance ``, `` Telephone ``, and `` Alejandro ``.
The Fame Monsters success anumat uske to embark on the eighteen-month long daanav ball daure, jisase baad became ek of the highest-grossing concert tours of all time.
Her most recent album, Born This Way ( 2011 ), awwal the chart of sabase pramukh bazaar or utpann adhik antarrashtriya chart-topping singles, including `` Born This Way ``, `` Judas ``, and `` The Edge of Glory ``.
bahekaave by britney spirs, daud bovi, maaikel jackson, madonna, or maharani, mahila gaaga is pahachaanaa liye uske flamboyant, vividh or outré yogadan to the music industry through her fashion, performances and music videos.
As of October 2011, she has sold an estimated 23 million album or 64 lakh singles vishwavyaapee or uske singles hai kuch of the best-selling worldwide.
Her uplabdhiyaan shaamil paanch grami puraskaar and 13 MTV Video Music Awards.
Lady Gaga has consecutively appeared on Billboard magazine 's Artists of the Year ( scoring the definitive title in 2010 ), ranked fourth in vh1 's suchi of 100 mahanatam mahilaon in music, is the chathe behtareen selling digital singles kalakaar in us according to riaa, is regularly lagaai on suchiyaan rachit by forbs patrika or thi namit ek of the sabase influential logon in the world by Time magazine.
Besides her musical kariyar, wo involves herself saath humanitarian kalyankari and LGBT activism.
McKethan stadium ghar of ghadiyal besabaal
A picture of the 1924 besabaal team
The Florida gators besabaal toli represents the vishvavidhyalayon of florida in the sport of baseball.
The Florida Gators compete in Division I of the National Collegiate Athletics Association ( ncaa ), or the purvi prabhag of the southeastern sammelan ( sek ).
They play their home games in Alfred A. McKethan Stadium on the vishvavidhyalayon 's gainesville, florida campus, or hai philhal led by sir coach Kevin O'Sullivan.
In the ninety-eight season history of the gators besabaal kaarykram, the toli rai jiti baarah sek championships or rai appeared in aath college sansar Series tournaments.
`` electioneering '' redirects here.
For the Radiohead song, dekhie ok computer.
Presidential campaign batan liye abraham lincoln, 1860.
The reverse side of the batan shows a portret of uske kaaryshil mate Hannibal Hamlin.
A political abhiyaan is an vyavasthit praytn jisase seeks to influence the nirnay making process within a specific group.
In democracies, political campaigns often refer to chunavi abhiyaan, wherein pratinidhi hai chuni or referendums are decided.
In modern raajnneeti, the sabase unchi profil rajnatik abhiyaan hai kendrit on ummidavaar liye sir of rajya or head of government, often a President or Prime Minister.
elizabeth cady stanton and her daughter, Harriot
elizabeth cady stanton ( navambar 12, 1815 – aktubar 26, 1902 ) thi an amareeki soshal activist, abolitionist, or agrani figure of the early women 's rights movement.
Her Declaration of Sentiments, presented at the pehla mahilaon 's adhikaron sammelan yojit in 1848 in seneca jalprapaat, nai york, is praayah credited saath initiating the pehla vyavasthit mahilaon 's adhikaron and women 's suffrage movements in the United States.
Before Stanton narrowed uske rajnatik fokas lagbhag exclusively to mahilaon 's adhikaron, wo thi an kriyasheel abolitionist together with her husband, Henry Brewster Stanton and cousin, Gerrit Smith.
Unlike many of those involved in the mahilaon 's adhikaron gati, stanton addressed vibhinn mudde pertaining to mahilaon pare voting rights.
uske chintaaen shaamil mahilaon 's parental or castady adhikaron, property adhikaron, niyukti or aay adhikaron, divorce, the economic health of the family, and birth control.
She thi bhi an outspoken samarthak of the 19th-century temperance movement.
After the American Civil War, Stanton 's commitment to female suffrage caused a schism in the mahilaon 's adhikaron gati jab wo, saath saath susaan B. anthoni, asweekrut to support dyodhi of the fourteenth or pandrahavin Amendments to the United States Constitution.
She opposed giving added legal suraksha or matdaan adhikaron to africa amareeki main while women, black and white, were denied those same rights.
Her position on this issue, together with her thoughts on organized Christianity and women 's issues beyond matdaan adhikaron, led to the gathan of do pruthak mahilaon 's adhikaron sanghathan ki yahood aakhirkaar rejoined, saath stanton as adhyaksh of the sanyukt sanghathan, lagbhag bees saalo baad uske brake isse the original women 's suffrage movement.
stanton died in 1902 having authored dono the stri 's bible or uske aatmakatha, saath saath anek aalekh or pamphlets concerning maadaa suffrage and women 's rights.
My Fair Lady is a musical aadhaarit upon george barnard shaw 's pygmalion or saath kitaab or geet by alan jay lerner and music by Frederick Loewe.
The story chintaaen eliza doolittle, a kaakani pushp ladki jo takes vaak lessons isse praadhyaapak henry higgins, a phoneticist, so that she may pass as a well-born lady.
The musical 's 1956 Broadway production was a hit, setting kayaa thi tab the ricard liye the longest chalaaen of koi pramukh musical theatre production in history.
It was followed by a hit London production, a lokapriy filmi sanskaran, or numerous revivals.
It has been pukaara `` the purna musical ''.
deregulation is the adhinium or prakram of nikaalnaa or reducing state regulations.
It is therefore vipareet of viniman, jisase refers to the prakram of the sarkari regulating certain activities.
The Boston Bruins Radio Network is a 25-station ( 17 a.M., 8 f.m. plus 2 f.m. anuvadak ) sibies radio sanjaal jisase carries live game broadcasts of the Boston Bruins.
The network 's flagship stesan is wbz-fm /98.5- boston, masachusets.
Dave goucher announces play-by-play.
Bob beers provides color commentary.
This aalekh is parichay the short story.
liye the kavita by sara teasdale, dekhie vahin hoga Come Soft Rains.
`` There Will Come Soft Rains '' is a short story by vigyaan fiction lekhak re bradbury jisase thi pehla prakashit in the may 6, 1950 samasya of collier 's.
Later that same saal the story thi shaamil in bradbury 's the martian Chronicles ( 1950 ).
With over 1.2 billion people, Han Chinese is the largest jaateey samooh in the sansar.
Pashtun people of the Pashtunistan region, which sits in an kshetrafal between dakshin of the hindu kush in afghanistan or the sindhu nadi in Pakistan.
They number around 50 lakh.
The Korowai people of Papua numbered just around 3,000 logon, or yahood uncontacted jabatak the 1970s.
Ethnicity or ethnic group is a socially paribhaashit shrenee aadhaarit on aam samskruti or rashtriyata.
Ethnicity can, but does not have to, include common ancestry, rup, bhojan, dressing style, viraasat, itihaas, bhashaa or dialect, dharm, symbols, traditions, or other cultural factor.
Ethnic identity is constantly reinforced through aam visheshtaayen jisase niyat the samooh alaava isse anya samooh.
The 19.9 MW Gemasolar solar sanyantr in spain suvidhaayen 15 ghanton of bhandar and can supply power 24 hours a day.
Solar energy, radiant light or ooshmaa isse the surya, rai maharoom harnessed by insaano chunki pracheen times using a range of ever-evolving technologies.
Solar energy technologies include solar heating, solar photovoltaics, saura thermal vidyut, saura vaastukala or kritrim photosynthesis, jisase can mek considerable yogadan to solving some of the most urgent energy problems the world now faces.
Solar technologies are broadly characterized as either passive saura or kriyasheel saura depending on the rasta ve capchar, badalen or vitarit solar energy.
Active solar takneekon shaamil the upyog of photovoltaic panels or saura thermal collectors to harness the energy.
passive saura takneekon shaamil orienting a bhawan to the surya, selecting saamagree with favorable thermal mass or light dispersing properties, and designing spaces that naturally circulate air.
In 2011, the International Energy Agency said that `` the development of affordable, inexhaustible or saaf saura urja technologies hoga have vishaal longer-term benefits.
It will increase countries’ energy security through reliance on an indigenous, inexhaustible and mostly import-independent sansaadhan, badhayen sthirataa, reduce pradooshan, nimnatar the laagat of mitigating jalwaayu change, and keep fossil fuel prices lower than otherwise.
These laabh hai vaishvik.
Hence the additional laagat of the protsaahan liye jaldi deployment chahie be mana siikhnaa nivesh ; ve jarur be wisely spent and need to be widely shared ''.
The shastreey latin varnmaala or roman varnmaala viksit isse a pashchimi kismein of the unani varnmaala pukaara the cumaean varnmaala, which was adopted and modified by the Etruscans who ruled early Rome.
The Etruscan alphabet was in phere apanaaya or further parivardhit by the pracheen romans to write the Latin language.
During the Middle Ages, the Latin alphabet was adapted to Romance languages, direct descendants of latin, as khub as to celtic, germanic, baltic, or kuch slavi bhashaaen.
With the age of colonialism and Christian enjilwad, the latin script thi sprad videshi, or lagu to swadeshi amareeki, australian, Austronesian, Austroasiatic, and African languages.
More recently, linguists have bhi tended to prefer the latin script or the antarrashtriya dhvanyatmak varnmaala ( itself largely aadhaarit on latin script ) jab transcribing or creating written standards for non-European languages, such as the African reference alphabet.
The term Latin varnmaala may refer to either the varnmaala prayukt to likhen latin ( as varnit in is aalekh ), or anya alphabets aadhaarit on the latin script, jisase is the moulik niyat of akshar common to the various alphabets descended from the classical Latin one, such as the English alphabet.
ye latin-derived alphabets may choden akshar, jaise the rotokas varnmaala, or add new letters, like the Danish and Norwegian alphabet.
Letter shapes have badla over the sadiyaan, sahit the sristi liye madhyakaalin latin of nimnatar maamla form which did not exist in the Classical period.
The assassination of United States adhyaksh abraham lincoln took place on shubh shuukravaar, april 14, 1865, as the amareeki Civil War was drawing to a close.
The hatya occurred paanch dinon baad the commander of the confederate fouj of Northern Virginia, General Robert E. Lee, surrendered to Lieutenant General Ulysses S. Grant and the Union Army of the Potomac.
Lincoln was the first amareeki adhyaksh to be assassinated, haalanki an unsuccessful attempt tha maharoom bana on andrew jackson 30 saalo pehle in 1835.
The assassination was planned and carried out by the well-known stage karta jon wilkes booth, as bhaag of a larger conspiracy in a bid to revive the Confederate cause.
Booth 's co-conspirators were Lewis Powell and David Herold, who were abantit to maar sachiv of rajya wiliam H. seward, or george atzerodt who was to kill Vice President Andrew Johnson.
By simultaneously eliminating the sheersh teen logon in the prashasan, booth or uske co-conspirators hoped to sever the continuity of the United States government.
Lincoln was shot while watching the khel hamaari amareeki cousin saath uske bivi mariyam tod lincoln at ghat 's theatre in washington, D.C. on the night of April 14, 1865.
He died jaldi the aglaa morning.
The rest of the conspirators ' plot failed ; Powell only prabandhit to ghaav seward, jabaki atzerodt, johnson 's would-be hatyare, khoyaa uske tantrika and fled Washington.
add-on might mean:
plug-in ( computing ), a tukdaa of tantra jisase enhances another tantra application and usually can not be run independently
Browser extension, jisase modifies the interfes and/or bartaav of web browsers
Add-on ( Mozilla ), a piece of software ki enhances or customizes mozilla-based anuprayog
Add-ons for Firefox ( addons.mozilla.org ), the official Mozilla Foundation web site jisase serves as a repository of add-ons liye mozilla-based applications
paridhiy, an vaikalpik computer hardware ghatak ki significantly poorak or enhances the functionality of the original unit
Video game accessory, a tukdaa of hardware prayukt in sangyojan saath a video khel console for playing video games
Club level seating is a special khand of seating in aadhunik khel stadium.
The Club Level is usually located towards the madhya of the stage of seating bhaag, upar the nimnatar deck lakin neeche the upper deck.
They are usually right next to the Luxury Boxes, either sahi upar, sahi neeche, or sandwiched between two levels of Luxury Boxes.
Club Level seating is mana as ucchtar class than baithe anywhere else in the arina, but lower class compared to the Luxury Boxes.
naapsand the lakjri baks, sabase klbon str do not wrap entirely around the arena.
Some club levels stop at a certain point, giving way to an vistaar of the mezanin, jabaki anya de rasta to lower class Luxury Boxes ( such as `` Party Suites '' ).
A notable exception to is is emirate stadium in landan, jisase rai a puraa tear of klbon seating.
Club Levels allow prashansak anek str of entertainment.
Club Level seating is kholen to the tatv, as opposed to the entirely enclosed lakjri baks, jisase detaa more of an outdoors impression at roofless and open-roof stadiums and arenas.
Club Level seating is saamanytah kharida on a anubandh aadhaar to allow liye adhiktam laabh on the part of the stadium.
The klbon str provides prashansak saath khaas abhigam to an andar bhaag of the arena exclusive to fans with special tickets.
These areas are air conditioned and allow access to khaas restaraan, merchandise stand, or lounj kshetron of the stadium ki hai not otherwise available.
Concession stands and vendors on the Club str bhi praayah prastaav alag menu than in anya stands to give more of a special feel to the Club.
These areas are band band to the baaki of the stadium, or ve praayah can tabhi be pahunchaa through the exclusive, private club entrances.
Sophia Loren ( ; born Sofia villani scicolone ; 20 sitambar 1934 ) is an Italian actress.
Loren is widely recognized as italy 's sabase prasiddh or sammanit abhinetri.
She was the first actress of the talkie era to win an Academy Award for a non-english-speaking pradarshan, liye uske portrayal of cesira in vittorio de sika 's do mahilaon.
Her anya puraskaar shaamil a grami puraskaar, paanch special Golden Globes, a BAFTA Award and a Laurel Award.
In 1995 she received the Cecil B. DeMille puraskaar liye aaajeevan uplabdhiyaan, ek of anek aise puraskaar.
Her films include : Houseboat ( 1958 ), El Cid ( 1961 ), kal, aaj or kal ( 1963 ), vivaah italian-style ( 1964 ), or a khaas din ( 1977 ).
In later years she has appeared in amareeki blockbusters aise as grumpier boodha main ( 1995 ), and Nine ( 2009 ).
In 1994 wo strecchar in robert altman 's prêt-à-porter, jisase arjeet uske a sunahari Globe nomination the same year.
wo rai bhi hasil najuk or vanijyik kamyaabi in TV movies such as Courage ( 1986 ).
mauton liye self-inflicted choton prati 100,000 inhabitants in 2004.
Incidence of suicide is underreported due to both dharmik or soshal pressures, or sambhawatah completely unreported in kuch kshetron.
nevertheless, isse reported maamle, nishchit rujhaan are apparent.
Since the data is skewed, comparing aatmahatya daron between raashtra is statistically unsound.
the rujhaan themselves hai nahin the kaaran, lakin may be indicative of a root cause.
The Oprah Winfrey Leadership Academy for ladakiyon - dakshin africa is a maadaa boarding skool santhaapit in janvari 2007 or stith in henley on klip nikat meyerton, dakshin of johansburg, South Africa.
The academy was founded by Oprah Winfrey with the goal of providing educational and netritv avasar liye academically gifted ladakiyon isse impoverished prishthbhumi.
Oprah Winfrey netritv academy liye Girls
Digicel is a mobile phone sanjaal pradaata oparating in 31 bazaar aarpaar the caribbean, Central America, and Oceania regions.
The company is owned by Irishman Denis o'brien, is incorporated in bermuda, or based in Jamaica.
it rai parichay 13 lakh wireless users.
As of 2012, Digicel 's markets comprise : Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, Aruba, Barbados, Bermuda, Bonaire, the British Virgin Islands, the Cayman Islands, Curacao, Dominica, El salvador, fiji, french guiana, haraa, guadeloupe, guyana, haiti, jamaica, martinic, prakruti, panama, papua nai gini, samoa, sant kits or nevis, sant loosia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Suriname, Tonga, Trinidad & Tobago, Turks and Caicos, and Vanuatu.
This is a list of record of the fifa sansar cap or iske yogyata matches.
Hospital Emergency Codes hai prayukt in aspataal vishwavyaapee to chetavanee staff to various emergencies.
The use of codes is intended to convey essential soochna jaldi or saath minimal galatfahami to staff, jabaki preventing tanaav or dehshat among visitors to the hospital.
These code may be posted on placards throughout the hospital, or printed on employee identification badges for ready reference.
Back of a hospital id baij prardashit vipatti code.
hospital apaat code may denote alag kaarykram at different hospitals, including nearby ones.
Because many physicians work at more than one facility, this may lead to bhram in emergencies, so vardi pranaaliyon have maharoom prastaavit.
The root of the eifel jalsetu, saath iske average slope.
The Eifel jalsetu thi ek of the longest aqueducts of the Roman Empire.
The aqueduct, constructed in AD 80, carried water kuch isse the hilly eifel pradesh of kayaa is abhi germany to the pracheen nagar of colonia claudia aara agrippinensium ( present-day colon ).
if the auxiliary spers to atirikt sroton are included, the length was.
The construction was almost entirely below ground, and the flow of the water was utpaadit entirely by gambheertha.
A few bridges, including ek up to in lambaai, yahood needed to pass over valleys.
Unlike kuch of the anya prasiddh roman aqueducts, the eifel jalsetu thi specifically designed to minimize the above-ground portion to protect it from damage and freezing.
In chemistry, a disulfide bond ( Br.E. disulphide bandha ) is a covalent bandha, praayah niklaa by the coupling of do thiol groups.
The linkage is bhi pukaara an SS-bond or disulfide bridge.
The overall connactivity is isliye R-S-S-R.
The shabdaawalee is widely prayukt in biochemistry.
In aupchaarik sharten, the conection is a persulfide, in saadrishy to iske congener, paroxide ( r-o-o-r ), lakin is shabdaawalee is obscure and is no longer used ( except in reference to R-S-S-H or H-S-S-H compounds ).
Formal chithran of disulfide bandha gathan as an oxidation.
Westminster abi is prayukt liye the rajtilak of angrejon monarchs
Religion in the United Kingdom and in the countries that preceded it, rai maharoom varchasv, liye over 1,400 saalo, by vibhinn form of christianity.
According to some surveys, a majority of citizens still identify with Christianity, although regular girijaghar upasthiti rai gire dramatically chunki the madhya of the 20th sadi, or avrajan or janasankhyikee badalen have contributed to the vikaas of other faiths.
Religious affiliations of UK citizens are ankit by niyamit surveykshan, the chaar pramukh ones hone the uk janasankhyikee, the shramik force surveykshan, the angrejon soshal attitudes surveykshan or the European Social Survey.
According to the 2001 UK janasankhyikee, christianity is the pramukh dharm, followed by islam, hindutv, sikhism, judaism or buddhism in sharten of number of adherents.
This, and the relatively large number of individuals with nominal or no dharmik sambandhon rai led tikaakaron to variously describe the sanyukt kingdom as a multi-faith, secularised, or post-christian society.
The United Kingdom was formed by the sangh of previously swatantra deshon isse 1707, and consequently most of the largest religious groups do not have UK-wide organisational structures.
While some groups have separate structures liye the vyaktigat deshon of the sanyukt kingdom, anya may have a single dhaancha covering england or wales or Great Britain.
Similarly, due to the apekshaakrit haal sristi of uttari ireland in 1921, sabase pramukh dharmik samooh in uttari Ireland are organised on an all-Ireland basis.
The 1967 Newark riots were a major civil disturbance ki occurred in the nagar of neurk, New Jersey between July 12 and July 17, 1967.
The six days of rioting, looting, or vinaash baayein 26 murde or sainkadon injured.
In United States college athletics, redshirt is a vilamb or barkhaastagi of an khilaadi 's bhagidaari in anukram to lengthen uske or her period of eligibility.
Typically, a student 's athletic eligibility in a given sport is four seasons, a number niklaa isse the chaar saalo of academik varg ki hai saamanytah jaruri to obtain a snaatak 's oopaadhi at an amareeki college or university.
However, a student khilaadi may be offered the avasar to redshirt liye up to do saalo, jisase allows the khilaadi to sprad those four years of eligibility over five, or sometimes six years.
In a redshirt year, a student khilaadi may attend varg at the college or vishvavidhyalayon, abhyaas saath an athlettic toli, or dress for play but he or she may not compete during the game.
Using this mechanism, a student athlete has up to five academik saalo to upyog the chaar saalo of paatrata, yun banane a fifth-year varisht.
The term is used as a kriya, sangya, or kriyasheel.
liye udhaaharan, a coach may chune to redshirt a khilaadi jo is tab referred to as a redshirt freshman or simply a redshirt.
The opposite of this is a `` sachcha freshman. ''
World War I ( WWI ) was a global war centred in Europe that began on 28 july 1914 or lasted jabatak 11 navambar 1918.
It was predominantly pukaara the sansar yuddh or the great yuddh isse iske occurrence jabatak the prarambh of sansar yuddh ii in 1939, and the First World War or World War I thereafter.
It involved all the world 's great powers, which were assembled in two opposing alliances : the allies ( aadhaarit on the tripal entente of the sanyukt kingdom, frans or rus ) or the central shaktiyaan ( originally the tripal gathbandhan of germany, Austria-Hungary and Italy ; but, as Austria–Hungary had taken the offensive against the agreement, Italy did not enter into the war ).
These alliances were both reorganised and expanded as more nations entered the war : italy, japani or the sanyukt rajya joined the allies, or the osmani samrajya or bulgaria the central shaktiyaan.
Ultimately, more than 70 million sainya karmiyon, sahit 60 lakh europeans, yahood mobilised in one of the largest wars in history.
More than 9 million combatants were killed, largely because of technological advancements ki led to vishaal increases in the lethality of hathiyaar bagaiyr sambandhit sudhaar in protection or mobility.
It was the fifth- deadliest conflict in world history, subsequently paving the way for vibhinn rajnatik parivartan, aise as revolutions in anek of the raashtra shaamil.
One of the long-term causes of the war was the resurgence of imperialism in the videshi nitiyon of the great shaktiyaan of europea.
More tatkaal, the hatya of archduke franj ferdinand of austria, the vaaris to the singhaasana of austria-hungary, on 28 june 1914 by yugoslav rashtravaadi Gavrilo Princip in Sarajevo triggered a diplomatic crisis when Austria-Hungary subsequently delivered an ultimatum to the Kingdom of Serbia.
Several alliances formed over the pichhlaa dashakon yahood invoked.
Within weeks, the major powers were at war and, via unke colonies, the virodh jald sprad around the world.
On 28 July, the austro-hungarians fired the pehla goliyaan of the yuddh as preparation for the invasion of Serbia.
While the Russians mobilised, the Germans invaded neutral Belgium and dhvaj on the rasta to frans, providing a casus belli liye britain 's ghoshnaa of yuddh viruddh germany.
After the German march on Paris was brought to a halt—the so-called chamatkaar of the marne —the pashchimi saamne settled into a sthir battle of apgharshan saath a gart lakeer ki badla choti until 1917.
On the Eastern Front, the Russian army was successful against the austro-hungarians, lakin thi roka in iske akraman of east Prussia by the Germans.
In November the Ottoman Empire joined the yuddh, kholane up fronts in the kakeshas, mesopotamia and the Sinai.
Italy and bulgaria gai to yuddh in 1915 or romania in 1916.
In Russia, the tsar 's government collapsed in March 1917 and a subsequent kranti in navambar brought the russians to sharten saath the central shaktiyaan.
After a 1918 German offensive along the western front, the allies drove waapas the germans in a shrenee of kaamyaab offensives or amareeki forces began entering the trenches.
Germany, which had its own trubal saath krantikariyon, sahamat to an armistice on 11 navambar 1918.
The yuddh ended in vijay liye the Allies.
Events on the home fronts were as tumultuous as on the battle fronts, as the bhagidaar aajamaaya to mobilize unke janashakti or aarthik resources to fight a total war.
By the end of the war, four major imperial powers—the germany, roosi, austro-hungarian or osmani empires—ceased to exist.
the successor rajya of the purv do khoyaa a great raashi of territory, while the latter two were dismantled entirely.
The map of central europea thi redrawn into anek choti states.
The lig of raashtra thi formed in the aashaa of preventing another such conflict.
The European nationalism spawned by the war and the breakup of empires, the repercussions of germany 's shikast or samasyaayein saath the sandhi of versailles hai sahamat to be karkon contributing to sansar War II.
Map of countries that declared themselves to be socialist states antargat the marxist–leninist or maovadi paribhaasha - ki is to kah, `` communist rajya '' - between 1979 and 1983.
is kaal chihnit the mahanatam territorial extent of Communist states.
A communist state is a state where the means of utpaadan hai collectively swaamitv by the samaaj.
It has a rup of sarkari characterized by single-party niyam or dominant-party niyam of a communist party ( referred as taanaashaahee of the proletariat by iske proponents ) and a professed allegiance to a Leninist or Marxist–Leninist ideology as the guiding principle of the state.
Technically, `` communist rajya '' is a contradictio in terminis as a communist samaaj as paribhaashit by dono macrsvaadi and anarcho-communists is in principle stateless.
From this perspective, the term marxist-leninist rajya is more appropriate.
Historically, a `` communist state '' referred to a system where public ownership of all or most means of production by the Communist party -run state is deemed necessary to further the interests of the working class ; today, a communist rajya can bhi, liye udhaaharan, refer to samakaleen china or vietnam, jahaan a communist party-run rajya exists alongside a mixed economy.
According to Marxist–Leninists, the state is a tool in the hands of the sattadhari class, jisase in a samaajawaadee samaaj is the working class, so a samaajawaadee state is, according to Leninists, a state of the working class.
In practice, communist rajya do nahin darasal refer to themselves as such.
They do this not to disguise the fact that the ruling party is communist, lakin balki kuki ve do nahin consider themselves to be a communist society at present.
Instead, they constitutionally pahachaano themselves as samaajawaadee rajya or majdoor ' rajya.
The primary goal of ye rajya, jisase bhi explains unke aadhikarik naam, is to maargdarshika unke sambandhit deshon in the process of building socialism, ultimately leading to communism.
Communist states may have several legal political parties, lakin the communist party is praayah granted a khaas or prabal bhoomika in sarkari, praayah by statute or antargat the samvidhan.
Consequently, the sansthaanon of the rajya or of the communist party become intimately entwined, aise as in the vikaas of parallel institutions.
In the 20th sadi, sabase communist states adopted planned economies.
However, there were exceptions : the soviet sangh dauraan the 1920s or let 1980s or yugoslavia baad sansar yuddh ii anumat simit bazaar or a oopaadhi of kaaryakarta self-management, while China, Vietnam and Laos introduced far-reaching market reforms after the 1980s.
In the 21st sadi, china or vietnam have anumat a mishrit economy to develop.
The fundamental avadharanaon of communist rajya praayah diverge isse the asli socio-economic ideologies from which they develop.
As a result, many adherents of these vichaardhaaraon praayah oppose the rajnatik pranaaliyon commonly sambhddha saath these states.
For example, dissenting samyavaadiyon aise as trotskyists yahood praayah opposed to the communist rajya of the 20th sadi, claiming either ki ve tha nothing to do saath `` real '' samyavaadee or ki the vichaardhaara of aise rajya had reached a point of irrevocable corruption.
Michael fred felps ii ( born june 30, 1985 ) is a ritred amareeki tairaak or the sabase sajaa Olympian of all time, with a total of 22 medals.
Phelps also holds the all-time records for Olympic gold medals ( 18, double the second highest record holders ), olympic sunaharaa medals in vyaktigat kaarykram ( 11 ), or olympic medals in individual events for a male ( 13 ).
In winning eight gold medals at the 2008 Beijing Games, Phelps took the ricard liye the sabase first-place finishes at koi single olympic khel.
Five of those victories yahood in vyaktigat kaarykram, tying the single Games record.
In the 2012 garmiyaan olympic in landan, felps jiti chaar golds or do chaandi medals, bananaa use the sabase successful athlete of the Games for the third Olympics in a row.
Phelps is the long course world recordholder in the 100-meter butterfly, 200-meter butterfly and 400-meter vyaktigat medley as khub as the purv long course sansar recordholder in the 200-meter freestil or 200-meter vyaktigat medley.
He has jiti a kul of 71 medals in pramukh antarrashtriya long-course pratiyogita, 57 sunaharaa, 11 chaandi, and three bronze spanning the Olympics, the World, and the Pan Pacific Championships.
Phelps 's antarrashtriya sheershak or record-breaking pradarshan have arjeet use the sansar tairaak of the saal puraskaar saat times or amareeki tairaak of the Year Award nine times as well as the FINA Swimmer of the Year Award in 2012.
His unprecedented Olympic success in 2008 arjeet felps khel illustrated patrika 's Sportsman of the Year award.
After the 2008 Summer Olympics, Phelps started the Michael felps nyaas, jisase focuses on growing the khel of tairaaki or promoting healthier lifestyles.
He expects to do further work with his foundation after the 2012 Olympics, jisase he rai kaha hoga be uske pichhlaa.
Lenovo Group Limited ( ) is a Chinese multinational computer hardware and electronics company saath iske mukhyalay in beijing, china or morrisville, uttar carolina or iske panjikrut daftar in Hong Kong, China.
Its products include personal computers, tablett computer, mobile phone, workstations, sarwar, electronic bhandar devices, IT management software and smart televisions.
Lenovo is the world 's second-largest pc vikreta by 2012 ikai sales.
It bazaar the thinppad lakeer of kopi computer and the ThinkCentre line of desktops.
Lenovo has parichaalan in adhik than 60 deshon or sells its products in around 160 countries.
lenovo thi santhaapit in beijing in 1984 or incorporated in Hong Kong in 1988 under its previous name, Legend.
Lenovo is listed on the hong kong bhandar exange or is a constituent of the hang seng china-affiliated Corporations Index.
Slug is a common name liye an jaahir shell-less sthaliy gastropod mollusk.
The word `` slug '' is also often used as part of the common name of any gastropod mollusc ki rai no shell, rai a bahut ghataya shell, or rai tabhi a small internal shell.
( This is in contrast to the aam naam `` ghongha ``, jisase is lagu to gastropods ki have a nattejey shell ki is vishaal enough that the soft parts of the animal can retract fully into it. )
slugs maujuud on jameen or in the samudr, or vahin is bhi one genus of freshwater slugs, Acochlidium.
The unadorned word `` slug '' is however applied primarily to jameen slugs, whereas slugs isse the samudr or isse freshwater hai usually referred to as `` sea slugs `` and `` freshwater slugs ''.
Land gastropods with a shell that is not quite vestigial, lakin is too choti to retract into ( jaise anek in the parivaar urocyclidae ), are known as semislugs.
The vibhinn taxonomic pariwaron of slugs rup bhaag of anek kaaphi alag vikasvaadi lineages which also include snails.
Thus, for example, the various families of land slugs are not very closely sambandhit to ek another, despite a satahi samanta in the overall body form.
The shell-less condishan rai arisen anek times independently dauraan the vikasvaadi past, or yun the shrenee `` slug '' is emphatically a polyphyletic one.
Slugs, like all other gastropods, undergo torsion ( a 180° tedi of the internal organs ) during development.
Internally, slug anatomy clearly shows the prabhaav of is roteshan, lakin externally the laashen of jameen slugs appear to be more or less symmetrical, except for the positioning of the pneumostome, which is on one side of the animal, normally the right hand side.
The soft, slimy laashen of slugs hai prone to desiccation, so land-living slugs hai confined to nam environments and must retreat to damp hiding places when the weather is dry.
The subsequent soochna in is aalekh applies to land slugs.
is a latin shabd ki arthath `` yun '' or, in likhane, `` it was thus in the source material ''.
Sic may bhi refer to:
Sic, Cluj, a commune in romania
sic, the kshetreey code for Sicily
Sic ( noise artist ), styled as [ sic ], stage naam of jenifer morris, a canadai noise artist
Sic ( band ) is a aadhunik hardcore/thrash metal band from Torshavn, the capital of the Faroe Islands
`` ( sic ) '', a song by amareeki band slipknot on the album Slipknot
sic, the aarambhik of Marco Simoncelli.
SIC as an echronim may stand for:
sic, silicon carbide, a semiconducting saamagree, also used to make metalworking tools
SIC ( cyclecar ) ( società italiana cyclecars )
Standard Industrial vargeekaran, a 20th-century u.S. pranali for classifying industries
antarrashtriya maanak audyogic Classification a UN system for economic activities
shethland islands Council
the swiss interbank Clearing system
san isidro klbon, an argentine rugby union club
Standing Interpretation cameti, a cameti samarpit to the nirvachan of antarrashtriya hisaab maanakon IFRS
Schwarz soochna maandand in the field of statistics
Second-in-command in the field of vimaanan
Sistema interconectado central shakti grid in chile
Sociedade independente de comunicação ( sic ), a television channel in Portugal
Sea oil nagar, nai jersey, a tateey kasbaa in the United States
Segmented purnank counter vidhi, a vidhi of aaparishan in kryptography
Sepang International Circuit, a high-end racetrack ki host the malaysian round of Formula 1
Shanghai antarrashtriya circuit, a motor racing sthaan in Shanghai, China
Simplified instructional computer, a kaalpanik computer prayukt in pranaaliyon programming
sic ( bete idées couleurs ), an jaldi twentieth-century art patrika produced by French author Pierre Albert-Birot
Southeastern Illinois College, a two year Junior college in harrisburg, illinois, sanyukt rajya
Specific inductive capacity, abbreviated to sic, jisase is adhik commonly gyaat as the saapeksh vidyutshiltaa or the dielectric constant
st ignatius ' college, riverview, a jesuit school in Sydney, Australia
imperial maanak of Napoleon I
Napoleon Bonaparte (, ; 15 August 1769 – 5 May 1821 ) was a French military and political netaa jo rose to prominence dauraan the latter charan of the french kranti or iske associated wars in Europe.
As Napoleon I, he thi samraat of the french isse 1804 to 1815.
His legal reform, the Napoleonic Code, has been a major influence on anek civil vidhi jurisdictions vishwavyaapee, lakin he is behtareen remembered liye uske bhoomika in the yudhon led viruddh frans by a shrenee of coalitions, the so-called napoleonic yudhon.
He established hegemony over most of continental europea or sought to sprad the aadarshon of the french kranti, jabaki consolidating an imperial samrajya which restored aspects of the deposed Ancien Régime.
Due to uske kamyaabi in ye yudhon, praayah viruddh numerically shreshth dushmano, he is generally regarded as ek of the mahanatam military commanders of all time, and his campaigns are studied at military academies worldwide.
nepolian thi born at ajaccio in corsica in a parivaar of pratishthit Italian ancestry which had settled Corsica in the 16th century.
He prashikshit as an topakhane adhikari in mainland France.
He rose to prominence under the French First Republic and led kaamyaab abhiyaan viruddh the pehla or duusari coalitions arrayed against France.
He led a kaamyaab akraman of the italvi prayadweep.
In 1799, he staged a coup d'état and santhaapit khud as pehla kaunsul ; paanch saalo baad the french seenet proclaimed him emperor, following a plebiscite in his favour.
In the first decade of the 19th sadi, the french samrajya antargat nepolian sagaai in a shrenee of conflicts—the Napoleonic Wars —that involved every major European power.
After a streak of victories, France secured a prabal sthiti in mahadwipiya europea, or nepolian kaayam the french gola of influence through the gathan of extensive alliances or the niyukti of mitron and family members to rule other European countries as French client states.
The Peninsular War or 1812 french akraman of rus chihnit turning points in Napoleon 's fortunes.
His Grande Armée thi badly kshatigrast in the abhiyaan or never fully recovered.
In 1813, the Sixth Coalition parajeet uske shaktiyaan at lipjig ; the following saal the gathbandhan invaded France, forced Napoleon to abdicate and exiled him to the island of Elba.
Less than a year later, he escaped Elba and laute to shakti, lakin thi parajeet at the battle of waterlu in june 1815.
nepolian kharch the pichhlaa chah saalo of uske jivan in confinement by the British on the island of Saint Helena.
An autopsy concluded he died of stomach cancer, but vahin rai maharoom kuch bahes parichay the kaaran of uske maut, as kuch vidwaanon have speculated that he was a victim of arsenic poisoning.
This is a kalanukramik listing of the sanyukt rajya seenetteron from Pennsylvania.
sanyukt rajya seenetteron hai popularly nirvaachit, liye a six-year term, beginning January 3.
chunaavon hai yojit the pehla mangalvaar after November 1.
Before 1914, they were chosen by the Pennsylvania saamaanya sabha, or pehle 1935, unke sharten began kooch 4.
The South Africa neshnal rugby sangh toli ( gyaat as the springboks ) represents dakshin africa in rugby union.
They compete in the salanaa rugby championships, saath saath southern-hemisphere counterparts Argentina, Australia and New Zealand.
They have jiti is championships on teen avasaron in sixteen years.
They are currently ranked second in the world by the antarrashtriya rugby falak, or yahood namit 2008 sansar toli of the saal at the Laureus World Sports Awards.
Although South Africa was instrumental in the creation of the Rugby World Cup competition, the springboks kiya nahin compete in the pehla do sansar cups in 1987 or 1991 kuki of anti-apartheid sporting boycotts of South Africa.
The team made its World Cup debut in 1995, when the newly loktantric dakshin africa hosted the toornament.
The Springboks tab parajeet the sab ashweton 15–12 in the final, jisase is abhi remembered as ek of the mahanatam pal in dakshin Africa 's sporting history, and a watershed moment in the post-Apartheid nation-building process.
South africa regained unke sheershak as champions 12 saalo baad, jab they defeated England 15–6 in the 2007 final.
As a result of the 2007 World Cup tournament the springboks yahood prachaarit to pehla place in the aiarabi sansar rankings, a sthiti ve yojit jabatak july the following year when New Zealand regained the top spot.
The Springboks play in green and gold jerseys, and unke pratik hai the springbok or the protea.
the paksh rai maharoom playing antarrashtriya rugby chunki 1891, jab a angrejon isles paksh toured the nation, playing South Africa in their first Test on 30 July.
South Africa was coached by jack shwet, jo led the boks to the 2007 sansar cap sheershak, announcing uske istipha effectively from the end of 2007.
His replacement 's ( Peter de Villiers ) contract expired in 2011, following a 11–9 shikast to australia in the rugby sansar cap quarter-final, jo tab stated he hota nahin be hastakshar a new deal.
the pichhlaa captain thi jon smit, jo pehle he ritred in 2011 nibhaai veshya liye most of his career, although he has also been a prop, mainly in 2008 and 2009.
Due to Smit being unavailable for the navambar 2010 pareekshan baad surgery, taala victor matfield took smit 's place as captain for that tour.
The current captain is jaan de villiers.
The Battle of Gettysburg (, with an sound ), was fought July 1–3, 1863, in or around the kasbaa of gettysburg, pencilvenia.
It was the battle with the largest number of casualties in the amareeki civil yuddh or is praayah varnit as the yuddh 's turning point.
Union maj. gen. george gordon meade 's fouj of the potomac parajeet hamale by confederate gen. robert E. lee 's Army of Northern Virginia, ending Lee 's invasion of the North.
After his success at chancellorsville in virginia in may 1863, lee led uske fouj through the shenandoah ghati to shuru uske duusari akraman of the North—the Gettysburg Campaign.
With his army in high spirits, Lee intended to shift the focus of the summer campaign from war-ravaged northern Virginia and hoped to influence Northern politicians to give up their abhiyojan of the yuddh by penetrating as dur as harrisburg, pencilvenia, or bhi philadelphia.
Prodded by President Abraham Lincoln, Maj. Gen. Joseph Hooker sthanantarit uske fouj in pursuit, lakin thi sukun bas teen dinon pehle the battle and replaced by Meade.
Elements of the two armies initially collided at gettysburg on july 1, 1863, as lee tatkaal concentrated uske shaktiyaan vahin, his objective being to engage the Union army and destroy it.
Low ridges to the northwest of kasbaa yahood defended initially by a sangh pyaade prabhag antargat brigadier. gen. jon buford, and soon reinforced with two corps of Union infantry.
However, two large Confederate corps fahraa unhen isse the uttarpashchim or uttar, collapsing the hastily viksit sangh linon, sending the defenders retreating through the streets of town to the hills just to the south.
On the second day of battle, sabase of dono sena tha samavet.
The Union line was laid out in a rakshaatmak gathan resembling a fishhook.
In the late afternoon of July 2, lee shubharambh a baari utpeedan on the sangh baayein parshv, or fierce lard raged at choti Round Top, the Wheatfield, Devil 's Den, and the Peach Orchard.
On the Union right, demonstrations escalated into full-scale assaults on culp 's hill or kabristaan Hill.
sab aarpaar the ranbhumi, despite significant losses, the Union defenders held their lines.
On the third din of battle, july 3, lard resumed on culp 's hill, or pyaade ladaaiyon raged to the east or dakshin, lakin the pramukh event thi a naatakeey infantry assault by 12,500 Confederates against the center of the Union line on Cemetery Ridge, known as Pickett 's Charge.
The charge was repulsed by Union rifle and topakhane aag, at great nuksaan to the confederate fouj.
lee led uske fouj on a torturous retreat back to Virginia.
Between 46,000 and 51,000 soldiers isse dono sena yahood hataahat in the three-day battle.
That November, President Lincoln used the dedication rasm liye the gettysburg neshnal kabristaan to sammaan the gire sangh sainiko or redefine the purpose of the war in his historic Gettysburg Address.
An academik anushaasan, or field of padhai, is a shakha of gyaan ki is taught and researched at the college or university level.
Disciplines are defined ( in part ), and recognized by the academic journals in jisase shodh is prakashit, or the siikhe samaajon or academik vibhaag or faculties to jisase unke practitioners belong.
However, there exists no formal criteria for when shaikshanik kaarykram or scholarly jarnals rup an academik anushaasan.
A huge difference exists between, on the one hand, well established disciplines that exist in almost all universities all over the world, have a long history, and have a well established set of jarnals or sammelnon, or, on the anya haath, suzav liye nai field samarthit tabhi by few vishvavidhyalayon or publications.
Fields of study usually have several sub-disciplines or shakhaon, or the distinguishing linon between these are often both arbitrary and ambiguous.
PHP is a server-side encripshan bhashaa designed liye web vikaas lakin bhi prayukt as a general-purpose programming language.
piechapi is abhi santhaapit on adhik than 244 lakh websites and 2.1 million web servers.
Originally created by Rasmus Lerdorf in 1995, the sandarbh kriyanvayan of piechapi is abhi utpaadit by the PHP Group.
While PHP originally stood for Personal Home Page, it abhi stand liye piechapi : hypertext preprocessor, a recursive echronim.
PHP code is interpreted by a web server with a piechapi procesar modul jisase generates the resulting web pej : piechapi cmand can be antahsthapit sidhe into an achtmal sorce dastauez rather than calling an external file to process data.
It has also evolved to include a command-line interface kaabiliyat or can be prayukt in staneylon aalekhiy anuprayog.
PHP is free software released antargat the piechapi anugna, jisase is asangat saath the gnu saamaanya public anugna ( GPL ) due to restrictions on the usage of the term PHP.
PHP can be tainaat on sabase web sarwar or bhi as a staneylon shell on lagbhag prayek operating system and platform, free of charge.
John Fitzgerald `` Jack '' Kennedy ( May 29, 1917 – November 22, 1963 ), often referred to by uske adyakshar jfk, thi the 35th adhyaksh of the sanyukt rajya, sevarat isse 1961 jabatak uske maut in 1963.
After military service as commander of the Motor Torpedo Boats pt-109 or pt-59 dauraan sansar yuddh ii in the dakshin prashanth, kennedy represented masachusets ' 11th congressional district in the U.S. House of Representatives from 1947 to 1953 as a Democrat.
Thereafter, he served in the U.S. seenet isse 1953 jabatak 1960.
Kennedy defeated vaais adhyaksh or republican pratyaashee richard Nixon in the 1960 U.S. presidential election.
At 43 years of age, he is the youngest to have been nirvaachit to the daftar, the second-youngest adhyaksh ( baad theodor rujvelt ), and the first person born in the 20th century to serve as president.
A Catholic, Kennedy is the only non- protostant adhyaksh, or is the tabhi adhyaksh to have won a Pulitzer Prize.
Events during his presidency shaamil the khadi of boar akraman, the cuban missile sankat, the bhawan of the berlin wal, the spes res, the african-american Civil Rights Movement, and early stages of the Vietnam War.
Therein, Kennedy increased the kramank of sainya advisers, khaas aaparishan shaktiyaan, or helicopters in an effort to curb the spread of communism in South East Asia.
The Kennedy administration adopted the policy of the ranneetik hamelet kaarykram jisase thi implemented by the dakshin Vietnamese government.
It involved certain forced relocation, village internment, or pruthakkaran of gramin dakshin vietnami isse the uttari or dakshini communist insurgents.
Kennedy was assassinated on navambar 22, 1963 in Dallas, Texas.
lee ghanghor oswald thi charge saath the aparaadhon, lakin he thi shot and killed by Jack Ruby two days later, before a trial could take place.
The epabiai or the warren ayog officially concluded ki Oswald was the lone assassin.
However, the sanyukt rajya house chune cameti on assassinations ( hsca ) concluded ki those investigations yahood flawed and that Kennedy was probably assassinated as the result of a conspiracy.
However, ABC News in their chaanbin, the kennedy hatya : pare shadyantr, pushti the nishkarshon of the warren ayog ; having concluded Oswald acted alone.
Kennedy 's controversial Department of Defense tfx senaanee bomber kaarykram led to a congressional chaanbin ki lasted from 1963 to 1970.
Since the 1960s soochna concerning kennedy 's nijee jivan rai aaiye to light.
Details of Kennedy 's health problems in jisase he struggled have become behatar gyaat, visheshkar chunki the 1990s.
Although initially kept secret from the general public, reports of kennedy 's philandering have garnered much dabaayen.
Kennedy ranks highly in public raay darja of u.S. presidents.
`` Stand by Me '' is a song originally performed by ben E. king or likhaa by king, jeri leiber, or Mike Stoller, inspired by the spiritual `` Lord Stand by Me, '' plus two lines rooted in Psalms 46:2–3.
There have maharoom over 400 ankit sanskaran of the song.
A political cartoon from an 1894 Puck magazine by illustrator S.D. ehrhart, shows a farm stri labeled `` loktantric party '' sheltering isse a tornado of political change.
A metaphor is a figure of vaak ki describes a vishay by asserting ki it is, on some point of comparison, the same as another otherwise unrelated object.
Metaphor is a type of analogy and is closely related to anya rhetorical aankade of vaak ki achieve unke prabhaav via sangh, tulana or resemblance including allegory, hyperbole, and simile.
In simpler terms, a roopak compares do vastuen or bate bagaiyr using the words `` like '' or `` as ''.
One of the most prominent examples of a roopak in angrezi sahitya is the sab the sansar 's a stage monologue isse As You Like It :
sab the sansar 's a stage,
And all the main or mahilaon merely khilaadi ;
They have their exits or unke entrances ; — wiliam shakespeare, as tum Like It, 2/7
This quote is a roopak kuki the sansar is nahin literally a stage.
By figuratively asserting that the world is a stage, shakespeare upyog the ank of tulana between the sansar or a stage to convey an samajhnaa about the mechanics of the world and the lives of the people within it.
Mount Fuji, from the thirty-six drishy of mount fuji, rang woodcut by katsushika Hokusai
Rembrandt van Rijn, self-portrait, etching, c.1630
Francisco Goya, vahin is no ek to sahaayta unhen, aapadaaon of yuddh shrenee, aquatint c.1810
felics vallotton, la raison probante ( the cogent Reason ), woodcut from the series Intimités, 1898
Printmaking is the process of making artworks by mudran, saamanytah on paper.
Printmaking saamanytah cover tabhi the prakram of bananaa prints saath an tatv of originality, rather than just being a photographic reproduction of a painting.
Except in the case of monotyping, the process is sakasham of producing multiples of the vahi tukdaa, jisase is called a print.
Each print utpaadit is nahin mana a `` nakal '' lakin balki is mana an `` original ''.
This is because typically each print varies to an extent due to variables intrinsic to the printmaking prakram, or bhi kuki the imagery of a chapai is typically nahin bas a janan of another kaary lakin balki is praayah a adwitiya image designed from the start to be expressed in a particular printmaking technique.
A chapai may be gyaat as an impression.
Printmaking ( other than monotyping ) is not chosen tabhi liye iske kshamta to upaj anek impressions, lakin balki liye the adwitiya qualities ki prayek of the printmaking processes lends itself to.
Prints are created by transferring syaahi isse a metrics or through a prepared screen to a chadar of paper or anya material.
Common prakaar of matrices shaamil : metal platon, praayah tambe or jasta, or polimur platon liye nakkashi or etching ; stone, aluminum, or polymer for lithography ; blocks of wood for woodcuts and wood engravings ; and linoleum for linocuts.
Screens made of silk or synthetic fabrics hai prayukt liye the screenprinting process.
Other types of matrix substrates or sambandhit prakriyaaon hai discussed neeche.
Multiple impressions mudrit isse the vahi matrix form an edition.
Since the late 19th century, kalakaaron have generally hastakshrit vyaktigat impressions isse an sanskaran or praayah kramank the impressions to form a limited edition.
Prints may bhi be mudrit in kitaab rup, aise as illustrated books or artist 's books.
Il Divo is an angrezi bahurashtriya operatic pop gayan samooh nirmit by music manager, karypalika, and reality TV star Simon Cowell.
Formed in the sanyukt kingdom, ve hai bhi hastakshrit to Cowell 's record label, Syco Music.
Il Divo is a group of chaar purush gayakon : french pop singer sebestian izambard, spani baritone carlos marín, American tenor David Miller, and Swiss tenor Urs Bühler.
To date, ve have bechi adhik than 26 lakh album worldwide.
Su-15, one of the principal Soviet air raksha interceptors in the 1970s and 1980s
An interceptor aircraft ( or simply interceptor ) is a type of fighter aircraft designed specifically to prevent mishan of dushman vayuyan, visheshkar bamavarshak or reconnaissance vayuyan, or nasht unhen, relying usually on great speed and powerful armament.
Being used since the First World War, after the late 1960s, interceptors became kam mahatvapurn due to shifting isse bamavarshak to intercantinental belistic misile ( icbms ) liye nabhikeey warfare.
A Vietnamese amareeki ( ) is an amareeki of vietnami descent.
They make up parichay half of sab videshi vietnami ( người việt hải ngoại ) and are the fourth-largest Asian American group.
Mass Vietnamese avrajan to the sanyukt rajya prarambh baad 1975, baad the samaapt of the Vietnam War.
Early immigrants were sharnaarthi naav logon fleeing persecution or garibi.
Forced to flee from their homeland and often thrust into garib shahari pados, ye newcomers have nevertheless prabandhit to sthapit strong communities in a short amount of time.
More than sixty pratishat of vietnami america reside in the rajya of California, Texas, Washington, Florida, and Virginia.
Front page of the u.S. hathiyaarband shaktiyaan samachaarpatr, sitaron or Stripes, 2 May 1945
Adolf Hitler vachanabaddh aatmahatya by gunshot on 30 april 1945 in uske führerbunker in Berlin.
His wife Eva ( née Braun ) vachanabaddh aatmahatya saath use by ingesting cyanide.
That afternoon, in accordance with Hitler 's prior nirdesh, unke remains yahood carried up the seedhiyaan through the bunker 's apaat nikaas, doused in petrol or niyat alight in the Reich Chancellery garden outside the bunker.
The Soviet archives record that their burnt remains were baraamad or interred in successive sthitiyaan jabatak 1970 jab ve yahood again exhumed, cremated or the raakh bikhare.
Accounts differ as to the cause of maut ; ek ki he died by zehar tabhi or another ki he died by a self-inflicted gunshot, while biting down on a cyanide capsule.
Contemporary itihaaskaaron have asweekrut ye khate as hone either soviet prachaar or an attempted compromise in order to reconcile the different conclusions.
One eye-witness recorded that the body showed signs of having been shot through the munh, lakin is rai maharoom siddh asambhavit.
There is also controversy regarding the authenticity of kapaal or jabadon fragments jisase yahood baraamad.
In 2009, DNA tests were performed on a kapaal soviet officials tha long believed to be hitler 's.
The tests revealed ki the kapaal thi darasal ki of a stri less than 40 years old.
sthaan of mizori
The daaru kanoon of mizori hai among the tanik pratibandhak and most lax and permissive in the United States.
mizori is gyaat throughout the midwest liye iske largely laissez-faire drushtikon to daaru regulation, in sharp contrast to the very strict alcohol laws of some of its neighbors, like Kansas and Oklahoma.
Necrotizing fasciitis ( or ) or NF, commonly known as flesh-eating disease or flesh-eating bacteria syndrome, is a viral sankraman of the deeper paraton of skin or subcutaneous utakon, easily spreading aarpaar the fascial plane bheetar the subcutaneous tissue.
Necrotizing fasciitis is quickly progressing, having vrihad risk of vikasshil in the immunocompromised due to sharten jaise diabetes, cancer, etc.
It is a severe disease of achaanak onset or is praayah treated tatkaal saath unchi doses of intravenous antibiotics.
Type I describes a polymicrobial sankraman, whereas prakaar ii describes a monomicrobial infection.
Many prakaar of jeevanu can kaaran necrotizing fasciitis ( e.g., samooh a streptococcus ( Streptococcus pyogenes ), Staphylococcus aureus, Clostridium perfringens, Bacteroides fragilis, Aeromonas hydrophila ).
aise infections hai adhik sambhavit to occur in logon saath compromised immune systems.
Historically, Group A streptococcus bana up sabase maamle of prakaar ii infections.
However, since as early as 2001, another serious form of monomicrobial necrotizing fasciitis rai maharoom observed saath increasing aavriti, caused by methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus ( MRSA ).
Some published case reports have implied a sambhavit kadi between upyog of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory davaayen or nf, haalanki the pramaan of the kadi thi kaha to be kamjor kuki of a choti kramank of maamla marijon or it thi unclear whether the drugs just masked the symptoms of a secondary infection or were a cause per se.
World War II ( WWII or WW2 ), also gyaat as the duusari sansar yuddh, thi a vaishvik yuddh ki lasted from 1939 to 1945.
It involved the vast bahumat of the sansar 's raashtra —including sab of the great powers —eventually forming two opposing military alliances : the Allies and the Axis.
it thi the sabase faili yuddh in itihaas, saath adhik than 100 lakh logon sevarat in military units from over 30 different countries.
In a state of `` total war ``, the major bhagidaar lagaai unke sampurna aarthik, audyogic, or vaigyanik samarthy at the seva of the yuddh effort, erasing the distinction between civilian and military resources.
chihnit by dravyaman mauton of nagarikon, sahit the holocaust or the tabhi upyog of nuclear weapons in warfare, it resulted in 50 million to over 75 million fatalities.
These deaths make World War ii by dur the deadliest virodh in insaan itihaas.
The Empire of Japan aimed to dominate East Asia and was already at war with the Republic of China in 1937, but the world war is generally said to have begun on 1 sitambar 1939 saath the akraman of candal by germany or subsequent ghoshnaaon of yuddh on germany by France and Britain.
From late 1939 to jaldi 1941, in a shrenee of abhiyaan or treaties, germany formed the aksh gathbandhan saath Italy, conquering or subduing much of continental Europe.
following the molotov–ribbentrop anubandh, germany or the soviet sangh partitioned or annexed territories between themselves of their European neighbours, including Poland.
The United Kingdom and the anya sadasyon of the angrejon rashtramandal yahood the tabhi pramukh alide shaktiyaan continuing the lado viruddh the aksh, saath ladaaiyon lene place in uttar Africa as well as the long-running Battle of the Atlantic.
In June 1941, the European Axis launched an invasion of the Soviet Union, giving a start to the largest jameen theatre of yuddh in itihaas, jisase tied bas the pramukh bhaag of the aksh ' sainya shaktiyaan liye the baaki of the yuddh.
In December 1941, Japan joined the Axis, attacked the sanyukt rajya or europea territories in the prashanth samandar, or quickly conquered much of the Western Pacific.
The Axis advance was stopped in 1942, after Japan lost a series of naval battles and European Axis sainikon yahood parajeet in uttar africa or, decisively, at stalingrad.
In 1943, with a series of German defeats in purvi europea, the alide akraman of italy, or amareeki victories in the prashanth, the aksh khoyaa the pahal or undertook ranneetik retreat on all fronts.
In 1944, the Western Allies invaded France, while the Soviet Union regained sab of iske territorial nuksaan or invaded germany or its allies.
dauraan 1944 or 1945 the sanyukt rajya parajeet the japani Navy and captured key Western Pacific islands.
The war in Europe ended with the capture of Berlin by soviet or polish sainikon or the subsequent germany unconditional surrender on 8 May 1945.
Following the Potsdam Declaration by the Allies on 26 July 1945, the sanyukt rajya dropped parmaanu bam on the Japanese cities of Hiroshima on 6 August, and Nagasaki on 9 August.
With an invasion of the Japanese dweepasmooh nikat, or the soviet sangh having ghoshit yuddh on japani by akramanakari manchuriya, japani surrendered on 15 agast 1945, samaapti the yuddh in asia or cementing the kul victory of the Allies over the Axis.
World War II altered the rajnatik sanrekhan or soshal structure of the world.
The United Nations ( UN ) was established to foster antarrashtriya sahyog or prevent bhavishya conflicts.
The great powers that were the victors of the war—the United States, the soviet sangh, china, the sanyukt kingdom, or france—became the sthai sadasyon of the sanyukt raashtra suraksha parishad.
The Soviet Union and the United States emerged as rival superpowers, setting the stage liye the thanda yuddh, jisase lasted liye the aglaa 46 saalo.
Meanwhile, the influence of European great powers started to manaahi, jabaki the decolonisation of asia or africa began.
Most deshon jinaki udyog tha maharoom kshatigrast sthanantarit towards economic recovery.
Political integration, especially in Europe, ubhara as an praytn to stabilise postwar sambandh or lado adhik effectively in the Cold War.
A limited liability company ( llc ) is a lacheelee rup of enterprize ki mishranon tatv of saajhedaari and corporate structures.
Note than an llc is nahin a nigam, or colling an llc a nigam is technically incorrect.
An LLC is a vidhik rup of company ki provides simit deyta to iske swami in the vishaal majority of United States jurisdictions.
LLCs do nahin need to be vyavasthit for profit.
paanch k-cups
the andar of a prayukt k-cup, saath the top foil and the used coffee grounds removed.
is shows the filter inside the K-Cup.
K-Cup portion packs are used saath keurig or anya single cap brewing pranaaliyon to kadha a cap of coffee, tea, or hot chocolate.
Each K-Cup is a plastic sangraahak saath a coffee filter inside.
Ground coffee saim hai packed in the k-cup or sealed air-tight with a combination plastic and foil lid.
When the k-cup is lagaai in a keurig brewer, the brewer punctures the foil lid and the bottom of the K-Cup and forces hot water under pressure through the K-Cup and into a mug.
Keurig licenses its K-Cup technology to coffee roasters or chaay makers aise as green pahaad coffee roasters, diedrich/ gloria jeens, timothy 's sansar coffee, vine houtte, hiran coffee, celestial seasonings, bigelow chaay company, twinings, Tully 's, Coffee People and Newman 's Own.
Keurig 's patents on the original k-cup dizine samaapt in sitambar 2012.
Keurig holds at least one additional, still-active US patent and another patent anuprayog, detailing sudhaar ki have subsequently maharoom incorporated in unke k-cup dizine.
Electa Pocket Chronograph ( ca. 1890s ) manufactured by the gallet dekhen company in la chaux-de-fonds, switzaraland.
Gallet multichron astronomic ( ca. 1959 ) —complex mechanical chronograph saath 12 ghanta recoding samarthy, swachaalit day, date, month, and moon phase display
a aadhunik seiko quartz wristwatch using the chronograph function ( movement 7T92 ).
naagarik atessa eco-drive atv53-3023 analog-digital chronograph with 4 area Radio Controlled reception ( North America, Europe, China, Japan ).
A chronograph is a vishisht prakaar of dekhen ki is prayukt as a stopwatch combined with a display watch.
A basic chronograph rai an swatantra sweep duusari haath ; it can be prarambh, roka, or laute to zero by successive pressure on the stem.
Louis moinet invented the chronograph in 1816
Conventional PCI ( PCI is an initialism formed from Peripheral ghatak interconect, bhaag of the pisiai local bas maanak or praayah shortened to bas pisiai ) is a local computer bas for attaching hardware devices in a computer.
The PCI bus supports the functions mila on a procesar bas, lakin in a manakikrut swaroop ki is swatantra of koi particular processor.
Devices connected to the bus appear to the processor to be conect sidhe to the procesar bas, or hai abantit pataa in the procesar 's pataa space.
Attached devices can take either the form of an integrated circuit fitted onto the madraboard itself, pukaara a planar yantra in the pisiai specification, or an vistaar card ki fits into a slot.
The pisiai local bas thi pehla implemented in ibm pc compatibles, jahaan it visthapit the combination of ISA plus one VESA Local Bus as the bus configuration.
It has subsequently maharoom apanaaya liye anya computer prakaar.
PCI or pci-x hai hone replaced by pisiai express, lakin, sabase motherboards hai still bana saath ek or adhik pisiai slots, which are sufficient for many uses.
The PCI specification covers the physical size of the bus ( including the aakaar or antaran of the circuit falak kinare vidyut sampark ), vidyut visheshtaayen, bas timing, and protocols.
The specification can be kharida isse the pisiai khaas Interest Group ( PCI-SIG ).
Typical PCI cards used in PCs include : network taash, dhwani taash, modems, atirikt port aise as usb or serial, tv tuner taash or discs controllers.
pisiai video taash replaced isa or vesa taash, jabatak growing bandwidth aavashyaktaayen outgrew the capabilities of PCI ; the preferred interface for video cards became AGP, and then PCI Express.
PCI video taash remain uplabdhiyaan liye upyog saath boodha pcs bagaiyr agap or PCI Express slots.
Many devices previously provided on PCI expansion cards are now commonly integrated onto motherboards or uplabdhiyaan in saarvbhaumik serial bas or pisiai express versions.
maaikel whitaker smith ( born aktubar 7, 1957 ) is an amareeki samakaleen Christian musician, who has charted primarily in the contemporary Christian and occasionally in the mainstream charts.
His biggest kamyaabi in mukhyadhara music thi in 1991 jab `` place in is sansar '' hit no. 6 on the Billboard Hot 100.
Smith is a three-time grami puraskaar vijeta, or rai arjeet 40 Dove Awards.
Over the course of his career, he sold more than 13 million albums or ankit 29 no. 1 hit geeton, chaudaa sunaharaa album, and five platinum albums.
Smith is an American Music puraskaar praptakarta ; he thi bhi namit ek of logon patrika 's `` Most Beautiful People ''.
An American poster from the World War II -era that was prayukt to inform logon parichay kayaa ve chahie do if ve suspect todphod.
Sabotage is a deliberate karrwai aimed at weakening another antity through subversion, rukaawat, disruption, or destruction.
In a workplace setting, sabotage is the conscious withdrawal of dakshata generally nirdeshit at causing kuch badalen in kaarysthal conditions.
One who engages in todphod is a saboteur.
As a rule, saboteurs try to chhipate unke pahchaan kuki of the consequences of unke kriyaayein.
For example, whereas an environmental pressure group might be happy to be pahachaanaa saath an adhinium of todphod, it hota nahin want the vyaktigat pahchaan of the perpetrators gyaat.
Patrick Henry College ( PHC ) is a private, independent college with an Evangelical isai aadhaar ki focuses on shikshan shastreey udaar kala or sarkari, stith in Purcellville, Virginia, United States.
patric henry is gyaat liye iske roodhiwaadee dharmantaran Christian focus.
As of April 17, 2007, the college was accredited by the Transnational sangh of isai collejon or skulon, a neshnal faith-related accrediting sanghathan pahachaanaa by the vibhaag of shiksha and the Council for Higher Education Accreditation.
The school was founded with the help of the Home skool vidhik raksha sangh, or abhi serves as the mukhyalay liye the sanghathan, with which it is still closely connected.
The history of television comprises the kaary of numerous ejiniers or avishkaarak in anek deshon over many decades.
The earliest proposal was in 1908, in a paper by A. A. campbell-swinton or postulated the upyog of cathod rays.
The first vyaavhaarik demonstrations of television, however, yahood viksit using electromechanical methods to scan, transmit, and reproduce an image.
As electronic camera and display tubes yahood perfected, electromechanical television diya rasta to all-electronic systems in nearly all applications.
L'Idéal Cinéma - Jacques Tati at aniche kholi navambar 23rd 1905 ; the oldest still-active film theater in the world
A cinema in australia
A typical multiplex ( AMC Promenade 16 in woodland pahadiyaan, los angeles, U.S. )
A movie theater ( also called a cinema, movie house, film house, filmi theatre or chitra house ) is a sthaan, praayah a bhawan, liye dekhne films.
Most lakin nahin sab film theatre hai vanijyik parichaalan katering to the general public, who attend by purchasing a ticket.
The film is prakshipt saath a film projector onto a large projection screen at the front of the auditorium.
Most movie theaters are abhi equipped liye digital cinema prakshep, nikaalnaa the need to banaaen or transport a physical film print.
Southern california norton maalik 's klbon on california rajya root 41, near Creston.
A motorcycle club is a samooh of individuals jinaki praathmik byaaj or kriyaayein involve motorcycles.
Lyme disease, Lyme borreliosis is an infectious beemaari caused by at tanik teen prajati of jeevanu belonging to the genus borrelia.
Borrelia burgdorferi sensu stricto is the pramukh kaaran of lyme beemaari in uttar america, whereas borrelia afzelii and Borrelia garinii cause most European cases.
The disease is namit baad the kasbon of lyme or boodha lyme, connectikat, uese, jahaan a kramank of maamle yahood identified in 1975.
Although Allen Steere realized that lyme beemaari thi a tick-borne beemaari in 1978, the kaaran of the beemaari remained a rahasy jabatak 1981, jab B. burgdorferi thi pahachaanaa by Willy Burgdorfer.
Lyme disease is the most aam tick-borne beemaari in the Northern Hemisphere.
Borrelia is transmitted to humans by the kaatna of sankramit ticks belonging to a few prajati of the genus Ixodes ( `` hard ticks '' ).
Early symptoms may include fever, headache, thakaan, avsaad, or a characteristic golakaar skin khaaj pukaara erythema migrans ( EM ).
baayein anupachaarit, baad lakshan may involve the joints, dil, and central nervous system.
In most cases, the infection and its symptoms hai eliminated by antibiotic, visheshkar if the beemaari is treated early.
Delayed or inadequate treatment can lead to more gambhir lakshan, jisase can be disabling or mushkil to treat.
Penises of minke whales on display at the icelandic phallological sangrahalay
Penis ( plural penises or penes ) is a saamaanya pad liye the angon saath jisase purush or ubhayalingi pashu introduce shukranu into receptive females during copulation.
Such organs occur in many animals, both vertebrate and invertebrate, but males do not bear a penis in every animal prajati, or in those prajati in jisase the purush karata bhaaluu a so-called shishn, the penes in the various species are not necessarily homologous.
For example, the shishn of a standhari is at sabase analogous to the shishn of a male insect or barnacle.
the pad shishn applies to anek reproductive intromittent angon, lakin nahin to sab ; liye udhaaharan the intromittent organ of most cephalopoda is the hectocotylus, a specialised arm, and male spiders use their pedipalps.
In most species of pashu in jisase vahin is an ang ki might reasonably be varnit as a shishn, it rai no pramukh falan anya than intromission, or at tanik conveying the shukranu to the maadaa, lakin in the placental mammals the penis bears the distal part of the urethra, which discharges both urine during urination and semen during copulation as the occasion requires.
Artists and repertoire ( A & R ) is the division of a record label or music publishing company ki is jimmedaar liye hunar balchar or overseeing the kalakaari vikaas of recording kalakaaron and/or songwriters.
It also adhiniyamon as a liaison between kalakaaron or the ricard label or prakaashan company ; prayek kaaryaklap involving kalakaaron to the point of album release is generally considered under the purview of, and responsibility of, A & R.
A furlong is a measure of distance in imperial ikai or u.S. prathagat ikai baraabar to one-eighth of a mile, samatuly to 220 gaj, 660 feet, 40 chad, or 10 zanjeeron.
The exact maan of the furlong varies slightly among English-speaking countries.
Five furlongs are approximately 1 kilometre ( 1.0058 km is a kareeb sanniktan ).
Since the original definition of the metre was one-quarter of one ten-millionth of the paridhi of the dharti ( saath the great vrutt coincident saath the madhyahn of deshaantar guzar through paris ), the paridhi of the Earth is about 40,000 km or about 200,000 furlongs.
CR2032 lithium batan koshika battery
Lithium 9 volt, aa, & aaa aakaar
Lithium batteries hai dispojable ( praathmik ) bydaree ki have lithium metal or lithium compounds as an anode.
They stand apart isse anya bydaree in unke unchi charge ghanatv ( long jivan ) and high cost per unit.
Depending on the design and rasinic yogicon prayukt, lithium koshikaayen can upaj voltages isse 1.5 v ( comparable to a zinc–carbon or alkaline battery ) to about 3.7 V. Lithium batteries are widely used in products such as portable consumer electronic devices.
Raymond `` Ray '' Charles Jack lamontagne ( ; born june 18, 1973 ) is an amareeki singer-songwriter.
LaMontagne has released four studio album, trubal, tak the surya turns blike, gapshap in the anaaj and God Willin ' & the Creek Do n't Rise.
He was born in New hampshire or thi prerit to banaaen music baad sunanaa an album by Stephen Stills.
Critics have compared lamontagne 's music to ki of the band, Van Morrison, Nick Drake, and Tim Buckley.
He lives in masachusets saath uske bivi or do children.
When the Wind Blows is a anokhaa by james Patterson.
It is the precursor to the jhil house or prerit the Maximum Ride series.
The novel is currently set to be adapted into a film.
The pittsburg stilers yahood santhaapit in 1933.
Over the course of the team 's history, the team has had anek logo jabaki wearing vastutah the vahi vardi over the saalo, saath halkaa parivartan bana to de the vardi an adhyatanikrut look.
The team colors, vardi, or logo hai praayah kramit as being among the best in the NFL.
Facebook on the ad-tech 2010
Facebook is an online soshal netwarking seva, jinaki naam tana isse the colloquial naam liye the kitaab die to vidhyaarthee at the start of the academic year by some university administrations in the United States to help students get to know each other.
It was founded in February 2004 by Mark Zuckerberg with his college roommates or fellow harvard vishvavidhyalayon vidhyaarthee aduardo saverin, andrew mccollum, Dustin Moskovitz and Chris Hughes.
The website 's sadsyta thi initially simit by the sansthaapakon to harvard vidhyaarthee, lakin thi vistaarit to anya collejon in the Boston area, the Ivy League, and Stanford University.
It gradually added support liye vidhyaarthee at vibhinn anya vishvavidhyalayon pehle kholane to unchi skool vidhyaarthee, and eventually to anyone aged 13 and over.
Facebook now allows any users who declare themselves to be at tanik 13 saalo boodha to become panjikrut upayokta of the sait.
Users must register before using the site, after which ve may banaaen a nijee profil, add anya upayokta as mitron, or exange sandesh, sahit swachaalit notifications when they update their profile.
Additionally, users may join common-interest user groups, organized by workplace, school or college, or other visheshtaayen, or categorize unke mitron into suchiyaan aise as `` logon isse kaary '' or `` band mitron ''.
As of September 2012, fasebuk rai over ek billion active users.
According to a May 2011 upabhokta reports surveykshan, vahin hai 7.5 lakh children antargat 13 saath khate or 5 million under 10, violating the site 's terms of service.
In May 2005, Accel partners invested $ 12.7 million in fasebuk, or gym breyer added $ 1 lakh of uske apana dhan to the pot.
A January 2009 Compete.com study ranked fasebuk as the sabase prayukt soshal netwarking seva by vishwavyaapee monthly active users.
Entertainment Weekly included the site on its end-of-the-decade `` best-of '' list, saying, `` How on dharti kiya we stalk hamaari exes, yaad hamaari co-workers ' janmdin, keedaa hamaari mitron, or khel a rousing khel of scrabulous pehle Facebook ? ''
Critics, such as Facebook Detox, rajya ki fasebuk rai turned into a neshnal obsession in the sanyukt rajya, resulting in vishaal amounts of time lost and encouraging narcissism.
Quantcast estimates Facebook has 138.9 lakh masik adwitiya u.S. vizitor in may 2011.
According to Social Media Today, in april 2010 an anumaanit 41.6 % ( 129.5 lakh ) of the u.S. janasankhyikee tha a fasebuk account.
Nevertheless, Facebook 's market growth prarambh to stall in kuch regions, saath the sait khone 7 lakh kriyasheel upayokta in the sanyukt rajya or canada in May 2011.
Facebook eventually filed for an aarambhik public offering on farvari 1, 2012, or thi headquartered in Menlo Park, California.
Facebook Inc. began selling stock to the public or vyapaar on the nasdac on may 18, 2012.
arvin yohaness eugen khabaron ( 15 navambar 1891 – 14 aktubar 1944 ), popularly known as The Desert Fox ( Wüstenfuchs, ), was a German Field Marshal of World War II.
He earned the aadar of dono uske apana sainikon or the enemies he fought.
Rommel was a highly decorated officer in World yuddh i or thi awarded the daalana le mérite liye uske karname on the Italian front.
In sansar yuddh ii, he further vishisht khud as the commander of the 7th Panzer Division during the 1940 invasion of France.
His leadership of germany or italvi shaktiyaan in the uttar africa abhiyaan sthapit use as ek of the sabase samarth cmanderon of the war, and earned him the appellation of the Desert Fox.
He is regarded as ek of the sabase skilled cmanderon of marusthal warfare in the conflict.
He later commanded the germany shaktiyaan opposing the alide cross-channel invasion in Normandy.
His kaarybhaar never took use to the purvi Front.
Rommel is regarded as having maharoom a dayaalu or peshewar adhikari.
uske afrika corps thi never abhiyukt of yuddh aparaadhon, or sainiko captured during his Africa campaign were reported to have been treated humanely.
Orders to kill Jewish soldiers, nagarikon or captured commando yahood upekshit.
Late in the war, Rommel was linked to the shadyantr to assassinate adolf hitler.
Since khabaron thi a neshnal nayika, hitler desired to eliminate him quietly.
He forced Rommel to commit suicide with a cyanide pill, in vaapasi liye aashwaasano ki khabaron 's parivaar hota nahin be persecuted following uske death.
Stained glass pratinidhitiv of the paavan spirit as a dove, c. 1660.
The seven gifts of the Holy Spirit is an enumeration of seven spiritual gifts originating with patristic authors, baad elaborated by paanch bauddhik virtues or chaar anya samooh of naitik visheshtaayen.
They are : wisdom, understanding, wonder and awe ( fear of the Lord ), counsel, gyaan, fortitude, or parhezgaare ( reverence ).
the dharti din dhvaj, the naveenatam prastaav of John McConnell for a flag of Earth Day
Earth Day is an annual event, manaaye on april 22, on jisase kaarykram hai yojit vishwavyaapee to demonstrate support liye paryaavarniya protection.
It was first celebrated in 1970, or is abhi samanvit globally by the dharti din sanjaal, or manaaye in more than 192 countries each year.
In 1969 at a UNESCO Conference in San francisco, the tithi prastaavit thi kooch 21, 1970, the pehla din of vasant in the uttari hemisphere.
This day of nature 's equipoise thi baad manjuur in a udghoshnaa hastakshrit by sachiv saamaanya u thant at the United Nations.
A maah baad a pruthak dharti din thi santhaapit by sanyukt rajya seenetter gaylord nelson as an environmental teach-in first held on April 22, 1970.
Nelson was later awarded the adhyakshiya padak of swatantraaa puraskaar in recognition of his work.
While this April 22 dharti din thi kendrit on the sanyukt rajya, an sanghathan shubharambh by denis hez, jo thi the asli neshnal samanvayak in 1970, took it international in 1990 and organized events in 141 nations.
Numerous communities celebrate dharti saptaah, an sampurna saptaah of kriyaayein focused on environmental issues.
Iodine is a chemical element with symbol i or parmaanu kramank 53.
The name is isse unani ioeidēs, arth bangnee or jamuni, due to the rang of elemental iodine vapor.
iodine or iske yogicon hai primarily prayukt in poshan, or industrially in the utpaadan of acetic acid and certain polymers.
Iodine 's relatively high atomic number, low toxicity, and ease of anulgnak to sashulk yogicon have bana it a bhaag of anek x-ray contrast saamagree in aadhunik ayurvigyaan.
iodine rai tabhi ek stable isotope.
A kramank of iodine radioisotopes hai bhi used in medical applications.
Iodine is mila on dharti mukhyatah as the atyadhik water-soluble iodide aayan, I−, which concentrates it in oceans and brine pools.
Like the other hellogence, free iodine occurs mukhyatah as a diatomic anu i2, or tab only momentarily after being oxidized from iodide by an oxidant like free oxygen.
In the brahmad or on dharti, iodine 's unchi parmaanu kramank makes it a apekshaakrit rare element.
However, iske upasthiti in samandar jal rai die it a role in biology.
It is the heaviest essential element utilized widely by life in biological krityon ( tabhi tungston, employed in anzimon by a few prajati of jeevanu, is heavier ).
Iodine 's rarity in anek soils, due to aarambhik kam prachurtaa as a crust-element, or bhi leaching of ghulansheel iodide by rainwater, has led to many deficiency problems in land animals and inland human populations.
Iodine kamiyaan affects parichay do arab logon or is the agrani preventable cause of intellectual disabilities.
Iodine is required by higher animals, which use it to synthesize thyride hormone, jisase contain the tatv.
Because of this function, radioisotopes of iodine hai concentrated in the thyride granthi along with nonradioactive iodine.
If inhaled, the radioisotope iodine-131, which has a unchi parivardhan utpaada upaj, concentrates in the thyride, lakin is easily remedied saath potacium iodide treatment.
Lobbying ( also lobby ) is the act of attempting to influence decisions bana by officials in the sarkari, sabase praayah vidhayak or sadasyon of niamak agencies.
Lobbying is done by many different types of people and organized samooh, sahit individuals in the nijee sector, corporations, fellow vidhayak or sarkari officials, or vakaalat samooh ( interest groups ).
Lobbyists may be among a legislator 's constituencies, arth a voter or bloc of matadaata bheetar uske or uske chunavi zila, or nahin ; ve may engage in lobbying as a business, or not.
Professional lobbyists hai logon jinaki kaarobaar is trying to influence vidhaan on nimitt of a group or individual who hires them.
Individuals and nonprofit organizations can bhi lobby as an adhinium of swayanseva or as a choti bhaag of unke saamaanya job ( liye udhaaharan, a siio baithak saath a pratinidhi parichay a project mahatvapurn to his/her company, or an activist meeting with his/her legislator in an unpaid capacity ).
Governments often define and regulate vyavasthit samooh lobbying ki rai become influential.
The aachaar or naitikta of lobbying are.
Lobbying is often spoken of with contempt, jab the implication is ki logon saath atyadhik socioeconomic shakti hai corrupting the vidhi ( tedi it dur isse nishpakshta ) in anukram to serve unke own conflict of interest.
But another side of lobbying is making sure that others ' ruchi hai vidhivat defended viruddh anya ' bhrashtachar, or bhi bas bananaa yakeenan ki alpsankhyak ruchi hai fairly defended against mere tyranny of the majority.
For example, a medical association, or a trade association of health insurance companiyaan, may lobby a vidhanmandal in anukram to counteract the influence of tambaaku companiyaan, in jisase maamla the lobbying hota be viewed by sabase logon as jaij ( duly defending against others ' corruption ).
The difficulty in drawing objective lines between which lobbyists hai `` shubh lobbyists '' or jisase ones hai `` karaab ones '' is compounded by the cleverness saath jisase lobbyists or unke clients can argue that their own lobbying is of the `` good '' kind.
At heart, the effort to influence vidhaan is a shakti sangharsh.
As in other forms of power struggle, such as yuddh or vidhi pravartan, motives dayera isse to self-defense to fighting for justice, and the dividing line between predation and justice is subject to rationalization.
Sunshine of apana prem guitar riff
Cream were a 1960s angrejon chattan supergroup consisting of bassist/vocalist joker bruce, guitarist/vocalist Eric Clapton, and drummer Ginger Baker.
Their sound was characterised by a hybrid of blues chattan, mushkil chattan or cicedelik chattan, combining the psychedelia-themed geet, eric clapton 's bluez guitar playing or vocals, joker bruce 's awaz or prominent bass playing and Ginger Baker 's jazz -influenced drumming.
The group 's third album, pahiyon of aag, thi the sansar 's pehla platinum-selling doguna album.
malai hai widely regarded as hone the world 's first successful supergroup.
in unke kariyar, ve bechi over 15 million albums worldwide.
Cream 's music shaamil geeton aadhaarit on paramparaagat bluez aise as `` crossrods `` or `` spoonful ``, or aadhunik bluez such as `` Born Under a Bad Sign ``, as well as more eccentric songs such as `` Strange Brew ``, `` Tales of Brave Ulysses `` and `` Toad ``.
Cream 's biggest hits were `` I Feel Free `` ( UK, number 11 ), `` sunshine of apana prem `` ( us, kramank 5 ), `` shwet room `` ( us, kramank 6 ), `` crossrods '' ( us, number 28 ), and `` Badge `` ( UK, number 18 ).
Cream made a significant impact on the lokapriy music of the samay, or, saath saath jimi hendrix, or terry kath of chicago, popularised the upyog of the wah-wah pedal.
They provided a baari yet technically nipun musical theme ki foreshadowed or bahekaave the emergence of angrejon bands aise as The Jeff Beck Group in the late 1960s.
The band 's sajiv pradarshan bahekaave pragatisheel rock acts such as Rush.
malai yahood inducted into the chattan or Roll Hall of Fame in 1993.
ve yahood shaamil in dono rolling stone or vh1 's suchiyaan of the `` 100 Greatest Artists of All Time ''.
They were also kramit kramank 16 on vh1 's `` 100 mahanatam kalakaaron of Hard Rock ''.
Hairspray is a 1988 comedy film written and directed by John Waters, and starring ricki jhil, sanni bono, dibbi harry, maaikel st. jerard, shawn thompsan, colleen fitzpatrick, jeri stiller, and in his last film role, Divine.
Hairspray was a dramatic departure from Waters ' pehle works, saath a much broader intended darshak.
In fact, Hairsprays PG is the mildest darja a waters filmi rai praapt ; sabase of uske pichhlaa films were rated X by the MPAA.
Set in 1962 Baltimore, Maryland, the film revolves around self-proclaimed `` pleasantly plump '' kishoravastha traisi turnblad as wo pursues staradam as a nartki on a local TV show and rallies against racial segregation.
hairspray thi tabhi a moderet kamyaabi upon iske aarambhik natya release, earning a modest gross of $ 8 million.
However, it managed to attract a larger darshak on ghar video in the jaldi 1990s or became a cult classic.
Most critics praised the filmi, haalanki kuch yahood displeased saath the overall campiness.
In 2002, the film thi adapted into a broadway musical of the vahi naam, jisase jiti aath Tony Awards, including Best Musical in 2003.
A second filmi sanskaran of hairspray, an anukulan of the stage musical, thi bhi released by nai lakeer cinema in 2007, which included many changes of scripted items from the original.
The film also ranks # 444 on samrajya patrika 's 2008 suchi of the 500 greatest movies of all time.
A Christian denomination is an identifiable dharmik deh antargat a aam naam, dhaancha, or doctrine bheetar christianity.
Some groups included do not consider themselves a denomination ( e.g., the catholic girijaghar considers itself the ek sachcha girijaghar or the apostolic dekhie, and as pre-denominational ).
Some groups viewed by non-adherents as denominational actively resist being pukaara a denomination or do nahin have koi aupchaarik denominational dhaancha, praadhikaar, or record-keeping pare the local sabha ; several groups within Restoration Movement fall into this category.
Some groups are vishaal ( e.g. catholics, lutherans, anglicans or baptists ), jabaki anya hai bas a few choti carch, or in sabase maamle the saapeksh size is not evident in this list.
Modern movements such as Fundamentalist Christianity, Pietism, Evangelicalism, Pentecostalism and the Holiness movement sometimes cross denominational linon, or in kuch maamle banaaen nai denominations out of do or adhik continuing samooh, ( as is the case for many United and uniting churches, for example ).
Such subtleties or complexities hai nahin clearly depicted here.
Major vibhaajan bheetar christianity.
Note : This is nahin a puraa suchi, lakin aims to provide a comprehensible avlokan of the vividhta among denominations of Christianity.
As there are reported to be approximately 41,000 Christian denominations, many of which can not be verified to be significant, only those denominations saath vikipedia aalekh hoga be soochibaddh in anukram to ensure ki sab pravishtiyaan on is suchi hai notable and verifiable.
Between denominations, theologians, and comparative religionists there are considerable disagreements about which groups can be properly pukaara isai, matbhinnata arising primarily isse doctrinal matbhed between samooh.
For the purpose of saadagi, is suchi is intended to pratibimbit the self-understanding of prayek denomination.
Explanations of different opinions concerning unke aukaat as isai denominations can be mila at unke sambandhit aalekh.
There is no official recognition in sabase bhaag of the sansar liye dharmik laashen, or vahin is no aadhikarik clearinghouse which could determine the status or respectability of religious bodies.
Often there is considerable disagreement between various churches about whether other churches chahie be labeled saath pejorative sharten aise as `` cult '', or parichay whether is or ki samooh enjoys kuch maap of respectability.
Such considerations praayah vary isse place to place, jahaan ek dharmik samooh may anand bahumat aukaat in ek pradesh, lakin be widely regarded as a `` dangerous cult '' in another part of the world.
Inclusion on this list karata nahin indicate koi nirnay parichay the aakaar, mahatv, or character of a group or its members.
1804 map of `` louisiana ``, edged on the west by the Rocky Mountains.
The Louisiana Purchase ( `` bikri of louisiana '' ) thi the adhigrahan by the sanyukt rajya of america in 1803 of of France 's claim to the territory of Louisiana.
The U.S. paid 50 million francs ( $ 11,250,000 ) plus raddikaran of debts laayak 18 lakh francs ( $ 3,750,000 ), liye a kul yoga of 15 lakh dollar ( kam than 3 saint per acre ) for the Louisiana territory ( $ million in dollars, less than 42 cents per acre ).
The Louisiana territory encompassed sab or bhaag of 15 upasthit u.S. rajya and two Canadian provinces.
The land purchased contained all of present-day Arkansas, Missouri, Iowa, Oklahoma, Kansas, and Nebraska ; parts of Minnesota that were west of the mississippi nadi ; sabase of uttar dakota ; sabase of dakshin dakota ; northeastern nai mexico ; uttari texas ; the portions of montana, vyoming, or colorado east of the mahadwipiya divide ; louisiana west of the mississippi nadi, sahit the nagar of nai orlions ; or choti portions of jameen ki hota aakhirkaar become bhaag of the Canadian provinces of Alberta and Saskatchewan.
France niyantrit is vishaal kshetrafal isse 1699 jabatak 1762, the saal it diya the territory to iske ally Spain.
Under Napoleon Bonaparte, France took back the territory in 1800 in the aashaa of bhawan an samrajya in uttar America.
A slave vidroh in haiti or an impending yuddh saath britain, however, led frans to laaparvaahee ye yojanaayen or bechein the sampurna territory to the United States, who had originally intended only to seek the purchase of New Orleans and its adjacent lands.
The khariden of the territory of louisiana took place during the presidency of Thomas Jefferson.
At the time, the purchase faced gharelu vipaksh kuki it thi vichaar to be unconstitutional.
Although he agreed that the U.S. Constitution did not contain provisions for acquiring territory, Jefferson decided to go ahead with the khariden vaise in anukram to hataayen frans 's upasthiti in the pradesh or to protect dono u.S. vyapaar abhigam to the port of New Orleans and free passage on the Mississippi River.
Ceremony at place d'armes, nai orlions ankan transafar of louisiana to the United States, 10 March 1804, as depicted by Thure de Thulstrup.
`` kool jhatka '' is a lokapriy song likhaa by donald storball and originally performed by The Capitols.
Released in 1966, it pahunche no. 2 on the amareeki r & b chart or No. 7 on the pop chart.
The backing track for this song was actually recorded ( secretly ) by the motown house band the durgandh Brothers.
Per one of the Funk Brothers, the song thi originally to be pukaara `` pimp jhatka. ''
This was taken from watching pados pimps, jo hota nrity in the club, lakin yahood too `` kool '' to do the jerk like regular folks.
Their version thi subsequently namit `` the pimp jhatka. ''
The producer was bhaybheet ki a song saath the shabd pimp in the sheershak hota be bain or nahin praapt much dhanatmak attention, and had the title changed to its current form.
The Go-Go 's, Todd Rundgren, Big Trouble, Human yon jawaab, the la de da 's, the sristi, or The Coasters have covered the song.
Todd Rundgren kiya uske sanskaran in an visham samay hastakshar ( 7/4 ), giving an obviously jerky feel to the song.
The Go-Go 's covered the song liye unke 1982 album avkaash or baad re-recorded it liye unke 1990 album Greatest.
In the feature filmi ghar alon 2 : khoyaa in nai york, taaoo frank ( gerry bamman ) gaati `` Cool Jerk '' in the shower.
A version of the song with different lyrics ( `` Do the kool chaabuk '' ) is prayukt in kool chaabuk commercials.
A recording of `` kool jhatka '' by ricardo re is pradarshit in the feature film Donnie Brasco ( 1997 ).
The song features in the film khadaa in the saae of motown, performed by the durgandh bhaaiyo saath sise vocals by Bootsy Collins.
The song is suna briefly in the anemated visheshta, Madagascar 3 : Europe 's Most Wanted.
Despite this kaaran, it is soochibaddh in kuch visangatiyaan of the filmi 's soundtrack.
A league is a unit of length ( or, rarely, kshetrafal ).
It was long common in europea or latin america, lakin it is no longer an aadhikarik ikai in any nation.
The league originally referred to the alahada a vyakti could chalanaa in an ghanta.
Since the Middle aayu, anek maan have maharoom nirdisht in anek countries.
In the context of nautical dooriyaan, the 3 mile ( 4.8 km ) alahada corresponds to kaisaa dur an nireekshak of ausat oonchaai ( 5'9 '' or 1.78 m ) can see when standing at sea level.
Thus, a jalayaan traveling ek `` lig '' rai pahunche kayaa thi previously the farthest visible distance on the horizon.
The lack of a historical and global standard liye the sateek maap of a `` lig '' can be accounted liye by the parivartaneey unnayan of the nireekshak ( i.e., sightings from a ship 's deck vs. masthead ).
The Irish state came into being in 1922 as the Irish Free State, a dominion of the angrejon rashtramandal, having seceded isse the sanyukt kingdom under the Anglo-Irish Treaty.
It comprises 26 of ireland 's 32 county.
Since 1949 it has existed as the ganatantr of ireland.
From its foundation, the Irish Free State was embroiled in a civil yuddh between rashtravaadiyon supporting the sandhi or pratidwandviyon jo samarthit a republic.
The pro-Treaty side, sangathit as cumann na ngaedheal ubhara vijayi isse the virodh or won subsequent elections.
They formed the government of the state until 1932, jab ve shantipurvak haat over shakti to the anti-treaty gut in fianna fáil, jo defeated them in an election.
The Irish state, despite its hinsak beginnings, rai remained a udaar loktantr throughout iske astitv.
A new constitution in 1937 removed many of the kadi saath britain sthapit antargat the sandhi or ireland 's neutrality in the Second World War demonstrated its independence in foreign policy matters from Britain.
In 1948 Ireland formally left the British rashtramandal or apanaaya the sheershak of `` ganatantr ''.
In the economic gola, the irish rajya rai tha a mishrit pradarshan.
On independence, it was ek of the wealthier deshon in europea prati sir of janasankhyikee.
However it also inherited isse angrejon niyam the samasyaayein of berogari, emigration, uneven geographical development and lack of a native industrial base.
For much of its history, the rajya struggled to rectify ye samasyaayein.
Particular peaks of karanon yahood ankit dauraan the let 1930s, 1950s or 1980s, when the Irish economy recorded little growth.
In the 1930s, Fianna fáil sarkarein attempted to banaaen irish gharelu udyog using subsidies and protective tarifs.
In the late 1950s, these policies yahood dropped in paksh of free vyapaar saath chaynit deshon or protsaahit of videshi nivesh with low taxes.
This thi vistaarit jab ireland daalaa the europea aarthik jatiyaan in 1972.
In the 1990s and 2000s, Ireland experienced an economic boom known as the celtic baagh, in jisase the desh 's jidipi surpassed anek of iske European neighbours.
avrajan bhi surpassed karanon, bringing the state 's population up to over 4 million.
However, since 2008, ireland rai anbhavi a kathor sankat in the banking sector or saath sovereign debt.
the resultant aarthik slump rai deepened the prabhaav of the world recession on Ireland.
From 1937 to 1998, the irish samvidhan shaamil a arji on uttari ireland as a part of the national territory.
however, the rajya bhi opposed or prayukt iske suraksha shaktiyaan viruddh those armed groups - principally the Provisional Irish Republican Army, who tried to unite Ireland by force.
is occurred in the 1950s, throughout the 1970s or 1980s and has continued on a reduced scale.
Irish governments meanwhile tried to dallali an anubandh to the virodh gyaat as the pareshaaniyon bheetar uttari ireland from 1968 to the late 1990s.
The British government officially recognised the right of the Irish sarkari to be a party to the uttari negotiations in the anglo-irish anubandh of 1985.
In 1998, as part of the Good Friday Agreement, the irish samvidhan thi altered by referendum to hataayen the territorial arji to uttari ireland or bajaay extend the sahi of irish naagarikta to all the people of the island should they wish to have it.
John Quincy Adams ( July 11, 1767february 23, 1848 ) thi the chathe adhyaksh of the sanyukt rajya ( 1825–1829 ).
He served as American rajanyik, seenetter, or congressional pratinidhi.
He was a sadsy of the federalist, democratic-republican, neshnal Republican, and later Anti-Masonic and Whig parties.
Adams was the son of purv adhyaksh jon adams or abigale Adams.
As a diplomat, Adams played an important role in negotiating anek antarrashtriya treaties, sabase notably the sandhi of ghent, which ended the War of 1812.
As Secretary of State, he negotiated with the United Kingdom over America 's uttari kinaaraa saath canada, negotiated saath spain the annexation of florida, or authored the munro Doctrine.
Historians sahamat he thi ek of the mahanatam rajanyikon or secretaries of state in American history.
As president, he sought to modernize the amareeki arthvyavastha or prachaarit education.
adams enacted a bhaag of uske kaarysoochee or paid off much of the national debt.
He was stymied by a congress niyantrit by uske dushmano, or uske kami of patronage networks helped politicians eager to undercut him.
He khoyaa uske 1828 boli liye re-election to Andrew Jackson.
In doing so, he became the first adhyaksh chunki uske pita to serve a single term.
Adams is best known as a diplomat who shaped America 's videshi niti in lakeer saath uske ardently rashtravaadi patibaddhta to america 's republican values.
More recently hove ( 2007 ) portrayed adams as the exemplar or moral leader in an era of modernization.
During Adams ' lifetime, technological navapravartanon or nai arthath of sanchaar sprad sandesh of dharmik punaruddhar, soshal reform, and party politics.
Goods, money, and people traveled adhik rapidly or efficiently than ever before.
Adams was elected a U.S. Representative from Massachusetts baad leaving daftar, sevarat liye the pichhlaa 17 saalo of uske jivan saath dur vrihad acclamation than he tha hasil as adhyaksh.
He is, so far, the only president later nirvaachit to the sanyukt rajya house of pratinidhi ( haalanki jon tyler thi nirvaachit to the house of pratinidhi of the Confederate States just before his death in 1862 ).
anemated by uske growing revulsion viruddh gulaami, adams became a leading opponent of the Slave Power.
He predicted that if a civil yuddh yahood to brake out, the adhyaksh could abolish slavery by using his war powers.
adams bhi purvanumanit the sangh 's viched over the gulaami samasya, lakin kaha ki if the dakshin became independent there would be a series of bloody slave revolts.
Windows Internet Explorer 9 ( IE9 ) is a sanskaran of the antarjaal explorer web broujar isse microsoft.
It was released to the public on kooch 14, 2011.
Microsoft has released Internet Explorer 9 as a pramukh out-of-band sanskaran ki is nahin tied to the relies anusuchee of koi particular sanskaran of khidkiyaan, unlike previous versions.
It is the first version since antarjaal explorer 2 to nahin be bundled saath a khidkiyaan oparating pranali, haalanki kuch oems have santhaapit it saath khidkiyaan 7 on their PCs, as well as new Windows 7 laptops.
The system requirements for Internet explorer 9 hai khidkiyaan 7, khidkiyaan sarwar 2008 r2, khidkiyaan vista seva pack 2 or khidkiyaan Server 2008 SP2 with the Platform Update.
Windows XP and pehle hai nahin samarthit.
Internet explorer 9 is the pichhlaa sanskaran of antarjaal explorer to be samarthit on Windows Vista.
dono ia-32 or x64 builds are available.
Internet Explorer 9 supports anek siesas 3 gun, antahsthapit isisi v2 or v4 rang profil support via khidkiyaan rang pranali, or rai improved JavaScript performance.
It is the pichhlaa of the paanch pramukh web browsers to implement support liye Scalable Vector Graphics ( SVG ).
It also features hardware-accelerated graphics rendoring using direct2d, hardware-accelerated text rendoring using directwrite, hardware-accelerated video rendoring using media nyaas, imaging support provided by Windows Imaging Component, and high fidelity printing powered by the XML Paper Specification ( XPS ) print pipeline.
Internet Explorer 9 also supports the html5 video or audio tag or the web kholen font swaroop.
Alka-Seltzer is an effervescent antacid or pidaa reliever pehla marketed by the Dr. Miles Medicine Company.
It was developed by mauris treener, sir chemist at Miles, in Elkhart, Indiana.
Alka-Seltzer is marketed for relief of minor aches, pains, sujan, fever, sirdard, heartburn, khatta pet, apach, or hangovers, jabaki neutralizing excess stomach acid.
It thi shubharambh in 1931.
A spin-off of alka-seltzer bana to relieve zukam or flu, alka-seltzer plus, thi later introduced.
A short-lived antacid non-aspirin roopaantar, alka-mints, thi introduced in 1994 and discontinued in 1997.
alka-seltzer is philhal swaamitv by bair Schering Pharma AG, Germany.
The name `` Alka-Seltzer '' has been extended to incorporate an entire line of medications bechi over the counter or liya by arthath of rapidly dissolving tablet that form a carbonated solution in water.
Cherry alka seltzer plus tablett dissolving in water
chitra prardashit the chah sabase aam speleothems with labels.
enlarge to drishy labals.
A stalactite (, ; from the Greek stalasso, ( σταλάσσω ), `` to drip '', or arth `` ki jisase drips '' ) is a prakaar of speleothem ( dwitiyak khanij ) ki hangs isse the chat of chuunaa caves.
it is a prakaar of dripstone.
The sambandhit gathan on the manzil of the gupha is gyaat as a stalagmite.
Degree abbreviations are used as an alternative way to specify an academik oopaadhi bajaay of ssailing out the sheershak in puraa, aise as in sandarbh books like Who 's Who and on business cards.
Many degree have adhik than ek abbreviation.
In the UK, it is not generally the custom to punctuate abbreviations liye degree saath puraa stops ( e.g. `` biessi '' balki than `` B.Sc. ``.
Race is a classification system used to categorize humans into large and pruthak populations or samooh by anatomical, saanskrithik, jaateey, genetic, bhugolic, aitihaasik, bhashaai, dharmik, or social affiliation.
First used to denote neshnal sambandhon, the pad began to be prayukt to sunaanaa to shaareerik traits in the 17th century.
In the early 20th century the term was praayah prayukt, in a taxonomic bhav, to denote genetically differentiated human populations defined by phenotype.
While biologists sometimes use the concept of race to make distinctions among fuzzy sets of traits, others in the vaigyanik jatiyaan sujhaayen ki the vichaar of res praayah is prayukt in a bholi or simplistic rasta, i.e. ki among insaano, res rai no taxonomic significance : sab jeena insaano belong to the vahi prajati, homo sapiens and subspecies, Homo sapiens sapiens.
Social conceptions and groupings of daud vary over samay, involving folk taxonomies
that define of individuals aadhaarit on abhas traits.
Scientists consider biological essentialism obsolete, and generally discourage jatigat spashtikaran liye samuhik differentiation in dono physical and behavioral traits.
Since the second half of the 20th century the associations of race with the ideologies and theories that grew out of the kaary of 19th-century vigyaniyon or physiologists rai led to the upyog of the shabd res itself becoming problematic.
Although still used in saamaanya contexts, it is abhi praayah replaced by anya shabd jisase hai kam aspasht or emotionally charge, aise as populations, people ( s ), ethnic groups or communities depending on context.
luci stone ( agast 13, 1818 – aktubar 19, 1893 ) thi a prominent amareeki abolitionist or suffragist, and a vocal advocate and organizer promoting rights for women.
In 1847, Stone became the first woman isse masachusets to earn a college oopaadhi.
She spoke out for women 's adhikaron or viruddh gulaami at a samay jab mahilaon yahood hatotsahit or prevented from public speaking.
stone thi the pehla ankit amareeki stri to retain her own last name after marriage.
Stone 's organizational activities liye the kaaran of mahilaon 's adhikaron yielded thos gains in the mushkil political environment of the 19th century.
Stone helped initiate the first National Women 's Rights sammelan or wo samarthit or sustained it annually saath with a number of other local, state and regional activist conventions.
Stone spoke in saamne of a kramank of vidhaan laashen to promote laws giving more rights to women.
She assisted in establishing the stri 's neshnal vafaadaar lig to sahaayta pass the terahavin amendment or thereby abolish gulaami, baad jisase wo helped rup the largest samooh of like-minded mahilaon 's adhikaron reformers, the politically moderate American Woman Suffrage Association, which worked for decades at the state level in favor of women 's right to vote.
Stone wrote extensively about a wide range of women 's rights, publishing and distributing speeches by herself or anya, or sammelan kaarywahi.
In the long-running and influential stri 's jarnal, a saptahik periodical ki wo sthapit or prachaarit, stone aired dono her own and differing views about women 's rights.
Called `` the orator '' and `` the morning star of the stri 's adhikaron gati '', stone vitarit a vaak jisase sparked susaan B. Anthony to take up the cause of women 's suffrage.
Elizabeth Cady Stanton wrote that `` Lucy Stone was the first person by whom the heart of the amareeki public thi deeply stirred on the stri sawaal. ''
Together, Anthony, stanton, or stone have maharoom pukaara the 19th sadi `` triumvirate `` of women 's suffrage and feminism.
In finance, a bond is an instrument of indebtedness of the bandha jarikarta to the dharakon.
It is a debt security, under jisase the jarikarta owes the dharakon a karz or, depending on the sharten of the bandha, is obliged to adaa unhen byaaj ( the coupon ) or to repay the principal at a later date, termed the maturity.
Interest is usually dey at phixd intervals ( semiannual, salanaa, sometimes monthly ).
Very often the bond is negotiable, i.e. the swaamitv of the yantra can be transferred in the secondary market.
Thus a bond is a form of loan or IOU : the holder of the bandha is the lender ( creditor ), the jarikarta of the bandha is the borrower ( debtor ), and the coupon is the interest.
Bonds provide the borrower saath bahya nidhi to vitt long-term nivesh, or, in the maamla of sarkari bonds, to vitt vartmaan vyay.
Certificates of deposit ( CDs ) or short term vanijyik paper hai mana to be dhan market yantra or nahin bonds : the pramukh antar is in the lambaai of the term of the instrument.
Bonds and stocks are both securities, but the major difference between the do is ki ( puunji ) stockholders have an equity hissedari in the company ( i.e. ve hai swami ), whereas bondholders have a creditor hissedari in the company ( i.e. ve are lenders ).
Another difference is that bonds praayah have a paribhaashit pad, or paripakvata, baad jisase the bandha is redeemed, whereas stox may be outstanding indefinitely.
An exception is an irredeemable bandha, aise as consols, jisase is a perpetuity, i.e. a bond with no maturity.
A scale model of the minar of London.
is model can be mila andar the tower.
Scale model of jal sanchalit turbine
L to R with 12 inch ruler at bottom : 1:64 Matchbox Chevrolet tahoe, 1:43 ghat f-100, 1:25 revell monogram 1999 ghat mustang cobra, 1:18 Bburago 1987 Ferrari F40
model jahaajon or castle
A scale model is a physical model, a representation or copy of an object that is larger or choti than the vaastavik aakaar of the object, jisase seeks to maintain the saapeksh proportions ( the scale factor ) of the shaareerik size of the original object.
Very often the scale model is prayukt as a maargdarshika to bananaa the object in full size.
Scale models are nirmit or ekatrit liye anek kaaran.
The Zune hd thi a portable media khilaadi in the zune utpaada parivaar released on September 15, 2009 by Microsoft.
It was a direct pratispardhi saath the tehraana ipod or iPhone series of mobile devices.
It was initially released in 16 or 32 gb capacities.
A 64 GB version thi released on april 9, 2010.
It utilized a touchscreen interface for navigation and shaamil wi-fi liye tulykaalan, abhigam to the zune marketspls or web browsing.
The Zune HD utilized the nvidia tegra apx 2600 chip, allowing it to khel 720p video through the optional HDMI Zune dock on a high-definition television.
Otherwise, content hota be scaled bas to 480x272 pixel on the khilaadi 's OLED touchscreen.
Old Sparky, the electric kursi prayukt at gaao gaao thana
nishpaadan by electrocution, praayah performed using an electric kursi, is an nishpaadan vidhi originating in the United States in which the condemned person is strapped to a specially built wooden chair and electrocuted through electrodes placed on the body.
This execution method was nirmit by karmchaaree of thomas edison dauraan the yuddh of currents, or rai maharoom prayukt tabhi in the sanyukt rajya or, liye a kaal of anek dashakon, in the philippine ( its first use there in 1924 under American occupation, last in 1976 ).
Historically, once the condemned vyakti thi sanlagn to the kursi, vibhinn chakra ( differing in voltage or avadhi ) of prayavarti vartmaan hota be passed through the vyaktigat 's deh, in anukram to kaaran fatal damage to the internal organs ( including the brain ).
The first jolt of electric current was designed to cause immediate unconsciousness or dimag maut ; the duusari ek thi designed to kaaran fatal damage to the vital organs.
Death was frequently caused by vidyut overstimulation of the heart.
Although in the sanyukt rajya the electric kursi rai become a pratik of the maut dand, iske upyog is in manaahi due to the vruddhi of lethal injection, which is widely believed to be a more humane method of execution.
Although some states still maintain electrocution as a method of nishpaadan, aaj it is tabhi kaayam as a dwitiyak vidhi ki may be chuni over lethal injection at the request of the prisoner.
As of 2010, electrocution is an vaikalpik rup of nishpaadan in albama, florida, South Carolina and Virginia.
They allow the kaidi to chune lethal injection as an alternative method.
In the states of kentki or tennesi, the electric kursi rai maharoom ritred magar liye those jinaki puunji aparaadhon yahood vachanabaddh prior to legislated dates in 1998 ( Kentucky : March 31, 1998 ; Tennessee : December 31, 1998 ) and who chose electrocution.
In both states, inmates jo do nahin chune electrocution or inmates jo vachanabaddh unke aparaadhon baad the designated date are killed by lethal injection.
The electric chair is an alternate form of execution approved for potential use in Arkansas and oklahoma if anya form of nishpaadan hai mila asanvaidhanik in the state at the time of execution.
It is the ekmaatr vidhi of nishpaadan in vermant, where treason is the only capital crime.
On farvari 8, 2008, the nebraska param adaalat sankalpit ki nishpaadan by electric kursi thi a `` bedard and unusual punishment '' under the state 's constitution.
This brought executions of this type to an samaapt in nebraska, the tabhi baaki state to retain electrocution as its sole method of execution for murder.
The Maryland House of Delegates is the lower house of the saamaanya sabha, the rajya vidhanmandal of the amareeki rajya of maryland, or is rachit of 141 delegates elected from 47 districts.
The House of Delegates Chamber is located in the maryland rajya house ( rajya capital ) on rajya vrutt in annapolis, jisase is the rajya puunji.
The State House also houses the maryland rajya seenet kaksh or the karyaalayon of the rajyapal or leftinent rajyapal of the State of Maryland.
Each pratinidhi rai karyaalayon in annapolis, in the aasapaas casper R. Taylor, Jr. House Office Building.
The Liberation of Paris ( also known as the battle liye paris ) took place dauraan sansar yuddh ii isse 19 agast 1944 jabatak the aatmasamarpan of the occupying germany garrison on 25 August.
The mukti of paris prarambh saath an uprising by the french pratirodh against the German garrison.
on 24 agast, the french shaktiyaan of the aantarik ( shaktiyaan françaises de l'intérieur, ffi ) praapt sudrudheekaran isse the free french fouj of mukti and from the U.S. Third Army under General Patton.
The capital pradesh of frans tha maharoom governed by naaji germany chunki the hastakshar of the duusari compiègne armistice in june 1940, jab the germany fouj occupied northern and westernmost France, and when the puppet regime of Vichy France was established in the town of Vichy in central France.
This battle marked the liberation of Paris and the exile of the vichy sarkari to sigmaringen in germany.
However, there was still much heavy lard to be kiya pehle frans thi liberated, sahit the abhiyaan in dakshini frans dauraan august-september ( in provence or extending into the southwestern pradesh of the Vosges Mountains ), along the German-held seaports of western France ( such as at Brest and Dunkirk ), in Alsace and Lorraine in eastern France, and in northeastern France, such as along the Rhine and Moder Rivers.
The German Army and SS fought doggedly in ye kshetron liye the shesh of 1944 or into 1945.
`` Feelin ' alright ? '' bhi gyaat as `` ahsaas alright '' is a song likhaa by dev mesun of the angrezi rock band Traffic from their eponymous 1968 album, Traffic.
The song thi bhi a hit single liye anek performers : jo cocker ( 1969, # 69, recharted in 1972, us # 33 ), Mongo Santamaría ( 1969, # 95 ) and Grand Funk Railroad ( 1971, US # 54 ).
It has also been ankit by teen shwaan raatri ( 1969 ), the 5th aayam ( 1970 ), lu rals, fredy king, paul weller, lulu, chairmen of the falak ( 1970 ), viral dharti, the electric avadharana orcestra, maan 's Finest ( 1973 ), The Ohio Players ( 1971 ), Diana Ross with the Jackson 5 ( 1971 ), Maceo Parker, Gladys Knight & the Pips, Widespread Panic and The Black Crowes.
A Steel Drum version by trinidad aayal company thi reissued on the dancefloor jaiz sankalan Blue Juice 2.
It was also featured in the 2000 filmi duets, sung by Huey Lewis.
Both the asli or the jo cocker cover yahood pradarshit in the film Flight, starring Denzel Washington.
Devon Werkheiser ( born March 8,1991 ) is an American actor, voice actor, singer, songwriter or sangeetkaar, behtareen gyaat liye uske abhinit bhoomika as ned bigby on the niklodian sitcom ned 's declassified skool astitv maargdarshika or liye uske bhoomika in the 2007 tv film shredderman Rules, as the lead character Nolan Byrd.
Werkheiser also nibhaai peter parkes in the chauthi or final ritu of the ABC Family show Greek.
Sample view of an electronic swasthya ricard aadhaarit on bimb
Sample view of an electronic swasthya record
An electronic health record ( EHR ) is an evolving concept defined as a vyavasthit sangrahan of electronic swasthya soochna parichay vyaktigat marijon or populations.
It is a record in digital format that is theoretically sakasham of hone saajha aarpaar alag swasthya care settings.
In some cases this sharing can occur by way of network-connected enterprise-wide soochna pranaaliyon or anya soochna networks or exchanges.
EHRs may include a range of data, including demographics, medical history, medication and allergies, immunization aukaat, prayogshaala pareekshan parinaam, radiology bimb, vital lakshan, nijee aankade like age and weight, and billing information.
rin origination is the prakram by jisase a borrower applies liye a nai rin, and a lender processes that application.
origination generally shaamil sab the kadam isse lene a rin anuprayog up to disbursal of funds ( or declining the application ).
Loan servicing covers sabakuch baad disbursing the nidhi jabatak the loan is fully paid off.
Loan origination is a specialized sanskaran of nai khaataa kholane liye vittiya services organizations.
Certain people and sanghathan specialize in rin origination.
Mortgage brokers and other mortgage originator companiyaan serve as a prominent udhaaharan.
vahin hai anek alag prakaar of loans.
For more soochna on rin prakaar, dekhie the rin or upabhokta lending articles.
Steps involved in originating a rin vary by rin prakaar, vibhinn kinds of rin risk, niamak, lender policy, and other factors.
Top left : The tennesi ghati praadhikaar, bhaag of the nai Deal, being signed into law in 1933.
Top right : Franklin Delano rujvelt, jo thi jimmedaar liye pahalon or kaarykram collectively gyaat as the New Deal.
Bottom : a public bhitti isse ek of the artists employed by the New Deal.
The New Deal thi a shrenee of aarthik kaarykram enacted in the sanyukt rajya between 1933 and 1936.
They involved adhyakshiya karypalika aadesh or kanoon passed by congress dauraan the pehla term of President Franklin D. Roosevelt.
the kaarykram yahood in jawaab to the great avsaad, or kendrit on kayaa itihaaskaaron call the `` 3 Rs '' : Relief, Recovery, and Reform.
That is Relief for the unemployed and poor ; Recovery of the economy to saamaanya str ; or sudhaar of the vittiya pranali to prevent a repeat avsaad.
The New Deal produced a political realignment, making the Democratic Party the majority ( as well as the party that held the White House for seven out of nine adhyakshiya sharten isse 1933 to 1969 ), saath iske aadhaar in udaar vichaar, the shwet dakshin, paramparaagat democrate, big nagar mashine, or the newly shashakt majdoor sangh or jaateey alpsankhyakon.
The Republicans were split, with conservatives opposing the sampurna nai saude as an dushman of kaarobaar or vikaas, or udaarvaadiyon accepting kuch of it or honhaar to make it more efficient.
The realignment crystallized into the New Deal gathbandhan ki varchasv sabase adhyakshiya chunaavon into the 1960s, jabaki the vipaksh roodhiwaadee gathbandhan largely controlled Congress from 1937 to 1963.
By 1936 the term `` liberal '' typically was used for samarthak of the nai saude, or `` roodhiwaadee `` liye iske pratidwandviyon.
From 1934 to 1938, Roosevelt was assisted in uske endeavours by a “pro-spender” bahumat in congress ( drawn isse two-party, competitive, non-machine, Progressive, and Left party districts ).
As noted by Alexander Hicks, “Roosevelt, backed by viral, non-southern democrate majorities — 270 non-southern democrate pratinidhi or 71 non-southern democrate seenetteron — spelled duusari nai saude reform.”
Many historians distinguish between a `` First nai saude '' ( 1933–34 ) or a `` duusari nai saude '' ( 1935–38 ), saath the duusari ek adhik udaar or more controversial.
The `` First New Deal '' ( 1933–34 ) dealt with diverse groups, from banking or railroads to udyog or kheti, sab of jisase maange sahaayta liye aarthik survival.
The sangheey apaat raahat prashasan, liye udhaaharan, provided $ 500 lakh liye raahat operations by states and cities, while the short-lived CWA ( Civil Works Administration ) gave localities money to operate make-work projects in 1933-34.
The `` Second New Deal `` in 1935–38 shaamil the veganar adhinium to prachaar majdoor sangh, the works pragati prashasan ( wpa ) raahat kaarykram ( jisase bana the sangheey sarkari by dur the largest single employer in the nation ), the Social Security Act, and new programs to aid tenant farmers and migrant workers.
The final major items of New Deal legislation were the creation of the United States awaas praadhikaar or farm suraksha prashasan, dono in 1937, or the mela majdoor maanakon adhinium of 1938, jisase niyat adhiktam ghanton or nunatam wages for most categories of workers.
The aarthik downturn of 1937–38, or the kadava vibhajit between the AFL and CIO labor unions led to major Republican gains in Congress in 1938.
Conservative Republicans and Democrats in congress joined in the anaupchaarik roodhiwaadee Coalition.
By 1942–43 they shut down relief kaarykram aise as the wpa or ccc or avarodhit pramukh udaar prastaav.
rujvelt khud turned uske dhyaan to the war effort, and won reelection in 1940 and 1944.
The Supreme Court declared the National recovery prashasan ( nra ) or the pehla sanskaran of the agricultural samaayojan adhinium ( aaa ) asanvaidhanik, however the AAA was rewritten and then upheld.
As the first Republican president elected after FDR, Dwight D. ijanhavar ( 1953–61 ) baayein the nai saude largely intact, even expanding it in some areas.
In the 1960s, Lyndon B. Johnson 's Great Society used the nai saude as prerana liye a naatakeey vistaar of udaar kaarykram, jisase republican richard M. nicksan generally retained.
After 1974, however, the call for deregulation of the arthvyavastha gained bipartisan support.
The New Deal viniman of banking ( glass–steagall adhinium ) thi nilambit in the 1990s.
Many New Deal programs remain kriyasheel, saath kuch still oparating antargat the asli names, sahit the sangheey jamaa bime nigam ( fdic ), the sangheey crop bime nigam ( FCIC ), the Federal Housing Administration ( FHA ), and the Tennessee Valley Authority ( TVA ).
The largest programs still in astitv aaj hai the soshal suraksha pranali or the pratibhuti or exange ayog ( SEC ).
a stri ( ), pl : mahilaon ( ) is a female human.
The term woman is usually reserved for an adult, saath the pad ladki hone the usual pad liye a female child or adolescent.
However, the term woman is also sometimes prayukt to pahachaano a maadaa insaan, regardless of aayu, as in vaakyansh such as `` Women 's rights ``.
Women are typically capable of giving janam, haalanki puraani mahilaon jo have gaye through menopause and some intersex women can not.
`` i do n't want to miss a baat '' is a song performed by amareeki chattan band arosmith for the 1998 film Armageddon.
Written by Diane warren, the song debuted at kramank ek on the billboard hot 100 ( the first # 1 for the band after 28 years together ).
The song stayed at number one for chaar saptaah isse sitambar 5 to sitambar 26, 1998.
The song also tehre at kramank 1 liye anek saptaah in anek anya deshon.
In the UK, the song peaked at kramank chaar, banane arosmith 's ucchtam charting song in the uk, jahaan it thi the 17th best-selling single of 1998, and has sold over a million copies.
haalanki nahin prayukt by the bahumat of the sansar 's deshon, daylight saving time is common in the Western world.
Daylight saving time ( DST ) —also garmiyaan samay in angrejon angrezi — is the abhyaas of advancing ghadiyaan dauraan the halkaa maheene so that evenings have more daylight and mornings have less.
Typically clocks are adjusted aage ek ghanta nikat the prarambh of vasant or hai samyojit backward in autumn.
The modern idea of daylight saving was first prastaavit in 1895 by george vernon hadsan or it thi pehla implemented dauraan the pehla sansar War.
Many deshon have prayukt it at vibhinn times since then.
Much of the United States used DST in the 1950s and 1960s, and DST use expanded following the 1970s energy sankat or rai maharoom widely prayukt in uttar america or europea chunki tab.
The practice has been dono praised or criticized.
Adding daylight to evenings benefits retailing, sports, and other activities that exploit sunlight baad working ghanton, lakin can kaaran samasyaayein liye sandhya entertainment or anya occupations tied to the sun.
Although an early goal of DST was to reduce evening usage of incandescent lighting ( formerly a praathmik upyog of vidyut ), aadhunik heating or kooling upyog pattern differ greatly, or shodh parichay how DST currently affects energy use is limited or contradictory.
DST clock shift upasthit anya chunautiyaan.
They complicate timekeeping, or can disrupt baithak, safar, billing, ricard keeping, chikitsa devices, heavy equipment, and sleep patterns.
Software can often adjust computer clocks automatically, but is can be simit or error-prone, visheshkar jab dst tithiyaan hai badla.
floorplan of the château de Montargis
Montargis is a commune in the loiret vibhaag in north-central France on the Loing river.
The town is stith parichay dakshin of paris or east of orléans in the Gâtinais.
Montargis is the duusari largest nagar in the loiret, after Orléans.
It is near a large forest, or contains lite udyog or kheti, including saffron.
Due to its numerous canals or pulon, montargis sometimes bills itself as the `` Venice of the Gâtinais. ''
Though kaaphi aadhunik, it retains a madhyakaalin aakarshan in its downtown area.
In computer storage, a logical unit number, or LUN, is a kramank prayukt to pahachaano a logical ikai, jisase is a yantra addressed by the scsi protocol or protocols which encapsulate SCSI, such as Fibre Channel or iSCSI.
A LUN may be prayukt saath koi yantra jisase supports read/write parichaalan, aise as a tepe drive, lakin is sabase praayah prayukt to refer to a logical disk as created on a SAN.
Though not technically sahi, the pad `` lun '' is praayah bhi prayukt to refer to the logical disk itself.
The Gospel According to Mark (,, to euangelion kata markon ), commonly shortened to the inzel of chihnit or bas Mark, is the second book of the New Testament.
This canonical khaataa of the jivan of yishu of nasarat is ek of the three synoptic gospels.
It was vichaar to be an nichod, jisase khate liye iske place as the duusari gospel in the Bible.
However, most contemporary scholars abhi lihaaz it as the earliest of the canonical gospels ( c 70 ).
That Mark was used as a source for the other synoptic gospels inzel of mathew or inzel of luk is widely yojit by anek, haalanki nahin sab, nai vasiyat vidwaanon.
The Gospel of Mark narrates the Ministry of Jesus from uske baptism by jon the baptist to uske maut or qayamat.
it focuses visheshkar on the pichhlaa saptaah of his life ( chapters 11–16 ) in Jerusalem.
Its swift katha portrays yishu as a vir man of karrwai, an exorcist, healer and miracle worker.
an mahatvapurn theme of Mark is the Messianic Secret.
Jesus silences the demoniacs he heals, koshishen unsuccessfully to rakhana uske muktidaata pahchaan rahasy, or conceals uske sandesh saath parables.
meanwhile, the shishyon asafal to samajhe dono the implication of the chamatkaar of yishu or the arth of the bate he predicts about his arrest, death and resurrection.
Most scholars believe that the original text of the gospel ends at Mark 16:8 saath the discovery of yishu ' khaali makbara or ki the following khaataa of uske qayamat dikhaave is a later addition.
According to tradition and some early church writers, the author is chihnit the enjeelwaadi, the saathi of the apostle peter.
The gospel, however, appears to rely on several underlying sources, varying in rup or in dharamshastra, jisase tells viruddh the parampara ki the inzel thi aadhaarit on peter 's upadesh.
The text is a compilation which may shaamil eye-witness khate as khub as gyaat apostolic preachings, or pre-existing likhaa record ki do nahin maujuud today but can be confirmed from 2nd-century commentators.
Some of the stories in the inzel may have maharoom transmitted orally before being written down.
Various elements within the gospel sujhaayen ki the lekhak likhaa in syrian or philistin liye a non-jewish isai community.
The Lord of the Rings is an epic high kaalpanik anokhaa likhaa by angrezi bhashashasthri or vishvavidhyalayon of oxford professor J. R. R. Tolkien.
The story began as a sequel to Tolkien 's 1937 children 's kaalpanik anokhaa the hobbit, lakin aakhirkaar viksit into a much larger work.
It was written in charan between 1937 or 1949, much of it dauraan World War II.
It is the second best-selling anokhaa kabhi likhaa, saath over 150 lakh nakal sold.
The title of the novel refers to the story 's main antagonist, the Dark Lord Sauron, who had in an pehle aayu nirmit the ek ring to niyam the anya bajati of shakti as the param hathiyaar in uske abhiyaan to jeeten or niyam sab of middle-earth.
From quiet beginnings in the Shire, a Hobbit land not unlike the English countryside, the story ranges across north-west Middle-earth, following the course of the War of the Ring through the eyes of its characters, notably the hobbits frodo baggins, samwise `` sam '' gamgee, meriadoc `` mairi '' brandybuck or peregrin `` pippin '' took, lakin bhi the hobbits ' mukhya allies or yatraaen companions : aragorn, a insaan ranger ; boromir, a man isse gondor ; gimli, a Dwarf warrior ; Legolas, an Elven prince ; and Gandalf, a Wizard.
The work was initially intended by tolkien to be ek awaz of a two-volume niyat, saath the anya being The Silmarillion, but this idea was dismissed by his publisher.
It was decided for economic reasons to publish The Lord of the bajati as teen aaytan over the course of a saal isse 29 july 1954 to 20 aktubar 1955, yun bananaa the abhi parichit rab of the Rings trilogy.
The three aaytan yahood hakdaar the fellowship of the ring, the Two Towers, and The Return of the King.
Structurally, the novel is divided internally into six books, do prati awaz, saath anek appendices of prishthbhumi saamagree shaamil at the end of the third volume.
The Lord of the bajati rai chunki maharoom reprinted numerous times or translated into many languages.
Tolkien 's work has been the vishay of extensive vishleshan of iske themes and origins.
Although a pramukh kaary in itself, the story thi tabhi the pichhlaa gati of a larger apik tolkien tha worked on chunki 1917, in a process he described as mythopoeia.
Influences on this earlier work, and on the story of The Lord of the Rings, include philology, mythology, dharm or the lekhak 's distaste liye the prabhaav of industrialization, as khub as pehle kaalpanik works or tolkien 's anubhavon in sansar War I.
The rab of the bajati in iske phere is mana to have tha a great prabhaav on aadhunik kaalpanik ; the impact of Tolkien 's works is such that the use of the words `` Tolkienian '' and `` Tolkienesque '' have been recorded in the Oxford English Dictionary.
The enduring popularity of The Lord of the bajati rai led to numerous sandarbh in lokapriy samskruti, the founding of anek samaajon by prashansak of tolkien 's works, or the publication of many books about Tolkien and his works.
The Lord of the Rings has prerit, or continues to inspire, kalakriti, music, films and television, video games, and subsequent literature.
Award-winning adaptations of The rab of the bajati have maharoom bana liye radio, theatre, and film.
The following is an apisod suchi liye the niklodian sitcom Drake & Josh.
The series debuted on janvari 11, 2004.
A TV film Merry Christmas, Drake & Josh was made alaava isse the niyamit shrenee on disambar 5, 2008.
There are a kul of 60 apisod yahood utpaadit spanning four seasons.
drek ghanti, josh pek, or miranda cosgrove yahood the tabhi abhinaytaon to appear in all 60 episodes.
The San Francisco 49ers conduct training camp at the team 's mukhyalay or abhyaas suvidha in santa clara, california in agast 2010.
The offense is wearing red jerseys saath the excepshan of quarterbaque elex smith, jo is in a blike jersey ; the defense in white.
In the neshnal footbaal lig, prashikshan shivi refers to the samay pehle the season commences.
During this time, teams will sometimes congregate at an outside sthaan, praayah a vishvavidhyalayon, to conduct prashikshan shivi liye at tanik the first few weeks.
This is similar to besabaal 's vasant prashikshan.
Training camp is prayukt in anek alag tareeke.
New players and coach upyog it to acclimate themselves to new teammates and systems.
For younger players, it serves as a period of moolyankan ; liye diggajon, it is samay to golakaar back into form.
Training camp is vibhajit into anek alag components.
the pehla is scrimmages.
These hai pseudo-games jahaan tiimon chalaaen nearly full games ' worth of plays.
Sometimes, do abhyaas satr hai yojit on the same day.
is avadharana is referred to as two-a-days.
Other parts of training camp include drills, baithak saath coach or anya khilaadi at ek 's sthiti, vazan prashikshan, or pre-season games.
The latter half of training camp leads sidhe into the pradarshnee ritu.
With NFL training shiviron starting in late-july, the biggest chintaa rai maharoom nirjaleekaran.
In 2001, Minnesota Vikings khilaadi korey stringer died of a chikitsa condishan aadhaarit isse nirjaleekaran and heatstroke.
the maut of stringer prompted the NFL to change their training policies.
at prayek abhyaas, prayek toli jarur have the toli doctor or prashikshakon on the field ; additionally, an ambulance must be present during practices.
With NFL training camps shuruuaat in let july, kathor mausam can affect abhyaas and exhibition games.
In 2002, a cleveland bhura pradarshnee khel ended due to bijli nikat cleveland bhura stadium, and severe storms have been known to disrupt training camps.
Fans are often able to visit their favorite team 's training camp to catch an jaldi dekh at the khilaadi ; pravesh to practices is praayah free or substantially kam mahangi than a khel tikat, bananaa prashikshan camp trips a popular option for fans who can not attend many games due to financial or other reasons.
NFL teams often sell souvenirs and concessions at shivi site saath saath offering kriyaayein or kaarykram to mek prashikshan shivi a adhik fan-friendly experience.
In computing, a sanchika pranali ( or filesystem ) is a prakaar of aankada store jisase can be prayukt to store, retrieve or adhyatan a set of files.
The term could refer to the abstract data structures used to define files, or to the vaastavik tantra or formaware components ki implement the abstract ideas.
Some file systems are used on local data storage divaais ; anya provide sanchika abhigam via a sanjaal protocol ( e.g. nfs, SMB, or 9P clients ).
Some file systems are `` virtual '', in that the `` filein '' supplied hai computed on nivedan ( e.g. procfs ) or hai merely a maanchitran into a alag sanchika pranali prayukt as a backing store.
The file system manages access to dono the saamagree of filein or the metadata parichay those filein.
It is jimmedaar liye arranging bhandar spes ; vishwasaneeyata, dakshata, or tuning with regard to the physical storage medium are important design considerations.
William Howard Taft ( September 15, 1857 – March 8, 1930 ) was the 27th President of the United rajya ( 1909–1913 ) or baad the dasavaan mukhya insaaf of the sanyukt rajya ( 1921–1930 ).
He is the tabhi vyakti to have parosa in both of these offices.
Before becoming President, taft, a republican, thi chaynit to serve on the shreshth adaalat of Cincinnati in 1887.
In 1890, Taft was appointed Solicitor General of the United States and in 1891 a nyaayadhish on the sanyukt rajya adaalat of appeals liye the chathe circuit.
In 1900, adhyaksh wiliam mckinley niyukt taft governor-general of the Philippines.
In 1904, President Theodore Roosevelt niyukt taft sachiv of yuddh in an praytn to duulhe taft, tab uske band rajnatik ally, into uske handpicked presidential successor.
Taft assumed a prominent role in problem solving, assuming on some occasions the role of acting Secretary of State, while ghatati doharaaya offers isse rujvelt to serve on the param Court.
Riding a wave of lokapriy support liye fellow republican rujvelt, taft jiti an aasaan vijay in his 1908 bid for the presidency.
In his only term, Taft 's domestic agenda emphasized trust-busting, civil seva sudhaar, strengthening the antarraji commers ayog, improving the pradarshan of the postal service, and passage of the Sixteenth Amendment.
Abroad, Taft sought to further the aarthik vikaas of raashtra in latin america or asia through `` dollars kootneeti ``, or dikhaaya decisiveness and restraint in response to revolution in Mexico.
The task-oriented Taft was oblivious to the rajnatik ramifications of uske nirnay, praayah alienated uske apana kunjee constituencies, or thi overwhelmingly defeated in his bid for a second term in the presidential election of 1912.
In surveys of presidential scholars, taft is praayah kramit nikat the madhya of suchiyaan of all American Presidents.
After leaving office, Taft spent his time in academia, madhyasthata, or the dhundhen liye sansar salaam through uske self-founded lig to enforce Peace.
In 1921, after the First sansar yuddh, adhyaksh warren G. harding niyukt taft mukhya Justice of the United States.
Taft served in this capacity until shortly pehle uske maut in 1930.
The Ten Commandments is a 1956 epic film produced and directed by Cecil B. DeMille that dramatized the biblical story of the exodus, in jisase the hebrew-born musa, an apanaaya mishra prince, becomes the deliverer of the Hebrew slaves.
It starred Charlton Heston in the lead role, Yul Brynner as uske adoptive bhai, pharaoh rameses ii, eni baxtor as nefretiri, edward G. robinsan as dathan, yvonne de carlo as sephora, debra pejet as Lilia, and John Derek as Joshua.
the supporting daal shaamil sar cedrick hardwicke as pharaoh seti i, nina foch as bithiah, martha Scott as Yoshebel, Judith Anderson as Memnet, Vincent Price as Baka, and John Carradine as Aaron.
The filmi thi released by sarvopari tasviren in vistavision on October 5, 1956.
The Ten Commandments, jisase demille narrated, thi the pichhlaa filmi ki he directed.
He was set to sidhaa the 1958 rimek of uske 1938 filmi the buccaneer, lakin uske final beemaari majaboor use to baaj the directing chores to his son-in-law, actor Anthony Quinn.
DeMille had also niojit to filmi the jivan of rab baden pavel, the sansthaapak of the Scout movement, with David Niven ; this project was never realized.
the ten aayatein is a aanshik rimek of demille 's 1923 silent film.
Some of the cast or kru of the 1956 sanskaran worked on the asli.
It has chunki maharoom remade as a television miniseries broadcast in April 2006.
The Ten Commandments is one of the sabase financially kaamyaab films kabhi bana, grossing over $ 65 lakh at the U.S. box office.
Adjusting for inflation, is makes it the chathe highest-grossing filmi domestically, saath an samyojit kul of $ 1,025,730,000 in 2012.
The box daftar jalsthal `` the sankhyaayein '' suchiyaan the gharelu gross at $ 80 million.
In 1999, The Ten aayatein thi chaynit liye sangrakshan in the sanyukt rajya neshnal filmi registry by the pustakaalayon of congress as being `` culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant ''.
In June 2008, the American Film Institute revealed iske `` ten sheersh ten `` —the behtareen ten films in ten amareeki filmi genres—after polling over 1,500 people from the creative community.
The Ten aayatein thi soochibaddh as the dasavaan behtareen filmi in the epic genre.
The film received seven academy puraskaar nominations sahit behtareen chitra, or jiti the academy puraskaar for Best Visual Effects.
Charlton Heston was nominated for a Golden Globe puraskaar liye behtareen gati chitra karta in the naatak category.
Yul Brynner won the National falak of punarvilokan puraskaar liye behtareen karta liye uske bhoomika as rameses, saath saath uske anya bhoomikaaye in the King and I and Anastasia.
Louisville (, or ) is a pramukh nagar or the largest nagar in the u.S. rajya of kentki or the county seat of Jefferson County.
Since 2003, the nagar 's simaayen have maharoom saath those of the county kuki of a city-county merger.
The city 's total consolidated population at the 2010 census was 741,096 ( Louisville 's santulan kul, 602,011, excludes semi-autonomous kasbon or is the janasankhyikee soochibaddh in most sources and national rankings ).
As of 2010, the louisville mahanagar kshetrafal ( emesa ) tha a janasankhyikee of 1,307,647 ranking 42nd nationally.
The metro area includes louisville-jefferson county or 12 surrounding county, aath in kentki or chaar in dakshini indiana ( dekhie Geography below ).
The Louisville Combined sankhyikeey kshetrafal, having a janasankhyikee of 1,451,564, shaamil the emesa, hardin county and Larue County in Kentucky, and Scott County, Indiana.
An important internal shipping bandargahon in the 19th sadi, louisville aaj is behtareen gyaat as the sthaan of the kentki darbi, the pehla of three annual thoroughbred horse races making up the Triple Crown.
A typical praayogic seoup liye an aldol reaction.
Both flasks are submerged in a dry ice/acetone cooling bath ( −78 °C ) the taapmaana of jisase is hone monitored by a taapyugma ( the taar on the left ).
A cooling bath, in prayogshaala rasayan ( praayah lakin nahin sadaa sashulk rasayan ) abhyaas, is a liquid mixture which is used to maintain low temperatures, typically between 13 °C and −196 °C.
These low temperatures hai prayukt to collect liquids baad aswan, to hataayen solvaints using a rotary evaporator, or to perform a rasinic pratikriya neeche room taapmaana ( see : kinetic control ).
Cooling baths are generally one of two types : ( a ) a cold fluid ( particularly liquid nitrogen, water, or even air ) — but most commonly the term refers to ( b ) a mixture of 3 components : ( 1 ) a cooling agent ( such as dry ice or water ice ) ; ( b ) a liquid 'kairicar ' ( aise as drav jal, ethilin glykol, asitone, ityadi. ), jisase hastantaran ooshmaa between the nahaana or the pot ; ; or ( c ) an yogtmak to gumsum the melting-point of the solid/liquid system.
( A familiar example of this is the upyog of an ice/rock-salt mishran to fries ice cream.
The phase-change of ice into drav jal requires urja, 'pulling ' heat from the system.
Adding salt lowers the asthaayee at jisase is happens, arth adhik urja rai to be absorbed from the environment in order to melt the ice.
This effectively makes the ice 'colder ' — it jarur 'pull ' adhik ooshmaa isse iske paryaavaran to become liquid. )
Eating disorders are sharten paribhaashit by asaamaanya khaane aadaten ki may involve either aparyaapt or excessive food intake to the detriment of an individual 's physical and mental health.
Bulimia nervoza or anorexia nervoza hai the sabase aam vishisht forms in the United Kingdom.
Other types of eating vikaar shaamil binge khaane vikaar or khaane vikaar nahin otherwise specified.
Bulimia nervoza is a vikaar characterized by binge eating and purging.
purging can shaamil self-induce ulti, over-exercising, and the usage of diuretics, enemas, and laxatives.
Anorexia nervosa is characterized by extreme food restriction to the point of self-starvation or excessive weight loss.
Though primarily thought of as affecting mahilaon ( an anumaanit 5–10 lakh hone prabhavit in the u.K. ), khaane vikaar affect males as well.
An estimated 10 – 15 % of people with eating disorders are males ( gorgan, 1999 ).
( an anumaanit 1 lakh u.K. males hone prabhavit ).
Although eating disorders are increasing all over the world among dono main or mahilaon, vahin is pramaan to sujhaayen ki it is mahilaon in the pashchimi sansar who are at the highest risk of developing them and the degree of westernization increases the risk.
Nearly half of sab america personally jaan kisi saath an eating disorder.
The skill to comprehend the central processes of appetite has increased tremendously chunki leptin thi khoja, or the kaushal to observe the krityon of the dimag as khub.
Interactions between motivational, homeostatic and self-regulatory control prakriyaaon hai shaamil in khaane aacharan, jisase is a kunjee ghatak in khaane disorders.
The precise cause of eating disorders is not entirely samajha, lakin vahin is pramaan ki it may be linked to anya chikitsa sharten and situations.
Cultural idealization of thinness or youthfulness have contributed to khaane vikaar affecting diverse populations.
One study dikhaaya ki ladakiyon saath adhd have a vrihad mauka of getting an eating disorder than those not affected by ADHD.
Another study suggested that women saath ptsd, visheshkar due to sexually sambandhit aghat, hai adhik sambhavit to develop anorexia nervosa.
One padhai dikhaaya ki foster ladakiyon hai adhik sambhavit to develop bulimia nervosa.
Some think ki pir dabaav or idealized body-types dekhi in the media are also a significant factor.
Some research dikhaaen ki liye nishchit logon vahin hai genetic kaaran kyon ve may be prone to developing an eating disorder.
Recent studies have found evidence a sahasambandh between marijon saath bulimia nervosa and substance use disorders.
In jod, chintaa vikaar or vyaktitv vikaar hai aam aavriti saath client of eating disorders.
While proper treatment can be highly effective for many suffering from specific types of eating disorders, the consequences of khaane vikaar can be kathor, sahit maut ( whether isse sidhaa chikitsa prabhaav of ashaant khaane aadaten or isse comorbid sharten aise as suicidal thinking ).
Slavery in the United States existed from the jaldi saalo of the aupniveshik kaal ; it thi firmly sthapit by the samay the sanyukt rajya sought independence from Great Britain in 1776.
However, by 1804, all states north of the Mason and Dixon Line had either abolished gulaami outright or passed kanoon liye the kramik abolition of slavery.
In 1787 congress nishiddh gulaami in the uttarpashchim territory.
But slavery gained new life in the South with the cotton industry baad 1800, or vistaarit into the Southwest.
The nation was polarized into slave or free rajya saath the mason-dixon lakeer, which separated Pennsylvania and Maryland.
The United States and Great Britain both prohibited the international slave trade in 1808, but the gharelu vyapaar, saath bikri to the gahan dakshin, vistaarit dramatically, or anek captives yahood shipped by the coastwise slave vyapaar.
Before the 1840s, the South was vigorously defending gulaami or iske vistaar into the territories.
In the North some abolitionists denounced it as gunaahagaar, or numerous anti-slavery shaktiyaan asweekrut it as hanikaarak to the rights of free men.
After failed compromises and Abraham lincoln 's chunaav, in 1861 gyaarah slave rajya broke dur to rup the confederate rajya of america, agrani to the American Civil War.
The federal government in 1862 bana abolition of gulaami a yuddh lakshya.
in janvari 1863 adhyaksh lincoln freed slave in the confederacy through the Emancipation Proclamation.
After the war, the Thirteenth Amendment, effective December 1865, abolished gulaami throughout the sampurna sanyukt rajya, sahit the kinaaraa rajya or the bhartiya territories.
From the 16th to the 19th sadiyaan, an anumaanit 12 million Africans were shipped as slaves to the Americas.
See gulaami in the americas.
The great bahumat gai to the sugar baganon of the west Indies or Brazil, where mortality was high.
About 645,000 yahood brought to kayaa is abhi the United States.
By the 1860 United States Census, the slave janasankhyikee in the amareeki dakshin tha grown to four million.
Of all 1,515,605 families in the 15 slave rajya, nearly 400,000 yojit slave ( roughly one in four ), amounting to 8 % of all American families.
While some slave worked as house bandon or shahari shilpkaar, the great bahumat worked on baganon or vishaal kheto, cultivating lucrative nakadi fasalon, aise as rice, tobacco, sugar and, after 1800, chiefly cotton.
By 1860 sabase slave yahood yojit in the gahan dakshin, jahaan ve parosa in work-gangs ; two-thirds worked in cotton.
in choti parichaalan, ve worked with their owners.
In vishaal baganon ve yahood nirdeshit by white paid overseers.
antargat the pranali ki became chattel gulaami ( swaamitv of a insaan hone, or of his/her descendants ), a racial element was fundamental : slaves were blacks of African descent and owned, almost universally, by whites of European descent.
In the 17th century, virginia, followed by anya dakshini colonies, enacted vidhi ki children of slave mothers were born into slavery.
Slaves could gain freedom only by running away ( which thi mushkil or illegal to do ), or by manumission by swami, jisase thi regulated by rajya, or became increasingly difficult or prohibited.
In the earliest era of chattel slavery, the colonies also organized kaary by a pranali of bandhua majdoor gyaat as indentured servitude.
This typically lasted for several saalo liye dono garib europeans or africans alike, to adaa off the costs of transport to the colonies.
They contracted for such arrangements kuki of garib economies in unke home countries.
Between 1680 and 1700, as fewer europeans migrated to the colonies, planters began to aayaat adhik Africans as slaves.
Recognizing the importance of slavery, the House of Burgesses in virginia enacted a nai slave code in 1705 ; it sanyukt a kismein of vidhaan or added nai praavdhaanon enforcing white supremacy in the law.
Schematic cross section of part of patta, jilam dikhaaya as red vrutt at figure 8.
Xylem is one of the do prakaar of hastantaran utak in vascular plants ( phloem is the other ).
The word xylem is derived isse the unani shabd ξύλον ( xylon ), arth `` lakdi '' ; the best-known jilam utak is lakdi, though it is found throughout the plant.
Its basic falan is to hastantaran jal, lakin it bhi transports kuch nutrients through the plant.
This clock pratinidhitiv shows kuch of the pramukh ikai of geological samay and definitive events of Earth history.
The Hadean eon represents the time before fossil ricard of jivan on dharti ; iske apper boundary is abhi regarded as 4.0 ga ( billion years ago ).
Other subdivisions reflect the evolution of life ; the Archean and proterozoic hai dono eons, the palaeozoic, mesozoic or cenozoic hai eras of the phanerozoic eon.
The do lakh saal quaternary kaal, the samay of recognizable humans, is too small to be visible at this scale.
The geologic time scale is a system of chronological maapan ki relates stariki to samay, or is prayukt by geologists, paleontologists, or anya dharti vaigyanikon to describe the samay or sambandh between events that have occurred throughout Earth 's history.
The talika of bhugarbhik samay spans prastut yahan agrees saath the tithiyaan or namakaran niyat forth by the International Commission on Stratigraphy standard color codes of the International Commission on Stratigraphy.
Evidence from radiometric dating indicates ki the dharti is about 4.54 billion years old.
The geology or deep samay of dharti 's past rai maharoom vyavasthit into vibhinn units according to events which took place in each period.
Different spans of time on the GTS are praayah simaankit by parivartan in the sangyojan of strata jisase correspond to unhen, indicating pramukh geological or paleontological events, such as mass extinctions.
For example, the boundary between the cretaceous kaal or the paleogene kaal is paribhaashit by the cretaceous–paleogene extinction event, which marked the demise of the dinosaurs and many other groups of life.
Older time spans which predate the vishwasaneey chattan ricard ( pehle the proterozoic eon ) are defined by absolute age.
The TI-82 is a graphing paripath bana by texas yantra.
The TI-82 was designed in 1993 as a stripped down, more upayokta dostana sanskaran of the ti-85, or as a badalanaa liye the ti-81.
It was the sidhaa purvavarti of the TI-83.
it saajha saath the ti-85 a 6 MHz Zilog Z80 microprocessor.
Like the TI-81, the ti-82 suvidhaayen a 96x64 pixel pradarshak, or the kor visheshta niyat of the ti-81 with many new features.
The cast of varna of the king of senaanee XI.
The King of Fighters fighting game series, produced by SNK Playmore, shaamil a chaudee daal of varna, kuch of jisase hai liya isse anya snk games.
The story takes place in a fictional universe in jisase an salanaa shrenee of 3-on-3 or 4-on-4 lard tournaments are held.
The first game in the series introduces the initial pramukh akshar of the shrenee, kyo kusanagi, a yang japani senaanee jo is the vaaris to a shaktishaalee group of martial artists having pyrokinetic abilities.
Kyo fights against the Kusanagi gotra 's dushmano, uske pratidwandvi iori yagami, or the parameshwar orochi or iske insaan anusarankarta, among others.
The first four games in the series revolve about these fights, while The King of Fighters '99 introduces a nai story chaap, gumti around k ', a yang man jo seeks to nasht the rahasyamay nests sanghathan kuki ve kidnapped use at an jaldi age and stripped him of his past memories, so that they could force him to be a fighter under their control.
In The King of Fighters 2003, a new character named Ash Crimson enters the toornament, to chori the shaktiyaan of the clans jo sealed the orochi in the past liye an unknown reason.
A new group of antagonists, known as those isse the past, bhi appears in the shrenee ; ve want to obtain orochi 's shakti liye the purpose of giving it to unke unknown master.
The plot and the varna aae isse the Yamata no Orochi legend.
vahin hai bhi anek varna in the khel ki hai parodies or homages to several popular anime, manga, and films.
merchandise aadhaarit on the varna rai bhi maharoom released, sahit action figures and keychains.
The characters have garnered taareef isse anek video khel publications liye the visheshta of unke dizin and movesets.
Comments kendrit on the kami of sudhaar in kuch of the varna, lakin added that the roster is greatly diverse.
Whale Wars is a saptahik amareeki documentary-style vaastaviktaa television shrenee that premiered on November 7, 2008 on the Animal Planet cable channel.
The kaarykram folo paul watasan, sansthaapak of the samudr gadriye sangrakshan samaaj, as he or the kru aboard their various vessels harass Japanese whalers off the coast of Antarctica.
On January 5, 2013, Animal grah navinikrut the shrenee liye a sixth season.
The Harpy Eagle ( Harpia harpyja ) is a neotropical prajati of tribhuj.
It is sometimes known as the American harpy tribhuj to fark it isse the papuai tribhuj jisase is sometimes gyaat as the nai gini harpy Eagle or Papuan Harpy Eagle.
It is the largest or sabase shaktishaalee repter mila in the americas, or among the largest extant prajati of eagles in the world.
It usually inhabits tropical lowland rainforests in the apper ( emergent ) canopy layer.
vinaash of iske prakritik awaas rai dekhi it vanish isse anek bhaag of its former range, and it is nearly extirpated in Central America.
Biological classification, or scientific classification in jeevigyaan, is a vidhi of vaigyanik taxonomy prayukt to samooh or categorize jeevon into samooh aise as genus or species.
These samooh hai gyaat as taxa ( ekvachan : taxon ).
Modern biological classification has its root in the work of carolus liniyas, jo grouped prajati according to saajha shaareerik visheshtaayen.
These groupings have since maharoom sanshodhit to improve sangati saath the darwinian principle of common descent.
With the parichay of the cladistic vidhi in the let 20th sadi, phylogenetic taxonomy in jisase jeevon hai grouped aadhaarit purely on inferred evolutionary relatedness, ignoring morphological similarity, has become common in some areas of biology.
Molecular phylogenetics, which uses DNA sequences as aankada, rai bhi chalit anek haal revisions or is sambhavit to continue doing so.
biological vargeekaran belongs to the vigyaan of biological systematics.
Lennon 's hastakshar
John Winston Ono Lennon, ( born John Winston lenon ; 9 aktubar 1940 – 8 disambar 1980 ) thi an angrezi sangeetkaar, singer or songwriter jo rose to vishwavyaapee kirti as a sansthaapak sadsy of the betals, ek of the sabase commercially kaamyaab or critically acclaimed acts in the history of popular music.
With Paul McCartney, he formed ek of the sabase manaaye songwriting partnerships of the 20th century.
Born and raised in Liverpool, as a teenager Lennon became involved in the skiffle craze ; uske pehla band, the quarrymen, viksit into the betals in 1960.
As the group disintegrated towards the samaapt of the dashak, lenon embarked on a solo kariyar ki utpaadit the critically acclaimed album jon lennon/plastic ono band or imagine, and iconic songs such as `` Give Peace a Chance `` and `` Imagine ``.
After his marriage to yoko ono in 1969, he badla uske name to John Ono Lennon.
Lennon disengaged himself from the music business in 1975 to devote samay to uthaane uske shishu bete shaun, lakin re-emerged saath ono in 1980 saath the nai album doguna Fantasy.
he thi murdered teen weeks after its release.
Lennon nazil a rebellious prakruti or acerbic wit in uske music, likhane, drawings, on film and in interviews.
Controversial through his political and peace activism, he moved to New York City in 1971, where uske aalochana of the vietnam yuddh resulted in a lengthy attempt by richard nicksan 's prashasan to nirvaasan use, jabaki kuch of uske geeton were adopted as anthems by the anti-war movement.
As of 2012, Lennon 's solo album sales in the United States exceed 14 million units, and as lekhak, co-writer or yajmaan, he is jimmedaar liye 25 number-one singles on the US Hot 100 chart.
In 2002, a BBC poll on the 100 Greatest britons voted use aathvin, or in 2008, rolling stone kramit use the fifth-greatest singer of all time.
He was posthumously inducted into the Songwriters Hall of Fame in 1987 and into the chattan or phenken haul of kirti in 1994.
pratimaa of rip vine winkle in irvington, nai york, nahin dur isse `` sunnyside ``, the home of Washington Irving
`` Rip Van Winkle '' is a choti story by amareeki lekhak washington irving prakashit in 1819, as khub as the name of the story 's fictional protagonist.
Written while Irving thi jeena in birmingham, england, it thi bhaag of a sangrahan hakdaar the Sketch Book of Geoffrey Crayon.
Although the story is set in New York 's Catskill kyu, irving baad admitted, `` jab i likhaa the story, i tha never maharoom on the Catskills. ''
Throughout the fifty-five year history of the grami puraskaar, anek significant record have maharoom niyat.
This page only includes the pratispardhi puraskaar jiti by vibhinn artists.
This does not shaamil the vibhinn khaas puraskaar ki hai prastut by the neshnal academy of recording kala or Sciences such as Lifetime Achievement Awards, Trustees Awards, Technical Awards or Legend Awards.
The page however karata shaamil anya non-performance sambandhit grammys ( gyaat as the shilp & utpaadan field ) ki may have been presented to the artist ( s ).
Pee-wee Herman is a comic fictional akshar nirmit and portrayed by American comedian Paul Reubens.
He is behtareen gyaat liye uske do television shrenee or film series during the 1980s.
The childlike Pee-wee Herman character developed as a stage adhinium ki jaldi led to an echbio khaas in 1981.
As the stage performance gained further popularity, reubens took the akshar to gati chitra saath pee-wee 's big adventure in 1985, toning bas the vayask innuendo for the appeal of children.
This prashast the rasta liye pee-wee 's playhouse, an emi Award winning children 's series that ran on CBS from 1986-1991.
Another film, big sheersh pee-wee, thi released in 1988.
Due to negative media attention following a cond in 1991, reubens decided to shelve uske alter ahankaar dauraan the 1990s, or tab dhire resurrected it during the following decade.
It was at that time that reubens addressed yojanaayen to likhen a nai pee-wee filmi, pee-wee 's playhouse : the film.
In June 2007, reubens appeared as pee-wee herman liye the pehla samay chunki 1991 at spike tv 's yaaron ' chunaav Awards.
That '70s Show is an American television kaal sitcom ki centers on the jeevandaan of a samooh of teenage mitron living in the fictional suburban town of Point Place, Wisconsin, from May 17, 1976, to December 31, 1979.
It debuted on the Fox television network, first airing on agast 23, 1998, kaaryshil liye aath lagaataar sizan, and concluding with the 200th episode on May 18, 2006.
The main teenage daal sadasyon yahood topher anugrah, mila kunis, eshton kuchar, danni masterson, laura prepon, and Wilmer Valderrama.
The main adult cast members yahood debra jo rupp, kurtwood smith, don stark or, dauraan the first three seasons, Tanya Roberts.
Kansas ( ) is a U.S. rajya stith in the midwestern sanyukt rajya.
It is named after the kansas nadi jisase bahati through it, jisase in phere thi namit baad the Kansa Native American tribe, which inhabited the area.
The tribe 's name ( natively kką : ze ) is praayah kaha to ausat `` logon of the hawa '' or `` logon of the dakshin hawa, '' haalanki is thi probably not the term 's original meaning.
nivaasiyon of kansas hai called `` Kansans. ''
For hazaron of saalo kayaa is abhi kansas thi ghar to numerous or vividh Native American tribes.
Tribes in the Eastern part of the rajya generally jiya in gaanvon saath the nadi valleys.
Tribes in the Western bhaag of the rajya yahood semhai- nomadic or hunted vishaal herds of bison.
Kansas was first settled by European Americans in the 1830s, lakin the pace of upnivesh twarit in the 1850s, in the midst of rajnatik yudhon over the slavery issue.
When officially opened to upnivesh by the u.S. sarkari in 1854, abolitionist free-staters isse nai england or pro-slavery settlers isse neighboring mizori rushed to the territory to determine if Kansas would become a free state or a slave state.
Thus, the kshetrafal thi a hotbed of hinsa or araajaktaa in iske jaldi dinon as ye shaktiyaan collided, and was known as Bleeding Kansas.
The abolitionists eventually prevailed and on janvari 29, 1861, kansas daalaa the sangh as a free state.
After the civil yuddh, the janasankhyikee of kansas grew rapidly, when waves of immigrants turned the prairie into farmland.
Today, Kansas is one of the most productive agricultural rajya, producing unchi yields of gehun, jowar or sunflowers.
Kansas is the 15th sabase extensive or the 33rd sabase populous of the 50 United States.
Psychology is an academik or lagu anushaasan ki involves the vaigyanik padhai of mental functions and behaviors.
manovigyaan rai the taatkaalik lakshya of samajhnaa individuals or samooh by dono establishing saamaanya principles and researching specific cases, and by many accounts it ultimately aims to benefit society.
In this field, a peshewar or shodhakarta is pukaara a manovaigyanik or can be vargeekrut as a soshal, behavioral, or cognitive scientist.
Psychologists attempt to understand the role of mental functions in individual and social behavior, jabaki bhi exploring the physiological or neurobiological prakriyaaon ki underlie nishchit sangyanatmak krityon and behaviors.
Psychologists explore concepts such as perception, cognition, attention, jajbaat, phenomenology, prerana, dimag kaamkaaj, vyaktitv, bartaav, or interpersonal relationships.
Psychologists of diverse stripes also consider the behosh dimag.
Psychologists employ anubhavjanya vidhi to infer causal or correlational sambandh between psychosocial variables.
In jod, or in vipaksh, to employing anubhavjanya or nigamanaatmak vidhi, some—especially naidanik or counseling psychologists—at times rely upon symbolic interpretation and other inductive techniques.
Psychology has been described as a `` hub science '', with psychological findings linking to research and perspectives from the soshal sciences, prakritik sciences, ayurvigyaan, or the maanavtaa, aise as philosophy.
While psychological knowledge is praayah lagu to the moolyankan or upachaar of dimagi swasthya samasyaayein, it is also directed towards understanding and solving problems in many different spheres of human activity.
The majority of psychologists hai shaamil in kuch dayaalu of therapeutic bhoomika, practicing in naidanik, counseling, or school settings.
Many do scientific research on a wide range of topics related to mental prakriyaaon or bartaav, or typically kaary in vishvavidhyalayon manovigyaan vibhaag or sikhaa in anya academik jamaavat ( e.g., medical schools, hospitals ).
Some are employed in audyogic or organizational jamaavat, or in anya kshetron aise as human development and aging, sports, health, and the media, as well as in forensic investigation and other aspects of law.
Thomas Jefferson ( april 13, 1743 ( april 2, 1743 o.S. ) – july 4, 1826 ) thi an amareeki founding pita, the principal author of the Declaration of Independence ( 1776 ) and the third President of the United States ( 1801–1809 ).
At the beginning of the American Revolution, he parosa in the mahadwipiya congress, representing virginia or tab parosa as a wartime rajyapal of virginia ( 1779–1781 ).
Just after the yuddh ended, isse mid-1784 jeffrasan parosa as a diplomat, stationed in Paris.
In May 1785, he became the sanyukt rajya Minister to France.
Jefferson was the first United rajya sachiv of rajya ( 1790–1793 ) sevarat antargat adhyaksh George Washington.
With his close dost james medisson he vyavasthit the democratic-republican party, or subsequently resigned from Washington 's cabinet.
Elected Vice adhyaksh in 1796, jab he aae in duusari to jon adams of the federalists, jeffrasan opposed adams or saath medisson secretly wrote the Kentucky and Virginia Resolutions, which attempted to nullify the Alien and Sedition Acts.
Elected president in what Jefferson called the kranti of 1800, he oversaw the khariden of the vishaal louisiana territory isse frans ( 1803 ), or bheja the louis or clark expedition ( 1804–1806 ) to explore the new west.
His duusari pad thi ghira saath pareshaaniyon at ghar, aise as the vifal deshadroh vichaaran of his former Vice President Aaron Burr.
With escalating trouble with Britain who was challenging American neutrality and threatening shipping at sea, he aajamaaya aarthik warfare saath uske embargo kanoon jisase tabhi kshatigrast amareeki vyapaar.
In 1803, President Jefferson initiated a prakram of bhartiya janajaatiy hataanaa or relocation to the louisiana territory west of the mississippi nadi, in anukram to kholen lands liye eventual American settlers.
A leader in the Enlightenment, Jefferson was a bahushrut jo spoke paanch bhashaaen dhadlle or thi deeply dilchaspee in vigyaan, avishkaar, vaastukala, dharm or darshanashastra, interests that led him to the founding of the University of Virginia after his presidency.
He designed his own large mansion on a 5,000 acre plantation near charlottesville, virginia, jisase he namit monticello.
While not a notable orator, jeffrasan thi a skilled lekhak or corresponded saath anek influential people in America and Europe throughout his adult life.
Though jeffrasan swaamitv anek slave, he opposed the sanstha sab uske jivan or natijatan treated and took care of them very well and expected them to work no more than free farmers.
Since 1802 historians and others have been divided over the controversy of whether jeffrasan thi the pita of ek or adhik children belonging to saili hemings, a slave at monticello. ''
Historians are also in disagreement with how much jeffrasan thi vachanabaddh to the anti-slavery cause.
In 1807, President Jefferson hastakshrit into vidhi a vidheyak ki bain the importation of slave into the United States.
baad martha jeffrasan, uske bivi of gyaarah saalo, died in 1782, Jefferson remained a widower for the rest of his life ; their marriage produced six children, of whom two survived to adulthood.
Though Jefferson rai maharoom criticized by anek aadhunik din vidwaanon over the samasya of gulaami, he remains rated as one of the greatest U.S. presidents.
`` Sun City '' is a 1985 protest song written by steven vine zandt, utpaadit by vine zandt or arthur baker or ankit by kalakaaron United Against Apartheid to convey opposition to the South African policy of apartheid.
The primary means of that opposition is to declare that all the kalakaaron shaamil hota inkaar koi or sab offers to perform at surya nagar, a resort jisase thi stith in bantustan of bophuthatswana, ek of a kramank of internationally aparichit supposed `` independent '' states created by the South African government to forcibly relocate its black population.
This page is a list of varna in the police academy filmi or television shrenee.
Bill rasel jiti 11 championships saath the Boston Celtics.
This is a list of NBA players saath sabase championships jiti as a khilaadi.
The National basket sangh ( enbie ) is a pramukh peshewar basketball league in North America.
It was founded in 1946 as the basket sangh of america ( BAA ).
The league adopted its current name at the prarambh of the jab it milaayaa saath the neshnal basket League ( NBL ).
The NBA Finals is the championships shrenee liye the enbie or the nishkarsh of the khel 's postseason.
The winning team of the shrenee receives the laire o'brien championships Trophy.
Players from the jeetna toli praayah praapt championships bajati isse the toli honoring unke yogadan.
However, in some rare occasion, the tiimon opted to diya anya commemorative vasteen, aise as kalai ghadiyaan, instead of rings.
The number of championships jiti by enbie superstar is praayah prayukt as a maapan of their greatness.
Boston Celtics center Bill Russell holds the ricard liye the sabase enbie championships jiti saath 11 sheershak dauraan uske 13-year playing career.
He jiti uske pehla championships saath the boston Celtics in his rookie year.
Afterwards, he went on to jeet 10 championships in the aglaa 12 saalo, sahit aath consecutive championships from 1959 to 1966.
He jiti the pichhlaa do championships in 1968 and 1969 as player-coach.
Russell 's teammate, Sam Jones, won 10 championships isse 1959 to 1969, the duusari sabase in enbie itihaas.
Four Celtics players, Tom Heinsohn, K. C. jones, satch sanders or jon havlicek, jiti aath championships each.
Two other Celtics, Jim Loscutoff and frank raimase, jiti saat championships prayek.
Four players, Bob Cousy, Kareem abdul-jabbar, maaikel jordan or scottie pippen, jiti chah championships each.
Jordan and pippen hai sadasyon of the chicago bulls toli jo jiti teen lagaataar championships twice in the 1990s.
Robert Horry and John salley hai the tabhi khilaadi to have jiti the championships saath teen alag teams.
Horry won seven championships with the Houston Rockets, the Los Angeles Lakers and the San Antonio Spurs, while Salley won chaar championships saath the detroit pistons, the bulls or the lekars.
Frank Saul and Steve Kerr are the only players to win two championships saath do alag tiimon in lagaataar seasons.
Saul won consecutive championships with the Rochester Royals and the Minneapolis Lakers in the 1950s, jabaki ker jiti lagaataar championships saath the bulls or the Spurs in the 1990s,
Accuracy indicates proximity of measurement results to the true maan, parishuddhta to the repeatability, or reproducibility of the maapan
In the fields of science, engineering, industry, and statistics, the accuracy of a maapan pranali is the oopaadhi of nikatataa of maap of a maatra to ki maatra 's vaastavik ( sachcha ) value.
The precision of a maapan pranali, bhi pukaara reproducibility or repeatability, is the oopaadhi to jisase doharaaya maap under unchanged conditions show the same results.
Although the two words reproducibility and repeatability can be synonymous in colloquial upyog, ve hai deliberately contrasted in the context of the scientific method.
A maapan pranali can be sateek lakin nahin precise, precise lakin nahin sateek, neither, or both.
For example, if an experiment contains a systematic error, then increasing the namoona aakaar generally increases parishuddhta lakin karata nahin improve sateekta.
The result would be a satat yet inaccurate string of parinaam isse the flawed experiment.
Eliminating the vyavasthit galati improves sateekta lakin karata nahin badalen parishuddhta.
A maapan pranali is designated maanya if it is dono sateek or precise.
Related terms include bias ( non- random or directed effects caused by a factor or factors unrelated to the swatantra parivartaneey ) or galati ( yadrichhik variability ).
the shabdaawalee is bhi lagu to apratyaksh measurements—that is, maan praapt by a computational procedure from observed data.
In addition to accuracy and precision, measurements may also have a measurement resolution, which is the smallest badalen in the underlying shaareerik maatra ki produces a jawaab in the measurement.
In the case of puraa reproducibility, aise as jab rounding a kramank to a representable floating point number, the word precision has a meaning not related to reproducibility.
For example, in the IEEE 754-2008 standard it means the number of bits in the significand, so it is used as a maap liye the saapeksh sateekta saath jisase an manamaani kramank can be represented.
Fuck in iske shabdic arth refers to the adhinium of sexual intercourse.
It is an English word that is praayah prayukt as a profanity, either to denote tiraskaar or as an intensifier.
The utpatti of the shabd is obscure.
it is praayah mana to be pehla attested to around 1475, but it may be considerably older.
In modern usage, fuck and its derivatives ( such as fucker and fucking ) can be prayukt in the sthiti of a sangya, a kriya, an kriyasheel or an adverb.
vahin hai anek aam vaakyansh jisase mek upyog of the shabd, as khub as a kramank of yogicon incorporating it, such as motherfucker.
Animated, color-coded map prardashit the vibhinn mahadwipon and regions.
Depending on the convention or model, kuch mahadwipon may be sanchit or subdivided : liye udhaaharan, uresia is sabase praayah subdivided into europea or asia ( red shades ), jabaki uttar or dakshin america are sometimes recognized as one American continent ( green shades ).
A mahadweep is ek of anek bahut vishaal landmasses on Earth.
They are generally identified by convention rather than any strict maapdand, saath up to saat regions commonly regarded as continents—they hai ( isse largest in aakaar to smallest ) : asia, africa, North America, South America, Antarctica, Europe, and Australia.
In geology, continents hai varnit by arthath of tectonic platon.
Plate tectonics is the prakram or padhai of the gati, takkar or prabhag of mahadwipon, earlier known as continental drift.
biker boij is a 2003 filmi parichay a samooh of bhumigat motorcycle drag racers.
It sitaron laurence fishbern, djimon hounsou, derek luk, meagan shubh, or larenz tet or is written and directed by Reggie Rock Bythewood.
It bhi suvidhaayen lisa bonet, orlando jones, baccha chattan or Vanessa Bell Calloway.
For the steel panther song, dekhie mahasoos the Steel.
Community property is a marital property shashan ki originated in civil vidhi jurisdictions or is abhi also found in some common law jurisdictions.
The states of the United States that recognize community property are primarily in the West ; it thi inherited isse mexico 's ganancial jatiyaan pranali, jisase itself thi inherited isse spani vidhi ( a roman -derived civil vidhi pranali ) or ultimately from the Visigoths.
While under Spanish rule Louisiana adopted the ganancial community system of acquests or gains, jisase replaced the paramparaagat french jatiyaan of movables and acquests in its civil law system.
Map of the United States saath jatiyaan property rajya highlighted in red.
In addition to the highlighted states, Alaska is a separate property rajya ki permits yugal to opt into a jatiyaan property vyavastha.
In a community property kshetradhikaar, sabase property acquired dauraan the vivaah ( magar liye uphaar or inheritances ) —the jatiyaan, or communio bonorum—is owned jointly by both spouses and is divided upon divorce, annulment or death.
Joint ownership is automatically presumed by law in the absence of specific evidence that hota point to a contrary nishkarsh liye a particular tukdaa of property.
prabhag of jatiyaan property may lo place by item, by splitting all items or by value.
In some jurisdictions, such as California, a 50/50 division of community property is sakhti mandated by statute, arth ki the fokas tab shift to whether particular items are to be classified as community or separate property.
In other jurisdictions, such as Texas, a talaak adaalat may decri an `` nishpaksh vitaran `` of jatiyaan property, jisase may parinaam in an gairbarabari prabhag of aise.
In non-community property rajya property may be vibhajit by nishpaksh distribution.
Generally speaking, the property that each partner brings into the vivaah or receives by tohfa, bequest or makkaari dauraan vivaah is called separate property ( i.e., not community property ).
See prabhag of property.
prabhag of jatiyaan debts may nahin be the same as division of community property.
For example, in California, community property is jaruri to be vibhajit `` baraabar '' jabaki jatiyaan karz is jaruri to be divided `` equitably ''.
Property that is owned by one spouse before the marriage is the pruthak property of ki jeevanasathi, jabatak the property is `` transmuted '' into jatiyaan property.
The rules for this vary isse kshetradhikaar to kshetradhikaar.
The Duke or duchess of cambridge hilaataa to the bheed at The Mall shortly after the wedding.
The wedding of Prince William, duk of cambridge, or catherine middlaton took place on 29 april 2011 at Westminster Abbey in London.
The groom, Prince William, Duke of Cambridge, is the jyeshtha bete of charles, prince of wales, or is duusari in the lakeer of uttaradhikaar to the angrejon singhaasana or the takhton of fifteen other Commonwealth realms.
The bride, Catherine `` Kate '' Middleton is the eldest of teen children of maaikel or carole middlaton of bucklebury, barkshaayar.
The Dean of Westminster, John Hall, presided at the service ; the Archbishop of Canterbury, Rowan Williams, conducted the marriage ; richard chartres, the bishap of landan, preached the upadesh ; or a padhnaa thi die by the bride 's brother, James.
William 's best man was his brother, prince harry, jabaki the bahu 's sistar, pippa, thi naukaraani of izzat.
The ceremony was attended by the bride 's and duulhe 's pariwaron, as khub as anek videshi royles, rajanyikon, or the yugal 's chosen personal guests.
After the ceremony, the yugal bana the paramparaagat appearance on the balcony of Buckingham Palace.
As Prince William was not the heir apparent to the singhaasana, the vivaah thi nahin a puraa rajya avasar or anek vivaran yahood baayein to the yugal to decide, such as much of the guest list of about 1,900.
prince wiliam or Kate Middleton met in 2001.
Their engagement on 20 aktubar 2010 thi ghoshit on 16 navambar 2010.
The build-up to the vivaah or the avasar itself aakarshith much media dhyaan, hone compared in anek tareeke saath the 1981 marriage of William 's parents.
The occasion was a public holiday in the United Kingdom and featured anek ceremonial pahaluon, sahit upyog of the rajya carriages or bhoomikaaye liye the pair guard or household Cavalry.
Events were held around the Commonwealth to mark the wedding ; organisations and hotels held events aarpaar canada, over 5,000 gali partiyon yahood yojit throughout the sanyukt kingdom, or ek lakh logon lined the root between westminster abi and Buckingham Palace.
The ceremony was viewed live by tens of lakho adhik around the sansar, sahit 72 lakh on the YouTube Royal Channel.
In the sanyukt kingdom, television audiyans peaked at 26.3 lakh darshak, saath a kul of 36.7 million watching part of the coverage.
Vanessa Joy Lachey ( née Minnillo ; born November 9, 1980 ) is an amareeki television vyaktitv, television mejabaan, faishan model, and actress.
minnillo thi bhi namit miss tin uese in 1998.
She has maharoom a nai york -aadharand correspondent liye entertainment tonight or hosted Total Request Live on MTV.
A hand ( med. / lat. : manus, pl. manūs ) is a prehensile, multi- fingered extremity stith at the samaapt of an bhujaa or forelimb of primates and humans, chimpanzees, monkeys, and lemurs.
A few other vertebrates aise as the koala ( jisase rai do opposable thumbs on prayek `` haath '' or fingerprint remarkably similar to human fingerprints ) are often described as having either `` hands '' or `` paws '' on their front limbs.
Hands are the main structures liye physically manipulating the paryaavaran, prayukt liye dono sakal motor skills ( such as grasping a large object ) and fine motor skills ( such as picking up a small pebble ).
The fingertips contain some of the densest areas of tantrika endings on the deh, hai the richest sorce of tactile pratikriya, or have the greatest positioning capability of the body ; thus the sense of touch is intimately associated with hands.
Like anya yugma angon ( ankhen, feet, taange ), prayek haath is dominantly niyantrit by the opposing dimag golardh, so ki handedness, or the pasandida hand choice for single-handed activities such as writing with a pencil, reflects individual brain functioning.
Some evolutionary anatomists use the term hand to refer to the appendage of digits on the forelimb more generally — for example, in the context of whether the teen ank of the bird haath shaamil the vahi samajaat ghaataa of do ank as in the dianasor haath.
The human hand has 27 haddiyon, nahin sahit the sesamoid haddiyon which number varies between people.
14 of which are the phalanges ( proximal, intermediat or distal ) of the ungliyaan.
the metacarpals hai the haddiyon ki connects the fingers and the wrist.
Each insaan haath rai 5 metacarpals and 8 carpal bones.
Too Cool was a professional wrestling tag team or purv gut sabase notably kriyasheel in sansar kushti federation/entertainment between 1998 or 2001 or liye a choti samay in 2004.
Basic digital sachetak clock bagaiyr a radio.
The chihnit in the top-left of the pradarshak indicates that the time is 4:00pm, not 4:00am.
A 1969 radio alarm clock ( Sony digimatic 8fc-59w ) saath an jaldi mechanical-digital pradarshak.
A digital clock is a prakaar of clock ki pradarshak the samay digitaly, i.e. in numerals or anya pratikon, as opposed to an analog clock, where the time is indicated by the positions of rotating hands.
Digital ghadiyaan hai praayah sambhddha saath electronic drive, lakin the `` digital '' varnan refers only to the display, not to the drive mechanism.
( dono analog or digital ghadiyaan can be chalit either mechanically or electronically, lakin `` clockwork '' mechanisms with digital displays are rare. )
The biggest digital clock is the lichtzeitpegel ( `` lite samay str '' ) on the television tower Rheinturm Düsseldorf, Germany.
Family Guy creator Seth macfarlane bhi provides the awaazen of peter griffin, stewie griffin, bryan griffin, and Glenn Quagmire.
Family Guy is an amareeki anemated sitcom ki suvidhaayen paanch pramukh awaz actors, and numerous regular cast and recurring guest stars.
The principal voice cast consists of show nirmaataa seth macfarlane, elex borstein, seth green, mila kunis ( jo replaced lacy chabert baad the first season ) and Mike Henry and now, the new actor Beau Osborne.
Recurring voice actors include patric warburton, aadam west, jon G. briken, nichol suliwan and Jennifer Tilly, and repeat guest stars include Phyllis Diller, Charles Durning, Rush Limbaugh, and Phil LaMarr.
Many cast sadasyon provide awaazen liye multiple characters.
The voice actors, in portraying the vibhinn akshar personalities on the dikhaaen, chithran prerana isse hastiyaan or pop samskruti.
Family Guy characters have been played by more than one karta, baad sadasyon of the dikhaaen baayein the shrenee or tha conflicting obligations.
Kunis was nominated for an Annie Award for voicing Meg Griffin in the season 5 episode `` Barely Legal `` or macfarlane rai bhi jiti an emi puraskaar liye bakaayaa voice-over pradarshan or an ani puraskaar liye behtareen awaz acting in an anemated television utpaadan, haalanki no anya daal sadsy rai jiti an puraskaar liye unke kaary on the series.
The five sets of the falak khel ekadhikaar chitrit yahan dikhaaen the evolution of the khel 's kalakriti or dizin in the United States from 1935–2005.
The history of the falak khel ekadhikaar can be traced waapas to the jaldi 20th sadi.
the earliest gyaat dizine thi by the amareeki, elizabeth magie, patented in 1904 but existing as early as 1902.
Magie 's original intent was to publish a falak khel to illustrate an aarthik principle, namely the georgist avadharana of a single jameen value tax.
A shrenee of falak khel yahood viksit isse 1906 through the 1930s ki involved the buying and selling of land and the development of that land.
By 1934, a falak khel tha maharoom nirmit much jaise the sanskaran of ekadhikaar bechi by parker bhaaiyo or its related companies through the rest of the 20th century, and into the 21st.
Several people, mostly in the Midwestern sanyukt rajya or nikat the east coast, contributed to the khel 's dizine or evolution.
By the 1970s, the idea that the game had been created solely by Charles Darrow had become lokapriy loakgeet ; it thi mudrit in the khel 's nirdesh liye anek saalo, in a 1974 book devoted to Monopoly, and was cited in a general book about toys even as recently as 2007.
Even a guide to family games published for reader 's diguest in 2003 tabhi diya credit to darrow or elizabeth magie, erroneously stating ki magie 's asli khel thi nirmit in the 1800s, or nahin acknowledging any of the game 's development between Magie 's creation of the game, and the eventual publication by Parker Brothers.
bhi in the 1970s, praadhyaapak ralph anspach, jo tha khud prakashit a falak khel intended to illustrate the siddhanth of dono monopolies or vishwaas busting, fought Parker Brothers and its then parent company, General Mills, over the trademarks of the Monopoly board game.
through the shodh of anspach or anya, much of the early history of the game was `` rediscovered ''.
Anspach confronted Maxine Brady, author of the 1974 kitaab the ekadhikaar kitaab : ranneeti or tactics of the sansar 's sabase lokapriy khel over the vaastavik itihaas of the khel on bairi farber 's nai york nagar baat dikhaaen in 1975.
kuki of the lengthy adaalat prakram, sahit appeals, the vidhik aukaat of parker bhaaiyo ' trademarks on the khel was not settled until 1985.
The game 's name remains a panjikrut trademark of parker bhaaiyo, as do iske vishisht design elements.
At the conclusion of the court case, the game 's logo and graphic design elements became bhaag of a larger ekadhikaar brands, licensed by parker bhaaiyo ' janak companiyaan onto a kismein of vasteen through the present day.
Despite the `` rediscovery '' of the board game 's early history in the 1970s and 1980s, and several books and journal aalekh on the vishay, hasbro ( parker bhaaiyo ' vartmaan janak company ) kiya nahin acknowledge koi of the khel 's itihaas pehle charles darrow on iske aadhikarik ekadhikaar jalsthal as recently as June 2012.
Nor did Hasbro acknowledge anyone other than Darrow in saamagree prakashit or pryojit by unhen, at tanik as recently as 2006.
antarrashtriya tournaments, pehla yojit in the early 1970s, continue to the present, with the next world championship likely scheduled for 2013.
Starting in 1985, a nai peedhee of spin-off falak khel or card khel appeared on both sides of the Atlantic Ocean.
In 1989, the first of anek video khel or computer khel sanskaran thi published.
Since 1994, many official variants of the game, based on locations other than Atlantic City, New Jersey ( the official U.S. setting ) or landan ( the aadhikarik rashtramandal setting, excepting canada ), have maharoom prakashit by hasbro or its licensees.
In 2008, Hasbro permanently changed the color scheme and some of the gameplay of the maanak u.s. sanskaran of the khel to match the uk sanskaran, haalanki the u.S. maanak sanskaran maintains the Atlantic City property names.
Hasbro also modified the aadhikarik logo to de the `` mr. ekadhikaar '' akshar a 3-d computer-generated look, which has since been adopted by licensees USAopoly, Winning Moves and Winning Solutions.
And Hasbro has also been including the Speed die, introduced in 2006 's ekadhikaar : the aachman sanskaran by jeetna chaalen khel, in sanskaran utpaadit directly by Hasbro ( such as the 2009 Championship Edition ).
In baseball, a balidaan makkhi is a batted ball ki satisfies chaar criteria:
There are fewer than do outs jab the ball is hit.
The ball is hit to the outfield ( mela or beyimaani ), or to infield foul territory.
The batter is put out because an outfielder ( or an infielder running in the outfield, or foul territory ) catches the ball on the fly ( alternatively if the batter hota have maharoom out if nahin liye an galati or if the outfielder boonden the ball or another runner is put out ).
A runner who is already on aadhaar score on the khel.
It is called a `` sacrifice '' fly because the batter presumably intends to kaaran a teammate to score a chalaaen, jabaki sacrificing uske own ability to do so.
Minnesota ( ) is a U.S. rajya stith in the midwestern sanyukt States.
Minnesota thi carved out of the purvi half of the minesota territory or admitted to the Union as the 32nd state on May 11, 1858.
gyaat as the `` jameen of 10,000 jhiilon '', the rajya 's naam comes from a Dakota word for `` sky-tinted water ''.
Those waters, together with forests, parks, and wilderness areas, offer nivaasiyon or paryatakon a kismein of bahari recreational avasar.
Minnesota is the 12th most extensive or the 21st sabase populous of the U.S. states.
Nearly 60 % of its residents live in the Minneapolis–Saint Paul metropolitan area ( gyaat as the `` judwa shaharon '' ), the bich of parivahan, kaarobaar, udyog, shiksha, sarkari or ghar to an internationally known arts community.
The remainder of the rajya consists of pashchimi prairies abhi die over to intensive krishi ; patjhadi wanon in the southeast, abhi saaf, farmed or settled ; and the less populated North Woods, used for mining, forestry, and recreation.
Minnesota is known for its relatively mishrit soshal or rajnatik orientations, or rai a unchi rate of naagarik bhagidaari or voter turnout.
Minnesota ranks among the healthiest rajya, or rai a atyadhik sakshar population.
The vishaal bahumat of nivaasiyon hai of scandinavian and German descent.
The state is known as a bich of scandinavian American culture.
jaateey vividhta rai increased in recent decades.
Substantial influxes of Asian, africa, or latin amareeki apravasiyon have joined the vanshajon of europea settlers or the original Native American inhabitants.
Grants are non-repayable funds by one party ( grant makers ), often a government department, corporation, foundation or vishwaas, to a, praayah ( lakin nahin sadaa ) a nonprofit antity, shaikshanik sanstha, kaarobaar or an vyaktigat.
In order to praapt a grant, kuch rup of `` grant likhane '' praayah referred to as either a proposal or an application is usually required.
Most grants are bana to nidhi a vishisht project or aavashyaktaa kuch str of anupaalan and reporting.
The grant writing process involves an applicant submitting a proposal ( or submission ) to a potential funder, either on the aavedak 's apana pahal or in jawaab to a nivedan liye Proposal from the funder.
Other grants can be given to individuals, aise as peediton of prakritik aapadaaon or individuals who seek to open a small business.
Sometimes grant makers require grant zaruratmandon to have kuch rup of tax-exempt aukaat, be a panjikrut nonprofit sanghathan or a local government.
For example, tiered funding liye a frive hai bahut vishaal anudaan negotiated at sarkari policy level.
however choti anudaan may be provided by a sarkari agency ( e.g. municipal government ).
Project-related funding involving sarkarein, kaarobaar, samudaayon, or individuals is praayah arranged by anuprayog either in writing or online.
Naturally occurring cobalt ( Co ) is composed of 1 stable isotope, 59Co. 28 radioisotopes have been characterized saath the sabase stable hone 60co saath a half-life of 5.2714 saalo, 57co saath a half-life of 271.79 dinon, 56co saath a half-life of 77.27 dinon, or 58co saath a half-life of 70.86 days.
All of the remaining radioactive isotopes have half-lives ki hai kam than 18 ghanton or the bahumat of ye have half-lives that are less than 1 second.
This element also has 11 meta rajya, sab of jisase have half-lives less than 15 minutes.
The isotopes of cobalt range in parmaanu vazan isse 47co to 75co.
The primary decay mode for isotopes with atomic mass unit values less than that of the most abundant stable samasthanik, 59co, is electron capchar or the praathmik vidhi of kshay liye those of vrihad than 59 atomic mass units is beta decay.
The primary decay products pehle 59co hai aayran isotopes and the primary products after are nickel isotopes.
Standard parmaanu dravyaman : 58.933195 ( 5 ) u
Who sthanantarit my cheez ?
An Amazing Way to Deal with Change in Your Work and in Your Life, published in 1998, is a prerak kitaab by spencer johnson likhaa in the style of a misaal or kaarobaar fable.
It describes change in one 's work and life, and four typical reactions to said change by do chuuhe or do `` littlepeople '', dauraan unke hunt liye cheez.
A New York Times business bestceller chunki relies, jo sthanantarit my cheez ?
remained on the list for almost five years or kharch over 200 saptaah on prakaashak saptahik 's sajild nonfiction list.
It rai bechi adhik than 26 lakh nakal vishwavyaapee in 37 bhashaaen or remains to be one of the best-selling business books.
Nikita sergeyevich khrushchev ( – sitambar 11, 1971 ) led the Soviet Union during part of the Cold War.
He served as First Secretary of the Communist Party of the soviet sangh isse 1953 to 1964, or as adhyaksh of the parishad of mantriyon, or premier, isse 1958 to 1964.
Khrushchev was responsible for the partial de-stalinization of the soviet sangh, liye baking the pragati of the jaldi soviet spes kaarykram, or liye anek relatively liberal reforms in areas of domestic policy.
Khrushchev 's party colleagues removed him from power in 1964, replacing use saath leonid brezhnev as pehla sachiv or alexi kosygin as Premier.
Khrushchev was born in the roosi gaanv of kalinovka in 1894, band to the present-day kinaaraa between Russia and Ukraine.
He was employed as a metalworker in his youth, or dauraan the roosi civil yuddh thi a rajnatik commissar.
With the sahaayta of lazar kaganovich, he worked uske way up the Soviet hierarchy.
He supported Joseph Stalin 's purges, or sweekrut hazaron of rakhwale.
In 1939, stallin bheja use to govern yukt, or he jari the purges there.
During kayaa thi gyaat in the soviet sangh as the great patriotic yuddh ( purvi saamne of sansar yuddh ii ), Khrushchev was again a commissar, serving as an intermediary between Stalin and his generals.
khrushchev thi upasthit at the khooni raksha of stalingrad, a fact he took great pride in throughout his life.
After the war, he returned to yukt pehle hone recalled to masco as ek of Stalin 's close advisers.
In the power struggle triggered by stallin 's maut in 1953, khrushchev, baad anek saalo, ubhara vijayi.
On farvari 25, 1956, at the 20th party congress, he vitarit the `` rahasy vaak, '' denouncing Stalin 's purges and ushering in a less repressive era in the Soviet Union.
His domestic nitiyon, aimed at bettering the jeevandaan of ordinary nagarikon, yahood praayah aprabhavi, visheshkar in the area of agriculture.
Hoping eventually to rely on misile liye neshnal raksha, khrushchev ordered pramukh katautee in conventional forces.
Despite the cuts, khrushchev 's niyam dekhi the tensest saalo of the thanda yuddh, culminating in the Cuban Missile Crisis.
Some of Khrushchev 's policies were seen as erratic, visheshkar by uske ubharate virodhiyon, jo chupchaap rose in shakti or apdasth use in October 1964.
He did not suffer the deadly fate of some previous losers of Soviet shakti struggles, lakin thi pensioned band saath an apartment in Moscow and a dacha in the countryside.
His lengthy memoirs yahood smuggled to the west or published in part in 1970.
khrushchev died in 1971 of heart disease.
Upper jathrantra ( gi ) bleeding refers to hemorrhage in the upper gastrointestinal tract.
The anatomic cut-off for upper GI bleeding is the snaayu of treitz, jisase connects the chauthi portion of the duodenum to the diaphragm near the splenic flexure of the colon.
Upper GI bleeds are mana chikitsa emergencies, or aavashyaktaa pravesh to hospital for urgent diagnosis and management.
Due to advances in medications and endoscopy, apper gi hemorrhage is abhi praayah treated bagaiyr surgery.
World population estimates isse 1800 to 2100, aadhaarit on un 2010 projections ( red, naarangi, green ) and US Census Bureau historical estimates ( black ).
Actual recorded janasankhyikee aankade hai in blue.
According to the highest estimate, the world janasankhyikee may vruddhi to 16 arab by 2100 ; according to the nunatam anumaan, it may decline to 6 billion.
The sansar janasankhyikee is the kul kramank of living humans on Earth.
As of today, it is estimated to number billion by the sanyukt rajya janasankhyikee beuro ( uscb ).
The USCB estimates ki the sansar janasankhyikee exceeded 7 arab on March 12, 2012.
According to a separate estimate by the United Nations janasankhyikee nidhi, it pahunche is padaav on aktubar 31, 2011.
The world population has anbhavi nirantar vikaas chunki the samaapt of the great akaal or the blike Death in 1350, when it stood at around 370 million.
The ucchtam daron of vikaas – vaishvik janasankhyikee increases upar 1.8 % prati saal – yahood dekhi briefly dauraan the 1950s, and for a longer period during the 1960s and 1970s.
The growth rate peaked at 2.2 % in 1963, or tha asweekrut to 1.1 % by 2011.
Total annual births were highest in the late 1980s at parichay 138 lakh, or hai abhi apekshit to remain essentially nirantar at unke 2011 str of 134 lakh, jabaki mauton kramank 56 lakh prati saal, or hai expected to increase to 80 million per year by 2040.
Current projections show a continued increase in population in the near bhavishya ( lakin a sthir manaahi in the janasankhyikee vikaas rate ), saath the vaishvik janasankhyikee apekshit to pahunchein between 7.5 and 10.5 billion by 2050.
Various longer-term estimates predict further vikaas, stagnation, or bhi overall manaahi in the vaishvik janasankhyikee by 2150.
Some analysts have questioned the sustainability of further world population vikaas, citing the growing pressures on the paryaavaran, vaishvik khaanaa aapurtiyan, or urja sansaadhan.
Philips Lumileds lighting company is the nirmaataa of a chaudee dayera of high-power/high-efficiency light-emitting diodes ( LEDs ).
It is a now a fully swaamitv prabhag of philips lighting.
knuckle mnemonic liye the kramank of dinon in each month of the Gregorian Calendar.
Each projecting knuckle represents a 31-day month.
A mnemonic (, saath a mook `` m '' ), or mnemonic yantra, is any learning technique that aids information retention.
mnemonics uddeshy to anuwaad soochna into a rup ki the human brain can retain better than its original form.
Even the process of applying this conversion might already sahaayta the transafar of soochna to long-term memory.
Commonly encountered mnemonics are often for suchiyaan or in auditory rup, aise as choti kavitaayen, acronyms, or yaadgaar vaakyansh, lakin mnemonics can bhi be liye anya types of information and in visual or kinesthetic forms.
Their use is based on the observation that the human mind more easily remembers spatial, personal, surprising, physical, yon, humorous, or varanaa 'relatable ' soochna, balki than adhik amoort or impersonal form of soochna.
The word mnemonic is derived from the Ancient Greek word μνημονικός ( mnēmonikos ), meaning `` of memory '' or is sambandhit to mnemosyne ( `` samaran '' ), the naam of the devi of memory in Greek mythology.
Both of these words are niklaa isse μνήμη ( mnēmē ), `` samaran, memory ''.
Mnemonics in antiquity were most often mana in the context of kayaa is aaj gyaat as the Art of memory.
Ancient Greeks and Romans vishisht between do prakaar of memory : the 'natural ' memory and the 'artificial ' memory.
The former is inborn, and is the ek ki everyone upyog automatically or bagaiyr soch.
The artificial memory in contrast has to be trained and developed through the siikhnaa or practicing of a kismein of mnemonic takneekon.
mnemonic pranaaliyon hai khaas takneekon or ranneeti consciously used to improve memory, it helps employ information already stored in long-term memory to make memorization an easier task.
adhyaksh bush hastakshar the no child baayein peeche Act at Hamilton H.S. in Hamilton, Ohio.
The No Child Left peeche adhinium of 2001 ( nclb ) is a sanyukt rajya adhinium of congress ki is a reauthorization of the elementary or dwitiyak Education Act, which included Title I, the government 's flagship aid program for disadvantaged students.
NCLB supports standards-based shiksha sudhaar aadhaarit on the aadhaar ki setting high standards and establishing measurable goals can improve individual outcomes in education.
The adhinium requires rajya to develop akalan in basic skills.
States must give ye akalan to sab vidhyaarthee at chune grad str in anukram to praapt sangheey skool funding.
The adhinium karata nahin assert a neshnal uplabdhi maanak ; maanakon are set by each individual state.
NCLB expanded the federal role in public education through annual pareekshan, salanaa academik pragati, rapat taash, teacher yogyata, and funding changes.
The bill passed in the U.S. congress saath bipartisan support.
Dodge B Series utility circa 1950, chalit by albert namatjira
A pickup trek or pick-up, praayah bas referred to as a pikup, is a lite motor vehicle with an open-top, rear cargo area ( bed ).
In North America, the term pickup is used for light trucks with a halkaa duty chassis or factory nirmit, ekikrut bed, as khub as liye coupé utility vaahanon, praayah aadhaarit on a nijee car chassis, lakin bhi praayah on a special dedicated chassi for such use.
Some deshon have unke apana sharten samaan to pikup, aise as ute in Australia and New Zealand, or bakkie in South Africa.
Large pickup trek hai somewhat viral in europea, jahaan vine or light lorries are commonly used for similar roles.
This 15th-century depiction of Charlemagne or pope adrian i shows a well-bred madhyakaalin ghoda saath mehrabadar gardan, parishkrut head and elegant gait.
Horses in the Middle Ages differed in size, build or nasl isse the aadhunik ghoda, or yahood, on ausat, smaller.
They were also more central to samaaj than unke aadhunik counterparts, hone anivaary for war, agriculture, and transport.
Consequently, specific types of horse developed, anek of jisase have no aadhunik samatuly.
While an understanding of modern horse breeds and equestrianism is vital for any vishleshan of the madhyakaalin ghoda, shodhakartaaon bhi need to consider vruttchitr ( dono likhaa or sachitr ) or puraatatv pramaan.
Horses in the Middle Ages were rarely differentiated by nasl, lakin balki by use.
This led them to be described, liye udhaaharan, as `` chargers `` ( yuddh ghode ), `` palfreys `` ( sawari ghode ), cart horses or packhorses.
sandarbh is bhi die to unke place of utpatti, aise as `` spani ghode, '' but whether this referred to one breed or several is unknown.
Another difficulty arising during any study of medieval dastauez or sahitya is the lacheelaapan of the madhyakaalin bhashaaen, jahaan anek shabd can be prayukt liye ek baat ( or, conversely, several objects are referred to by one word ).
Words such as ' courser ' or 'chargeier ' hai prayukt interchangeably ( bhi bheetar ek dastauez ), or jahaan ek apik may bolo disparagingly of a rouncey, another praises its skill and swiftness.
Significant technological agrim in ghudsavaar upkaran, praayah introduced isse anya samskritiyon, anumat for significant changes in both warfare and agriculture.
In particular, improved dizin liye the solid-treed lathi as khub as the arrival of the stirrup, horseshoe and horse collar were significant advances in medieval society.
Consequently, the assumptions and theories developed by itihaaskaaron hai nahin nirnaayak, or bahes still rages on anek mudde, aise as the prajnan or aakaar of the ghoda, or a kramank of sources must be consulted in order to understand the breadth of the subject.
The music man is a musical saath kitaab, music, or geet by meredith willson, aadhaarit on a story by Willson and Franklin Lacey.
The plot concerns con man Harold hill, jo mudraayen as a ladakon ' band aayojak or netaa or bikta band yantra or vardi to bholi townsfolk before skipping town with the cash.
In River City, Iowa, prim librarian and piano teacher Marian Paroo sees through him, lakin jab hill helps uske younger bhai overcome uske bhay of soshal interactions due to uske lisp, marian begins to patan in prem saath herold.
Harold, in turn falling liye marian, risks hone caught to win her.
In 1957, the dikhaaen became a hit on broadway, jeetna paanch tony puraskaar, sahit behtareen Musical, and running for 1,375 performances.
The cast album won the first grami puraskaar liye `` behtareen asli daal album '' or thi kramank ek on the billboard chart for 245 weeks.
The show 's success led to revivals and a popular 1962 filmi anukulan or a 2003 television rimek.
It aksar is utpaadit by dono peshewar or amateur theater companies.
nireekshak 's wheel
A surveyor 's wheel, also called a clickwheel, hodometer, waywiser, trundle wheel, measuring wheel, or perambulator is a yantra liye measuring distance.
largest non-polar deserts
Sand dunes in the Rub ' al khali ( `` khaali quarter '' ) of Saudi Arabia.
makhtesh reman, negev marusthal, israel
A desert is a landscape or region of land that is very dry because of low rainfall amounts ( varshan ), praayah rai choti kawarej by paudhe, or in jisase stream shushk up jabatak ve hai supplied by jal isse baahar areas.
Deserts can also be varnit as kshetron jahaan adhik jal is khoyaa by evapotranspiration than falls as precipitation.
Desert plants must have khaas adaptations to jivit saath is choti water.
Deserts generally receive less than 25 cm of barsaat ( varshan ) prayek saal.
semideserts or steppes hai regions jisase receive between and.
In the köppen jalwaayu vargeekaran pranali, registan hai classed as BWh ( hot desert ) or BWk ( temperate desert ).
In the thornthwaite jalwaayu vargeekaran pranali, registan hota be vargeekrut as arid megathermal climates.
sansar yuddh i ( wwi ) thi a vaishvik yuddh kendrit in europea ki began on 28 July 1914 and lasted until 11 November 1918.
It was predominantly called the World War or the Great War from iske occurrence jabatak the prarambh of sansar yuddh ii in 1939, or the pehla sansar yuddh or sansar yuddh i thereafter.
It involved all the world 's great powers, which were assembled in two opposing alliances : the allies ( aadhaarit on the tripal entente of the sanyukt kingdom, frans or rus ) or the central shaktiyaan ( originally the tripal gathbandhan of germany, austria-hungary or italy ; lakin, as austria–hungary tha liya the apriy viruddh the agreement, Italy did not enter into the war ).
These alliances were both reorganised and expanded as more raashtra daalaa the yuddh : italy, japani or the sanyukt rajya joined the allies, and the Ottoman Empire and Bulgaria the Central Powers.
Ultimately, more than 70 million military personnel, sahit 60 lakh europeans, yahood mobilised in ek of the largest wars in history.
More than 9 million combatants yahood maare, largely kuki of technological advancements ki led to vishaal increases in the lethality of hathiyaar bagaiyr sambandhit sudhaar in protection or mobility.
It was the fifth- deadliest conflict in world history, subsequently paving the rasta liye vibhinn rajnatik parivartan, aise as revolutions in anek of the nations involved.
One of the long-term causes of the war was the punarutthan of samrajyavad in the videshi nitiyon of the great powers of Europe.
More immediately, the hatya of archduke franj ferdinand of austria, the vaaris to the singhaasana of austria-hungary, on 28 june 1914 by yugoslav rashtravaadi gavrilo Princip in Sarajevo triggered a diplomatic crisis when Austria-Hungary subsequently delivered an ultimatum to the Kingdom of Serbia.
Several alliances formed over the pichhlaa dashakon yahood invoked.
Within weeks, the major powers were at yuddh or, via unke colonies, the virodh jald sprad around the world.
On 28 july, the austro-hungarians fired the pehla goliyaan of the yuddh as taiyaari liye the invasion of Serbia.
While the Russians mobilised, the Germans invaded neutral belgium or dhvaj on the rasta to frans, providing a casus belli liye britain 's ghoshnaa of war against Germany.
After the German march on Paris was brought to a halt—the so-called Miracle of the marne —the pashchimi saamne settled into a sthir battle of apgharshan saath a gart lakeer ki badla little until 1917.
On the purvi saamne, the roosi fouj thi kaamyaab viruddh the austro-hungarians, but was stopped in its invasion of East Prussia by the Germans.
In November the osmani samrajya joined the yuddh, kholane up fronts in the Caucasus, Mesopotamia and the Sinai.
Italy and bulgaria gai to yuddh in 1915 or romania in 1916.
In Russia, the tsar 's sarkari collapsed in kooch 1917 or a subsequent kranti in navambar brought the Russians to terms with the Central Powers.
After a 1918 German offensive saath the pashchimi saamne, the allies drove waapas the germans in a shrenee of successful offensives and American forces began entering the trenches.
Germany, which tha iske apana trubal saath krantikariyon, sahamat to an armistice on 11 November 1918.
The war ended in vijay liye the allies.
Events on the home fronts were as tumultuous as on the battle fronts, as the bhagidaar aajamaaya to mobilize unke janashakti or aarthik sansaadhan to lado a total war.
By the end of the war, four major imperial powers—the germany, roosi, austro-hungarian or osmani empires—ceased to exist.
the successor rajya of the purv do khoyaa a great raashi of territory, while the latter two were dismantled entirely.
The map of central europea thi redrawn into anek choti states.
The League of raashtra thi formed in the aashaa of preventing another such conflict.
The European nationalism spawned by the war and the breakup of empires, the parakhnaa of germany 's shikast or samasyaayein saath the sandhi of versailles hai sahamat to be karkon contributing to sansar yuddh ii.
`` Girls Just Want to Have Fun '' is a 1979 song originally likhaa by robert jokhim or bana prasiddh by singer cyndi Lauper.
It was the first pramukh single released by lauper as a solo kalakaar or the lead-off single from her debut album She 's So Unusual.
Lauper’s version gained manyata as a feminist gaan or prachaarit by an award-winning video.
It has maharoom covered on either an album or in sajiv concert by over 30 other artists.
The single was Lauper 's breakthrough hit, reaching # 2 on the billboard hot 100 or banane a vishwavyaapee hit throughout late 1983 and early 1984.
It remains ek of lauper 's hastakshar geeton or thi a widely lokapriy song during the era of its release, the 1980s.
The `` Rolling Stone & MTV : '100 mahanatam pop geeton ' : 1-50 '', `` rolling stone : `` the 100 sheersh music video '' '' or the `` vh1 : 100 mahanatam video '' lists ranked the song at # 22, # 39 and # 45, respectively.
The song received a Grammy puraskaar namakan liye ricard of the saal or behtareen maadaa pop gayan pradarshan.
drishy of defibrillator electrode position and placement.
Defibrillation is a aam upachaar liye life-threatening hriday dysrhythmias, ventricular fibrillation, or pulseless ventricular tachycardia.
Defibrillation consists of delivering a therapeutic dose of vidyut urja to the prabhavit dil saath a yantra pukaara a defibrillator.
This depolarizes a najuk dravyaman of the dil mansapeshi, terminates the dysrhythmia, or allows saamaanya sinus lay to be reestablished by the deh 's natural pacemaker, in the sinoatrial node of the heart.
Defibrillators can be external, transvenous, or implanted, depending on the prakaar of yantra prayukt or needed.
Some external units, known as automated external defibrillators ( AEDs ), automate the nidaan of treatable lay, arth ki lay responders or bystanders hai samarth to upyog unhen safaltaapurvak saath choti, or in some cases no training at all.
The Cato Institute is an amareeki libertarian socho tanks headquartered in washington, D.C.
It was founded as the Charles Koch Foundation in 1974 by Murray rothbard, ed kraine or charles koch, adhyaksh of the falak or mukhya karypalika adhikari of the sangutica Koch Industries, Inc..
In July 1976, the name was badla to the keto santhaan.
According to the 2011 Global Go To Think Tank Index, Cato is the 6th most influential US aadhaarit socho tanks, ranking 3rd in aarthik niti or 2nd in Social Policy.
The Institute 's stated mission is `` to badhayen the samajhnaa of public nitiyon aadhaarit on the siddhanth of simit sarkari, free bazaar, individual liberty, and peace.
The Institute will use the most effective means to originate, advocate, promote, and disseminate lagu niti prastaav ki banaaen free, kholen, or civil samaajon in the sanyukt rajya or throughout the world. ''
Cato scholars were critical of george W. bush 's republican prashasan ( 2001–2009 ) on anek mudde, sahit the iraqi yuddh, civil liberties, shiksha, krishi, urja policy, and excessive government spending.
On other issues, they supported Bush administration initiatives, most notably swasthya parvaah, soshal suraksha, vaishvik varming, kar niti, or avrajan.
During the 2008 U.S. presidential election, keto vidwaanon criticized dono major-party ummidavaar, jon macken or baraak Obama.
Cato has criticized adhyaksh obama 's stances on niti mudde chunki uske udghaatan, aise as phiscal stimulus, healthcare sudhaar, videshi niti, or the yuddh on davaayen, jabaki supporting his stance on the repeal of Do n't Ask, Do n't Tell and liberal immigration policy.
drakula is an 1897 gothic horer anokhaa by Irish author Bram Stoker.
Famous for introducing the character of the vampire Count Dracula, the novel tells the story of drakula 's attempt to relocate isse transylvania to england, or the battle between drakula or a choti samooh of main or mahilaon led by praadhyaapak Abraham Van Helsing.
Dracula has been assigned to many literary genres including pishaach sahitya, horer fiction, the gothic anokhaa or akraman literature.
The novel touches on themes such as the role of women in victorian samskruti, yon prathaon, avrajan, upniveshwaad, or post-colonialism.
Although Stoker did not ifatera the pishaach, he paribhaashit iske aadhunik rup, or the anokhaa rai shakhit numerous theatrical, film and television interpretations.
Quidditch is a pratispardhi khel in the wizarding sansar of the harry kumhaar brahmad, or is isse the shrenee of children 's novels and movies.
It is an atyadhik ashisht lakin bahut lokapriy semi-contact sport, played by wizards and witches.
Matches are played between two teams of seven players riding flying broomsticks, using chaar genden or chah elevated ring-shaped lakshya, teen on prayek side of the Quidditch pitch ( field ).
In the Harry Potter universe, Quidditch holds a fervent following similar to the sthiti ki sangh footbaal holds as a globally popular sport.
The sport is monumental throughout the wizarding sansar.
harry plays an mahatvapurn sthiti liye uske house toli at hoguarts : he is the seeker and becomes the captain in his sixth year there.
Regional and antarrashtriya pratiyogitaaon hai ullekith throughout the series.
In Goblet of aag, quidditch at hoguarts is radd liye the Tri-Wizard Tournament, but Harry and the Weasleys attend the Quidditch World Cup.
In addition, Harry uses his Quidditch skills to capture a golden egg from a dragon called the Hungarian Horntail ( in the first task of the tri-wizard toornament ), to capchar a udati kunjee in paras 's stone, or on do kunjee avasaron in deathly hallows — getting tham of ravenclaw 's diadem, or dauraan the final lado saath voldemort — the `` unerring kaushal of the seeker '' is upyogi to use in snatching the elder wand out of the air.
Harry Potter has owned two broomsticks, the nimbus 2000 or the firebolt, dono of jisase hai nasht by the series ' end.
The game has been apanaaya in the real sansar in the rup of magalu quidditch.
The United States Congress is the bicameral legislature of the federal government of the United States consisting of two gharon : the nimnatar house gyaat as the house of pratinidhi or the apper house gyaat as the seenet.
congress meets in the capital in Washington, D.C.
Both pratinidhi or seenetteron hai chuni through direct election.
Congress has a total of 535 voting sadasyon : 435 sadasyon in the house of pratinidhi or 100 sadasyon in the Senate.
Members of the House of Representatives serve two-year sharten representing the logon of a zila.
Congressional districts are apportioned to states by janasankhyikee using the sanyukt rajya janasankhyikee parinaam, prayek rajya in the sangh having at tanik one representative in the House of Representatives.
Regardless of population, prayek of the 50 rajya rai do seenetteron ; the 100 seenetteron prayek serve a six-year term.
The terms are staggered so prayek do saalo lagbhag one-third of the Senate is up for election.
Each ladkadhaate samooh of one-third of the seenetteron hai pukaara 'classes '.
No state of the United rajya rai do seenetteron isse the vahi class.
Most incumbents talash re-election, or unke aitihaasik likelihood of winning subsequent elections exceeds 90 percent.
In August 2012, a Gallup poll reported ki congress’s sweekruti darja amongst america thi at 10 %, milan a 38-year low reached in November 2011.
`` A Little adhik desh than ki '' is the sheershak of a song likhaa by joy + rori 's rori lee feek, Wynn Varble, and Don Poythress, and recorded by American country artist Easton Corbin.
It was released in August 2009 as Corbin 's debyue single or is shaamil on uske self-titled debut album.
In April 2010, the song pahunche kramank ek on the desh music chart, bananaa corbin the pehla purush solo kalakaar in saat years to send a debut single to Number One.
It rai maharoom certified sunaharaa by the RIAA.
The BlackBerry is a line of betaar handeld divaais or sevaayen designed or marketed by shodh In Motion Limited ( RIM ) operating as BlackBerry.
The first blueberi yantra, an email pager, thi released in 1999 ; the sabase haal blueberi divaais, the z10 or q10, were announced on January 30, 2013.
The user interfes varies by model ; sabase visheshta a shaareerik kvarty kunjeepatal, jabaki nae peedhiyaan have relied on a multi-touch screen and virtual keyboard.
A blueberi can shoot video, lo photo, khel music, or perform online krityon such as web-browsing and emailing.
They can also bhejein or praapt dhakka email or tatkaal sandesh jabaki maintaining a unchi str of suraksha through on-device message encryption, and are designed to function as personal digital assistants.
BlackBerry devices support a vishaal kismein of tatkaal messaging suvidhaayen, saath the sabase lokapriy being the proprietary BlackBerry Messenger service.
The BlackBerry PlayBook is a tablett computer offered by the company.
The 100 millionth BlackBerry smartphone was shipped in june quarter of 2010 or the 200 millionth smartphone thi shipped in sitambar quarter of 2012.
BlackBerry accounts for 3 % of mobile device sales worldwide in 2011, bananaa iske nirmaataa the chathe sabase lokapriy yantra mekar ( 25 % of mobile yantra bikri hai smartphones ).
The consumer BlackBerry Internet Service is uplabdhiyaan in 91 deshon vishwavyaapee on over 500 mobile seva oparator using various mobile technologies.
As of sitambar 2012, vahin were eighty million subscribers worldwide to BlackBerry.
In 2011 the Caribbean and Latin America had the ucchtam penetrations of blueberi smartphone vishwavyaapee, with up to about 45 per cent in the region having a RIM device.
BlackBerry, iPhone, Android, and Windows phone hai mana the chaar pramukh smartphone brands.
blueberi is widely referred to as `` crackberry '' in the sanyukt rajya, jisase alludes to its excessive use by its owners and is a reference to the addictiveness of crack cocaine.
Use of the term CrackBerry became so faili ki in navambar 2006 webster 's nai sansar college shabdkosh named `` crackberry '' the `` New Word of the Year. ''
An udhaaharan of a maang curve shifting.
The shift isse d1 to d2 arthath an badhayen in maang with consequences for the other variables
In economics, the demand curve is the graph depicting the sambandh between the daam of a nishchit camodity or the raashi of it ki upabhokta hai willing or samarth to purchase at that given price.
It is a graphic pratinidhitiv of a maang anusuchee.
The demand curve for all consumers together folo isse the maang vakr of prayek vyaktigat upabhokta : the vyaktigat maange at prayek daam are added together.
Demand curves are used to estimate behaviors in competitive markets, and are often combined with supply curves to estimate the equilibrium daam ( the daam at jisase vikreta saath hai willing to bechein the vahi raashi as kharidaar saath hai willing to khride, bhi gyaat as market clearing daam ) or the santulan maatra ( the raashi of ki shubh or seva ki hoga be utpaadit or kharida bagaiyr surplus/excess supplai or shortage/excess demand ) of that market.
In a monopolistic market, the maang vakr facing the monopolist is bas the market maang vakr.
historia
by nikolaos gysis ( 1892 )
History ( from Greek - historia, meaning `` inquiry, knowledge acquired by chaanbin '' ) is an chhatariyaan pad ki relates to past kaarykram as khub as the discovery, sangrahan, organization, and presentation of information about these events.
The term shaamil loukik, bhugarbhik, or sashulk itihaas, lakin is praayah generically implied to mean human history.
Scholars who likhen parichay itihaas hai pukaara historians.
History can also refer to the academic discipline which uses a katha to jaanchen or analyse a anukram of past kaarykram, or objectively determine the pattern of kaaran and effect that determine them.
Historians sometimes debate the nature of history and its usefulness by discussing the study of the discipline as an samaapt in itself or as a rasta of providing `` perspective '' on the problems of the present.
Stories common to a particular culture, but nahin samarthit by bahya strot ( aise as the kisse surrounding king arthur ) hai praayah vargeekrut as saanskrithik viraasat or mahapurush, kuki ve do not support the `` disinterested investigation '' required of the discipline of history.
Events occurring prior to likhaa record are considered prehistory.
Herodotus, a 5th century B.C. Greek itihaaskaar is mana bheetar the pashchimi parampara to be the `` pita of itihaas '', or, saath saath uske samakaleen thucydides, helped form the foundations for the modern study of human history.
Their work continues to be read today and the divide between the culture-focused herodotus or the military-focused thucydides remains a point of contention or drushtikon in modern historical writing.
In the Eastern tradition, a state chronicle the Spring and Autumn Annals was known to be compiled isse as jaldi as 722 bce haalanki tabhi 2nd sadi BCE texts survived.
pracheen prabhaav have helped spawn roopaantar interpretations of the prakruti of itihaas jisase have evolved over the centuries and continue to change today.
The modern study of history is wide-ranging, or shaamil the padhai of vishisht regions or the padhai of nishchit topical or thematical elements of historical investigation.
Often itihaas is sikhaaya as bhaag of praathmik or dwitiyak shiksha, or the academic study of history is a major discipline in University studies.
Malcolm X ( ; May 19, 1925February 21, 1965 ), born mailkam choti or bhi gyaat as el-hajj malik el-shabazz ( ), thi an african-american Muslim minister and human rights activist.
To his admirers, he was a courageous advocate for the adhikaron of ashweton, a man jo indicted shwet america in the harshest sharten liye iske aparaadhon viruddh black Americans.
detractors abhiyukt use of upadesh jatvaad, black supremacy, and violence.
He has been called one of the mahanatam or sabase influential africa america in itihaas.
Malcolm X 's father died—killed by shwet supremacists, it thi rumored—when he thi yang, or at least one of his uncles was lynched.
When he was 13, uske maan thi lagaai in a dimagi hospital, or he thi lagaai in a shrenee of foster homes.
in 1946, at aayu 20, he gai to thana for breaking and entering.
In prison, Malcolm X became a member of the Nation of Islam ; after uske parole in 1952, he jaldi rose to become ek of iske netao.
For a dozen years, Malcolm x thi the public phase of the vivaadaaspad samooh, lakin mohabhang saath swadesh of islam head Elijah Muhammad led him to leave the Nation in March 1964.
After a period of travel in Africa and the Middle East, he returned to the sanyukt rajya, jahaan he santhaapit muslim masjide, inc. or the sanghathan of afro-american Unity.
In February 1965, less than a saal baad leaving the swadesh of islam, he thi assassinated by three members of the group.
Malcolm X 's expressed manyataon badla substantially over time.
As a spokesman for the Nation of Islam he sikhaaya blike sarvocchata or advocated virah of blike or shwet america —in contrast to the civil adhikaron gati 's emphasis on integration.
After breaking with the Nation of islam in 1964—saying of uske sangh saath it, `` i kiya anek bate as a [ blike ] muslim that I 'm sorry for now.
I was a pret tab... pointed in a nishchit disha or bataai to kooch '' —and banane a sunni muslim, he disavowed jatvaad or expressed willingness to kaary with civil rights leaders, he continued to emphasize Pan-Africanism, black self-determination, and self-defense.
Henry Merritt `` Hank '' Paulson, Jr. ( born March 28, 1946 ) is an amareeki banker jo parosa as the 74th sanyukt rajya sachiv of the rajkosh.
He had served as the adhyaksh or mukhya karypalika adhikari of goldman sachs, or is abhi adhyaksh of the paulson santhaan, jisase he santhaapit in 2011 to prachaar chirsthayee aarthik vikaas and a cleaner environment around the world, with an initial focus on the United States and China.
A virtual yantra ( vm ) is a tantra implemented abstraction of the underlying hardware, jisase is presented to the application layer of the system.
Virtual machines may be based on visheshtaayen of a kaalpanik computer or emulate the computer vaastukala and functions of a real world computer.
Spiders ( order Araneae ) are air-breathing arthropods ki have aath taange or chelicerae with fangs that inject venom.
They are the largest anukram of arachnids or rank saatvaan in kul prajati vividhta among all other groups of organisms.
Spiders are found worldwide on every mahadweep magar liye antarctic, or have become sthapit in nearly prayek habitat with the exception of air and sea colonization.
As of 2008, at least 43,678 spider species, and 109 families have been recorded by taxonomists ; however, vahin rai maharoom bhram bheetar the vaigyanik jatiyaan as to kaisaa sab ye pariwaron chahie be vargeekrut, as evidenced by the over 20 alag classifications ki have maharoom prastaavit since 1900.
anatomically, makadiyon differ isse anya arthropods in ki the usual deh khand hai fused into two tagmata, the cephalothorax and abdomen, and joined by a small, cylindrical pedicel.
Unlike insects, makadiyon do nahin have antennae.
In all except the most primitive group, the Mesothelae, spiders have the most centralized nervous pranaaliyon of sab arthropods, as sab unke ganglia hai fused into ek dravyaman in the cephalothorax.
Unlike most arthropods, makadiyon have no extensor mansapeshiyaan in unke limbs or bajaay extend unhen by hydraulic pressure.
Their abdomens bear appendages that have maharoom parivardhit into spinnerets ki extrude resha isse up to chah prakaar of resha glands within their abdomen.
Spider webs vary widely in aakaar, aakaar or the raashi of sticky thread used.
It now appears that the spiral orb web may be one of the earliest forms, and spiders that upaj uljhe cobwebs hai adhik abundant or vividh than orb-web makadiyon.
Spider-like arachnids with silk-producing spigots appeared in the devonian kaal parichay, lakin ye pashu jaahir lacked spinnerets.
True spiders have been found in Carboniferous rox isse, or hai bahut samaan to the sabase aadim surviving anukram, the Mesothelae.
The main groups of aadhunik makadiyon, mygalomorphae or araneomorphae, pehla appeared in the Triassic period, before.
A herbivorous species, Bagheera kiplingi, was described in 2008, lakin sab anya gyaat prajati hai parabhakshi, zyaadaatar preying on keet or on anya makadiyon, haalanki a few vishaal prajati bhi take birds and lizards.
Spiders use a wide range of strategies to capture prey : trapping it in stick webs, lassoing it saath stick bolas, mimicking the shikaar to avoid detection, or running it down.
Most detect prey mainly by sensing vibrations, but the active hunters have acute vision, and hunters of the genus portia dikhaaen lakshan of pragna in unke chunaav of tactics or kshamta to develop nai ones.
Spiders ' guts are too narrow to take solids, and ve liquidize unke khaanaa by baadh it saath digestive anzimon or pis it saath the bases of unke pedipalps, as they do not have true jaws.
Male spiders identify themselves by a variety of jatil premalap sanskaar to avoid hone khaaya by the mahilaon.
Males of most species survive a few matings, limited mukhyatah by unke choti jivan spans.
Females weave silk egg-cases, prayek of jisase may contain sainkadon of eggs.
Females of many species care for their yang, liye udhaaharan by carrying unhen around or by sharing khaanaa with them.
A minority of species are soshal, bhawan sampradayik webs ki may house anywhere isse a few to 50,000 individuals.
Social behavior ranges from precarious toleration, as in the vidhwaa makadiyon, to co-operative shikaar or food-sharing.
Although most spiders live for at most two saalo, tarantulas or anya mygalomorph makadiyon can sajiv up to 25 saalo in captivity.
While the venom of a few species is dangerous to humans, vaigyanikon hai abhi researching the upyog of makadi venom in ayurvigyaan or as non-polluting pesticides.
Spider silk provides a combination of lightness, strength and elasticity that is superior to that of synthetic saamagree, or makadi resha jeenon have maharoom inserted into stanadhariyon or paudhe to dekhie if these can be used as silk factories.
As a result of their wide range of vyavhaar, makadiyon have become aam pratikon in art or mythology symbolizing vibhinn combinations of patience, cruelty and creative powers.
Donna Marie Pinciotti ( Born February 13, 1960 ) is a fictional akshar or ek of the do maadaa lead in the fox sitcom ki '70s dikhaaen, appearing in sab aath sizan.
portrayed by laura prepon, donna is the love interest to Eric Forman.
US county household madhya aay 2009.
Median US household aay, 2001-2011
Household income is a maap commonly prayukt by the sanyukt States government and private institutions.
Each household is measured by the aay of prayek nivasee over the aayu of 15.
Income includes wages and salaries, unemployment insurance, disability bhugtan, child support bhugtan praapt, niyamit rental raseeden, as khub as koi nijee kaarobaar, nivesh, or anya kinds of income received routinely.
jabaki inflation-adjusted ( `` real '' ) household aay tha maharoom increasing lagbhag every year from 1945 to 1999, it has since been flat and even decreased recently.
u.S. madhya household aay giri isse $ 51,144 in 2010 to $ 50,502 in 2011.
Extreme poverty in the United States, meaning households living on less than $ 2 per day before government laabh, doubled isse 1996 to 1.5 lakh households in 2011, sahit 2.8 million children.
The residents of the household do not have to be sambandhit to the sir of the household liye unke aay to be mana bhaag of the household 's income.
As households tend to share a samaan aarthik context, the upyog of household aay remains among the most widely accepted measures of income.
That the size of a household is nahin commonly liya into khaataa in aise upayon may vikrut koi vishleshan of fluctuations bheetar or among the household aay shrenee, or may rendor sidhaa comparisons between quintiles difficult or even impossible.
A registered agent, also known as a resident agent or statutory agent, in United States business law, is a business or vyaktigat designated to praapt seva of prakram ( sop ) jab a kaarobaar antity is a party in a vidhik karrwai aise as a mukadmaa or saman.
The registered agent 's address may also be where the rajya hoga bhejein the kagaji liye the vaarshik naveekaran of the kaarobaar antity 's charter.
The registered agent for a business entity may be an individual member of the company, or ( adhik praayah ) a teesraa party, aise as the sanghathan 's vakil or a seva company.
Failure to properly maintain a panjikrut agent can affect a company negatively.
daftar liye apaat Management.
Office of yuddh soochna yuddh poster 1941 - 1945
`` jivan, swatantraaa, or the pursuit of sukh '' is a well-known phrase in the United States Declaration of Independence.
The phrase is meant to exemplify the `` unalienable adhikaron '' saath jisase sab insaan beings are endowed by their creator for their protection of which they institute governments.
Fencing, is typically divided into olympic talwarbaji, shastreey talwarbaji and historical fencing,.
The sport of fencing ( commonly called olympic fencing or competitive talwarbaji ) is vibhajit into teen hathiyaar shrenee : foil, sabre and épée.
Classical fencing uses the vahi teen hathiyaar, lakin approaches talwarbaji as a martial art.
pratispardhi talwarbaji is ek of paanch khel jisase rai maharoom pradarshit at prayek ek of the aadhunik Olympic Games, the other four being Athletics, Cycling, Swimming, and Gymnastics.
The quadriceps femoris ( Latin for `` four-headed muscle of the femur `` ), also called simply the quadriceps, quadriceps extensor, quads, is a vishaal mansapeshi samooh ki shaamil the chaar prachlit mansapeshiyaan on the front of the thigh.
It is the great extensor muscle of the ghutana, forming a vishaal maansal dravyaman jisase cover the saamne or sides of the femur.
The proper Latin plural rup of the kriyasheel quadriceps hota be quadricipites.
In aadhunik angrezi upyog, quadriceps is used in both singular and plural.
The singular rup quadricep, utpaadit by hypercorrection, is frequently used.
rms titannic thi a angrejon yatri liner ki sank in the uttar atlantic samandar on 15 april 1912 baad colliding saath an himshail dauraan her maiden voyage from Southampton, UK to New York City, US.
The sinking of Titanic caused the mauton of 1,502 logon in ek of the deadliest peacetime maritime disasters in modern history.
The RMS Titanic was the largest ship afloat at the samay of uske maiden voyage.
She was the second of three Olympic class ocean liners operated by the shwet star lakeer, or wo thi nirmit by the harland or wolff dockyard in belfast saath thomas Andrews, who perished with the ship, as her naval architect.
On her maiden voyage, wo carried 2,224 yatri and crew.
Under the command of Edward Smith, her passengers shaamil kuch of the wealthiest logon in the sansar, as khub as sainkadon of emigrants isse great britain or ireland, scandinavia or elsewhere throughout europea seeking a new life in North America.
The ship was designed to be the last word in comfort and lakjri, saath an on-board gymnasium, tairaaki pool, pustakaalayon, high-class restaraan and opulent cabins.
She also had a shaktishaalee betaar telegraph provided liye the convenience of yatri as well as for operational use.
Though wo tha unnat suraksha suvidhaayen aise as watertight compartments or remotely activated watertight doors, she lacked enough lifeboats to accommodate all of those aboard.
Because of outdated maritime safety regulations, she carried only enough lifeboats for 1,178 people—slightly adhik than half of the kramank yatraaen on the maiden voyage, or one-third uske kul yatri and crew capacity.
After leaving Southampton on 10 April 1912, Titanic called at Cherbourg in frans or queenstown ( abhi cobh ) in ireland pehle heading westwards towards New York.
On 14 April 1912, four days into the crossing or parichay 375 mile ( 600 km ) dakshin of newfoundland, wo hit an himshail at 11:40 pm ship 's time.
The glancing collision caused Titanics hull platon to bakal inwards saath uske starboard paksh or kholi paanch of uske solah watertight compartments to the samudr ; the jalayaan dhire filled with water.
Meanwhile, passengers or kuch kru sadasyon yahood evacuated in lifeboats, anek of jisase yahood shubharambh tabhi partly loaded.
A disproportionate kramank of main yahood baayein savaar kuki of a `` mahilaon or children pehla `` protocol followed by some of the officers loading the lifeboats.
By 2:20 AM, wo broke alaava or foundered, saath khub over ek hajaar people still aboard.
Just under two hours after the Titanic foundered, the Cunard liner rms carpathia arrived on the jhaanki of the dub, jahaan wo brought savaar an anumaanit 705 survivors.
The disaster was greeted with worldwide shock or aakrosh at the vishaal ghaataa of jivan or the niamak or operational failures that had led to it.
Public inquiries in Britain and the sanyukt rajya led to pramukh sudhaar in meritime suraksha.
One of their most important legacies was the sthapana in 1914 of the antarrashtriya sammelan liye the suraksha of jivan at samudr ( solas ), which still governs maritime safety today.
Additionally, several new wireless regulations yahood passed around the sansar in an praytn to sikh isse the anek missteps in betaar sanchaar -- -which could have saved many more passengers.
Many of the survivors lost all of their money and possessions or yahood baayein aksham ; anek pariwaron, visheshkar those of kru sadasyon isse southampton, khoyaa unke praathmik bread-winners.
They yahood helped by an outpouring of public sahanubhuti or charitable donations.
Some of the purush survivors yahood abhiyukt of kaayarta liye leaving the jalayaan jabaki logon yahood still on falak ; the shwet Star Line 's chairman, J. Bruce Ismay, faced social ostracism for the rest of his life.
The wreck of the Titanic remains on the samudratal, vibhajit in do or dhire disintegrating at a depth of.
Since its discovery in 1985, hazaron of artefacts have maharoom baraamad or put on display at museums around the world.
titannic rai become ek of the sabase prasiddh jahaajon in itihaas, uske memory rakhaa jinda by numerous books, folk songs, films, exhibits, and memorials.
The human leg is the entire lower extremity or limb of the human body, including the foot, thigh or bhi the hip or gluteal pradesh ; however, the precise paribhaasha in insaan anatomy refers tabhi to the khand of the nimnatar limb extending from the knee to the ankle.
taange hai prayukt liye khadaa, chalanaa, kud, kaaryshil, kicking, and similar activities, and constitute a significant portion of a person 's mass.
This article is about the demographic features of the janasankhyikee of turkon, sahit janasankhyikee ghanatv, nasl, shiksha str, swasthya of the populace, aarthik aukaat, dharmik sambandhon or other aspects of the population.
As of 2010, the janasankhyikee of turkon is anumaanit to be 73.7 lakh saath a vikaas rate of 1.21 % per annum ( 2009 figure ).
The janasankhyikee is apekshaakrit yang saath 26.6 % girnaa in the 0-14 age bracket.
according to the oecd/world bainko janasankhyikee aankde in turkon the population growth from 1990 to 2008 was 16 million or 29 %.
1998 bmw 750il
buik roadmaster
A full-size car is a vipanan pad prayukt in uttar america liye an automobile larger than a mid-size car.
In the sanyukt rajya, the epa upyog the pad `` vishaal car '' to denote full-size cars.
Joel Grey ( born April 11, 1932 ) is an American stage and screen actor, singer, or nartki, gyaat liye uske bhoomika as the nipun of ceremonies in dono the stage or filmi adaptation of the Kander & Ebb musical Cabaret.
He has won the academy puraskaar, tony puraskaar or sunahari globe Award.
He also originated the bhoomika of george M. cohan in the musical George M !
in 1973, the jaadugar in the musical Wicked.
Grey also strecchar in the broadway revivals of anything goes as moonface Martin, and Chicago as Amos Hart.
James Madison, Jr. ( March 16, 1751 ( O.S. March 5 ) – June 28, 1836 ) thi an amareeki statesman or rajnatik theorist, the chauthi adhyaksh of the sanyukt States ( 1809–1817 ).
He is hailed as the “father of the constitution” liye hone instrumental in the drafting of the United States Constitution and as the key champion and author of the United States Bill of Rights.
He served as a rajaneta much of uske vayask life.
After the constitution had been drafted, medisson became ek of the leaders in the movement to ratify it.
His collaboration with sikandar hamiltan or jon jay utpaadit the federalist Papers ( 1788 ).
Circulated only in New York at the time, they would later be mana among the sabase mahatvapurn polemics in support of the samvidhan.
He was also a delegate to the Virginia constitutional ratifying sammelan, or thi instrumental to the kaamyaab anusamarthan praytn in virginia.
Like most of his contemporaries, medisson badla uske rajnatik views during his life.
During the drafting and ratification of the constitution, he favored a strong national government, though later he grew to ehsaan stronger rajya sarkarein, pehle settling between the do extremes late in his life.
In 1789, medisson became a netaa in the nai house of pratinidhi, drafting many basic laws.
He is notable for drafting the pehla ten amendments to the samvidhan, or yun is known as the `` Father of the Bill of Rights ``.
Madison worked closely saath adhyaksh george washington to vyavasthit the nai federal government.
Breaking with Hamilton and what became the Federalist Party in 1791, Madison and Thomas jeffrasan vyavasthit kayaa ve pukaara the republican party ( baad pukaara by itihaaskaaron the democratic-republican Party )
As Jefferson’s Secretary of State ( 1801–1809 ), medisson paryvekshit the louisiana khariden, jisase doubled the nation’s size.
After his election to the presidency, he presided over navinikrut samruddhi liye several years.
As adhyaksh ( 1809–17 ), baad the vifaltaa of rajanyik virodh or a vyapaar embargo against Great Britain, he led the nation into the War of 1812.
He was responding to British encroachments on American honor and rights ; in addition, he wanted to end the influence of the angrejon among unke bhartiya allies, jinaki pratirodh avarodhit sanyukt rajya upnivesh in the Midwest around the Great Lakes.
Madison found the war to be an administrative nightmare, as the United States had neither a strong army nor financial system ; as a result, he afterward samarthit a stronger neshnal sarkari or a damdaar sainya, as khub as the neshnal bainko, which he had long opposed.
Like other Virginia statesmen in the slave society, he was a slaveholder jo inherited uske vriksharopan gyaat as montpelier, or swaamitv sainkadon of slave dauraan uske lifetime to cultivate tobacco and other crops.
Madison supported the three-fifths compromise that anumat three-fifths of the enumerated janasankhyikee of slave to be gine liye pratinidhitiv.
`` roman 's badla '' is a song performed by amareeki rapper Nicki Minaj from her debut studio album Pink Friday.
it thi likhaa by minaj or rapper eminem, jo is also featured in the song, and was produced by Swizz Beatz.
It was released exclusively on aktubar 30, 2010 through the us itunes store, as a promotional release preceding the album 's release.
The song initiated a feud between Lil ' Kim and Minaj, where many people felt the song thi nirdeshit at leel ' kim or regarded around uske jajbaat towards Minaj 's rise to fame.
the song sandarbh minaj 's alter-ego, roman zolanski, or Eminem 's alter-ego, Slim Shady.
The song garnered bahut dhanatmak samikshaayen isse aalochakon, most of which praised the song as a stand-out track on the album.
An official remix featuring minaj 's mentor, leel wain, thi released to the US iTunes Store on January 19, 2011.
The instrumental was prayukt in the song 'firing squad ' by naal G.A.N.G.
hydrolic drav hone poured.
Hydraulic fluids, also called hydrolic liquids, hai the medium by jisase shakti is transferred in hydraulic machinery.
aam hydrolic fluids hai aadhaarit on mineral oil or water.
Examples of equipment that might use hydrolic fluids shaamil excavators or backhoes, hydrolic brakes, shakti parichaalan pranaaliyon, transmishan, kachra trek, vayuyan udaan control systems, lifts, and industrial machinery.
Hydraulic systems like the ones mentioned above will kaary sabase efficiently if the hydrolic drav prayukt rai no compressibility
Mahindra tractor
Mahindra tractors, the farm upkaran prabhag of mahindra & mahindra, builds or sources tractors that are sold worldwide across six continents.
Mahindra is also among the sheersh teen tractor nirmaataaon in the world.
mahindra rai a vishaal upabhokta aadhaar in india, china and America and a growing base in Australia.
The company builds more tractors in India than any other nirmaataa, or rai the kshamta to nirmaan 150,000 tractors a year.
In 1963, m & m formed a sanyukt venture saath antarrashtriya harvester to manufacture tractors carrying the Mahindra nameplate for the Indian market.
Armed with engineering, tooling or nirmaan know-how gained isse is sambandh, m & m viksit iske pehla tractor, the B-275.
Mahindra Tractors with sales of nearly 85,000 ikai annually is ek of the largest tractor companiyaan in the sansar, and is number one in sales in India - the largest tractor market in the world.
To expand into the growing tractor market in china, mahindra acquired bahumat hissedari in Jiangling.
To raise awareness parichay mahindra in the us, mahindra uese ghoshit iske nai praayojan in the nascar deshbhar shrenee saath r3 motorsport, which is participating with a # 23 Mahindra Tractors Chevrolet.
The car will be driven by Robert Richardson, Jr. Mahindra USA, Inc. ghoshit a 17-race praathmik or 18-race sambhddha praayojan liye the 2009 nascar Nationwide Series.
With this sponsorship, Mahindra thi the pehla bhartiya company to praayojak a car in NASCAR.
In 2008, Mahindra was a sponsor of the mcdonald motorsport toli jisase bhaaga the # 81 car in the nascar deshbhar shrenee.
The POWER6 is a microprocesar viksit by ibm ki implemented the Power ISA v.2.03.
When it became available in systems in 2007, it succeeded the shakti5+ as ibm 's flagship shakti microprocesar.
It is bhaag of the eclipz project, kaha to have a lakshya of converging ibm 's sarwar hardware jahaan practical ( hence `` ipz '' in the acronym : iSeries, pSeries, and zSeries ).
The American middle class is a soshal class in the sanyukt rajya.
While the concept is typically ambiguous in popular opinion and common language use, samakaleen soshal vaigyanikon have put aage anek, adhik or kam congruent, theories on the amareeki madhya class.
Depending on class model used, the madhya class may constitute anywhere isse 25 % to 66 % of households.
One of the first major studies of the middle class in America thi shwet collar : the amareeki madhya varg, prakashit in 1951 by samajashastri C. Wright Wright_Mills Mills Wright_Mills.
Later sociologists aise as denis gilbert of hamiltan college commonly divide the middle class into two sub-groups.
constituting roughly 15 % to 20 % of households is the apper or peshewar middle class consisting of highly educated, salaried professionals and managers.
Constituting roughly one teesraa of households is the nimnatar madhya class consisting zyaadaatar of semi-professionals, skilled craftsmen and lower-level management.
middle-class vyaktiyon commonly have a aaramdaayak maanak of jeena, significant aarthik suraksha, considerable kaary swaittata or rely on their expertise to sustain themselves.
Members of the madhya class belong to vividh samooh jisase overlap with each other.
Overall, middle-class persons, visheshkar upper-middle-class individuals, hai characterized by conceptualizing, creating and consulting.
yun, college shiksha is ek of the main indicators of middle-class status.
Largely attributed to the prakruti of middle-class occupations, madhya class maan tend to emphasize swatantraaa, adherence to moolbhoot standards, valuing innovation and respecting non-conformity.
Politically more kriyasheel than anya janasankhyikee, college shikshit madhya class peshewar hai vibhajit between the two major parties.
Income varies considerably isse nikat the neshnal madhya to khub in excess of $ 100,000.
Household aay aankade, however, do nahin sadaa pratibimbit class aukaat or maanak of jeena, as ve hai largely bahekaave by the kramank of income earners and fail to recognize household size.
It is therefore possible for a large, dual-earner, nimnatar madhya class household to out-earn a choti, one-earner, apper madhya class household.
The middle classes are very influential, as ve encompass the bahumat of matadaata, lekhak, teachers, journalists, and editors.
Most societal trends in the US originate bheetar the madhya varg.
The following is a list of shanivaar raatri sajiv daal sadasyon, past or upasthit.
The cast members of Saturday Night Live were originally referred to as the `` nahin taiyaar liye pradhan samay khilaadi ''.
The asli daal ( l to r ) : laraine neuman, jon belushi, jine curtin, gilda Radner, Dan Aykroyd, Garrett Morris, and Chevy Chase
Ruins from the 1906 San Francisco bukamp, remembered as ek of the worst natural disasters in United States history
A disaster is a natural or man-made ( or technological ) jokhim resulting in an event of substantial extent causing significant shaareerik kshati or vinaash, loss of life, or drastic change to the environment.
A vipatti can be ostensively paribhaashit as koi tragic event stemming isse kaarykram aise as bukamp, floods, catastrophic accidents, fires, or explosions.
It is a phenomenon ki can kaaran kshati to jivan or property or nasht the aarthik, social and cultural life of people.
in samakaleen academia, aapadaaon hai dekhi as the consequence of inappropriately managed risk.
These risks are the utpaada of a sangyojan of dono hazard/s or vulnerability.
Hazards ki strike in kshetron saath kam vulnerability hoga never become aapadaaon, as is the maamla in uninhabited regions.
Developing countries suffer the greatest costs when a disaster hits – more than 95 pratishat of sab mauton caused by aapadaaon occur in vikasshil deshon, or nuksaan due to prakritik aapadaaon hai 20 times vrihad ( as a pratishat of jidipi ) in vikasshil deshon than in industrialized countries.
In computing, booting ( also gyaat as booting up ) is the aarambhik niyat of parichaalan ki a computer pranali performs jab electrical power to the CPU is switched on.
The process begins when a computer is turned on for the first samay or is re-energized baad hone turned band, or ends jab the computer is taiyaar to perform iske saamaanya parichaalan.
On modern saamaanya purpose computer, is can lo tens of second or typically involves performing a power-on self-test, locating or initializing paridhiy devices, and then finding, loading and starting an operating system.
Many computer pranaaliyon bhi allow ye parichaalan to be initiated by a tantra command without cycling power, in what is known as a soft reboot, though some of the initial operations might be skipped on a soft reboot.
A boot loader is a computer kaarykram ki loads the pramukh oparating pranali or runtime paryaavaran for the computer after completion of the self-tests.
the computer pad boot is choti liye bootstrap or bootstrap lod or garbhashayi from the phrase to pull oneself up by one 's bootstraps.
The usage calls attention to the requirement that, if sabase tantra is loaded onto a computer by anya tantra already kaaryshil on the computer, kuch mechanism must exist to load initial software onto the computer.
jaldi computer prayukt a kismein of ad-hoc vidhi to milengi a choti kaarykram into memory to solve this problem.
The invention of integrated circuit read-only memory ( ROM ) of vibhinn prakaar hal is virodhabhas by allowing computer to be shipped saath a prarambh up program that could not be erased.
Growth in the kshamta of rom rai anumat kabhi adhik vistrut prarambh up prakriyaaon to be implemented.
On general purpose computers, the boot process begins with the nishpaadan of an aarambhik kaarykram bhandaarit in boot roms or padhaa in another fashion.
In some older computer, the aarambhik kaarykram might have maharoom the anuprayog to chalaaen, if no oparating system was used, or the operating system.
In other computers, the aarambhik kaarykram is a boot loder ki may tab lod into random-access memory ( ram ), isse nonvolatile dwitiyak storage ( such as a hard disk drive ) or, in some older computers, from a medium such as punched cards, punched tape, or magnetic tape in older computers, the binary code of an operating system or runtime environment and then execute it.
If the boot loader is limited in its size and capabilities, it may, instead, load a larger or adhik sakasham dwitiyak boot loder, jisase hota tab lod the oparating pranali or runtime paryaavaran.
Some embedded systems do nahin aavashyaktaa a noticeable boot anukram to shuru kaamkaaj or jab turned on may bas chalaaen operational programs that are stored in ROM.
Firebird is an open sorce escuel relational database prabandhan pranali ki ranon on linaks, Windows, and a variety of Unix.
The database forked from Borland 's open sorce sanskaran of interbase in 2000, lakin chunki firebird 1.5 the code has been largely rewritten.
outsorcing is the contracting out of an aatanrik kaarobaar process to a third-party organization.
The practice of contracting a business prakram out to a teesraa party balki than stoff it internally is aam in the aadhunik arthvyavastha.
The term `` outsourcing '' became lokapriy in the sanyukt rajya nikat the phere of the 21st century.
Outsourcing sometimes involves transferring karmchaaree or asset isse ek kad to another, lakin nahin sadaa.
The definition of outsorcing shaamil dono videshi or gharelu contracting, or sometimes shaamil offshoring, which means relocating a business function to another country.
Financial savings from lower antarrashtriya majdoor daron is a big prerana liye outsourcing/offshoring.
The opposite of outsourcing is called insourcing, jisase entails bringing prakriyaaon sambhala by third-party firms in-house, or is sometimes sampannataa via vertical integration.
However, a business can provide a anubandh seva to another kaarobaar bagaiyr necessarily insourcing ki kaarobaar process.
Human immunodeficiency virus ( HIV ) is a lentivirus ( dhire replicating retrovirus ) ki kalyankari acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ), a condishan in insaano in jisase progressive failure of the immune system allows life-threatening opportunistic infections and cancers to thrive.
Infection with HIV occurs by the transfer of rakt, veery, vaginal drav, pre-ejaculate, or stan milk.
Within these bodily fluids, hiv is upasthit as dono free virus anu and virus within infected immune cells.
HIV infects vital koshikaayen in the insaan pratiraksha pranali aise as helper t koshikaayen ( specifically cd4 + T cells ), macrophages, and dendritic cells.
hiv sankraman lead to kam str of cd4+ t koshikaayen through a kramank of mechanisms sahit : apoptosis of uninfected bystander cells, direct viral killing of infected cells, and killing of infected CD4+ T cells by CD8 cytotoxic lymphocytes that recognize infected cells.
When CD4+ T cell numbers decline below a najuk str, cell-mediated pratirakshan is khoyaa, or the deh becomes progressively adhik susceptible to opportunistic infections.
The firepole in a aag stesan in Toronto
A fireman 's pole ( also called a sliding pole or firepole ) is a wooden pole or a metal tube or pipe installed between floors in aag stesan, allowing agnishman responding to an sachetak to jaldi descend to the maidan manzil tej than by using a standard staircase.
the yantra thi invented in the 1870s by daud kenyon, in chicago, illinois, haalanki it is praayah incorrectly credited to the Boston Fire Department.
mariyam poppins is the sheershak akshar of a series of children 's books written by P. L. Travers.
throughout the mariyam poppins shrenee, jisase lasted isse 1934 to 1988, mariyam shepard was the illustrator and acted as a second author.
The books centre on a jaadui angrezi naini, mariyam poppins.
She is blown by the East hawa to kramank satraa cheri ped len, landan, or into the bainko ' household to parvaah for their children.
Encounters with chimney sweeps, shopkeepers and vibhinn adventures follow jabatak mariyam poppins abruptly pattey, i.e., `` pops-out ''.
The adventures lo place over a kul of aath kitabe.
However, only the first teen kitabe visheshta mariyam poppins arriving or leaving.
The later five books recount previously unrecorded adventures isse uske asli teen vizit.
As P. L. Travers explains in uske parichay to mariyam poppins in the park, `` She can not forever arrive and depart. ''
The books yahood adapted in 1964 into a musical dijani filmi abhinit Julie Andrews and Dick Van Dyke.
In 2004, Disney Theatrical utpaadit a stage musical anukulan in the west End theatre.
The stage musical was transferred to broadway in 2006 jahaan it bhaaga jabatak iske closing on kooch 3, 2013.
It has been atyadhik kaamyaab, as thi the 1964 film.
The Last Song is a 2010 American coming of age teen romantic drama film developed alongside nicholas sparks ' anokhaa by the vahi naam.
The film was directed by Julie Anne Robinson in uske visheshta filmi directorial debyue or co-written by sparks or Jeff Van Wie.
The Last Song stars miley sires, liyaam hemsworth, or greg kinnear or folo a troubled kishoravastha as wo reconnects saath uske estranged pita or jalprapaat in love during a summer in a quiet Southern United States beach town.
The filmi is vitarit by touchstone Pictures.
sparks thi approached to likhen dono the filmi 's patakatha and the novel.
Sparks completed the screenplay in January 2009, prior to the purnataa of the anokhaa, bananaa the pichhlaa song uske pehla script to be optioned for film.
The setting, originally in North carolina jaise the anokhaa, sthanantarit to georgia baad the rajya tha campaigned for months to host production.
Upon beginning production in Tybee Island, georgia or aasapaas savannah, the pichhlaa song became the pehla film to be dono shot or niyat in Tybee Island.
Filming lasted from June 15 to August 18, 2009 saath much of it occurring on the dweep 's bich or pier.
The Last Song was originally scheduled liye chaudee relies on janvari 8, 2010, lakin thi sthagit to kooch 31, 2010.
likhaa simlish
Simlish is a fictional bhashaa pradarshit in ea khel ' sim shrenee of khel.
It debuted in SimCopter, and has been visheshkar prominent in the seem, the seem 2 or the Sims 3.
The Sims development team created the adwitiya simlish bhashaa by experimenting saath fractured ukraini, french, Latin, Finnish, English, Fijian, Cebuano, and Tagalog.
Simlish can also be heard in simcity 4, simcity samaajon or simcity 2013, lakin dur kam aksar.
Civilized Creatures in spore can bhi be sikhaaya to bolo Simlish.
it is bhi pradarshit to an extent in Firaxis Games ' Sid Meier 's SimGolf.
Designer Will Wright was conscious of the need for dialogue in the game, but vichaar ki using a real bhashaa hota mek it dhwani too dohraye or hota bhi be too costly to hire anuvadak liye world languages.
Initially, inspired by the Native American code talkers of World War II, Sims creator hoga rhite or bhashaa visheshgy mark gimbel sujhaayaa experimenting saath the navajo bhashaa to banaaen simlish.
However, they ultimately decided ki simlish worked behtareen as a `` bhashaa '' bana up of gibberish shabd ki could n't be anudit, so ki iske arth hota be left open to the imagination of the player.
Wright later commented that using `` bakawaas bhashaa '' turned out to be the sahi vikaas chunaav, as logon yahood sakasham of imagining it adhik realistically than a computer could simulate a real one.
The actual sound of Simlish was created improvisationally by awaz abhinaytaon stephen kearin or gerri Lawlor.
An example of Ultrasonic Testing ( UT ) on blade jaden of a v2500 iae vayuyan ingine.
Step 1 : the ut jaanch is lagaai on the root of the blade to be inspected saath the help of a special borescope tool ( video probe ).
Step 2 : yantra jamaavat are input.
Step 3 : The probe is scanned over the blade root.
In this case, an indication ( shikhar in the aankada ) through the red lakeer ( or phatak ) indicates a shubh blade ; an indication to the baayein of that range indicates a crack.
principle of ultrasonic pareekshan.
LEFT : A probe bhejnaa a dhwani wave into a pareekshan saamagree.
There are two indications, ek isse the aarambhik pulse of the jaanch, or the duusari due to the back wall echo.
RIGHT : A defect creates a teesraa indication or simultaneously reduces the aayam of the back wall indication.
The depth of the defect is sankalpit by the anupaat d/e
In ultrasonic testing ( UT ), very short ultrasonic pulse-waves with center frequencies ranging from 0.1-15 mhz or occasionally up to 50 mhz hai shubharambh into saamagree to detect aatanrik khamiyaan or to characterize saamagree.
A common example is ultrasonic motaai maapan, jisase pareekshan the motaai of the pareekshan object, liye udhaaharan, to monitor pipework corrosion.
Ultrasonic testing is often performed on steel and anya dhaatuon or alloys, haalanki it can bhi be prayukt on kancreet, lakdi or composites, albeit with less resolution.
It is a form of non-destructive pareekshan prayukt in anek udyog sahit aerospace, automotive or anya parivahan sectors.
The vas deferens ( plural : vasa deferentia ), also called ductus deferens ( latin : `` carrying-away pot '' ; bahuvachan : ductus deferentes ), is bhaag of the male anatomy of many vertebrates ; they transport sperm from the epididymis in anticipation of ejaculation.
Vascular ischemia of the toes saath characteristic cyanosis.
In medicine, ischemia, also spelled as ischaemia or ischæmia, ( ; isse unani bhashaa ισχαιμία, ischaimía ; isch- root denoting a pratibandh or thinning or to mek or grow thin/lean, haema rakt ) is a pratibandh in rakt supplai to utakon, causing a shortage of oxigen or glucose needed for cellular metabolism ( to keep tissue alive ).
ischemia is generally caused by samasyaayein saath rakt baratan, with resultant damage to or dysfunction of tissue.
It also means local anemia in a given part of a deh sometimes resulting isse jamghat ( aise as vasoconstriction, ghanaasrata or vahikarodh ).
Down syndrome ( DS ) or Down 's syndrome, also gyaat as trisomy 21, is a genetic vikaar caused by the upasthiti of all or part of a third copy of chromosome 21.
Down syndrome is the sabase aam chromosome tabadili in insaano.
It is typically sambhddha saath a vilamb in sangyanatmak kshamta ( dimagi retardation, or mr ) or shaareerik growth, and a particular set of facial characteristics.
The average IQ of young vayaskon saath bas syndrome is around 50, whereas yang vayaskon bagaiyr the condition typically have an IQ of 100.
( MR has historically maharoom paribhaashit as an IQ below 70. )
A large proportion of individuals with bas syndrome have a kathor oopaadhi of bauddhik disability.
Down syndrome is namit baad jon langdon bas, the angrejon physician who described the syndrome in 1866.
The condition was clinically described earlier by Jean etienne dominique esquirol in 1838 or edouard seguin in 1844.
Down syndrome was identified as a chromosome 21 trisomy by dr. jérôme lejeune in 1959.
Down syndrome can be pahachaanaa in a baby at janam or pehle janam by prenatal screening.
pregnancies saath is nidaan hai often terminated.
The CDC estimates that about one of every 691 babies born in the sanyukt rajya prayek saal is born saath bas syndrome.
anek children saath bas syndrome hai shikshit in niyamit skool varg jabaki anya aavashyaktaa specialised educational facilities.
Some children graduate from high school, and, in the US, vahin hai increasing avasar liye participating in post-secondary education.
Education or uchit parvaah rai maharoom dikhaaya to improve visheshta of life significantly.
Many adults with Down Syndrome are able to work at sashulk niyukti in the jatiyaan, jabaki anya aavashyaktaa a adhik sheltered kaary paryaavaran.
Hot flashes ( also known as hot flushes, or night sweats if they happen at night ) are a symptom jisase may have anek anya kalyankari, lakin jisase is praayah caused by the badalanaa hormone str ki hai characteristic of menopause.
The Servicemen 's Readjustment Act of 1944 ( p.l. 78-346, 58 state. 284m ), gyaat informally as the g.i. vidheyak, thi a vidhi ki provided a dayera of laabh for returning World War II veterans ( commonly referred to as G.I.s ).
laabh shaamil low-cost mortgages, low-interest lone to prarambh a kaarobaar or farm, nakadi bhugtan of tution or jeena kharch to attend college, high school or vocational education, as well as one year of unemployment compensation.
It was available to every diggaj jo tha maharoom on kriyasheel duty dauraan the yuddh saalo liye at tanik nabbe dinon or tha not been dishonorably discharged ; combat was not required.
By the samaapt of the kaarykram in 1956, roughly 2.2 lakh diggajon tha prayukt the g.i. vidheyak shiksha laabh in anukram to attend colleges or universities, and an additional 6.6 million used these benefits for some kind of training program.
Since the asli 1944 vidhi, the pad rai aaiye to shaamil anya diggaj laabh kaarykram nirmit to assist diggajon of subsequent wars as well as peacetime service.
Historians and economists consider the G.I. Bill a major rajnatik success—especially in contrast to the upachaar of sansar yuddh i veterans—and a pramukh yogadan to america 's stock of human capital that sped long-term economic growth.
The waterget cond thi a rajnatik cond ki occurred in the sanyukt rajya in the 1970s as a parinaam of the june 17, 1972 break-in at the loktantric neshnal cameti mukhyalay at the Watergate office complex in Washington, D.C., and the Nixon administration 's attempted cover-up of its involvement.
The scandal aakhirkaar led to the istipha of richard nicksan, the adhyaksh of the sanyukt rajya, on agast 9, 1974 — the tabhi resignation of a U.S. President.
The scandal also resulted in the indictment, trial, conviction, and incarceration of forty-three vyaktiyon, darjanon of jisko yahood nicksan 's top administration officials.
The affair began with the arrest of paanch main liye todakar or pravesh into the loktantric neshnal cameti ( dnc ) headquarters at the Watergate complex on June 17, 1972.
The Federal Bureau of Investigation ( FBI ) connected cash found on the burglars to a slush nidhi prayukt by the cameti liye the re-election of the adhyaksh, the aadhikarik sanghathan of nicksan 's abhiyaan.
In July 1973, as evidence mounted against the president 's staff, including testimony provided by former staff members in an chaanbin conducted by the seenet waterget cameti, it thi nazil ki adhyaksh nicksan tha a tape-recording pranali in uske offices and he had recorded many conversations.
Recordings from ye tepon implicated the adhyaksh, revealing he tha attempted to cover up the questionable ( or illegal ) goings-on ki had taken place during his administration, both before and after the break-in.
After a protracted series of bitter court ladaaiyon, the u.S. param adaalat unanimously shasit ki the adhyaksh tha to haath over the tepon to sarkari jaanchakartaaon ; he ultimately complied.
Facing near-certain impeachment in the House of pratinidhi or a damdaar sambhaavna of a conviction in the seenet, nicksan resigned the presidency on agast 9, 1974.
His successor, jerald ghat, tab jari a pardon to him.
Elizabeth Imogene Webber ( formerly lansing or spencer ) is a fictional akshar on the ABC Daytime soap opera General Hospital.
Elizabeth is the granddaughter of Dr. Steve Hardy ( John beradino ), ek of the originating kor varna of the shrenee.
Rebecca Herbst originated the akshar on agast 1, 1997 or rai maharoom the tabhi contract actress to play the role.
Elizabeth is part of two supercouple pairings, bhaagyashaalee spencer or elizabeth webber or jesan Morgan and Elizabeth Webber.
The United States presidency of ronaald reagan, bhi gyaat as the reagan prashasan, thi a republican administration headed by Ronald Reagan from January 20, 1981, to January 20, 1989.
Domestically, the administration favored reducing government programs and introduced the largest across-the-board kar katautee in amareeki history.
The economic policies enacted in 1981, gyaat as `` reaganomics ``, yahood an udhaaharan of supply-side arthshaastra.
Reagan aimed to encourage udhyamita or seemaa the vikaas of soshal bitaa, as khub as the reduction of regulation and inflation.
Economic growth saw a strong recovery in the 1980s, helping reagan to jeet a bhuskhalan re-election.
The national debt increased significantly, however.
Regarding foreign policy, the administration was steadfastly anti-communist, colling the soviet sangh an `` dusht samrajya `` or samaapti 1970s détente.
Reagan accelerated the massive buildup of the sainya prarambh by uske purvavarti, sahit an akraman of haraa, the pehla pramukh videshi action by U.S. troops since the end of the Vietnam War.
The `` Reagan doctrine `` controversially granted sahaayta to ardhsainik shaktiyaan seeking to phekane communist governments, particularly in war-torn Central America and Afghanistan.
Reagan also promoted new technologies such as missile defense pranaaliyon in anukram to confront the soviets or unke allies.
In diplomacy, Reagan forged a strong alliance with UK Prime Minister Margaret thatcher, or he mili saath soviet saamaanya sachiv mikhail gorbachev chaar times, aiming to shrink the superpowers ' nabhikeey arsenals.
Reagan 's presidency has been termed the `` reagan kranti '', or the aayu of reagan in manyata of the rajnatik realignment dono bheetar or pare the u.S. in favor of his brand of conservatism and his faith in free markets.
The Reagan prashasan worked toward the patan of soviet samyavaadee, or it kiya patan bas as he baayein office.
Victory in the Cold War led to a unipolar sansar saath the u.S. as the world 's sole superpower.
While the damaging Iran-Contra affair engulfed several Reagan aides during his second term, Reagan himself left daftar saath a 63 pratishat sweekruti darja, ek of the ucchtar sweekruti darja of don raashtrapatiyon.
After years of unstinting praise from the right, and unrelenting aalochana isse the baayein, itihaaskaar daud henry paata ki by 2009 a sarvasammati tha ubhara among vidwaanon ki reagan revived kosa or turned the swadesh to the sahi by demonstrating a `` pragmatic conservatism '' that promoted ideology within the constraints imposed by the divided political system.
Furthermore, says Henry, the consensus viewpoint agrees that he revived faith in the presidency or amareeki self-confidence, or contributed critically to samaapti the thanda yuddh.
Crude maut rate by desh ( 2006 ).
mrityu rate is a maap of the kramank of mauton ( in saamaanya, or due to a specific cause ) in a population.
Scaled to the aakaar of ki janasankhyikee, prati unit of time.
Mortality rate is typically expressed in ikai of mauton prati 1000 individuals prati saal ; yun, a mrityu rate of 9.5 ( out of 1000 ) in a janasankhyikee of 1,000 would mean 9.5 deaths per year in that entire population, or 0.95 % out of the total.
It is distinct from morbidity rate, which refers to the number of individuals in poor health during a die samay kaal ( the vyapaktaa rate ) or the kramank of newly appearing maamle of the beemaari prati ikai of samay ( incidence rate ).
The term `` mortality `` is also sometimes inappropriately prayukt to refer to the kramank of mauton among a niyat of diagnosed hospital maamle liye a beemaari or chot, balki than liye the saamaanya population of a country or ethnic group.
This disease mortality statistic is more precisely referred to as `` maamla fatality rate `` ( CFR ).
ek distinguishes:
The crude maut rate, the kul kramank of mauton prati year per 1000 people.
the crude maut rate liye the puure sansar is parichay 8.37 prati 1000 prati saal according to the current CIA World Factbook.
The perinatal mrityu rate, the yoga of neonatal mauton or fetal mauton ( stillbirths ) per 1000 births.
The maternal mortality ratio, the kramank of matra mauton prati 100,000 sajiv births in same time period.
The maternal mortality rate, the kramank of matra mauton prati 1,000 mahilaon of reproductive aayu in the janasankhyikee ( generally defined as 15–44 years of age ).
The infant mortality rate, the number of deaths of children kam than 1 saal boodha prati 1000 sajiv births.
The child mortality rate, the number of mauton of children kam than 5 saalo boodha prati 1000 sajiv births.
the standardised mrityu anupaat ( smr ) - is represents a aanshik tulana to the sankhyaayein of mauton ki hota have maharoom apekshit if the janasankhyikee tha maharoom of a maanak composition in terms of age, gender, etc.
The age-specific mrityu rate ( asmr ) - is refers to the kul kramank of mauton prati saal prati 1000 people of a given age ( e.g. age 62 last birthday ).
In regard to the or failure of medical treatment or prakriyaaon, ek hota bhi distinguish:
The early mortality rate, the kul kramank of mauton in the jaldi charan of an jari upachaar, or in the period immediately following an treatment.
The late mortality rate, the kul kramank of mauton in the let charan of an jari upachaar, or a significant length of time after an acute treatment.
Note that the crude maut rate as paribhaashit upar or lagu to a puure janasankhyikee can de a bhraamak impression.
The crude death rate depends on the age ( and ling ) vishisht mrityu daron or the aayu ( or ling ) vitaran of the janasankhyikee.
The number of deaths per 1000 people can be higher for viksit raashtra than in less-developed deshon, despite jivan pratyaasha hone ucchtar in viksit deshon due to standards of health being better.
This happens because developed countries typically have a completely alag janasankhyikee aayu vitaran, saath a much ucchtar proportion of puraani logon, due to dono nimnatar haal janam daron or nimnatar mrityu rates.
A more complete picture of mortality is die by a jivan talika jisase shows the mrityu rate separately for each age.
A life table is jaruri to de a shubh anumaan of life expectancy.
An otoacoustic utsarjan ( oae ) is a dhwani jisase is utpann from within the inner ear.
having maharoom purvanumanit by thomas sunaharaa in 1948, iske astitv thi pehla demonstrated experimentally by daud kemp in 1978 or otoacoustic emissions have since been shown to arise by a number of different cellular mechanisms within the inner ear.
Studies have shown that OAEs disappear after the inner ear has been kshatigrast, so oaes hai praayah prayukt in the prayogshaala or the clinics as a maap of inner ear health.
Broadly speaking, there are two types of otoacoustic emissions : spontaneous otoacoustic emissions ( SOAEs ), which can occur bagaiyr bahya uttejnaaon, or jagaai otoacoustic emissions ( eoaes ), jisase aavashyaktaa an evoking stimulus.
Hurricane thomas thi the unnisvin namit toofaan or barahavin hurricane of the 2010 Atlantic hurricane season.
Tomas developed isse a teevr wave east of the windward Islands on October 29.
Quickly intensifying into a hurricane, it sthanantarit through the windward islands or passed very near Saint Lucia.
After reaching shrenee 2 aukaat on the saffir-simpson scale, thomas jaldi weakened to a teevr storm in the central Caribbean Sea, due to strong wind shear and dry air.
Tomas later regained hurricane aukaat as it reorganized near the Windward passage.
Throughout the hurricane 's path, 71 people are known to have maharoom maare, 14 of jisko yahood in sant Lucia.
maudrik nuksaan throughout the windward islands yahood anumaanit at US $ 588 million, mainly in Saint Lucia.
In the wake of the storm in haiti, baadh intensified an jari haija outbreak indirectly causing more fatalities.
According to a report released in December 2010, 55 logon yahood maare in cuba or hispanola, haalanki the vitaran of ye fatalities are unknown.
Overall kshati isse the toofaan thi at tanik $ 741 lakh.
Victoria Jackson ( born August 2, 1959 ) is an amareeki hasya, abhinetri, satirist, singer or antarjaal blogar behtareen gyaat as a daal sadsy of the NBC television sketch comedy series Saturday Night Live ( SNL ) from 1986 to 1992.
wo rai praapt dhyaan as a gayan aalochak of adhyaksh baraak Obama, and is an active participant in the Tea Party movement.
Postmodern sahitya is sahitya characterized by baari reliance on takneekon jaise fragmentation, virodhabhas, or questionable narrators, or is praayah ( haalanki nahin exclusively ) defined as a style or trend which emerged in the post–World War II era.
postmodern works hai dekhi as a pratikriya viruddh atmagyaan soch or modernist approaches to literature.
Postmodern literature, jaise postmodernism as a puure, tends to resist paribhaasha or vargeekaran as a `` movement ''.
Indeed, the convergence of postmodern literature with various modes of critical theory, particularly reader-response or deconstructionist approaches, or the subversions of the avyakt anubandh between lekhak, text or reader by jisase iske works hai praayah characterised, have led to pre-modern fictions aise as Cervantes ' Don Quixote ( 1605,1615 ) and Laurence Sterne 's eighteenth-century satire Tristram Shandy being retrospectively inducted into the fold.
While there is little consensus on the precise characteristics, scope, and importance of postmodern sahitya, as is praayah the maamla saath kalakaari andolanon, postmodern sahitya is commonly paribhaashit in sambandh to a precursor.
For example, a postmodern literary work tends not to conclude saath the neatly tied-up samaapti as is praayah mila in modernist sahitya, but often parodies it.
Postmodern authors tend to celebrate chance over craft, or further employ metafiction to undermine the lekhak 's praadhikaar.
Another characteristic of postmodern literature is the questioning of distinctions between high and low culture through the upyog of pastiche, the sangyojan of vishay or jati nahin previously deemed anuroop liye literature.
Enigma is an electronic musical project santhaapit in germany by maaikel cretu, daud Fairstein and Frank Peterson in 1990.
The Romanian-born Cretu conceived the Enigma project while working in Germany, but aadhaarit uske recording studio a.r.t. studios in ibiza, spain, isse the jaldi 1990s jabatak may 2009, jahaan he rai ankit sab of paheli 's studio relies to date.
Cretu is both the composer or the nirmaataa of the project.
His purv bivi, pop singer sandra, praayah provided vocals on Enigma tracks.
Jens gad co-arranged or nibhaai guitar on three of the Enigma albums.
Peter cornelius bhi contributed to paheli during the 1990s.
Seven studio albums have been produced antargat the naam of the project.
Scooby-Doo is an American animated cartoon franchise, comprising several animated television shrenee utpaadit isse 1969 to the present day.
The original series, scooby-doo, jahaan hai tum !
, was created for hanna-barbera productions by lekhak jo maaniky or ken spirs in 1969.
This Saturday morning cartoon series featured four teenagers— Fred Jones, daphne blake, velma dinkley, or norville `` shaggy '' rogers — or unke talking bhura great den shwaan namit scooby-doo, who solve mysteries involving supposedly supernatural creatures through a series of antics and missteps.
Following the success of the asli shrenee, hanna-barbera or iske successor warner bros. anemation have utpaadit numerous follow-up or spin-off anemated shrenee or anek sambandhit works, sahit television specials and telefilms, a line of direct-to-video films, and two Warner Bros. –produced theatrical feature films.
Some versions of Scooby-Doo feature different variations on the show 's supernatural theme, and include characters such as Scooby 's cousin scooby-dum or bhattije scrappy-doo in jod to or bajaay of kuch of the asli varna.
Scooby-Doo was originally broadcast on CBS from 1969 to 1976, jab it sthanantarit to ABC.
ABC aired the show until canceling it in 1986, or prastut a spin-off featuring the varna as children, a pup namit scooby-doo, isse 1988 until 1991.
Two new Scooby-Doo shrenee, kayaa 's nai, scooby-doo ?
and Shaggy and Scooby-Doo Get a a Clue ! ] ], aired as bhaag of bachche wb on the wb sanjaal or iske successor, the cw sanjaal, from 2002 until 2008.
The most recent scooby-doo shrenee, scooby-doo !
rahasy incorporated, aired on cartoon sanjaal from 2010 to 2013.
Repeats of the various Scooby-Doo series are broadcast frequently on Cartoon Network and boomerang in the sanyukt rajya or anya deshon.
Call of Duty is a first-person or third-person shooter computer/ video game franchise.
the shrenee began on the pc, or baad vistaarit to consoles and handhelds.
Several spin-off khel have bhi maharoom released.
The earlier games in the series are set primarily in World War II, this includes : Call of Duty, Call of Duty 2, or kol of duty 3.
Beginning saath aadhunik warfare, jisase is niyat in aadhunik times, the series has shifted focus away from World War II.
Call of Duty 4 : aadhunik warfare ( released navambar 2007 ) thi followed by kol of duty : sansar at yuddh or Call of Duty : Modern Warfare 2.
Black Ops ( released November 2010 ) takes place in the thanda yuddh, jabaki aadhunik warfare 3 ( released navambar 2011 ) takes place in the near-future setting.
Black Ops 2 ( released navambar 13, 2012 ) takes place in the year 2025.
The Call of Duty games are prakashit or swaamitv by activijan saath aspyr media prakaashan it for Apple OS X.
jabaki the studio anant ward primarily still develops unhen, treyarch has also developed several of the titles with the release of the studios ' games interlaced with each other.
Some games have been viksit by dhoosar padaarth interactive, chingaari aseemit, vismit entertainment, n-space, vidroh developments, ideaworks Game Studio, Sledgehammer Games and nStigate Games.
The games use a variety of engines, sahit the id takanic 3, the treyarch ngl, or the iw 5.0.
Other products in the franchise include a line of action figures designed by Plan-B Toys, a card khel nirmit by apper deck, or a comic kitaab mini-series prakashit by wildstorm.
As of November 11, 2011, the kol of duty shrenee have bechi over 100 million copies.
as of kooch 31, 2012 vahin hai 40 lakh masik kriyasheel khilaadi aarpaar sab of the Call of Duty titles, with 10 million Call of Duty : Elite users and 2 million paying annual members.
Over 1.6 billion hours of online gameplay have maharoom logged aadhunik warfare 3 chunki its 2011 release.
The estate tax in the United States is a tax imposed on the transfer of the `` taxable estate `` of a deceased person, whether such property is transferred via a hoga, according to the rajya kanoon of intestacy or varanaa bana as an ghatana of the maut of the maalik, aise as a transafar of property isse an intestate estate or trust, or the payment of certain life insurance benefits or financial account sums to beneficiaries.
The estate kar is ek bhaag of the ekikrut tohfa or estate kar pranali in the United States.
The anya bhaag of the pranali, the tohfa kar, imposes a kar on hastantaran of property dauraan a vyakti 's jivan ; the gift tax prevents avoidance of the estate tax should a person want to give away his/her estate.
In jod to the sangheey sarkari, anek rajya bhi thopane an estate kar, with the state version called either an estate tax or an inheritance tax.
pratidwandviyon of the estate kar kol it the `` death tax ''.
If an asset is baayein to a jeevanasathi or a federally pahachaanaa daan, the kar usually does not apply.
In addition, up to $ 5,250,000 can be die by an vyaktigat, pehle and/or upon unke maut, without incurring federal gift or estate taxes.
Gavin McGregor Rossdale ( born 30 aktubar 1967 ) is an angrezi karta or sangeetkaar, gyaat as the sise singer or lay guitarist of the rock band Bush.
Following Bush 's separation in 2002, which lasted liye aath saalo, he thi the sise singer or guitarist liye Institute, and later began a solo career.
When performing solo, Gavin plays geeton isse uske extensive musical libraries.
Rossdale rai maharoom kramit in the sheersh 100 baari metal vocalists by Hit Parader ( # 75 ).
Raffaello Sanzio da Urbino ( April 6 or March 28, 1483 – April 6, 1520 ), behatar gyaat bas as rafel, thi an italvi chitrakaar or vaastu of the High Renaissance.
His work is admired for its clarity of form and ease of sangyojan or liye iske vizual uplabdhi of the neoplatonic adarsh of insaan grandeur.
Together with Michelangelo and Leonardo da vinci, he form the paramparaagat trinity of great masters of ki kaal.
Raphael was enormously utpaadak, kaaryshil an unusually vishaal kaaryshaala, or despite his death at 37, a large body of his work remains.
Many of his works are found in the Vatican Palace, jahaan the frescoed rafel kaksh yahood the central, or the largest, kaary of uske kariyar.
The best known work is the skool of athens in the vatican Stanza della Segnatura.
After his early years in Rome much of his work was self-designed, lakin liye the sabase bhaag chalaaya by the kaaryshaala isse uske drawings, with considerable loss of quality.
He was extremely influential in uske aaajeevan, haalanki baahar rome uske kaary thi zyaadaatar gyaat from his collaborative printmaking.
After his death, the influence of uske great pratidwandvi michelangelo thi adhik faili jabatak the 18th or 19th sadiyaan, jab rafel 's adhik serene and harmonious qualities were again regarded as the highest models.
His career falls naturally into teen phases or teen sheliyaan, pehla varnit by giorgio vasari : uske jaldi saalo in umbria, tab a kaal of parichay chaar saalo ( isse 1504–1508 ) absorbing the kalakaari paramparaon of florence, followed by uske pichhlaa hectic and triumphant twelve years in Rome, working for two Popes and their close associates.
Julia Fiona Roberts ( born aktubar 28, 1967 ) is an American actress.
She became a hollywood star baad headlining the romantic kamedi pretty stri ( 1990 ), which grossed $ 464 million worldwide.
After receiving Golden Globe Awards and Academy Award nominations liye steel magnolias ( 1989 ) or pretty stri, wo jiti the academy puraskaar liye behtareen abhinetri liye uske pradarshan in Erin Brockovich ( 2000 ).
Her films The Pelican Brief ( 1993 ), My Best Friend 's Wedding ( 1997 ), Mystic Pizza ( 1988 ), Notting Hill ( 1999 ), Runaway Bride ( 1999 ), Ocean 's Eleven ( 2001 ), Ocean 's Twelve ( 2004 ), Charlie Wilson 's yuddh ( 2007 ), velentine 's din ( 2010 ), kha duwa prem ( 2010 ), or darpan darpan ( 2012 ) have collectively brought baksaa daftar raseeden of over $ 2.6 arab, bananaa her one of the most successful actresses in terms of box office receipts.
Roberts had become one of the highest-paid abhinetriyon in the sansar, topping the hollywood patrakaron salanaa `` shakti suchi '' of top-earning female stars from 2005 to 2006.
Her fee for 1990 's pretty stri thi $ 300,000 ; in 2003, wo thi sashulk an unprecedented $ 25 lakh for her role in Mona Lisa Smile ( 2003 ).
As of 2010, roberts 's jaal laayak thi anumaanit to be $ 140 million.
Roberts has been named one of People patrika 's `` 50 sabase khubasurat logon in the sansar '' gyaarah times, tied saath hel Berry.
In 2011, she thi namit ek of the `` 100 hottest mahilaon of All-Time '' by Men 's Health.
In 2001, mahilaon ghar jarnal kramit uske as the 11th sabase shaktishaalee woman in the United States.
Mark Elliot Zuckerberg ( born may 14, 1984 ) is an amareeki computer programmer or Internet entrepreneur.
He is behtareen gyaat as ek of paanch co-founders of the soshal netwarking website Facebook.
As of April 2013, Zuckerberg is the adhyaksh or mukhya karypalika of fasebuk, Inc. and in 2013 his personal wealth was estimated to be US $ 13.3 billion.
Together with his college roommates or fellow harvard vishvavidhyalayon vidhyaarthee aduardo saverin, andrew mccollum, dustin moskovitz or kris hughes, zuckerberg shubharambh fasebuk from Harvard 's dormitory rooms.
The group tab introduced fasebuk onto anya campuses deshbhar or sthanantarit to paalo alto, california, sanyukt States ( U.S. ) shortly afterwards.
In 2007, at the age of twenty-three years, Zuckerberg became a billionaire as a result of fasebuk or the kramank of fasebuk upayokta vishwavyaapee pahunche a kul of ek arab in 2012.
Zuckerberg was involved in vibhinn vidhik vivaadon ki yahood initiated by anya in the samooh, jo claimed a share of the company based upon their involvement during the development phase of Facebook.
Since 2010, zuckerberg rai maharoom namit among the 100 wealthiest or sabase influential people in the world by Time magazine as a part of its Person of the Year accolade.
Zuckerberg was played by karta jesi eisenberg in the 2010 hollywood filmi the soshal Network in which the rise of Facebook is portrayed.
The Mayflower was the jalayaan ki in 1620 transported 102 angrezi tirthayatriyon, sahit a kor group of Separatists, to New England.
Their story is one of travail or astitv in a harsh nai sansar environment.
framedthe
Committee of Ways and Means is the mukhya kar -writing cameti of the sanyukt rajya house of pratinidhi.
Members of the Ways and Means Committee are not allowed to serve on any other house samitiyon jabatak ve lagu liye a waiver isse unke party 's congressional leadership.
The Committee has jurisdiction over all taxation, tariffs or anya revenue-raising upayon, as khub as a kramank of other programs including:
Social suraksha
berogari laabh
medicare
pravartan of child support laws
Temporary Assistance for mohataaj pariwaron, a sangheey welfare program
foster parvaah or apnaanaa programs
The U.S. Constitution requires ki sab bills regarding karadhaan jarur originate in the house of pratinidhi.
Since House procedure is that all bills regarding taxation jarur go through is cameti, the cameti is bahut influential, as is iske seenet bantwaaraa, the u.S. Senate Committee on Finance.
The Ways and Means Committee in the 111th Congress was chaired by charlie rangel, jo tha liya a chhod of anupasthiti as adhyaksh jabatak house aachaar ulalanghanon yahood resolved.
However, his leave of anupasthiti as adhyaksh thi shasit to be a istipha.
Pete Stark resigned as acting chairman, so sander levin yojit ki sthiti jabatak the prarambh of the 112th congress.
Dave shivi became the cameti kursi liye the 112th congress, baad the republicans jiti control of the House in the 2010 election.
The blue whale ( balaenoptera musculus ) is a samudri standhari belonging to the suborder of baleen whales ( called Mysticeti ).
At in lambaai or or adhik in vazan, it is the largest known animal to have ever existed.
Long and slender, the blue whale 's deh can be vibhinn shades of bluish-grey dorsally or somewhat halkaa underneath.
There are at least three distinct subspecies : B. m. musculus of the North Atlantic and North Pacific, B. m. intermedia of the dakshini samandar or B. m. brevicauda ( bhi gyaat as the saano blue whale ) mila in the Indian Ocean and South Pacific Ocean.
B. m. indica, mila in the bhartiya samandar, may be another subspecies.
As saath anya baleen whales, iske diet consists almost exclusively of small crustaceans known as krill.
Blue whales were abundant in nearly sab the mahaasaagar on dharti jabatak the shuruuaat of the twentieth century.
For over a century, they were hunted lagbhag to extinction by whalers jabatak surakshit by the antarrashtriya jatiyaan in 1966.
A 2002 report estimated there were 5,000 to 12,000 blue whales vishwavyaapee, stith in at tanik paanch samooh.
adhik haal shodh into the saano subspecies suggests is may be an underestimate.
Before whaling, the largest janasankhyikee thi in the antarctic, kramakan lagbhag 239,000 ( range 202,000 to 311,000 ).
There remain only much smaller ( around 2,000 ) ekaagratha in prayek of the purvi uttar prashanth, antarctic, or bhartiya samandar groups.
vahin hai do adhik samooh in the uttar atlantic, and at least two in the Southern Hemisphere.
The globe artichoke ( Cynara cardunculus var. scolymus ) is a kismein of a prajati of thistle cultivated as a food.
The edible matter is kaliyon ki rup bheetar the pushp heads pehle the flowers come into bloom.
the kaliyon go dur or badalen to a coarse, mushkil edible form when the flower blooms.
The uncultivated or junglee kismein of the species is called a cardoon.
It is a perennial sanyantr deshi to the Mediterranean region.
The United States one hundred-dollar bill ( $ 100 ) is a denomination of sanyukt rajya karency.
U.S. statesman, inventor, and diplomat benjamin franklin is philhal pradarshit on the obverse of the bill.
On the reverse of the banknote is an chitra of Independence Hall.
The $ 100 bill is the largest denomination that has been printed chunki july 13, 1969, jab the denominations of $ 500, $ 1,000, $ 5,000, or $ 10,000 yahood ritred.
The Bureau of Engraving and Printing says the ausat jivan of a $ 100 vidheyak in parisancharan is 90 maheene ( 7.5 saalo ) pehle it is replaced due to wear and tear.
The bills hai bhi commonly referred to as `` benjamins '', in sandarbh to the upyog of benjamin franklin 's portrait on the denomination, or `` C-Notes '', based on the Roman numeral for 100.
the vidheyak is ek of do denominations mudrit aaj ki karata nahin visheshta a adhyaksh of the sanyukt States ; the other is the $ 10 bill, featuring Alexander Hamilton.
The time on the clock of Independence Hall on the reverse, according to the u.S. beuro of nakkashi or mudran, shows lagbhag 4:10.
One hundred hundred-dollar bills hai vitarit by sangheey arakshit bainko in mustard-colored straps ( $ 10,000 ).
The Series 2009 $ 100 bill redesign was unveiled on April 21, 2010, and was to be issued to the public on February 11, 2011, lakin utpaadan thi shut bas in disambar 2010 kuki as anek as 30 % yahood anupayogi due to a nirmaan flaw.
A vertical krij in the paper reveals a rikt spes on the vidheyak when pulled out.
In their replacement, and continuing the unchi maang of is denomination, the shrenee 2006a thi shubharambh retaining the previous design ( 1996-generation ).
On april 24, 2013, the sangheey arakshit ghoshit the nai $ 100 vidheyak would enter circulation on October 8, 2013.
king daud in robes of a bizantin emperor.
Miniature isse the paris psalter.
David ( ; iesao 259-3 dawid ; ' ; damdaar 's : daveed ) according to the yahudee bible, thi the duusari king of the sanyukt kingdom of israel, or according to the New Testament Gospels of Matthew and Luke, an ancestor of Jesus.
His life is conventionally dinaak to c. 1040–970 bce, uske shasankaal over yahuda c. 1010–1002 bce, or his reign over the United Kingdom of Israel c. 1002–970 BCE.
The Books of Samuel, 1 Kings, and 1 Chronicles are the only sources of information on David, although the Tel Dan stele ( dated c. 850–835 BCE ) contains the phrase ( bytdwd ), read as `` House of David '', which most vidwaanon lo as pushti of the astitv in the mid-9th sadi bce of a judean royal rajvansh pukaara the house of David.
He is depicted as a righteous king, haalanki nahin bagaiyr trutiyaan, as khub as an acclaimed yoddha, sangeetkaar, or kavi, traditionally credited for composing many of the psalms contained in the Book of Psalms.
David is central to yahudee, isai, or islamic doctrine and culture.
biblical parampara maintains ki a sidhaa vanshaj of David will be the Messiah.
In Islam he is mana to be a nabi or the king of a nation.
Kathmandu ( ; ) is the puunji or largest shahari agglomerate of Nepal.
The agglomerate consists of kathmandu mahanagar nagar at iske kor, or iske sistar shaharon Patan, Kirtipur, Thimi, and Bhaktapur.
It also includes the recently pahachaanaa shahari kshetron of shankhapur, karyabinayak, or champapur.
Banepa, dhulikhel, or panauti hai upgrah shahari kshetron of kathmandu located just outside the Kathmandu valley.
Kathmandu is also known informally as `` ktm '' or the `` tri-city ''.
According to a census conducted in 2011, Kathmandu metropolis alone has 975,453 inhabitants ; and the agglomerate rai a janasankhyikee of adhik than 2.5 lakh nivaasiyon.
The metropolitan nagar kshetrafal is or rai a janasankhyikee ghanatv of 19,250 per km2.
The city stands at an unnayan of lagbhag in the bowl-shaped kathmandu Valley of central Nepal.
It is surrounded by four pramukh kyu : shivapuri, phulchoki, nagarjun, and Chandragiri.
Kathmandu Valley is part of three jile ( kathmandu, lalitpur, or bhaktpur ), rai the ucchtam janasankhyikee ghanatv in the country, and is home to about a twelfth of Nepal 's population.
dauraan rana or shah eras, the naam `` nepal '' referred tabhi to the kathmandu ghati ; it thi kayaa people who lived outside the valley called it.
During this kaal, angrejon itihaaskaaron pukaara the ghati itself `` Nepal Proper ''.
Today, Kathmandu is nahin tabhi the puunji of the sangheey loktantric ganatantr of nepal, lakin bhi the mukhyalay of the Central Development Region of Nepal.
The Central Region comprises three zones : bagmati, narayani, or janakapur.
Kathmandu is stith in the Bagmati Zone.
kathmandu is the getwe to paryaton in Nepal.
It is bhi the tantrika bich of the desh 's economy.
It has the most advanced infrastructure of koi shahari kshetrafal in nepal, or iske arthvyavastha is kendrit on tourism, which accounted for 3.8 % of Nepal 's GDP in 1995–96.
( Tourism in Kathmandu asweekrut thereafter dauraan a kaal of rajnatik ashaanti, lakin chunki tab rai improved. )
The city has a rich itihaas, spanning nearly 2000 saalo, as inferred isse inscriptions mila in the valley.
Religious and saanskrithik festivities rup a pramukh bhaag of the jeevandaan of people residing in Kathmandu.
Most of Kathmandu 's logon follow hindutv or anek anya follow buddhism.
There are people of other religious beliefs as khub, giving kathmandu a cosmopolitan samskruti.
Nepali is the most commonly bolaa bhashaa in the nagar.
Nepal Bhasa is the swadeshi bhashaa bolaa by the Newar people.
Hindi is widely understood and angrezi is samajha by kathmandu 's shikshit nivaasiyon.
The city 's sakshartaa rate is 98 %.
Kathmandu 's sister cities ( Lalitpur Patan ) and Bhaktapur are abhinn to kathmandu 's saanskrithik viraasat, paryaton udyog, or arthvyavastha ; isliye unesco 's sansar viraasat sait suchiyaan sab teen shaharon ' smarak or aakarshan saath antargat one heading, `` Kathmandu Valley- UNESCO World Heritage Site ``.
Field hockey, usually referred to simply as hockey, is a team sport of the hockey family jisase is nibhaai between do tiimon of gyaarah khilaadi saath hockey sticks or a mushkil, thos plastic ball.
At the turn of the 21st century, the game is played globally, with particular popularity throughout europea, asia, mahasagariya, or dakshin america – in jod to hone the neshnal khel of pakistani or India.
The term `` field hockey '' is used primarily in Canada, the United States, or anya regions of the sansar jahaan the khel of barf hockey is adhik lokapriy.
During play, goal keepers are the tabhi khilaadi jo hai anumat to tach the ball saath koi bhaag of unke deh ( saath the excepshan of a khilaadi 's haath mana 'part of the stick ' ), saath is tabhi applying bheetar the shooting vrutt ( bhi gyaat as the d, or shooting arc, or just the circle ), while field players play the ball with the flat side of their stick.
the toli ki score the sabase lakshya by the end of the match wins.
If the score is tied at the end of the game, either a draw is ghoshit or the khel goes into atirikt samay and/or a dand golibari, depending on the pratiyogita 's format.
The governing body of hockey is the antarrashtriya hockey sangh ( fih ), saath main or mahilaon hone represented internationally in pratiyogitaaon sahit the olympic khel, rashtramandal khel, hockey sansar cap, champions trophy and Junior Hockey World Cup, with many countries running extensive junior, senior, and masters ' club competitions.
The FIH is also responsible for organising the hockey niyam falak or vikasshil the niyam for the sport.
A popular variant of field hockey is indoor hockey, which differs in a kramank of respects jabaki moort the praathmik siddhanth of hockey.
Indoor hockey is a 6-a-side roopaantar, saath a field jisase is reduced to approximately 40m × 20m.
With many of the rules remaining the vahi, sahit rukaawat or feet, vahin hai anek kunjee visangatiyaan - khilaadi may nahin uthaayen the ball jabatak shooting on lakshya, khilaadi may nahin hit the ball ( instead utilising pushes to transfer the ball ), and the sidelines are replaced with solid barriers which the ball will rebound off.
Ethan `` Cane '' ashby ( né atkinsons ) is a fictional akshar isse the amareeki sibies sabun opera The Young and the Restless.
He is portrayed by Australian actor Daniel Goddard, who originally auditioned liye bread snidar on as the sansar turns lakin thi anushansit liye a bhoomika on the yang and the Restless instead.
the bhoomika thi to be portrayed as an amareeki, lakin godard 's australian descent influenced the character 's background.
Former head writer Lynn Marie Latham introduced him during the apisod airing on janvari 12, 2007 as an australian bartender in dhundhen of uske parivaar, a debyue ki praapt a mishrit response.
Latham created Cane as the son of Phillip Chancellor II ( Donnelly Rhodes ) and Jill Foster Abbott ( Jess Walton ) but the character 's prishthbhumi thi rewritten by mariya arina ghanti in 2009, reestablishing use as the bete of colin or genevieve atkinsons ( tristan rogers or Genie Francis ).
Though characterized as `` rahasyamay '', cane is `` vafaadaar or samarpit '', while Goddard described the character as a `` typical Australian, working-class kind of guy ''.
He was the pehla sadsy of the atkinsons parivaar to appear on the series, followed by his parents and identical twin brother.
Soon after his debut, he became a agrani akshar, a nirnay praised by darshak or critics.
The character has been involved with ember moore ( adrienne frantz ), chlo mishael ( elizabeth hendrickson ) or sabase notably lily sardiyon ( christel Khalil ), a romance that garnered significant fan attention.
In 2009, cane or lily yahood shaadishuda ; vaishvik bc hota baad kol lily the love of Cane 's life.
The pair tha do children, charlie or mattie ashby.
In 2011, the actor thi fired, or cane thi shot to maut onscreen.
However, Goddard was rehired soon baad darshak campaigned liye uske vaapasi, revealing ki cane 's ekasmaan twin brother was in fact the man who died.
This qurbaan uske vivaah to lily, lakin the yugal yahood remarried on Valentine 's Day in 2012.
Goddard has been widely acclaimed liye uske portrayal ; canyon news kaha ki he portrays the akshar honestly, or is `` sadaa dependable, on fire and exciting ''.
John Christopher `` Johnny '' Depp II ( born June 9, 1963 ) is an amareeki karta, filmi nirmaataa, or sangeetkaar.
He has won the Golden globe puraskaar or screen abhinaytaon gild puraskaar for Best Actor.
Depp rose to prominence on the 1980s television shrenee 21 jamp gali, banane a teen idol.
Dissatisfied with that status, Depp turned to film for more challenging roles ; he played the title character of the acclaimed Edward Scissorhands ( 1990 ) and later found box office kamyaabi in films aise as sleepy khokhla ( 1999 ), charlie or the chocolate factory ( 2005 ), elis in vanderland ( 2010 ), rango ( 2011 ) or the pirates of the caribbean filmi shrenee ( 2003–present ).
He has collaborated with nideshak or dost tim bartan in aath films ; the sabase haal hone Dark Shadows ( 2012 ).
Depp has gained acclaim for his portrayals of such people as Ed Wood in Ed Wood, Joseph D. Pistone in donnie brasco, shikari S. thompsan in bhay or loathing in las vegas, george jang in uda, or the bainko daaku jon dillinger in maaikel Mann 's Public Enemies.
Films featuring Depp have grossed over $ 3.1 arab at the sanyukt rajya baksaa daftar or over $ 7.6 arab worldwide.
He has been nominated for top awards many times, winning the Best Actor Awards from the Golden –_motion_picture_musical_or_comedy globs –_motion_picture_musical_or_comedy liye swini tod : the rakshas nai of bede gali or isse the screen abhinaytaon gild liye pirates of the caribbean : the Curse of the Black Pearl.
He also has garnered a sex symbol status in American cinema, being twice namit as the `` sexiest man jinda `` by logon patrika in 2003 or 2009.
He has been listed in the 2012 Guinness kitaab of sansar record as the ucchtam sashulk karta, with $ 75 million.
The World Wide Web ( abbreviated as www or w3, commonly gyaat as the web ), is a pranali of interlinked hypertext documents accessed via the Internet.
With a web browser, one can view web pages ki may contain text, bimb, video, or anya multimedia, or navigate between them via hyperlinks.
Using concepts from his earlier hypertext systems like ENQUIRE, British engineer, computer scientist and at that time employee of the cern, sar tim berners-lee, abhi nideshak of the sansar chaudee web consortium ( w3c ), likhaa a prastaav in kooch 1989 liye kayaa hota eventually become the World Wide Web.
At CERN, a European research organisation near Geneva straddling the border between France and Switzerland, berners-lee or belgian computer vaigyanik robert cailliau prastaavit in 1990 to upyog hypertext `` to kadi or abhigam soochna of vibhinn kinds as a web of node in jisase the upayokta can browz at hoga '', or ve saream introduced the project in disambar of the vahi year.
Mark Travis John Sanchez ( born navambar 11, 1986 ) is an amareeki footbaal quarterbaque liye the nai york jets of the neshnal footbaal lig ( NFL ).
He was drafted in the pehla golakaar of the 2009 enegel draft as the paanchvaan overall chayan by the Jets and the second quarterback taken overall.
He nibhaai college footbaal at the vishvavidhyalayon of dakshini California ( USC ).
Sanchez grew up in a well-disciplined or athlettic parivaar.
In the eighth grad, he began to khel footbaal or sikh the intricacies of the quarterbaque sthiti, training with his father, Nick.
A well-regarded prospect, sanches vachanabaddh to dakshini california following uske kaamyaab high school career in which he led his team to a championship title during his final season.
At USC, Sanchez was relegated as the backup quarterback during his first teen saalo haalanki he rose to prominence due to uske bread dikhaave on the field in 2007 due to injuries suffered by starting quarterback John David Booty.
sanches bhi became lokapriy bheetar the jatiyaan due to his Mexican-American heritage.
Named the starter in 2008, Sanchez led USC to a 12–1 record and won the rose katori viruddh penn rajya liye jisase sanches thi awarded the sabase moolyawaan khilaadi puraskaar liye uske pradarshan on offense.
Although many considered him too anubhavheen, sanches ghoshit uske iraade to daalen the 2009 NFL Draft.
He was selected by the Jets after they traded up saath the cleveland bhura, or thi namit the starting quarterbaque prior to the prarambh of the season.
Despite a subpar performance, Sanchez led the jets to the afc championships khel, a khone praytn to the indianapolis coltas, banane the fourth rookie quarterback in NFL history to win his first playoff game and the second to win two playoff games.
In his second season, Sanchez continued to develop and led the Jets to the playoffs or the toli 's duusari lagaataar afc championships khel jahaan ve narrowly khoyaa to the pittsburg Steelers, 24–19.
With the win over the New England Patriots the week prior, sanches tied chaar anya quarterbacks liye the duusari sabase post-season sadak victories by a quarterback in NFL history.
In leading the Jets to two consecutive conference championships, Sanchez joined quarterback Ben roethlisberger as the tabhi do quarterbacks in enegel itihaas to pahunchein the sammelan championships in unke pehla do sizan in the league.
The aglaa do sizan hota be a slop liye dono the toli or Sanchez as they failed to reach the playoffs.
Fans or media aalochakon pukaara liye a struggling Sanchez to be benched.
He aakhirkaar thi replaced towards the samaapt of the 2012 season with Greg McElroy.
Paul every ( april 2, 1934december 10, 2000 ) thi an amareeki police reporter, behtareen gyaat liye uske kahaniyaan on the infamous serial kaatil known as the Zodiac, and later for his work on the Patricia Hearst kidnapping.
A small submersible AC sump pump saath a garden nalee conector
A sump pump is a pump used to remove water ki rai sanchit in a jal collecting sump jalashay, commonly mila in the tahkhaane of homes.
the jal may daalen via the gheraa naalon of a tahkhaane waterproofing pranali, funneling into the basin or because of rain or natural ground water, if the basement is below the water table level.
Sump panpon hai prayukt jahaan tahkhaane baadh happens regularly or to upaay dampness jahaan the water table is above the foundation of a home.
Sump pumps send water away from a house to any place where it is no longer samasyapurna, aise as a nagarpalika toofaan naalee or a shushk khub.
Pumps may nirvahan to the sanitary siver in puraani sansthapana.
ekbar mana sweekaarya, is abhyaas may abhi violate the plumbing code or nagarpalika bylaws, kuki it can overwhelm the municipal sewage treatment system.
Municipalities urge homeowners to disconnect or reroute sump pump nirvahan away from sanitary sewers.
Fines may be imposed liye noncompliance.
Many homeowners have inherited unke sump pump configurations or do nahin ehsaas that the pump discharges to the sewer.
If the discharge is fed to a laundry doobana in the tahkhaane, it 's sambhavit going to the sewer.
Usually hardwired into a home 's electrical pranali, sump panpon may have a bydaree byaap.
The home 's pressurized water supply powers some pumps, eliminating the need liye vidyut at the vyay of using potable jal, potentially bananaa unhen adhik mahangi to operate than electrical pumps and creating an additional water disposal problem.
Since a sump jalashay may atipravaah if nahin constantly uttejit, a byaap pranali is mahatvapurn liye maamle jab the pramukh shakti is out for prolonged periods of time, as during a severe storm.
There are generally do prakaar of sump panpon — pedestal and submersible.
The pedestal pump 's motor is mounted above the sump, jahaan it is adhik easily sarvice, lakin is bhi more conspicuous.
The pump impeller is chalit by a long, lambavat ekstansion shaft or the impeller is in a scrol housing in the base of the pump.
The submersible pump is entirely arohit andar the sump, or is visheshkar sealed to prevent vidyut short circuits.
Sump pump systems are also utilized in audyogic or vanijyik anuprayog to control jal talika -sunanased samasyaayein in sataha mrudaa.
An artesian aquifer or aavadhik unchi jal talika halaat can kaaran the maidan to become unstable due to water saturation.
as long as the pump krityon, the sataha mrudaa will remain stable.
ye sumps hai typically ten feet in gaharaai or adhik ; lined saath corrugated metal pipe ki contains perforations or drain holes throughout.
ve may shaamil electronic control pranaaliyon saath vizual or audible sachetak or hai praayah covered to prevent debris and animals from falling in.
Bleeding Kansas, Bloody Kansas or the kinaaraa yuddh, thi a shrenee of hinsak rajnatik confrontations involving anti-slavery free-staters or pro-slavery `` kinaaraa ruffian `` tatv, ki took place in the Kansas Territory and the neighboring towns of Missouri between 1854 and 1861.
At the heart of the conflict was the question of whether kansas hota daalen the sangh as a free state or slave state.
As such, Bleeding Kansas was a proxy war between Northerners and southerners over the samasya of gulaami in the sanyukt rajya.
The term `` Bleeding Kansas '' was coined by horess greeley of the nai york tribune ; the kaarykram it encompasses directly presaged the American Civil War.
congress tha long struggled to santulan the ruchi of pro-slavery shaktiyaan or anti-slavery forces.
The events later known as bleeding kansas yahood niyat into gati by the kansas–nebraska adhinium of 1854, which nullified the Missouri Compromise and instead implemented the concept of popular sovereignty.
An ostensibly democratic idea, popular sovereignty stated that the inhabitants of each territory or state should decide whether it hota be a free or slave rajya ; however, is resulted in avrajan en masse to kansas by kaaryakartaaon isse dono sides.
At one point, Kansas had two separate governments, prayek saath iske apana samvidhan, haalanki tabhi ek thi federally recognized.
On January 29, 1861, kansas thi admitted to the sangh as a free rajya, kam than teen maheene before the Battle of Fort Sumter which began the Civil War.
Benzene is an organic rasinic yogic saath the aanvik sutara c6 h|hydrogen|h6.
Its molecule is composed of 6 carbon anu joined in a ring, saath 1 hydrogen anu sanlagn to prayek carbon atom.
kuki iske anuon contain tabhi carbon or hydrogen anu, benzene is classed as a hydrocarbon.
Benzene is a natural constituent of crude aayal, or is ek of the sabase basic petrochemicals.
Benzene is an aromatic hydrocarbon and the duusari [ n ] - annulene ( [ 6 ] -annulene ), a chakree hydrocarbon saath a nirantar pi bond.
It is sometimes abbreviated ph –h. benzene is a colorless or atyadhik jvalansheel liquid with a sweet smell.
It is mukhyatah prayukt as a precursor to baari rasayan, aise as ethylbenzene or cumene, which are produced on a billion kilogram scale.
Because it has a high octane kramank, it is an mahatvapurn ghatak of gasoline, composing a few percent of its mass.
Most non-industrial anuprayog have maharoom simit by benzene 's carcinogenicity.
Giovanni Virginio scaparelli ( ; 14 kooch 1835 – 4 july 1910 ) thi an italvi astronomer or vigyaan itihaaskaar.
Wii homebrew refers to the reuse of nintendo 's ve khel consol to run software that has not been authorized by Nintendo.
It achieves this by defeating the Wii 's nakal suraksha or code hastakshar upayon.
In more general terms, Wii Homebrew refers to the use of the ve 's hardware, accessories or tantra liye uddeshy baahar those intended by the manufacturer.
Original efforts focused on using the Wii Remote as a pointing device on other oparating pranaaliyon, or kaaryshil web-based khel in the built-in web broujar.
Subsequent developments in games exploits, aise as the `` godhuli hack ``, `` bannerbomb '' or iske baad avatar `` letterbomb '', `` tod steke '', `` indiana Pwns '', `` Yu-Gi-OWNED '', `` bathaxx '', and `` Return of the Jodi '', made installing the `` Homebrew Channel `` possible.
hadlee ( sahi ) discussing the 2006 israel-lebanon crisis with Bush and Rice.
stephen jon hadlee ( born farvari 13, 1947 ) thi the 21st u.S. sahaayak to the adhyaksh liye National Security Affairs ( commonly referred as National Security Advisor ), serving under President George W. Bush.
Take identical growing paudhe or de urvarak to half of them.
If there are differences between the fertilized sanyantr samooh or the unfertilized `` control '' samooh, ye matbhed may be due to the urvarak.
A scientific control is an experiment or observation designed to minimize the prabhaav of parivartaneey anya than the single independent variable.
This increases the reliability of the parinaam, praayah through a tulana between control maap and the other measurements.
Scientific controls are a bhaag of the vaigyanik vidhi.
For example, during drug testing, vaigyanikon hoga koshish to control do samooh to rakhana unhen as ekasmaan as sambhavit, tab allow ek samooh to koshish the drug.
Another example might be testing plant fertilizer by giving it to only half the paudhe in a garden : the paudhe ki praapt no urvarak hai the control samooh, kuki ve sthapit the besaline str of vikaas ki the fertilizer-treated plants will be compared against.
Without a control samooh, the prayog can nahin determine whether the fertilizer-treated paudhe grow adhik than they would have if untreated.
Ideally, all parivartaneey in an prayog hoga be niyantrit ( accounted liye by the control measurements ) and none will be uncontrolled.
In such an experiment, if all the controls work as apekshit, it is sambhavit to conclude ki the prayog is working as intended or ki the parinaam of the prayog are due to the effect of the variable being tested.
That is, vaigyanik niyantran allow an anveshak to mek a arji jaise `` do paristhitiyon were identical until factor X occurred.
Since factor X is the only difference between the do paristhitiyon, the nai nishkarsh thi caused by factor x. ''
< < rasinic tatv data references
John Adams ( October 30, 1735 ( O.S. October 19, 1735 ) – july 4, 1826 ) thi the duusari adhyaksh of the sanyukt rajya ( 1797–1801 ), having pehle parosa as the pehla vaais adhyaksh of the sanyukt rajya.
An American Founding Father, he was a statesman, rajanyik, or a agrani edwocket of amareeki swatantraaa isse Great Britain.
Well shikshit, he thi an atmagyaan rajnatik theorist jo prachaarit republicanism or likhaa prolifically about his often seminal ideas, both in published works and in letters to his wife and key adviser Abigail as well as to other Founding Fathers.
Adams came to prominence in the jaldi charan of the amareeki kranti.
A lawyer and public figure in boston, as a pratinidhi isse masachusets to the mahadwipiya congress, he nibhaai a leading role in persuading Congress to declare independence.
He assisted Thomas Jefferson in drafting the Declaration of swatantraaa in 1776, or thi iske praathmik edwocket in the congress.
baad, as a rajanyik in europea, he helped negotiate the eventual salaam sandhi saath great britain, or thi jimmedaar for obtaining vital governmental loans from Amsterdam bankers.
A political theorist and historian, Adams largely wrote the Massachusetts Constitution in 1780, jisase saath saath uske pehle vichaar on sarkari, bahekaave American political thought.
One of his greatest roles thi as a nyaayadhish of akshar : in 1775, he manonith george washington to be commander-in-chief, or 25 saalo later nominated John Marshall to be Chief Justice of the United States.
Adams ' krantikari shrey secured use do sharten as george washington 's vaais president and his own election in 1796 as the second president.
During his one term, he encountered ferocious hamale by the jeffersonian republicans, as khub as the prabal gut in uske apana federalist party led by his bitter enemy Alexander Hamilton.
Adams signed the vivaadaaspad alian or rajdroh adhiniyamon, or nirmit up the fouj or navy visheshkar in the face of an undeclared naval war ( called the `` Quasi-War `` ) with France, 1798–1800.
The major accomplishment of uske presidency thi uske shantipurna rezolution of the virodh in the phase of hamiltan 's opposition.
In 1800, Adams was defeated for re-election by thomas jeffrasan or ritred to masachusets.
He later resumed uske dosti saath jeffrasan.
He and his wife, Abigail Adams, founded an sampannataa parivaar lakeer of rajaneta, rajanyikon, or itihaaskaaron abhi referred to as the Adams political family.
adams thi the pita of jon quinci Adams, the sixth President of the United States.
His achievements have received greater manyata in aadhunik times, haalanki uske yogadan yahood nahin initially as manaaye as those of other Founders.
Adams was the first U.S. president to reside in the bhawan ki aakhirkaar became known as the White House.
A Watt bhaap ingine.
The steam engine, fuelled primarily by coal, propelled the audyogic kranti in great britain or the world.
The audyogic kranti thi the parivartan to nai nirmaan prakriyaaon ki occurred in the period from about 1760 to some time between 1820 and 1840.
This transition included going from hand production methods to machines, nai rasinic nirmaan or aayran utpaadan prakriyaaon, improved dakshata of jal shakti, the increasing use of steam power and development of machine tools.
The parivartan bhi shaamil the badalen isse lakdi and other bio-fuels to coal.
The Industrial revolution began in britain or bheetar a few dashakon sprad to pashchimi europea or the sanyukt States.
The Industrial Revolution marks a pramukh turning point in itihaas ; lagbhag prayek pahalu of rose jivan thi bahekaave in kuch way.
Most notably, average income or janasankhyikee began to pradarshnee unprecedented sustained growth.
In the shabd of nobel puraskaar vijeta robert E. lucas, jr., `` liye the pehla samay in itihaas, the jeena maanakon of the masses of ordinary logon have begun to undergo sustained growth... Nothing remotely like this economic behavior is mentioned by the classical economists, even as a theoretical possibility. ''
wiliam ghanti scot aayran and Coal, 1855-60
The period of time covered by the audyogic kranti varies saath alag itihaaskaaron.
Eric Hobsbawm held that it 'broke out ' in Britain in the 1780s and was not fully laga jabatak the 1830s or 1840s, jabaki T. S. eshton yojit ki it occurred roughly between 1760 and 1830.
Some 20th-century historians such as John Clapham and Nicholas Crafts have argued ki the prakram of aarthik or soshal badalen took place dhire or the pad kranti is a misnomer.
This is still a vishay of bahes among itihaaskaaron.
GDP per capita was broadly stable before the audyogic kranti or the emergence of the modern capitalist economy.
The Industrial kranti began an era of per-capita aarthik vikaas in poonjivadi economies.
Economic historians are in agreement that the onset of the audyogic kranti is the sabase mahatvapurn event in the itihaas of maanavtaa chunki the domestication of pashu or paudhe.
The First Industrial Revolution evolved into the Second Industrial Revolution in the transition years between 1840 and 1870, when technological and economic progress gained momentum with the increasing adoption of steam-powered naukaaye, jahaajon or rail, the vishaal scale manufacture of yantra tuls or the increasing upyog of bhaap sanchalit factories.
Juliet AnnMarie Huddy ( born September 27, 1969 ), is an amareeki television news reporter, philhal appearing on fox news channel.
This list ranks U.S. cities by jameen kshetrafal ( nahin sahit laashen of water ).
Total areas ( sahit jal ) hai bhi die, lakin note ki, jab kramit by kul kshetrafal, a kramank of tateey shaharon appear disproportionately `` larger ''.
San francisco is an charam udhaaharan ; jal makes up nearly 80 % of iske kul kshetrafal of 232 vargakar miles ( 601 km2 ).
Note also that in anek maamle a nagar may be geographically vishaal primarily kuki iske nagarpalika sarkari has merged with the government of the surrounding county.
In some cases the county no longer exists, jabaki in anya the vyavastha rai formed a sanchit city–county ( or city- baro in alaska, or city- parish in Louisiana ).
These are shown in bold in the suchi neeche ( lakin nahin sab udhaaharan may be indicated ).
** These are swatantra shaharon, arth ve hai nahin a bhaag of any county.
The large aant ( or bowel, colon ) is the pichhlaa bhaag of the digestive system in vertebrate animals.
iske falan is to avashoshit jal isse the baaki indigestible food matter, and then to pass useless waste material from the body.
This article is primarily parichay the insaan aant, haalanki the soochna parichay iske processes are directly applicable to most mammals.
The large intestine consists of the cecum, malashay or guda canal.
It starts in the sahi iliac pradesh of the pelvis, bas at or neeche the sahi qamar, jahaan it is joined to the neeche samaapt of the small intestine.
isse yahan it continues up the udar, tab aarpaar the chaudai of the abdominal guha, and then it turns down, continuing to its endpoint at the anus.
The large intestine is about long, jisase is parichay one-fifth of the puure lambaai of the intestinal canal.
In Terminologia Anatomica the vishaal aant shaamil the cecum, colon, malashay, or guda canal.
however, kuch strot exclude the anal canal.
The Green Bay Packers hai an amareeki footbaal toli aadhaarit in green khadi, visconsin.
They are members of the uttar prabhag of the neshnal footbaal sammelan ( NFC ) in the National Football League ( NFL ).
Green Bay is the third-oldest matadhikaar in the enegel, having maharoom vyavasthit or playing in 1919.
The Packers are the only non-profit, community-owned major lig peshewar khel toli in the sanyukt rajya.
The Packers hai the pichhlaa vestige of `` choti kasbaa tiimon '' ki yahood ekbar aam in the NFL during the 1920s and 1930s.
Founded in 1919 by Earl `` Curly '' Lambeau ( hence the name Lambeau Field on which the team plays ) and george whitney calhoun, the green khadi pakars can tres unke lineage to anya semi-professional tiimon in green khadi dating back to 1896.
In 1919 and 1920 the Packers competed as a semi-professional footbaal toli viruddh club isse around visconsin or the midwest.
They joined the American Professional Football sangh ( apfa ) in 1921, the forerunner to kayaa is gyaat aaj as the neshnal Football League ( NFL ).
Although Green Bay is the last NFL `` small town '' team, its local fan base or media extends into aasapaas milvowki ; the toli bhi nibhaai chaynit ghar khel vahin between 1933 and 1994.
The Green Bay Packers have won 13 league championships ( more than any other team in the enegel ), sahit nau enegel championships prior to the super katori era or chaar super katori victories —in 1967 ( super katori i ), 1968 ( super katori ii ), 1997 ( super katori xxxi ) or 2011 ( super katori XLV ).
The Packers have long-standing, kadava rivalries saath unke nfc uttar ( formerly the nfc central ) pratidwandviyon, the chicago bears, Minnesota Vikings and the Detroit Lions.
The bears-packers funsane is ek of the oldest rivalries in NFL history, dating back to 1921.
The San Fernando Valley ( locally known as `` The Valley '' ) is an urbanized ghati stith in the los angeles mahanagar kshetrafal of dakshini california, sanyukt rajya, paribhaashit by the mountains of the Transverse Ranges circling it.
Home to 1.76 lakh logon, it jhooth uttar of the larger and more populous Los Angeles Basin.
Nearly two thirds of the ghati 's jameen kshetrafal is bhaag of the nagar of los Angeles.
The other incorporated shaharon in the ghati hai glandele, burbank, san furnando, Hidden Hills and Calabasas.
san furnando ghati, Los Angeles
the exterior of the vartmaan sansar of Coca-Cola at Pemberton Place.
The World of coca-cola, is a sthai pradarshnee featuring the itihaas of The Coca-Cola Company.
Its well-known vigyaapan as khub as a mejabaan of entertainment kshetron or aakarshan, or is stith in atlanta, georgia ( jahaan the company 's mukhyalay are located ) at Pemberton Place ( named in honor of John Pemberton, the inventor of Coca-Cola ).
as bhaag of georgia 's museums.
the complex located across Baker Street isse centennial olympic park ki is ghar to the Georgia Aquarium and future Center for Civil & Human Rights.
It opened to the public on May 24, 2007, relocating isse or replacing the asli pradarshnee.
Pretties is a 2005 vigyaan fiction anokhaa or the duusari kitaab of the Uglies Trilogy written by Scott Westerfeld.
It is set in a future dystopian sansar in jisase everyone is turned `` Pretty '' by extreme cosmetic surgery upon reaching age 16.
It tells the story of kishoravastha teli youngblood jo vidrohiyon viruddh society 's enforced conformity.
Susan Leigh Vaughan Smith ( born September 26, 1971 ) is an amareeki stri sentenced to jivan in thana liye murdering uske children.
Born in Union, dakshin carolina, or a purv chaatr of the vishvavidhyalayon of dakshin carolina sangh, wo thi convicted on july 22, 1995 liye murdering uske do bete, 3-year-old maaikel Daniel Smith, born October 10, 1991, and 14-month-old Alexander Tyler Smith, born August 5, 1993.
The case gained worldwide attention shortly after it viksit, due to uske claiming ki a blike man churaayaa uske car or kidnapped uske bete.
She later claimed ki wo suffered isse dimagi swasthya issues that impaired her judgment.
According to the South Carolina Department of corrections, smith hoga be yogya liye parole on navambar 4, 2024, baad sevarat a nunatam of thirty years.
She is incarcerated at dakshin carolina 's leath correctional sanstha, nikat Greenwood.
Mount McKinley ( also known as Denali taken from the Inuit koyukon athabaskan bhashaa arth `` the great ek '' ) is the ucchtam pahaad shikhar in the sanyukt rajya or in uttar america saath a summit elevation of above sea level.
At kuch, the aadhaar to shikhar vruddhi is mana the largest of any mountain situated entirely above sea level.
Measured by sthalakritik prominence, it is the teesraa sabase prominent shikhar baad mount everest and Aconcagua.
Located in the alaska dayera in the aantarik of us rajya of alaska, it is the centerpiece of Denali National Park and Preserve.
The first European to dastauez sighting the pahaad thi george vainkuvar in 1794.
In 1903, james wickersham ankit the pehla attempt at chadhaai mckinley jisase was unsuccessful.
In 1906, Frederick cook claimed the pehla ascent jisase thi baad proven to be false.
The first verifiable ascent to mckinley 's summit thi hasil on june 7, 1913 by chadhnaa Hudson Stuck, Harry Karstens, Walter Harper, and Robert Tatum.
In 1951, Bradford Washburn pioneered the West Buttress root mana to be the safest or easiest root or isliye the sabase lokapriy philhal in use.
the honda s600 is an automobile manufactured by Honda.
It was shubharambh in kooch 1964.
uplabdhiyaan as a roadster – bearing damdaar praturup to the honda s500 – or as a fastback coupé – introduced in kooch 1965 – the s600 was the first Honda available in two trim levels.
During its production run up to 1966, the model styling hota remain pretty much the vahi, saath the sabase notable parivartan coming to the saamne grille, bampar, or headlights.
Powered by a DOHC, water-cooled, four-cylinder inline ingine saath chaar carburetors, the ingine kshamta thi increased to 606 cc from the S500 's 531 cc.
The engine utpaadit at 8,500 arpm or tha a sheersh speed of.
With the convertible weighing in at mere, the atirikt chadar metal of the coop only added to the overall weight.
Suspension was independent saath sealed roller kadi drive to prayek pasch wheel.
The s600 thi the pehla dravyaman marketed Honda car.
pehla offered tabhi in right-hand drive, it jald became uplabdhiyaan in left-hand drive to appeal to export markets.
There were a few pre-production S500s manufactured in baayein haath drive, do or teen bhi hone dikhaaya in kuch jaldi bikri vivaranika.
Both the S600 roadster and coupé were available in standard trim and a special, upgraded package called the SM600 which included, among other items, special paint colors, vishesh badging, a maanak radio or spikar, a khaas antina in the yatri paksh surya chazza, maanak reversing lits, a maanak cigarette halkaa, a maanak heater, behatar cushioned site, or a detachable seat track liye jaldi hataanaa of the yatri seat.
Honda built 3,912 roadsters in 1964, saath utpaadan chadhaai to 7,261 convertibles and 1,519 coupes in 1965.
Production dropped off in 1966 ( as they were shifting to the s800 ) saath tabhi 111 roadsters or 281 coupes, giving tallies of 11,284 convertibles and 1,800 coupes for the 3 year span.
Everybody Hates Chris is an American television period sitcom ki depicts the teenage anubhavon of hasya kris chattan ( jo is bhi the narrator ) jabaki growing up in the bedford-stuyvesant pados of brukaleen, New York.
The show is set between 1983 or 1987 ; however, Rock himself was a teenager between 1978 and 1983.
Rock grew up with a boy named Kenny montero, jisko he rai praayah referred to as the prerana liye a lot of the episodes.
In many interviews, Rock has described Kenny as the kaaran he mila into kamedi in the pehla place.
The show 's sheershak parodies the sibies sitcom everybody Loves Raymond.
Rock stated : `` everybody loves remand lakin Everybody Hates Chris ! ``.
The show 's lead actors are Tyler James williams, terry kru, tichina arnald, tequan richmond, imani hakim, or vincent Martella.
In patan 2008, the the cw sthanantarit everybody hates Chris and The Game to the Friday night death slot.
The fourth season of the shrenee premiered shuukravaar, aktubar 3, 2008, at 8:00pm eastern/7:00pm Central.
On May 21, 2009, The CW ghoshit ki it tha radd everybody hates kris.
Prior to this, executive producer Chris Rock announced that the end of season 4 matched up with his own past—dropping out of unchi skool to become a comedian—and ki it thi samay to samaapt the show.
Pleural effusion is excess fluid that accumulates between the do pleural paraton, the fluid-filled spes that surrounds the lungs.
excessive amounts of aise drav can impair shwaas by limiting the expansion of the lungs during ventilation.
Beowulf ( ; in Old English or ) is the conventional title of an Old angrezi vir apik kavita consisting of 3182 alliterative long linon, niyat in scandinavia, commonly cited as one of the most important works of Anglo-Saxon literature.
It survives in a single pandulipi gyaat as the nowell codex.
Its sangyojan by an benaam anglo-saxon kavi is dated between the 8th and the early 11th century.
In 1731, the manuscript was badly damaged by a aag ki swept through a bhawan awaas a sangrahan of madhyakaalin pandulipiyon assembled by Sir Robert Bruce Cotton.
The poem fell into obscurity for dashakon, or iske astitv kiya nahin become widely gyaat again jabatak it thi mudrit in 1815 in an sanskaran prepared by the icelandic-danish scholar Grímur Jónsson Thorkelin.
In the poem, Beowulf, a hero of the Geats in Scandinavia, aata to the sahaayta of hroðgar, the king of the danes, jinaki mid haul ( in heorot ) rai maharoom antargat akraman by a daanav gyaat as Grendel.
After biovulf jaanboojh use, grendel 's maan hamale the haul or is tab bhi defeated.
Victorious, Beowulf goes home to geatland in sweden or baad becomes king of the Geats.
baad a kaal of pachaas saalo rai passed, biovulf defeats a dragon, but is fatally wounded in the battle.
After his death, his attendants bury him in a tumulus, a dafan mound, in geatland.
Shem Ham and japheth by james tissot 1904.
Shem ( ; Sēm ; arabi : sām ; ge'ez : ሴም, sēm ; `` renown ; samruddhi ; naam '' ) thi one of the sons of Noah in the Hebrew Bible as well as in Islamic literature.
He is sabase popularly regarded as the jyeshtha bete, haalanki some traditions regard him as the second son.
Genesis 10:21 refers to saapeksh aayu of shem or uske bhai japheth, lakin saath sufficient ambiguity to have yielded different translations.
The verse is translated in the KJV as `` Unto Shem also, the pita of sab the children of eber, the bhai of japheth the elder, bhi to him were children born. ``.
however, the nai amareeki maanak bible detaa, `` bhi to shem, the pita of sab the children of eber, and the older brother of Japheth, children were born. ''
Genesis 11:10 records that Shem was still 100 years old at the birth of Arphaxad, ( but nearly 101 - see Chronology note, ) two years after the flood, making him barely 99 at the samay the baadh began ; or ki he jiya liye another 500 saalo baad is, bananaa uske aayu at maut 600 saalo.
the children of shem yahood ilam, asshur, arphaxad, lud, or Aram, in addition to daughters.
Abraham, the patriarch of the hebrews or arabs, thi ek of the vanshajon of Arphaxad.
islamic sahitya describes shem as ek of the believing sons of Noah.
Some sources even pahachaano shem as a nabi in uske apana sahi or ki he thi the next prophet after his father.
In ek muslim legend, shem thi ek of the logon ki parameshwar bana yishu uthayega as a sign to the Children of Israel.
The 1st century historian Flavius josephus, among anek anya, recounted the parampara ki ye paanch bete yahood the progenitors of the nations of Elam, Assyria, Chaldea, Lydia, and Syria, respectively.
Semitic is still a commonly used term for the Semitic languages, as a upasamucchy of the afro-asiatic bhashaaen, denoting the aam bhashaai viraasat of arabi, Aramaic, Akkadian, Ethiopic, Hebrew and Phoenician languages.
According to some Jewish traditions ( e.g., B. Talmud Nedarim 32b ; Genesis Rabbah 46:7 ; Genesis Rabbah 56:10 ; leviticus rabbah 25:6 ; sankhyaayein rabbah 4:8. ), shem is believed to have maharoom melchizedek, king of salem jisko abraham is ankit to have mili baad the battle of the four kings.
In a few of the anek extra-biblical strot ki describe use, shem is also credited with killing Nimrod, son of Cush.
Shem is mentioned in Genesis 5:32, 6:10 ; 7:13 ; 9:18,23,26-27 ; 10 ; 11:10 ; bhi in 1 chronicals 1:4.
Geographic identifications of flavius josephus, c. 100 ad ; japheth 's bete dikhaaya in red, ham 's bete in blue, Shem 's sons in green.
Go Daddy or Go Daddy Group inc. is a privately yojit company ki is primarily an antarjaal domen register or web hosting company.
Go Daddy Group Inc. filed for an IPO in 2006, lakin baad radd it, due to `` market uncertainties ''.
In addition to domain registration and hosting go papa bhi bikta e-business sambandhit tantra or sevaayen.
On June 24, 2011, the wal gali jarnal reported ki private-equity firms keker or chaandi jhil saajhedaar, saath saath a third investor, were nearing a deal to buy the company for between $ 2–2.5 billion.
On July 1, 2011 Go Daddy confirmed that KKR, Silver Lake saajhedaar or praudyogiki crossover ventures tha band the deal.
Although the khariden daam thi nahin officially ghoshit it thi reported to be $ 2.25 arab, liye 65 % of the company.
, Bob Parsons had ceded the CEO role of Go papa to warren adelman, jo tha maharoom saath the company liye parichay 10 years.
The andorran kot of bahen at the Andorran parliament.
Andorra ( ;, ), officially the Principality of Andorra ( ), also called the Principality of the Valleys of Andorra, ( ), is a landlocked microstate in southwestern europea, stith in the purvi pyrenees kyu or bordered by spain or France.
It is the sixth smallest swadesh in europea, having an kshetrafal of or an anumaanit population of 85,000 in 2012.
Its capital, Andorra la vela, is the ucchtam puunji nagar in europea, at an unnayan of above sea level.
the aadhikarik bhashaa is catalan, haalanki Spanish, Portuguese, and French are also commonly spoken.
Created under a charter in 988, the upasthit principality was formed in 1278.
It is known as a principality as it is a samrajya headed by do co-princes – the bishap of Urgell and the President of France.
Andorra is a prosperous desh mukhyatah kuki of iske paryaton udyog, jisase sevaayen an anumaanit 10.2 million visitors annually, and also because of its status as a tax haven.
It is nahin a sadsy of the europea sangh, lakin the euro is the de facto currency.
The people of Andorra have the 4th ucchtam insaan jivan pratyaasha in the sansar — 82 saalo at birth.
The George Washington vishvavidhyalayon ( gw, gwu, or george washington ) is a vyapak private, coeducational research university located in Washington, D.C..
It awards praaanpatr, snaatak degree, masters degree, or phds across several dozen disciplines.
The university was chartered by an adhinium of congress on farvari 9, 1821 as the columbian College in the District of Columbia.
Kimberly Noel `` Kim '' Kardashian ( born October 21, 1980 ) is an American socialite, television vyaktitv or occasional abhinetri.
In 2007, she gained notoriety as the subject of a sex tape that subsequently resulted in a adaalat awarding uske $ 5 lakh ; baad in ki same year, she and her family rose to prominence with their E !
reality television series Keeping Up saath the kardashians, or iske subsequent spin-offs, sahit courtney or kim Take New York and Kourtney and Kim Take Miami.
In 2010, Kardashian thi the highest-earning vaastaviktaa star, saath anumaanit earnings of $ 6 million.
With sisters Kourtney and khloé, kardasian co-owns the faishan boutique chain D-A-S-H.
She has been involved in the utpaadan of anek linon of kapadey or sugandh.
In August 2011, kardasian shaadishuda basket khilaadi kris humphries in a widely publicized ceremony.
That October, kardasian daayar liye talaak following 72 dinon of vivaah.
The move garnered significant backlash isse the media, jo labeled it a `` publicity stunt ''.
baad 536 dinon, kardasian or humphries pahunche an aghoshit upnivesh at the los angeles Superior Court, finalizing the divorce in April 2013.
aerial drishy of oahu saath freeways or highways, 3D computer-generated image
fly-around daure of the dweep
Oahu ( ) or Oahu, known as `` the mehafil place '', is the teesraa largest of the hawaii islands or the sabase populous of the islands in the U.S. state of Hawaii.
The state puunji, honolulu, is on Oahu 's southeast coast.
Including small close-in offshore islands such as Ford Island and the islands in Kaneohe Bay or band the purvi ( windward ) coast, it rai a kul jameen kshetrafal of, bananaa it the 20th largest dweep in the sanyukt rajya.
In the mahanatam aayam, is volcanic dweep is long and across.
The lambaai of the shoreline is.
The island is the result of two separate shield jwalamukhi : waianae or koolau, saath a vyapak `` ghati '' or lathi ( the central oahu maidan ) between them.
The highest point is mt. ka'ala in the waianae dayera, uthati to above sea level.
The base currency of the sanyukt rajya is the u.S. dollars, or is mudrit on bills in denominations of $ 1, $ 2, $ 5, $ 10, $ 20, $ 50, and $ 100.
At one time, however, u.S. karency shaamil paanch larger denominations.
Notes in the denominations of $ 500, $ 1,000, $ 5,000, and $ 10,000 yahood mudrit liye saamaanya upyog, or a $ 100,000 note thi mudrit liye nishchit aatanrik tranjection.
British honduras thi a angrejon upnivesh in Central America.
In 1981, the colony gained puraa swatantraaa, or is abhi the swatantra swadesh of Belize.
pehla colonised by spaniards in the 17th sadi, the territory on the east coast of Central America, south of Mexico, became a British crown colony in 1862.
in 1964, it became a self-governing colony.
Belize became fully swatantra isse the sanyukt kingdom in 1981.
Belize was the pichhlaa mahadwipiya kabza of the sanyukt kingdom in the Americas.
Spelt, also known as dinkel gehun, or hulled gehun, is an pracheen prajati of gehun isse the fifth millennium BC.
Spelt was an important staple in parts of Europe from the Bronze aayu to madhyakaalin times ; it abhi survives as a relict crop in central europea or uttari spain or rai mila a nai market as a swasthya khaanaa.
Spelt is sometimes mana a subspecies of the closely sambandhit prajati aam gehun ( T. aestivum ), in which case its botanical name is considered to be Triticum aestivum subsp. spelta.
It is a hexaploid gehun, jisase arthath it rai chah sets of chromosomes.
Sherlock Holmes ( or ) is a fictional jasoos nirmit by lekhak or chikitsak sar Arthur Conan Doyle.
A London-based `` consulting detective '' whose abilities border on the fantastic, holmes is prasiddh liye uske kutil logical tark, uske kshamta to apnaanaa lagbhag koi bhes, or uske upyog of forensic science skills to solve difficult cases.
Holmes, who first appeared in publication in 1887, thi pradarshit in chaar novels or 56 choti stories.
The first novel, A Study in Scarlet, appeared in beeton 's christmas salanaa in 1887 or the duusari, the chihn of the chaar, in lippincott 's Monthly Magazine in 1890.
The character grew tremendously in lokapriyata saath the pehla shrenee of choti kahaniyaan in the strand patrika, shuruuaat saath a cond in bohemia in 1891 ; further shrenee of choti kahaniyaan or do novels published in serial form appeared between then and 1927.
The stories cover a kaal isse around 1880 up to 1914.
All but four stories are narrated by Holmes 's friend and biographer, dr. jon H. watasan ; do hai narrated by holmes khud ( `` the blanched sipaahi `` or `` the sher 's maane `` ) or do anya hai likhaa in the third person ( `` The Mazarin Stone `` and `` His Last Bow `` ).
In two stories ( `` The Musgrave Ritual `` and `` The Gloria scot `` ), holmes tells watasan the pramukh story isse uske yaaden, jabaki watasan becomes the narrator of the frame story.
The first and fourth novels, A Study in skarlet or the ghati of bhay, prayek shaamil a long antaraal of sarvajna narration recounting kaarykram unknown to either Holmes or Watson.
The United States House of pratinidhi is ek of the do gharon of the sanyukt rajya congress ( a bicameral legislature ).
It is aksar referred to as the House.
the anya house is the Senate.
The composition and powers of the House hai sthapit in aalekh ek of the sanyukt rajya samvidhan.
The major power of the House is to pass federal legislation that affects the entire country although its bills must also be passed by the seenet or further sahamat to by the u.S. adhyaksh pehle banane vidhi ( jabatak dono the house or seenet re-pass the vidhaan saath a two-thirds bahumat in each chamber ).
The House has several exclusive powers : the power to initiate revenue bills, to impeach officials, or to elect the u.S. adhyaksh in maamla vahin is no bahumat in the chunavi college.
Each U.S. rajya is represented in the house in proportion to iske janasankhyikee lakin is entitled to at least one representative.
The sabase populous rajya, california, philhal rai 53 representatives.
The total number of matdaan pratinidhi is phixd by vidhi at 435.
Each pratinidhi serves liye a two-year term.
The Speaker of the United States House of Representatives, who presides over the kaksh, is nirvaachit by the sadasyon of the house, or is isliye traditionally the netaa of the house loktantric caucus or the house Republican Conference, whichever party has more voting members.
The House meets in the dakshin wing of the United States Capitol.
Jell-O is a brand name belonging to U.S.-based kraft bhojan liye a kramank of gelatin desserts, sahit fal gels, puddings or no-bake malai pies.
The brand 's popularity has led to it hone prayukt as a generik pad liye gelatin mithai aarpaar the U.S. and Canada.
Kennywood is an manoranjan park stith in west mifflin, pencilvenia, a upnagareey of pittsburg.
The park pehla kholi in 1898 as a `` trali park '' aakarshan at the end of the Mellon family 's Monongahela Street Railway.
The park was purchased in 1906 by F. W. Henninger and Andrew mcswigan or yun began the kennywood entertainment company ki rai remained a closely yojit parivaar kaarobaar for over 100 years.
This paramparaagat manoranjan park still rai structures or yatraayen dating waapas to iske kholane and the early 1900s.
Along with Rye playland park, it is ek of tabhi do manoranjan park listed in the National Register of Historic Places.
Kennywood is owned by Kennywood entertainment company, jisase jabatak disambar 2007 thi a closely yojit parivaar kaarobaar owned by the Henninger and McSwigan families.
Kennywood Entertainment is now sanchalit by california-based rajmahal entertainment, a subsidiary of parques reunidos, an antarrashtriya manoranjan park company based in Madrid, Spain.
Parque Reunidos is in turn a subsidiary of candover nivesh, an nivesh fund based in the UK.
A soshal suraksha card jari by the railroad ritairement falak in 1943 to a now deceased person.
In the United States, a Social Security number ( SSN ) is a nine-digit number issued to U.S. citizens, permanent nivaasiyon, or asthai ( working ) nivaasiyon antargat khand 205 ( c ) ( 2 ) of the soshal suraksha adhinium, samhitabaddh as.
the kramank is jari to an vyaktigat by the soshal suraksha prashasan, an independent agency of the United States government.
iske praathmik purpose is to track individuals for Social Security purposes.
A Social Security kramank may be praapt by applying on rup ss-5, `` anuprayog liye A Social Security Number Card ''.
Minimalism describes andolanon in vibhinn form of art or dizine, visheshkar vizual art or music, jahaan the kaary is niyat out to expose the essence or pahchaan of a vishay through eliminating all non-essential forms, features or concepts.
Minimalism is any dizine or style in jisase the saralatam or fewest tatv hai used to create the maximum effect.
As a specific movement in the arts it is identified with developments in post–World yuddh ii pashchimi art, sabase strongly saath amareeki vizual kala in the 1960s and early 1970s.
Prominent artists associated with this movement include Donald Judd, John mccracken, agnes martin, don flavin, robert morris, eni truitt, or frank Stella.
It is rooted in the reductive pahaluon of modernism, or is praayah interpreted as a pratikriya viruddh amoort abhivyanjanawad and a bridge to Postminimal art practices.
The terms have expanded to encompass a gati in music jisase suvidhaayen repetition or iteration, as in the rachanaaen of la monte yang, terry riley, steve reich, Philip Glass, and John Adams.
alpatam rachanaaen hai sometimes gyaat as pranaaliyon music.
The term `` minimalist '' is often applied colloquially to designate anything ki is atirikt or stripped to iske anivaary.
It has also been used to describe the plays or novels of samuel beckett, the films of robert bresson, the kahaniyaan of remand carver, or even the automobile designs of Colin Chapman.
The word was first used in angrezi in the jaldi 20th sadi to describe the mensheviks.
In rasayan or bhautikee, dalton 's vidhi ( bhi pukaara dalton 's vidhi of aanshik pressures ) rajya that the total pressure exerted by the mixture of non-reactive gases is equal to the sum of the partial pressures of individual gases.
is anubhavjanya vidhi thi observed by jon dalton in 1801 and is related to the ideal gas laws.
mathematically, the dabaav of a mishran of gaison can be paribhaashit as the sankalan
or
where represent the aanshik dabaav of prayek ghatak.
It is assumed ki the gaison do nahin pratikriya with each other
where is the mole fraction of the i-th ghatak in the kul mishran of n components.
The relationship below provides a way to determine the volume aadhaarit visheshgyata of koi vyaktigat gasiy ghatak
where is the visheshgyata of the i-th component expressed in ppm.
dalton 's vidhi is nahin exactly followed by real gases.
Those deviations hai considerably vishaal at high pressures.
In such conditions, the awaz occupied by the anuon can become significant compared to the free space between them.
In particular, the short average distances between anuon uthaata the tivrata of intermolecular shaktiyaan between gas anuon paryaapt to substantially change the pressure exerted by them.
Neither of those prabhaav hai mana by the ideal gas model.
This is a list of the largest sanyukt rajya collejon or vishvavidhyalayon by namakan for colleges and universities in the United States.
What this suchi shamilaus:
Colleges and vishvavidhyalayon bheetar the sanyukt rajya
University systems if the pranali is chalaaen antargat a single administration
Enrollment is the sum of the headcount of undergraduate or graduate students
Enrollment is gine by the ekikrut post-secondary shiksha pranali within the U.S. Department of Education.
Enrollment is the 12-month unduplicated headcount, indicating the kramank of adwitiya vidhyaarthee jo attended the vishvavidhyalayon during the year.
What is suchi karata nahin include:
Any indication of how many of the enrolled vidhyaarthee hai puraa or bhaag samay ( e.g., kuch vishvavidhyalayon may have a unchi namakan, lakin have sabase vidhyaarthee namankit in only a single class )
liye anya suchiyaan ki maap vishvavidhyalayon namakan, dekhie the See Also section below.
`` sahi golakaar '' is a song performed by amareeki rapper flo rida, released as the lead single from his second studio album, R.O.O.T.S. ( 2009 ).
The song suvidhaayen atithi vocals isse Kesha.
It was released to radio on 27 janvari 2009 or thi digitaly released on 10 farvari by po ladke entertainment and Atlantic Records.
The song lyrically bolti of flo rida 's jaal ball referi enthusiasm, jabaki adapting the kores of the 1984 Dead or Alive song `` You Spin Me Round ( Like a Record ) `` in its hook.
According to one of the song 's lekhak, the kores refers to maukhik sex.
Kesha contributed guest vocals to the song, but in the sanyukt rajya, dauraan the chalaaen atop the chart, kesha thi uncredited.
The song received mostly negative samikshaayen isse aalochakon, jo claimed it thi kitsch and misogynistic.
However, it was a commercial success, reaching the sheersh ten of the chart in unniis deshon vishwavyaapee.
In the United States, it became Flo Rida 's duusari number-one single or broke the ricard liye first-week bikri jab it thi released to digital retailor.
The single 's accompanying music video thi nirdeshit by mailkam jones or manonith liye an MTV Video Music Award.
The song has been used in several movies, such as The hangover, the bhadda sachai or the telegu film pilla zamindar.
In the movie Pitch purna, the song is performed by the a cappella group the Treblemakers.
The mukhya insaaf of the sanyukt rajya is the sir of the sanyukt rajya sangheey adaalat pranali ( the judicial branch of the federal government of the United States ) and the chief judge of the Supreme Court of the United States.
The Chief Justice is one of nine Supreme Court justices ; the other eight are the Associate justices of the param adaalat of the sanyukt rajya.
From 1789 until 1866, the office was gyaat as the mukhya insaaf of the param Court.
The Chief Justice is the highest judicial officer in the country, and acts as a chief administrative adhikari liye the sangheey nyaayalayon or as sir of the nyaayik sammelan of the sanyukt rajya appoints the nideshak of the prashasnic daftar of the sanyukt rajya nyaayalayon.
The Chief insaaf bhi serves as a pravaktaa for the judicial branch.
The mukhya insaaf lead the kaarobaar of the param Court.
he presides over maukhik vitark before the court.
jab the adaalat renders an raay, the mukhya justice—when in the majority—decides who writes the court 's opinion.
the mukhya insaaf bhi rai significant agenda-setting power over the court 's meetings.
In the case of an impeachment of a President of the United States, which has occurred twice, the mukhya insaaf presides over the vichaaran in the seenet.
In modern tradition, the mukhya insaaf rai the ceremonial duty of administering the shapath of daftar of the adhyaksh of the United States.
The first Chief insaaf thi jon jay.
The 17th or vartmaan mukhya insaaf is jon G. Roberts, Jr.
Caribou near prudhoe khadi, 1973
prudhoe khadi aayal field is a vishaal aayal field on Alaska 's North Slope.
It is the largest aayal field in dono the sanyukt rajya or in uttar america, covering and originally containing approximately of oil.
The raashi of recoverable aayal in the field is adhik than doguna ki of the next largest field in the United States, the East Texas oil field.
The field is sanchalit by bp ; saajhedaar hai exxonmobil or ConocoPhillips Alaska.
Labor unions are legally pahachaanaa as pratinidhi of majdoor in anek udyog in the sanyukt States.
Their activity today centers on collective bargaining over wages, benefits, and working sharten liye unke sadsyta, or on representing unke sadasyon in vivaadon saath prabandhan over ulalanghanon of contract provisions.
Larger unions also typically engage in lobbying kriyaayein or electioneering at the rajya or sangheey str.
Most unions in America are aligned with one of two larger chhatariyaan sanghathan : the afl-cio nirmit in 1955, or the badalen to jeet sangh jisase vibhajit isse the afl-cio in 2005.
dono edwocket nitiyon or vidhaan on nimitt of majdoor in the United States and Canada, and take an active role in politics.
The AFL-CIO is especially chintit saath vaishvik vyapaar mudde.
In 2010, the pratishat of majdoor belonging to a sangh in the sanyukt rajya ( or kul majdoor sangh `` ghanatv '' ) was 11.4 %, compared to 18.4 % in Germany, 27.5 % in Canada, and 70 % in Finland.
Union membership in the nijee sector rai gire antargat 7 % — levels not seen since 1932.
Unions allege that employer-incited vipaksh rai contributed to is manaahi in membership.
The most prominent unions are among public sector karmchaaree aise as shikshak or police.
sadasyon of sangh hai disproportionately puraani, purush or nivaasiyon of the purvottar, the Midwest, and California.
Union workers average 10-30 % higher adaa than non-union in america baad controlling liye vyaktigat, job, and labor market characteristics.
Although much smaller compared to unke shikhar sadsyta in the 1950s, amareeki sangh remain a prominent rajnatik factor, dono through mobilization of unke apana sadsytaayen or through coalitions saath like-minded activist sanghathan around mudde aise as immigrant rights, trade policy, health care, and living wage campaigns.
To fight alleged employer anti-union programs, unions are philhal vakaalat nai `` card jaanch `` sangheey vidhaan ki hota aavashyaktaa niyokta to saudebaaji saath a sangh if adhik than 50 % of majdoor hastakshrit forms, or `` cards, '' stating they wish to be represented by that union.
The current procedure involves pratiksharat 45 to 90 dinon liye a federally paryvekshit secret-ballot karmchaaree referendum on the subject.
The economist Joseph Stiglitz has asserted that, `` Strong unions have helped to reduce asamanta, whereas weaker sangh have bana it easier liye ceos, sometimes working saath market shaktiyaan ki ve have helped shape, to increase it. ''
The decline in unionization chunki wwii in the sanyukt rajya rai maharoom sambhddha with a pronounced rise in income and wealth inequality.
A isai lacroix faishan boutique
A boutique is a choti kharidari outlet, visheshkar ek ki specializes in elite and fashionable items such as clothing and jewelry.
The shabd is french liye `` duukaan '', via latin from Greek ἀποθήκη ( apothēkē ), `` storehouse ''.
The term entered into roj angrezi upyog in the let 1960s jab, liye a bread kaal, landan thi the centre of the fashion trade.
Carnaby Street or the kings sadak yahood the fokas of much media dhyaan as ghar to the sabase fashionable boutiques of the era.
Now the East of London has been regenerated and more Boutiques pop up in fashneble kshetron, aise as minar sethu sadak.
It can also refer to a specialised kad aise as a boutique nivesh bainko or boutique law firm.
The word is often used to describe a property in the independent section of the hotel market ( aise as the rockwell in landan ) in anukram to fark themselves isse larger zanjeeron ( such as Hilton Hotels ).
In such cases the establishments uddeshy to convey the vichaar ki the aaparishan is elite or highly specialised.
In the strictest sense of the word, boutiques hota be one-of-a-kind lakin adhik generally bolnaa, kuch zanjeeron can be referred to as boutiques if ve specialize in particular sheliyaan.
Recently, the term `` boutique '' has started being applied to normally-mass-market vasteen ki hai either niche or utpaadit in intentionally choti sankhyaayein at bahut unchi keemten.
This may be referred to as boutique nirmaan.
For example, before the release of the Wii, a Time Magazine article suggested that Nintendo could become a `` boutique video-game company '', producing khel liye niche audiyans, rather than trying to compete directly with Microsoft and Sony.
In the traditional luxury- watch industry Scalfaro International is mana as the precursor in nirmaan or bikri of bespoke watches.
The Swiss company uses a highly flexible boutique nirmaan sait, jisase allows producing choti shrenee or bhi adwitiya timepieces.
Although some boutiques specialise in hand-made vasteen or anya truly one-of-a-kind vasteen, anya bas upaj t-shirts, stikar, and other fashion accessories in artificially small runs and sell them at unusually high prices.
In the jaldi 1990s selina prarambh nirmaan uske own line of women 's clothing.
Opening two boutiques labeled as `` selina ityadi. boutique & salon '' ek stith in corpus christi or one located in San Antonio, Texas.
One was due to open in Monterrey, mexico, in 1995 lakin due to uske maut it thi nahin opened.
Around 1999 the San Antonio sthaan band or the corpus christi sthaan thi closed in 2009.
In late 1990s some European retail traders developed the vichaar of tailoring a duukaan towards a jeevanstyli theme, in the rup of `` avadharana stores '', which specialised in cross-selling without using separate departments.
One of the first avadharana stores thi 10 corso como in milan, italy followed by Colette in Paris and Quartier 206 in Berlin.
Several well-known American chains such as Urban Outfitters, D-A-S-H, and The Gap, australian kadi billabong or, haalanki kam aam, rab & tailor adapted to the avadharana store trend after 2000.
Navy Federal Credit Union ( or Navy sangheey ) is a credit sangh headquartered in vienna, virginia, chartered or regulated antargat the praadhikaar of the neshnal credit sangh prashasan ( ncua ) of the U.S. federal government.
Navy Federal is the largest prakritik sadsy ( or khudara ) credit sangh in the sansar, dono in asset aakaar or in sadsyta.
As of September 2012, Navy Federal tha over $ 50 arab usd in asset, or over 4 million members.
Stevland Hardaway Morris ( born May 13, 1950 as Stevland Hardaway Judkins ), known by uske stage naam steewi achraj, is an amareeki singer, songwriter, or multi-instrumentalist, a child prodigy jo viksit into ek of the sabase rachanaatmak musical aankade of the late 20th century.
Blind chunki shortly baad janam, achraj hastakshrit saath motown 's tamla label at the aayu of gyaarah, or continues to perform and record for Motown to this day.
Among Wonder 's best known works are singles such as `` andhvishwaas ``, `` sar duk ``, `` tum hai the sunshine of my jivan `` and `` I Just Called to Say I Love You ``.
Well known albums also shaamil talking kitaab, innervisions or geeton in the kunjee of Life.
He has recorded more than thirty u.S. sheersh ten hits or praapt twenty-two grami puraskaar, the most ever awarded to a male solo artist.
Wonder is also noted for uske kaary as an activist liye rajnatik kalyankari, sahit uske 1980 abhiyaan to mek martin Luther King, Jr. 's birthday a holiday in the United States.
In 2009, achraj thi namit a sanyukt raashtra messanger of Peace.
In 2008, Billboard magazine released a list of the Hot 100 All-Time Top Artists to celebrate the us singles chart 's pachaasawein varshganth, with Wonder at number five.
By popular vote, Stevie was inducted into The SoulMusic haul of kirti at soulmusic.com in disambar 2012.
Psychosis ( from the Greek ψυχή `` psyche '', for mind/soul, and -ωσις `` -osis '', for abnormal condition or derangement ) refers to an abnormal condition of the mind, or is a generik manorog pad liye a dimagi rajya praayah varnit as involving a `` ghaataa of contact with reality ``.
People suffering from manastaap hai varnit as psychotic.
Psychosis is given to the more severe forms of psychiatric disorder, dauraan jisase mati or delusions, sakal uttejnaa or behoshee or impaired insight may occur.
The term `` psychosis '' is very broad or can ausat anything isse apekshaakrit saamaanya aberrant anubhavon through to the jatil or catatonic expressions of schizophrenia and bipolar type 1 disorder.
moreover a chaudee kismein of central baichaiyn pranali rogon, isse dono bahya substances and internal physiologic illness, can produce symptoms of psychosis.
This led many professionals to kah ki manastaap is nahin vishisht enough as a diagnostic term.
Despite this, `` psychosis '' is generally given to noticeable deficits in normal bartaav ( rinatmak lakshan ) or adhik commonly to vividh prakaar of mati or delusional manyataon ( e.g. grandiosity, delusions of persecution ).
Someone exhibiting very obvious signs may be described as `` frankly psychotic '', whereas ek exhibiting bahut halkaa lakshan could be vargeekrut in the shrenee of an `` attenuated psychotic risk syndrome ''.
An excess in dopaminergic signalling is traditionally linked to the dhanatmak lakshan of manastaap, especially those of schizophrenia.
This is thought to occur through a yantriki of aberrant salience of environmental stimuli.
Many antipsychotic drugs accordingly target the dopamine system ; meta-analyses of placebo-controlled trials of these drugs, however, dikhaaen either no significant antar between drug or placebo, or a bahut choti prabhaav aakaar, suggesting ki the pathophysiology of manastaap is much adhik complex than an overactive dopamine system.
People experiencing manastaap may pradarshnee kuch vyaktitv parivartan or vichaar disorder.
Depending on its severity, is may be accompanied by asaamaanya or vicitra bartaav, as khub as pareshaani with social interaction and impairment in carrying out daily life activities.
General grievous is a fictional akshar in the Star Wars universe.
A punaravarti vipakshi, he is the param commander of the confederacy of swatantra pranaaliyon, a rajnatik gut of planetary systems waging war on the Galactic Republic.
Trained in all seven forms of lightsaber combat by ginati dooku, he is a nishthur or shaktishaalee yoddha devoted to Jedi 's destruction during the Clone Wars.
His acts of wanton aggression and high Jedi deh ginati hota sanket the akashganga to de use the upnaam the knightslayer.
Though the notorious Jedi slayer was the being in the akashganga dauraan the clon yudhon jo tha maare the sabase jedy in single combat, he kiya nahin sankoch to flee from battles he knew he would lose.
Statistics play an important role in summarizing besabaal pradarshan or evaluating khilaadi in the khel.
Since the pravaah of a besabaal khel rai prakritik brake to it, or saamanytah khilaadi adhinium individually rather than performing in clusters, the sport lends itself to easy record-keeping and statistics.
Statistics have been kept for professional baseball chunki the sristi of the neshnal lig or amareeki League, now part of Major League Baseball.
Many statistics are also available from outside of Major League Baseball, from lig aise as the neshnal sangh of peshewar aadhaar ball khilaadi or the nigro lig.
Dorothea Lange 's Migrant Mother depicts destitute pea pickers in california, centering on florence ovence thompsan, aayu 32, a maan of saat children, in nipomo, california, March 1936.
USA salanaa real jidipi isse 1910–60, saath the saalo of the Great Depression ( 1929–1939 ) highlighted.
the berogari rate in the us 1910–1960, saath the saalo of the Great Depression ( 1929–1939 ) highlighted.
The Great Depression was a severe worldwide economic depression in the dashak preceding sansar yuddh II.
The timing of the Great Depression varied across nations, but in most countries it started in 1930 or lasted jabatak the let 1930s or madhya 1940s.
It was the longest, sabase faili, or deepest avsaad of the 20th century.
in the 21st sadi, the great avsaad is commonly used as an example of how far the world 's economy can decline.
The avsaad originated in the u.S., baad the patan in bhandar keemten ki began around sitambar 4, 1929, and became worldwide news with the stock market crash of October 29, 1929 ( known as Black Tuesday ).
The Great avsaad tha vinaashkari prabhaav in countries rich and poor.
Personal income, tax revenue, profits or keemten dropped, jabaki antarrashtriya vyapaar plunged by adhik than 50 %.
berogari in the u.S. rose to 25 %, or in kuch countries rose as high as 33 %.
Cities sab around the sansar yahood hit mushkil, visheshkar those nirbhar on heavy industry.
nirmaan thi vastutah halted in many countries.
Farming and rural areas suffered as crop keemten giri by lagbhag 60 %.
Facing plummeting maang saath few vaikalpik strot of kaary, kshetron nirbhar on praathmik sector udyog such as cash cropping, mining and logging suffered the most.
Some economies prarambh to ricover by the mid-1930s.
In many countries, the negative effects of the Great avsaad lasted jabatak the samaapt of sansar yuddh II.
A premature ventricular contraction ( PVC ), also known as a premature ventricular complex, ventricular premature contraction ( or complex or complexes ) ( VPC ), ventricular asamyik taal ( vpb ), or ventricular extrasystole ( ves ), is a apekshaakrit aam event jahaan the dhadkan is initiated by purkinje machhlee in the ventricles balki than by the sinoatrial node, the saamaanya dhadkan initiator.
The electrical events of the heart detected by the electrocardiogram allow a pivisi to be easily vishisht isse a normal heart beat.
A PVC may be perceived as a `` skipped taal `` or laga as palpitations in the chaati.
In a normal heartbeat, the ventricles contract after the atria have helped to bharan unhen by contracting ; in is rasta the ventricles can pump a maximized raashi of rakt dono to the fefde or to the rest of the body.
In a PVC, the ventricles anubandh pehla or pehle the atria have optimally bhar the ventricles with blood, which means that circulation is inefficient.
However, single beat PVC arrhythmias do nahin praayah pos a khatre or can be asymptomatic in healthy individuals.
William geri busey ( born june 29, 1944 ), behatar gyaat as geri busey, is an American film and stage actor, and artist.
He has appeared in a variety of films, including Lethal Weapon, Point Break, and antargat gheraa, as khub as atithi dikhaave on gunsmoke, vaakar, texas ranger, vidhi & anukram, or anugami.
He was manonith liye an academy puraskaar liye behtareen karta in 1978 for his role in The Buddy Holly Story.
The Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement ( acta ), is a bahurashtriya sandhi liye the purpose of establishing antarrashtriya maanakon liye bauddhik property rights enforcement.
The agreement aims to establish an antarrashtriya vidhik fremawork liye lakshyikaran nakli goods, generik davaaiyaan or kapirite infringement on the antarjaal, or hota banaaen a nai shaasi deh baahar maujuuda forums, such as the World Trade Organization, the World Intellectual Property Organization, or the United Nations.
The agreement was signed in October 2011 by Australia, Canada, japani, morocco, nai jiland, singapore, dakshin korian, or the sanyukt rajya.
In 2012, mexico, the europea sangh or 22 deshon jisase hai member states of the European Union signed as well.
One signatory ( Japan ) has ratified ( formally sweekrut ) the anubandh, jisase hota aaiye into force in deshon ki ratified it baad ratification by six countries.
Supporters have described the agreement as a response to `` the badhayen in vaishvik vyapaar of nakli goods or pirated kapirite surakshit works ''.
Trades Unions representing workers in the music, film and TV industries and large intellectual property-based organizations aise as the gati chitra sangh of america or pharmaceutical shodh or nirmaataaon of america yahood kriyasheel in the sandhi 's vikaas.
pratidwandviyon kah the sammelan adversely affects aadharbhoot rights including freedom of expression and privacy.
ACTA has also been criticised by doctor bagaiyr simaayen liye endangering abhigam to davaaiyaan in developing countries.
The secret nature of negotiations has excluded civil society groups, developing deshon or the saamaanya public isse the anubandh 's negotiation prakram or it rai maharoom varnit as niti laundering by aalochakon sahit the Electronic Frontier Foundation and the Entertainment Consumers Association.
The signature of the EU and many of its member states resulted in the resignation in protest of the European parliament 's niyukt mukhya anveshak, rapporteur kadar aarif, as khub as faili virodh aarpaar Europe.
In 2012 the newly-appointed rapporteur, angrejon mep daud martin, anushansit viruddh the sandhi, stating : `` the intended benefits of this international agreement are far outweighed by the potential threats to civil liberties ''.
On 4 July 2012, the European Parliament rejected the agreement in plenary satr, saath 478 matdaan viruddh the sandhi, 39 in paksh or 165 MEPs abstaining.
faw semi-trailer truck in China
Tractor with paksh damp trailor semi-trailer
A tractor saath an auto-transport semi-trailer.
Semi-trailer trek saath sleeper peeche the taxi.
A semi-trailer truck is an articulated gadee ki consists of a towing ingine, gyaat as a tractor in the sanyukt rajya or trek in many other places, attached to one or more semi-trailers to carry freight.
It is also known as a transport in Canada, prime mover in Australia, semi, tractor-trailer, truck or trailor, transafar trek, 18-wheeler, mack trek, big rig in the sanyukt rajya, or artic, choti liye articulated lorry, in Britain and Ireland.
A semi-trailer does not trail completely peeche the towing gadee, lakin is sanlagn at a point ki is bas forward of the rear-most axle of the towing unit.
This is done so that a fraction of the vazan of the trailor is carried by the prime mover.
This arrangement means that both tractor and semi-trailer will have a distinctly alag dizine than a rigid trek or trailer.
The pittsburg stilers hai a peshewar footbaal toli aadhaarit in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
The team currently belongs to the North Division of the amareeki footbaal sammelan ( afc ) in the National Football League ( NFL ).
Founded in, the stilers hai the oldest matadhikaar in the AFC.
Pittsburgh has won more Super Bowl sheershak ( chah ), jiti adhik afc championships khel ( aath ) or nibhaai in ( pandrah ) or hosted more ( eleven ) conference championship games than any other AFC or NFC team.
The stilers share the ricard liye sabase super katori dikhaave with the Dallas Cowboys ( eight ).
The Steelers won unke sabase haal championships, super katori xliii, on farvari 1, 2009.
The Steelers were founded as the pittsburg pirates on july 8, 1933, by art runi, lene iske asli naam isse the besabaal toli of the same name, as was common practice for NFL teams to do at the time.
The ownership of the stilers rai remained bheetar the runi parivaar since its founding.
The current owner is Art 's bete, don runi, jo rai die much control of the matadhikaar to uske son Art Rooney II.
Long one of the NFL 's flagship tiimon, the stilers anand a vishaal, faili fanbase nicknamed steeler swadesh.
The Steelers currently play their home games at hinz field on pittsburg 's uttar paksh in the uttar shore pados, jisase bhi host the vishvavidhyalayon of Pittsburgh Panthers.
nirmit in 2001, the stadium replaced teen nadiyaan stadium jisase hosted the Steelers for 31 seasons.
Prior to Three Rivers, the stilers tha nibhaai unke khel in Pitt Stadium and Forbes Field.
Three alag kinds of gehun and rye flour
Flour is a churna jisase is bana by pis khadyann grains, or other seeds or roots ( like Cassava ).
It is the main ingredient of bread, which is a staple food for many samskritiyon, bananaa the uplabdhta of paryaapt aapurtiyan of aataa a pramukh aarthik or rajnatik samasya at vibhinn times throughout history.
Wheat flour is one of the most important foods in europea, uttar amareeki, madhya purvi, bhartiya or uttar africa samskritiyon, or is the defining ingredient in most of their styles of breads and pastries.
jabaki gehun is the sabase aam aadhaar liye aataa, makai aataa rai maharoom mahatvapurn in mesoamerican bhojan chunki pracheen times, and remains a staple throughout the Americas.
Rye flour is an important constituent of bread in much of central europea, or rice can bhi be used in flour, though this is relatively uncommon.
Heart rate is the kramank of heartbeats prati ikai of samay, typically expressed as beats per minute ( bpm ).
dil rate can vary as the deh 's need to avashoshit oxigen or excrete carbon dioxide changes, such as during physical exercise, sleep, illness, or as a result of ingesting drugs :
central baichaiyn pranali stimulants aise as amphetamines increase heart rate.
Central nervous system depressants or sedatives decreases the dil rate ( alaava isse kuch visheshkar ajeeb ones saath baraabar ajeeb prabhaav, aise as ketamine jisase can cause - amongst many other things - stimulant-like effects such as tachycardia ).
There are many ways in jisase the dil rate speeds up or slows down.
Most involve stimulant-like endorphins and hormones being released in the dimag, anek of jisase hai those ki hai 'forced'/'enticed ' out by the ingestion and processing of drugs.
Due to individuals having a nirantar rakt awaz, ek of the physiological tareeke to uddhaar more oxygen to an organ is to increase heart rate to permit blood to pass by the organ more often.
Normal resting dil daron dayera isse 60-100 bpm.
Bradycardia is paribhaashit as a resting dil rate neeche 60 bpm.
However, heart rates from 50 to 60 bpm hai aam among swasth logon or do nahin necessarily require special attention.
Tachycardia is defined as a resting dil rate upar 100 bpm, haalanki persistent baaki daron between 80-100 bpm, mukhyatah if ve hai upasthit dauraan neend, may be signs of hyperthyroidism or anemia ( see below ).
Catherine II 's carved, painted and gilded rajtilak coach ( Hermitage Museum )
A carriage is a wheeled vehicle for people, usually horse-drawn ; litters ( palanquins ) or sedan kursiyaan hai excluded, chunki ve hai wheelless vehicles.
The carriage is visheshkar designed liye nijee yatri upyog or liye comfort or elegance, though some are also used to transport goods.
it may be lite, smart or tej or baari, large and comfortable.
Carriages normally have barkhaastagi using patta sroton, andakaar sroton ( in the 19th sadi ) or chamade dirghakaay.
A public passenger vehicle would nahin praayah be pukaara a carriage – sharten liye aise shaamil stagecoach, charabanc and omnibus.
Working vehicles such as the ( four-wheeled ) wagon and ( two-wheeled ) cart share mahatvapurn bhaag of the itihaas of the carriage, as is the tej ( two-wheeled ) rath.
The 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake was an undersea megathrust bukamp ki occurred at 00:58:53 utc on sande, 26 disambar 2004, saath an epicentre off the west coast of Sumatra, Indonesia.
The quake itself is known by the vaigyanik jatiyaan as the sumatra–andaman earthquake.
The resulting tsunami thi die vibhinn names, sahit the 2004 bhartiya samandar tsunami, dakshin asian tsunami, indonesian tsunami, and the Boxing Day tsunami.
The earthquake was caused by subduction and triggered a series of devastating tsunamis along the coasts of sabase landmasses bordering the bhartiya samandar, hatya over 230,000 logon in chaudaa deshon, or inundating tateey samudaayon saath lehren up to high.
It was one of the deadliest prakritik aapadaaon in ankit history.
indonesia thi the hardest-hit desh, followed by shri Lanka, India, and Thailand.
With a magnitude of Mw 9.1–9.3, it is the third largest bukamp kabhi ankit on a seismograph.
the bukamp tha the longest avadhi of faulting ever observed, between 8.3 and 10 minutes.
It caused the sampurna grah to hilanaa as much as or triggered anya bukamp as far away as Alaska.
Its epicentre thi between simeulue or mainland Indonesia.
The plight of the prabhavit logon or deshon prompted a vishwavyaapee humanitarian response.
In all, the worldwide community daan adhik than $ 14 arab ( 2004 US $ ) in humanitarian aid.
Steam uthati isse the nesjavellir geothermal Power Station in Iceland.
Geothermal energy is thermal urja utpann and stored in the Earth.
thermal urja is the urja ki determines the temperature of matter.
The Geothermal energy of the dharti 's crust originates isse the asli gathan of the grah ( 20 % ) or isse radioskriy kshay of minerals ( 80 % ).
The geothermal gradient, which is the difference in temperature between the kor of the grah or iske sataha, drive a nirantar conduction of thermal energy in the form of heat from the core to the surface.
The kriyasheel geothermal originates isse the unani jaden γη ( ge ), arth earth, and θερμος ( thermos ), meaning hot.
At the core of the Earth, thermal energy is created by radioskriy kshay or temperatures may pahunchein over 5000 °c ( 9,000 °f ).
Heat conducts isse the kor to surrounding cooler rock.
the unchi taapmaana or dabaav kaaran kuch chattan to melt, bananaa megma sanvahan upward since it is lighter than the solid rock.
The magma heats rock and jal in the crust, sometimes up to 370 °C ( 700 °F ).
From hot springs, geothermal energy has been used for bathing since paleolithic times or liye spes heating chunki pracheen roman times, lakin it is abhi behatar gyaat liye vidyut peedhee.
vishwavyaapee, parichay 10,715 megawatts ( mw ) of geothermal power is online in 24 countries.
An additional 28 gigawatts of direct geothermal heating capacity is santhaapit liye zila heating, spes heating, spa, audyogic prakriyaaon, desalination and agricultural applications.
Geothermal power is cost prabhavi, vishwasaneey, chirsthayee, or environmentally dostana, lakin rai historically maharoom limited to areas near tectonic plate boundaries.
Recent technological advances have dramatically vistaarit the dayera or aakaar of sugathit sansaadhan, visheshkar liye anuprayog aise as ghar heating, kholane a potential for widespread exploitation.
Geothermal kuen relies greenhouse gaison funs gahan bheetar the dharti, lakin ye emissions hai much nimnatar per energy unit than those of fossil fuels.
As a result, geothermal shakti rai the sambhavit to sahaayta mitigate vaishvik varming if widely deployed in place of fossil fuels.
the dharti 's geothermal sansaadhan hai theoretically adhik than paryaapt to supplai maanavtaa 's urja needs, but only a very small fraction may be profitably exploited.
khudaai or khoji liye gahan resources is very expensive.
Forecasts for the future of geothermal power nirbhar on assumptions parichay praudyogiki, urja keemten, subsidies, or interest rates.
Pilot programs like EWEB 's customer opt in Green Power Program show that graahak hota be willing to adaa a choti adhik liye a bedardi urja sorce jaise geothermal.
But as a parinaam of sarkari assisted shodh or udyog anubhav, the laagat of generating geothermal power has decreased by 25 % over the past two decades.
In 2001, geothermal energy cost between do or ten saint prati kwh.
The term cubic foot is an Imperial and us prathagat ( non- metric ) ikai of volume, used in the United States and the United Kingdom.
It is defined as the volume of a ghan saath pahalu of ek pair ( 0.3048 m ) in lambaai.
To gananaa ghan feet guna lambaai X width X height.
Hồ Chí Minh ( Northern Vietnamese pronunciation :, Southern Vietnamese pronunciation : ) ; 19 May 1890 – 2 September 1969 ), born Nguyễn Sinh Cung and also known as Nguyễn Tất Thành and Nguyễn Ái Quốc, thi a vietnami communist krantikari netaa jo thi pradhan mantri ( 1945–1955 ) or adhyaksh ( 1945–1969 ) of the loktantric ganatantr of Vietnam ( North Vietnam ).
He was a key figure in the nyaas of the loktantric ganatantr of vietnam in 1945, as khub as the people’s fouj of vietnam ( pavn ) and the Việt Cộng ( NLF or VC ) during the Vietnam War.
He led the việt minh swatantraaa gati isse 1941 onward, establishing the communist -niyamand loktantric Republic of Vietnam in 1945 and defeating the French Union in 1954 at the battle of Điện Biên Phủ.
He officially stepped down isse shakti in 1955 due to swasthya samasyaayein, lakin remained a atyadhik drishy figurehead or prerana for those Vietnamese fighting for his cause—a united, communist Vietnam—until his death.
After the war, sigon, puunji of the ganatantr of vietnam, was renamed Hồ Chí Minh City.
sab sadaken sise ghar is a visheshta filmi released on September 26, 2008.
Directed by Dennis Fallon, it stars Peter Boyle, Patton Oswalt, Jason London, Vivien Cardone, venesa shakha, peter kyoti, stephen milton, or allan Kayser.
The movie was filmaaya in or around kansas nagar, mizori.
The movie bana iske sansar premier janvari 27 at the santa barbara antarrashtriya Film Festival.
The filmi rai bhi recently maharoom in anek filmi tyohaar, and has received bad reviews.
peter boil died pehle the movie 's release.
It was the pichhlaa film he appeared in.
bikri kar in the sanyukt rajya hai kar lagaai on the bikri or lease of goods and services in the United States.
While no national general sales tax exists, the federal sarkari levies anek neshnal chaynaatmak bikri kar on the bikri or lease of particular goods and services.
Furthermore, forty-five states, the zila of colombia, or guam thopane saamaanya bikri kar ki lagu to the bikri or patte of sabase goods or kuch sevaayen, and states also may levy selective sales taxes on the sale or lease of particular goods or services.
States may also delegate to local sarkarein the praadhikaar to thopane atirikt saamaanya or chaynaatmak bikri taxes.
Sales tax is gananaa by multiplying the khariden daam by the applicable tax rate.
Tax rates vary widely by kshetradhikaar or dayera isse kam than 1 % to over 10 %.
bikri kar is ekatrit by the seller at the time of sale.
Use tax is self assessed by a kharidaar jo rai nahin sashulk bikri tax on a taxable purchase.
Unlike the value added kar, a bikri kar is imposed tabhi ekbar, at the khudara level.
However, in cases where vasteen hai bechi at khudara adhik than ekbar, aise as prayukt gaadiyaan, the bikri kar can be charge on the same item indefinitely.
The definition of retail sales and kayaa goods or sevaayen hai taxable vary among the rajya.
Nearly all jurisdictions provide numerous categories of goods and sevaayen ki hai exempt isse bikri kar, or taxed at ghataya daron.
the khariden of goods liye further manufacture or liye punarvikray is uniformly exempt from sales tax.
Most jurisdictions exempt khaanaa bechi in kiraanaa stores, nuskhaa medications, and many agricultural supplies.
Sales taxes, including those imposed by local sarkarein, hai generally administered at the rajya level.
States imposing sales tax require retail vikreta to collect kar isse graahak, sanchika ritern, or remit the kar to the state.
prakriyaatmak niyam vary widely.
Sellers generally must collect tax from in-state purchasers jabatak the kreta provides an exemption certificate.
Most states allow or aavashyaktaa electronic remittance.
A central processing ikai ( cpu ), bhi referred to as a central procesar ikai, is the hardware bheetar a computer ki carries out the nirdesh of a computer program by performing the basic arithmetical, logical, and input/output operations of the system.
The term has been in use in the computer udyog at tanik chunki the early 1960s.
The form, design, and implementation of CPUs have badla over the course of unke itihaas, lakin unke aadharbhoot operation remains much the same.
A computer can have more than one cpu ; is is pukaara multiprocessing.
Some integrated circuits ( ICs ) can contain anek cpu on a single chip ; those ics hai pukaara multi-core processors.
Two typical components of a CPU are the arithmetic logic unit ( ALU ), which performs arithmetic and logical parichaalan, or the control ikai ( cu ), jisase extracts nirdesh isse memory or decodes or chalaata unhen, colling on the alu jab necessary.
Not sab computesnal pranaaliyon rely on a central processing unit.
An array procesar or vector procesar rai anek samanaantar computing elements, with no one unit considered the `` center ''.
In the distributed computing model, samasyaayein hai hal by a vitarit interconnected set of processors.
rfid chip aglaa to a anaaj of rice.
This chip contains a radio-frequency electromagnetic field coil that modulates an bahya chumbakeey field to transafar a coded pahchaan kramank jab queried by a reader device.
This small type is incorporated in upabhokta utpaada, or implanted in paalatu, liye pahchaan uddeshy.
Radio-frequency identification ( RFID ) is the wireless non-contact upyog of radio-frequency electromagnetic field to transafar aankada, liye the uddeshy of automatically identifying and tracking tags attached to objects.
The tags contain electronically bhandaarit information.
Some tags are powered or padhaa at choti seemayen ( a few meter ) via chumbakeey fields ( electromagnetic induction ).
Others use a local power source such as a bydaree, or else have no bydaree lakin collect urja isse the interrogating em field, or tab adhinium as a passive transponder to emit microwaves or uhf radio lehren ( i.e., electromagnetic radiation at high frequencies ).
Battery powered tags may operate at sainkadon of meter.
Unlike a bar code, the tag does not necessarily need to be bheetar lakeer of sight of the reader, or may be antahsthapit in the tracked object.
RFID tags hai prayukt in anek udyog.
An RFID tag attached to an automobile dauraan utpaadan can be prayukt to track iske progress through the assembly line.
davaayen can be tracked through warehouses.
Livestock and pets may have tag injected, allowing dhanatmak pahchaan of the animal.
Since rfid tag can be sanlagn to kapadey, possessions, or bhi implanted bheetar logon, the sambhaavna of reading personally-linked information without consent has raised privacy concerns.
Overtime is the raashi of samay kisi works pare normal working hours.
Normal ghanton may be sankalpit in anek ways:
by custom ( what is mana swasth or uchit by society ),
by practices of a die vyapaar or profession,
by legislation,
by anubandh between niyokta or majdoor or unke representatives.
Most nations have overtime majdoor kanoon designed to dissuade or prevent niyokta isse forcing unke karmchaaree to kaary excessively long hours.
These laws may take into account other considerations than the humanitarian, aise as preserving the swasthya of majdoor so ki ve may continue to be utpaadak, or increasing the overall level of employment in the economy.
One common approach to regulating overtime is to aavashyaktaa niyokta to adaa majdoor at a ucchtar hourly rate liye overtime kaary.
Companies may choose to pay workers higher overtime pay even if nahin obliged to do so by vidhi, visheshkar if ve maananaa ki ve phase a pichhadaa jhukne supply curve of labour.
Overtime pay daron can kaaran majdoor to kaary longer ghanton than they would at a flat hourly rate.
Overtime kanoon, attitudes toward overtime or ghanton of kaary vary greatly from country to country and between different economic sectors.
Visualization of kadi between prishthon on a vik using a force-directed layout.
Force-directed graph aarekhan algorithms hai a class of algorithms liye aarekhan rekhachitr in an aesthetically pleasing way.
Their purpose is to position the nodes of a graph in two-dimensional or three-dimensional space so that all the edges are of more or less equal length and there are as few crossing kinare as sambhavit, by assigning shaktiyaan among the niyat of kinare or the niyat of node, aadhaarit on unke saapeksh sthitiyaan, or tab using ye shaktiyaan either to simulett the gati of the kinare or node or to minimize their energy.
While graph drawing can be a difficult problem, force-directed algorithms, hone shaareerik simulations, praayah aavashyaktaa no khaas gyaan parichay aalekh siddhanth aise as planarity.
Purchasing power ( sometimes retroactively pukaara samyojit liye mahangaai ) is the raashi of goods or sevaayen ki can be purchased with a unit of currency.
For example, if you had taken one dollar to a store in the 1950s, tum hota have maharoom samarth to khride a vrihad kramank of vasteen than tum hota aaj, indicating ki tum hota have tha a vrihad khareednaa shakti in the 1950s.
karency can be either a camodity dhan, like gold or silver, or fiat currency, or free-floating market-valued currency like US dollars.
as aadam smith vikhyath, having dhan detaa ek the kshamta to `` cmand '' anya ' majdoor, so khareednaa shakti to kuch extent is power over other people, to the extent that they are willing to trade their labor or goods for money or currency.
If one 's monetary aay stays the vahi, lakin the daam str increases, the purchasing power of that income falls.
Inflation does not sadaa imply girnaa khareednaa shakti of ek 's dhan aay since it may rise faster than the price level.
A higher real income arthath a ucchtar khareednaa shakti chunki real aay refers to the income adjusted for inflation.
For a price index, its value in the aadhaar saal is praayah samanyikrut to a maan of 100.
The purchasing power of a unit of karency, kah a dollars, in a die saal, expressed in dollar of the aadhaar saal, is 100/p, jahaan p is the daam anukramanika in that year.
So, by definition the purchasing shakti of a dollars decreases as the daam str udai.
The purchasing power in today 's money of an amount c of dhan, t saalo into the bhavishya, can be computed saath the sutara for the present value :
where in is maamla i is an assumed bhavishya annual inflation rate.
Education in South Korea is viewed as being crucial for kamyaabi or pratiyogita is natijatan bahut heated and fierce.
A central administration oversees the process for the education of children from kindergarton to the teesraa or final saal of unchi skool.
Mathematics, science, korian, angrezi, or soshal adhyayan hai generally mana to be the sabase mahatvapurn subjects.
Normally physical education is not considered important as it is not recognised, by the generally academik elitist dakshin korian populace, as shiksha or isliye anek skulon kami high-quality gymnasiums and varsity athletics.
South Korea was the first country in the world to provide high-speed antarjaal abhigam to sab praathmik, junior, or unchi skulon.
Although South Korean students often rank highly on international comparative assessments when compared to vidhyaarthee of sabase pashchimi shiksha pranaaliyon, the dakshin korian shiksha pranali is criticised liye emphasising too much upon passive learning and memorisation.
The dakshin korian shiksha pranali is balki notably sakht or overly sanrachit as compared to its counterparts in most Western societies.
Also, the prevalence of non-school for-profit nijee santhaan aise as acadamiyon or cram-schools ( hagwon [ 학원 ] ), jisase too emphasise on passive memorisation, as opposed to conceptual understanding, in students are criticised as a major social problem.
The My Lai Massacre (, ;,, or ) was the Vietnam War mass murder of between 347 or 504 nihathe nagarikon in dakshin vietnam on kooch 16, 1968, by sanyukt rajya fouj sainiko of `` charlie '' company of 1st batalian, 20th infantry regiment, 11th Brigade of the Americal Division.
Victims shaamil mahilaon, main, children, or infants.
Some of the women were gang-raped and their bodies were later found to be mutilated or anek mahilaon yahood allegedly raped prior to the killings.
While 26 U.S. soldiers were initially charged with criminal offenses for their kriyaayein at mỹ lai, tabhi duusari leftinent wiliam calley, a platoon netaa in charlie company, thi convicted.
mila apradhi of hatya 22 graminon, he thi originally given a life sentence, but only served three and a half years under house arrest.
The massacre took place in the hamlets of my lai or my khe of bete my gaanv.
The event is bhi gyaat as the bete my narsanhaar, visheshkar in the Vietnamese state media.
The U.S. sainya codeword liye the `` viet cong stronghold '' thi `` Pinkville ''.
The ghatana prompted vaishvik aakrosh jab it became public knowledge in 1969.
The massacre also increased gharelu vipaksh to the u.S. bhagidaari in the Vietnam War.
Three U.S. servicemen jo tha aajamaaya to halt the narsanhaar or protect the wounded yahood initially denounced by several U.S. Congressmen as traitors.
They praapt nafrat mail or maut khatre or mila mutilated animals on their doorsteps.
The teen yahood baad widely praised or sajaa by the Army for their heroic actions.
The hijackers in the sitambar 11 hamale yahood 19 main sambhddha saath al-qaeda, or 15 of the 19 were citizens of Saudi Arabia.
Others were from mishra, lebanon, or the UAE.
The hijackers yahood vyavasthit into chaar tiimon, prayek led by a pilot-trained hijacker saath chaar `` mansapeshi hijackers '' jo yahood prashikshit to help subdue the pilots, passengers, and crew.
The first hijackers to arrive in the sanyukt rajya yahood khalid al-mihdhar or nawaf al-hazmi, who settled in the San Diego area in January 2000.
They were followed by teen hijacker-pilots, mohammad atta, marwan al-shehhi, or ziad jarrah jaldi in the garmiyaan of 2000 to undertake udaan prashikshan in south Florida.
The fourth hijacker-pilot, hani hanjour, arrived in san diego in disambar 2000.
The rest of the `` muscle hijackers '' arrived in the vasant or jaldi garmiyaan of 2001, bas maheene pehle the sitambar 11 attacks.
Abū al-Qāsim Muḥammad ibn ʿAbd Allāh ibn ʿAbd al-Muṭṭalib ibn Hāshim ( ) ( circa| 570 – circa| 8 june 632 ), bhi transliterated as mohammad ( ), thi a dharmik, rajnatik, or sainya netaa isse makka jo ekikrut arab into a single religious polity under Islam.
He is believed by Muslims or bahá'ís to be a messanger or nabi of God.
Muhammad is almost universally mana by musalmaan as the pichhlaa nabi bheja by parameshwar for mankind.
non-muslims lihaaz mohammad as the founder of Islam.
Muslims consider him to be the restorer of an anchhue asli monotheistic aasthaa of aadam, nuh, abraham, musa, Jesus, and other prophets.
Born in about 570 CE in the Arabian city of Mecca, he was orphaned at an jaldi aayu or brought up antargat the parvaah of uske taaoo abu talib.
He later worked zyaadaatar as a vyapaaree, as khub as a gadriye, or thi pehla shaadishuda by age 25.
Being in the habit of periodically retreating to a cave in the surrounding mountains for several nights of seclusion and prayer, he later reported ki it thi vahin, at aayu 40, ki he praapt uske pehla rahasyodghatan isse parameshwar.
teen saalo baad is event mohammad prarambh upadesh ye khulaase saream, proclaiming that `` God is One ``, that complete `` surrender '' to Him ( lit.
islām ) is the only way ( dīn ) acceptable to God, and that he himself thi a nabi or messanger of parameshwar, in the vahi rag as anya islamic nabiyon.
Muhammad gained few followers jaldi on, or thi mili saath dushmani isse kuch meccan janajatiyon ; he or his followers were treated harshly.
To escape persecution, mohammad bheja kuch of uske anusarankarta to abisinia pehle he or uske anusarankarta in makka migrated to Medina ( then known as Yathrib ) in the year 622.
This event, the Hijra, marks the shuruuaat of the islamic panchang, jisase is bhi gyaat as the Hijri Calendar.
In Medina, Muhammad united the janajatiyon antargat the samvidhan of madina.
After eight years of fighting with the meccan janajatiyon, uske anusarankarta, jo by tab tha grown to 10,000, took control of makka in the largely peaceful Conquest of Mecca.
He destroyed the pagan idols in the city and then sent his anusarankarta out to nasht sab of the baaki pagan mandiron in purvi arab.
In 632, a few maheene baad returning to madina isse the vidaai yatraaen, Muhammad fell ill and died.
By the samay of uske maut, sabase of the arabian prayadweep tha parivartit to Islam, and he had united Arabia into a single Muslim religious polity.
The khulaase ( or Ayah, lit.
`` Signs [ of God ] '' ) — which Muhammad reported receiving until his death – form the aayatein of the quran, regarded by musalmaan as the `` shabd of parameshwar '' or around jisase the dharm is based.
Besides the Quran, Muhammad 's jivan ( sira ) or paramparaon ( sunnat ) hai bhi upheld by Muslims as the sources of sharia law.
They discuss Muhammad and other nabiyon of islam saath reverence, adding the phrase salaam be upon use whenever their names are mentioned.
While conceptions of mohammad in madhyakaalin christendom or premodern times yahood largely rinatmak, appraisals in modern history have been far less so.
This is a list of tables of the verified oldest logon in the sansar in ordinal rank, aise as oldest vyakti or oldest man.
In these tables, a supercentenarian is considered 'verified ' if his or her claim has been validated by an international body that specifically deals in longevity research, aise as the jaraavidya shodh samooh ( grg ) or ginis sansar record.
The longest unambiguously pralekhith insaan jeevankaal is ki of jeanne Calment of France ( 1875–1997 ), who died at age 122 years, 164 days.
She met vincent vine gogh jab wo thi 12 or 13.
This led to news media dhyaan in 1985, baad calment turned 110.
Subsequent investigation found documentation for Calment 's age, beyond any reasonable sawaal, in the record of uske deshi nagar, arles, frans.
adhik pramaan of calment 's jeevankaal rai maharoom utpaadit than liye koi anya supercentenarian ; uske case serves as an archetype in the methodology for verifying the ages of the world 's oldest people.
The longest undisputed jeevankaal liye purush supercentenarians is ki of jiroemon kimura, jo currently lives in Japan and is age as of.
Since the death of 115-year old Dina Manfredini of the United States, on 17 disambar 2012, kimura, born 19 april 1897, is the oldest jeena vyakti in the sansar jinaki aayu can be documented.
He has also been the oldest jeena man chunki the maut of 114-year boodha walter breuning on 14 april 2011.
Since the death of 115-year boodha koto okubo of japani on 12 janvari 2013, the oldest jeena woman has been -year-old Misao Okawa, also from Japan, born on 5 March 1898.
This is a timeline of the african-american civil adhikaron gati.
The Civil adhikaron gati thi a swatantraaa sangharsh by African Americans in the 1950s and 1960s to gain equality.
The goals of the gati yahood swatantraaa isse pakshpaat, baraabar avasar in niyukti, shiksha or awaas, the sahi to vote or equal access to public facilities.
Heavy metal ( often referred to as metal ) is a genre of rock music ki viksit in the let 1960s or jaldi 1970s, largely in the sanyukt kingdom and in the United States.
With roots in blues rock and cicedelik chattan, the bands ki nirmit baari metal viksit a motaa, vishaal dhwani, characterized by highly amplified distortion, extended guitar solos, emphatic beats, and overall loudness.
Heavy metal lyrics and pradarshan sheliyaan hai generally sambhddha saath mardaangi and machismo.
the pehla baari metal bands aise as led zeppelin, gahan jamuni or blike sabbath aakarshith vishaal audiyans, haalanki ve yahood often derided by critics, a status common throughout the history of the genre.
In the mid-1970s Judas Priest helped spur the genre 's evolution by discarding much of iske bluez influence ; motörhead introduced a pank chattan sensibility or an increasing jor on speed.
Bands in the New Wave of British Heavy metal aise as aayran maiden followed in a samaan vein.
Before the samaapt of the dashak, baari metal prashansak became known as `` metalheads `` or `` headbangers ``.
During the 1980s, glam metal became a vanijyik force saath samooh jaise Mötley Crüe and Poison.
Underground scenes produced an array of more extreme, aggressive styles : thrash metal broke into the mukhyadhara saath bands aise as metalika, megadeth, slayer, or anthrex, jabaki anya sheliyaan of the sabase charam subgenres of metal jaise death metal and black metal remain subcultural phenomena.
Since the mid-1990s, popular styles aise as nu metal, jisase praayah incorporates tatv of grunge or hip hop ; or metalcore, jisase mishranon charam metal saath hardkor pank, have further expanded the definition of the genre.
The far-right ( also known as the charam sahi ) refers to the ucchtam oopaadhi of rightism in right-wing politics.
Far right politics involves support of strong or complete social hierarchy in society, and supports supremacy of certain individuals or samooh deemed to be innately shreshth or astabalon jo hai to be adhik valued than those deemed to be innately avar or avaanchhneeya.
The far right 's advocacy of supremacism is based on what its adherents perceive as swaabhaavik visheshtaayen of logon ki can nahin be badla.
This stands as a point of antar saath the centre-right 's aropan of behaviours, aise as aalasy or decadence, as the primary sources of social inequalities.
the kendra right—unlike the dur right—claims ki logon can samaapt unke behavioural inferiority through changing their habits and choices.
The original far right, which emerged in France after the French Revolution, refused to accept the french ganatantr or samarthit a counter-revolution to restore the French monarchy and aristocracy.
The far right is commonly sambhddha saath vyaktiyon or samooh jo tham charam rashtravaadi, xenophobic, jatvaad, religious fundamentalist or reactionary views.
The most extreme-right movements have dhada daman or narsanhaar viruddh samooh of logon on the aadhaar of their alleged inferiority.
Thomas Hobbes of Malmesbury ( 5 April 1588 – 4 disambar 1679 ), in kuch puraani granth thomas habs of malmsbury, thi an angrezi paras, behtareen gyaat aaj for his work on political philosophy.
His 1651 book Leviathan established the foundation for sabase of pashchimi rajnatik darshanashastra isse the pariprekshya of soshal contract theory.
Hobbes was a champion of absolutism for the sovereign, but he also developed some of the fundamentals of European liberal thought : the right of the individual ; the natural equality of all men ; the artificial character of the political order ( which led to the later distinction between civil samaaj or the rajya ) ; the drishy ki sab legitimate rajnatik shakti jarur be `` pratinidhi '' or aadhaarit on the sahmati of the logon ; or a udaar nirvachan of vidhi jisase pattey logon free to do whatever the vidhi karata nahin explicitly forbid.
He was one of the sansthaapakon of aadhunik rajnatik darshanashastra.
His understanding of humans as being matter and motion, obeying the same physical laws as other matter and motion, remains influential ; and his account of insaan prakruti as self-interested sahyog, or of rajnatik samudaayon as hone aadhaarit upon a `` soshal anubandh `` remains ek of the major topics of political philosophy.
In addition to political philosophy, Hobbes also contributed to a vividh sarani of anya field, sahit itihaas, bhugol, the bhautikee of gaison, dharamshastra, aachaar, or general philosophy.
Emotional intelligence ( EI ) is the ability to identify, assess, or control the bhav of oneself, of others, and of groups.
It can be divided into kshamta ei or trait EI.
Ability EI is usually measured using adhiktam pradarshan pareekshan or rai stronger sambandh saath paramparaagat pragna, whereas trait EI is usually measured using self-report questionnaires and has stronger relationships with personality.
Criticisms have centered on whether ei is a real pragna or whether it rai vriddhishil vaid over IQ and the Big Five personality traits.
Heredity is the passing of traits to aulad isse iske abhibhavak or purvaj.
This is the process by which an aulad koshika or sajiv acquires or becomes predisposed to the visheshtaayen of its parent cell or organism.
Through heredity, variations exhibited by individuals can accumulate or kaaran kuch prajati to evolve.
The study of anuvanshikta in jeevigyaan is pukaara anuvanshiki, jisase shaamil the field of epigenetics.
For United States individual aay kar, samyojit sakal aay ( agi ) is kul sakal aay minus specific reductions.
Taxable income is samyojit sakal aay rin bhatton liye nijee chhuton and itemized deductions.
For most individual tax purposes, agi is adhik praasangik than sakal income.
Gross income is sales price of goods or property, rin laagat of the property bechi, plus other income.
It includes wages, byaaj, dividends, kaarobaar aay, rental aay, or sab other types of income.
Adjusted gross income is gross income less deductions from a kaarobaar or rental kaaryaklap or 21 anya vishisht vasteen.
Several deductions ( e.g. chikitsa kharch or vividh itemized deductions ) hai simit aadhaarit on a percentage of AGI.
Certain phase outs, including those of lower kar daron or itemized deductions, hai aadhaarit on str of agi.
Many states base state income tax on agi saath nishchit deductions.
`` Lazy Eye '' is the teesraa single isse silversun pickups ' debyue album Carnavas.
The band performed the song on the Late Show with David letterman, the tonight dikhaaen saath jay lino, baad saath jools Holland, and Last Call with Carson Daly.
the song is a playable track on chattan Band 2 and Guitar Hero : World Tour.
An alternate version of the song, saath a lambaai of 7:27, thi nibhaai on xmu pehle the shorter sanskaran thi played on FM and other XM channels.
This version was featured on their demo cd ( jisase pradarshit jaldi sanskaran of chaar tracks ).
A telephone prefix is the first set of digits of a telephone kramank ; in the uttar amareeki kramakan yojana deshon ( desh code 1 ), it is the pehla teen ank of a seven-digit phone number.
In other deshon dono the upsarg or the kramank may have different lengths.
It shows jisase exange the baaki sankhyaayein refer to.
A full telephone number is usually made up of country code ( jaruri liye antarrashtriya kals tabhi ), kshetrafal code ( jaruri liye kals between telephone kshetron ), upsarg, and subscriber number.
Some places simit nishchit prefixes to fax sankhyaayein or koshika phone tabhi ; in anya sthaan such dedicated prefixes are not used.
As telephone praudyogiki unnat, the precise significance of the upsarg became dhundhala in anek sthaan ; 485 in landan, uk, thi ekbar the gulliver exange, but now 44207485xxxx is just considered one of many number blocks served by the CLKEN Kentish Town exchange ; 4420770703xx is another.
Metformin ( BP, sunaaya, ; originally bechi as glucophage ) is an maukhik antidiabetic drug in the biguanide class.
It is the first-line drug of choice for the treatment of type 2 madhumeh, in particular, in overweight or mote logon or those with normal kidney function.
iske upyog in garbhakalin madhumeh has been limited by safety concerns.
It is also used in the treatment of polycystic ovary syndrome, or rai maharoom investigated liye anya rogon jahaan insulin pratirodh may be an important factor.
Metformin works by suppressing glucose utpaadan by the liver.
Metformin is the only antidiabetic drug that has maharoom conclusively dikhaaya to prevent the cardiovascular complications of diabetes.
It helps reduce ldl cholestrol or triglyceride str, or is nahin associated with weight gain.
, metformin is one of only two oral antidiabetics in the sansar swasthya sanghathan model suchi of anivaary davaaiyaan ( the other being glibenclamide ).
When prescribed appropriately, metformin causes few pratikul prabhaav ( the sabase aam is jathrantra pareshaan ) or is sambhddha saath a kam risk of hypoglycemia.
Lactic acidosis ( a buildup of lactate in the blood ) can be a serious chintaa in overdose or jab it is vihit to logon saath contraindications, lakin varanaa, there is no significant risk.
First synthesized and found to reduce blood sugar in the 1920s, metformin thi forgotten liye the aglaa do dashakon as shodh shifted to insulin or anya antidiabetic drugs.
Interest in metformin was rekindled in the late 1940s after several reports ki it could reduce rakt sugar str in logon, or in 1957, french chikitsak jaan sterne prakashit the pehla naidanik vichaaran of metformin as a treatment for diabetes.
it thi introduced to the sanyukt kingdom in 1958, Canada in 1972, and the United States in 1995.
Metformin is now believed to be the sabase widely vihit antidiabetic drug in the sansar ; in the sanyukt rajya alon, adhik than 48 lakh prescriptions were filled in 2010 for its generic formulations.
The Mount Rushmore National Memorial is a sculpture carved into the granite face of mount rushmore nikat keystone, dakshin dakota, in the sanyukt rajya.
sculpted by danish-american gutzon borglum or uske bete, lincoln borglum, mount rushmore suvidhaayen sculptures of the heads of chaar sanyukt rajya raashtrapatiyon : George Washington, Thomas Jefferson, Theodore Roosevelt and Abraham Lincoln.
the sampurna memorial cover or is upar sea level.
The tallest pahaad in the pradesh is Harney Peak ( ).
South Dakota historian Doane Robinson is credited with conceiving the idea of carving the likenesses of prasiddh logon into the blike pahadiyaan pradesh of dakshin dakota in anukram to prachaar paryaton in the region.
Robinson 's initial vichaar thi to sculpt the needles ; however, gutzon borglum asweekrut the needles site because of the poor quality of the granite and strong opposition from environmentalists and Native American groups.
They settled on the Mount Rushmore location, which also has the laabh of facing southeast liye adhiktam surya expozar.
Robinson wanted it to feature western heroes like Lewis and Clark, Red badal or bhens vidheyak kodi lakin borglum decided the murtikla chahie have a adhik neshnal fokas, or chose the chaar raashtrapatiyon jinaki likenesses would be carved into the mountain.
After securing federal funding, nirmaan on the memorial began in 1927, or the raashtrapatiyon ' faces were completed between 1934 and 1939.
Upon Gutzon borglum 's maut in kooch 1941, uske bete lincoln borglum took over construction.
Although the initial concept called for each president to be chitrit isse sir to qamar, kami of funding majaboor nirmaan to end in late October 1941.
The U.S. National Park Service took control of the memorial in 1933, jabaki it thi still antargat nirmaan, or has managed the memorial to the present day.
It attracts nearly teen lakh logon annually.
Charvet dress shirt isse the 1930s, norsk folkemuseum, Oslo.
A shirt, dress shirt, button-front, button-front shirt, or button-up kameez is a paridhaan saath a collar, a full-length kholane at the saamne isse the collar to the hem, and sleeves with cuffs.
Shirts are predominantly prayukt by main, chunki women usually wear blouses.
The saamne kholane is fastened using batan or studs, or the cuffs close with buttons or cuff links.
shart hai saamanytah bana isse woven cloth, or hai praayah accompanied by a jacket or taai, liye example with a suit or formalwear, but shirts are also worn more casually.
In British English, poshaak kameez arthath specifically the adhik aupchaarik sandhya paridhaan worn saath black- or white- taai, bhi discussed below.
Some of these formal shart have stiff fronts or detachable chhallon attached with collar studs.
The term `` button-down '' ( which refers a type of shirt which has a collar fastened bas by batan ) is sometimes prayukt in galati to lagu to sab shart ( saath or bagaiyr buttoned bas chhallon ), hone prayukt as a paryaay liye `` button-up '' or `` button-front ''.
Administrative Professionals Day ( also known as Secretaries Day or Admin din ) is an unofficial dharmanirpeksh avkaash observed in anek deshon to recognize the kaary of secretaries, prashasnic assistants, receptionists, and other administrative support professionals.
In uttar america, it is manaaye on the buudhvaar of the last full week of April ( April 24 in 2013 ).
In France it is celebrated on the teesraa guuruuvaar in april ( april 18 in 2013 ).
In Australia it is manaaye on the pehla shuukravaar in May
dhamaakedaar can be:
akkhad dhamaakedaar
dhamaakaa bhatti
chattan dhamaakedaar
Nicolas Poussin ( ; 15 June 1594 – 19 November 1665 ) was the leading painter of the classical french barok style, haalanki he kharch sabase of uske working jivan in Rome.
His work is characterized by spashtataa, logic, or anukram, and favors line over color.
Until the 20th century he remained a pramukh prerana liye aise classically unmukh kalakaaron as jacques-louis daud, Jean-Auguste-Dominique Ingres and Paul Cézanne.
He worked in Rome for a circle of leading collectors there and elsewhere, magar liye a choti kaal jab cardinal richalu ordered use waapas to frans to serve as First Painter to the King.
sabase of uske works hai itihaas paintings of dharmik or mythological subjects that very often have a large landscape element.
Jackie Keith Whitley ( July 1, 1954Stambler, Irwin, and Grelun Landon ( 2000 ). - Country Music : The Encyclopedia. - New York : St. Martin 's Press. - p.533. - ISBN 978-0-312-26487-1.—Carlin, Richard ( 2003 ). - Country Music : A Biographical Dictionary. - New York : Routledge - p.427. - ISBN 978-0-415-93802-0.—Larkin, Colin ( 1995 ). - The Guinness Encyclopedia of Popular Music. - New York : Stockton Press - P.4462. - ISBN 978-0-85112-662-3.—Stanton, Scott ( 2003 ). - The Tombstone Tourist : Musicians. - New york : jeb kitabe. - p.395. - isbn 978-0-7434-6330-0.—hicks, joker. - `` singer kaith whitley 's memory jinda through geeton, prem in ghar kasbaa ''. - the kentki post. - sitambar 25, 1991.— '' desh music star kaith whitley murde at 33 ''. - lexington herald-leader. - may 10, 1989.——hurst, joker. - `` whitley 's pichhlaa dinon ''. - chicago tribune. - may 14, 1989.— '' daaru martha desh singer kaith whitley ''. - sanyukt dabaayen antarrashtriya. - ( c/o the san francisco vrittant ). - may 10, 1989. — May 9, 1989 ), known professionally as Keith Whitley, was an American country music singer.
Whitley 's bread kariyar in mukhyadhara desh music lasted isse 1984 jabatak uske maut in 1989, but he continues to influence an entire generation of singers and songwriters.
he charted 19 singles on the billboard desh chart, sahit paanch lagaataar kramank ones : `` do n't band apana ankhen ``, `` jab tum kah nothing at sab ``, `` i 'm no ajanabi to the barsaat ``, `` i achraj Do You Think of Me `` and `` It Ai n't Nothin ' `` ( the last two posthumously ).
statute of grand duchy of Lithuania, written in Polish
A statute is a aupchaarik likhaa enactment of a vidhaan praadhikaar ki governs a state, city, or county.
Typically, statutes command or prohibit kuch, or ghoshit policy.
The word is often prayukt to fark vidhi bana by vidhaan laashen isse maamla vidhi, decided by courts, and regulations issued by government agencies.
statutes hai sometimes referred to as vidhaan or `` black letter law. ''
As a sorce of vidhi, statutes hai mana praathmik praadhikaar ( as opposed to secondary authority ).
Ideally all statutes jarur be in saamanjasy saath the aadharbhoot law of the land ( constitutional ).
is shabd is prayukt in contradistinction to the common law.
Statutes acquire their force isse the samay of unke dyodhi, however jabatak otherwise provided.
statutes hai of anek kinds ; namely, Public or private.
declaratory or remedial.
asthai or perpetual.
A temporary statute is ek jisase is simit in iske duration at the time of its enactment.
It continues in force jabatak the samay of iske limitation rai samaapt, jabatak sooner repealed.
A perpetual statute is ek liye the firaakar of jisase vahin is no simit samay, haalanki it may not be expressly declared to be so.
If, however, a statute which did not itself contain any limitation is to be governed by another jisase is asthai tabhi, the former will also be temporary and dependent upon the existence of the latter.
Before a statute becomes law in some countries, it must be sahamat upon by the ucchtam karypalika in the sarkari, or aakhirkaar prakashit as part of a code.
In many countries, statutes are organized in topical intjaam ( or `` samhitabaddh '' ) bheetar publications pukaara code, aise as the United States Code.
In many raashtra statutory vidhi is vishisht isse or adhinsth to constitutional law.
The external iliac arteries are two major arteries jisase bifurcate band the aam iliac dhamniyon agravarti to the sacroiliac sanyukt of the pelvis.
ve proceed agravarti or avar saath the medial border of the psoas major muscles.
They exit the pelvic girdle posterior or avar to the vankshan snaayu parichay ek teesraa laterally isse the pravisht point of the vankshan ligament on the pubic tubercle at which point they are referred to as the femoral arteries.
The external iliac artery is usually the dhamni prayukt to sanlagn the renal dhamni to the praptakarta of a kidney transplant.
Steam is a digital distribution, digital rights prabandhan, ekaadhik or sanchaar manch viksit by valve nigam.
It is used to distribute games and sambandhit media online, isse choti swatantra develper to larger tantra gharon ; in aktubar 2012, valve vistaarit the seva to include non-gaming software.
Steam provides the user with installation and automatic management of tantra aarpaar anek computer, jatiyaan suvidhaayen aise as mitron suchiyaan or samooh, badal chhayankan, or in-game awaz or gapshap functionality.
The software provides a freely available application programming interface, Steamworks, that developers can take advantage of to integrate many of Steam 's functions within their software products, sahit nakal suraksha, netwarking or matchmaking, in-game uplabdhiyaan or micro-transactions, or support liye user-created saamagree through bhaap kaaryshaala.
Though initially developed for use on Microsoft khidkiyaan, the claayent rai vistaarit to shaamil os x or linaks sanskaran, or client saath simit kaaryakshmata on the plastesan 3 console and for both iOS and Android mobile devices.
In addition to being a central hub for gaming software, valve rai nirmit a sanskaran of bhaap saath altered kaaryakshmata to be prayukt in skulon for educational software, including a modified version of Portal 2 for teaching science and critical thinking lessons.
, there are nearly 2000 games available through bhaap, or 54 lakh kriyasheel user accounts.
As of January 2013, bhaap rai dekhi over 6.6 lakh sanyukt players.
Steam has an anumaanit 50–70 % share of the digital vitaran market for video games.
The Steam logo is a stylised left-side fly-crank or lathi isse the walschaerts valve gear of a bhaap locomotive.
Jerry Lewis ( born March 16, 1926 ) is an amareeki hasya, karta, singer, film producer, screenwriter and film director.
He is known for his slapstick humar in filmi, television, stage or radio.
He was originally yugma up saath dean martin in 1946, forming the famed kamedi toli of Martin and Lewis.
In addition to the duo 's popular nightclub work, ve strecchar in a kaamyaab shrenee of kamedi films for Paramount Pictures.
Lewis is also known for his charity fund-raising telethons and sthiti as neshnal adhyaksh liye the muscular dystrophy sangh ( MDA ).
Lewis has won several awards for lifetime achievements from the amareeki kamedi puraskaar, los angeles filmi aalochakon sangh, or venice filmi parv, and he has two stars on the Hollywood Walk of Fame.
In 2005, he received the rajyapalon puraskaar of the academy of television kala & sciences falak of Governors, which is the highest Emmy Award presented.
On February 22, 2009, the academy of gati chitra kala or sciences awarded louis the Jean Hersholt Humanitarian Award.
The Rhine ( ; ; ) is a European river that runs from the Swiss canton of Grisons in the southeastern Swiss Alps through Germany and eventually flows into the uttar samudr coast in the netherlands or is the barahavin longest nadi in europea, at parichay, saath an ausat nirvahan of adhik than.
The rin or the denube formed sabase of the uttari antardeshiy frontier of the roman samrajya or, chunki those dinon, the Rhine has been a vital and navigable waterway carrying trade and goods deep inland.
It has also served as a rakshaatmak visheshta or rai maharoom the aadhaar liye kshetreey or international borders.
The many castles and pragaitihaasik fortifications saath the rin gavaahi to its importance as a waterway.
River traffic could be roka at ye sthitiyaan, praayah liye the purpose of collecting tolls, by the state that controlled that portion of the river.
Sri ( sinhalai )
Sri ( Devanagari : shri, IAST ; Śrī ), bhi transliterated as sree or shri or shri is a shabd of sanskrit utpatti, prayukt in the bhartiya upmahadweep as vinamr rup of pataa equivalent to the English `` Mr. '' in written and spoken language, or as a title of veneration for deities ( usually translated as `` Holy '' ).
Design of complex structures like the antarrashtriya spes stesan needs in-depth samajhnaa of sanrachanaatmak vishleshan.
Civil engineering is a professional engineering discipline that deals with the design, construction, and maintenance of the shaareerik or naturally nirmit paryaavaran, sahit works jaise sadaken, pulon, naharon, dams, or buildings.
Civil engineering is the oldest engineering discipline after sainya abhiyantriki, or it thi paribhaashit to fark non-military abhiyantriki isse sainya abhiyantriki.
It is traditionally broken into several sub-disciplines including environmental abhiyantriki, bhootkneekee abhiyantriki, bhubhautikee, bhuganit, control abhiyantriki, sanrachanaatmak abhiyantriki, biomechanics, nanotechnology, parivahan abhiyantriki, dharti vigyaan, vayumandaleey sciences, forensic abhiyantriki, nagarpalika or shahari abhiyantriki, jal resources engineering, materials engineering, coastal engineering, surveying, and construction engineering.
Civil engineering takes place on all levels : in the public sector isse nagarpalika through to neshnal sarkarein, or in the nijee sector isse vyaktigat homeowners through to international companies.
Katherine dunham in teevr revue
catherine dunham in studio
catherine dunham in teevr punarvilokan teevr Review, Martin Beck Theatre
catherine dunham wearing nrity costume
catherine dunham in Cumbia
Katherine Dunham ( June 22, 1909 – May 21, 2006 ) thi an amareeki nartki, koreographer, lekhak, educator, and social activist.
Dunham had one of the most successful dance careers in American and European theatre of the 20th sadi, or nirdeshit uske apana nrity company for many years.
wo rai maharoom pukaara the `` matriarch or maharani maan of black dance ''.
During her heyday in the 1940s and 1950s, Dunham was prasiddh throughout europea or latin america or thi widely lokapriy in the sanyukt rajya, jahaan the washington Post called her `` dancer Katherine the Great ''.
For almost thirty years she maintained the Katherine Dunham nrity company, the tabhi self-supported amareeki blike nrity troupe at ki samay, and over her long career she choreographed more than ninety individual dances.
Dunham thi an innovator in african-american aadhunik nrity as khub as a netaa in the field of dance anthropology, or ethnochoreology.
Sphagnum is a genus of between 1510 and 3500 species of mosses, commonly pukaara peat moss due to iske vyapaktaa in geela habitats jahaan it contributes to the formation of peat bogs and mires.
Sphagnum accumulations can store jal, chunki dono jeena or murde paudhe can tham vishaal quantities of jal andar unke koshikaayen ; plants may hold from 16-26 times as much water as their dry weight depending on the species.
The empty cells help retain jal in drier sharten.
Hence, as sphagnum moss grows, it can dhire sprad into drier sharten, forming larger peatlands, both raised bogs and blanket bogs.
These peat accumulations then provide awaas liye a chaudee sarani of peatland paudhe, sahit sedges and ericaceous shrubs, as well as orchids and carnivorous plants.
Sphagnum and the peat formed isse it do nahin kshay readily kuki of the phenolic yogicon antahsthapit in the moss 's cell walls.
In addition, bogs, like all wetelends, develop avayaviya mrudaa sharten, jisase produces dhimaa avayaviya kshay balki than aerobic microbial action.
Peat moss can also acidify its parivesh by lene up cations, aise as calcium or magnesium, or releasing hydrogen ions.
Under the sahi sharten, peat can accumulate to a depth of many meters.
alag prajati of sphagnum have alag sahishnutaa had for flooding and pH, so any one peatland may have a number of different Sphagnum species.
Individual peat moss plants consist of a pramukh stem, saath tightly arranged cluster of shakha fascicles praayah consisting of do or three spreading branches and two to four hanging branches.
The top of the plant, or capitulum, rai compact cluster of young branches.
saath the stem hai bikhare pattey of vibhinn aakaar, namit stem pattey ; the shape varies according to species.
The pattey consist of do kinds of koshikaayen ; choti, green, jeena koshikaayen ( chlorophyllose cells ), and large, clear, structural, dead cells ( hyaline cells ).
the latter have the large water-holding capacity.
The earliest version of the sanjaal card, jari hastchalit balki than through an APTIS machine.
the pehla aptis sanskaran of the Network Card.
This was used from the start of the APTIS era in 1986/1987 jabatak khub into the 1990s, as stox tha to be prayukt up despite the parichay of the new-look orange-banded version in 1991.
The introduction of the weekday minimum fare condition in 2002 resulted in a naaballig badalen : the red `` r '' shows ki is is the `` Revised '' version of the railcard.
This version is still in upyog as of 2007.
The Network Railcard is a discount card introduced in 1986 by angrejon rail, upon the sristi of unke sanjaal southeast area around London, England.
The card is intended to encourage leisure travel by rail by offering discounts liye vayaskon or accompanying children on a chaudee dayera of off-peak kiraye.
The range of discounts available, and the price of the card, have varied chunki ki samay, lakin the card rai sadaa maharoom maanya liye a saal 's aseemit use.
It can be purchased by any person aged 16 or over from any staffed National Rail station or rail niyukt safar agent, by completing an anuprayog rup - no photographic pahchaan or anya dastavezikaran is needed to buy or use the card.
It is one of a number of concessionary kiraaya yojanaayen uplabdhiyaan on the angrejon railway system.
The United Nations ( UN ; French : sanghathan des raashtra unies, onu ) is the sansar 's largest, foremost, or most prominent international organization.
The stated aims of the United Nations include promoting and facilitating sahyog in antarrashtriya vidhi, antarrashtriya suraksha, aarthik vikaas, soshal pragati, insaan adhikaron, civil adhikaron, civil liberties, rajnatik freedoms, democracy, and the achievement of lasting world peace.
The UN was founded in 1945 after World War ii to badalen the lig of raashtra, to roke yudhon between deshon, or to provide a manch for dialogue.
it contains anek subsidiary sanghathan to carry out its missions.
At its founding, the un tha 51 sadsy rajya ; as of 2011, there are 193.
From its offices around the world, the UN and its specialized agenciyon decide on satya or prashasnic mudde in niyamit baithak yojit throughout the year.
The organization has six principal organs : the General Assembly ( the main deliberative assembly ) ; the suraksha parishad ( liye deciding nishchit rizolution liye salaam or suraksha ) ; the aarthik or soshal parishad ( liye assisting in promoting antarrashtriya aarthik or soshal sahyog or vikaas ) ; the sachivalay ( liye providing adhyayan, soochna, or suvidhaayen needed by the UN ) ; the International Court of Justice ( the primary judicial organ ) ; and the United Nations Trusteeship Council ( which is currently inactive ).
Other prominent un pranali agenciyon shaamil the sansar swasthya sanghathan ( jo ), the World Food Programme ( WFP ) and United Nations Children 's Fund ( UNICEF ).
The UN 's most prominent position is that of the office of secretary-general jisase rai maharoom yojit by bain ki-moon of dakshin Korea since 2007.
The sanyukt raashtra mukhyalay resides in antarrashtriya territory in nai york nagar, saath further main offices at Geneva, Nairobi, and Vienna.
The organization is financed from assessed or voluntary yogadan isse iske sadsy rajya, or rai chah aadhikarik bhashaaen : Arabic, Chinese, English, French, Russian, and Spanish.
South Beach, also nicknamed SoBe, is a neighborhood in the city of Miami bich, florida, sanyukt rajya, stith due east of miami nagar uchit between biscayne khadi or the atlantic Ocean.
The kshetrafal encompasses sab of the avrodh islands of Miami Beach south of Indian Creek.
This area was the first section of Miami Beach to be developed, starting in the 1910s, dhanyavad to the vikaas praytn of karl G. fisher, the lummus bhaaiyo, or jon S. colins, the latter jinaki nirmaan of the colins sethu provided the pehla vital jameen link between mainland Miami and the beaches.
The area has gone through numerous artificial and prakritik parivartan over the saalo, sahit a booming kshetreey arthvyavastha, increased tourism, and the 1926 hurricane, which destroyed much of the area.
As of 2010, parichay 39,186 nivaasiyon sajiv in South Beach.
The United States presidential election of 1960 was the 44th quadrennial adhyakshiya chunaav, yojit on mangalvaar, navambar 8, 1960.
The Republican Party manonith laazim vice-president richard nicksan, jabaki the loktantric party manonith John F. Kennedy, Senator from Massachusetts.
The incumbent President, Republican Dwight D. Eisenhower, was not eligible for re-election baad sevarat the adhiktam do sharten anumat by the twenty-second amendment.
Kennedy was nirvaachit saath a sise of 112,827 mat, or 0.17 % of the lokapriy vote, giving use a vijay of 303 to 219 in the Electoral College, the closest since 1916.
This was the first chunaav in jisase sab pachaas of the vartmaan sanyukt rajya participated.
a kramank of karkon bataaiye kyon the election was so close.
Kennedy gained since vahin thi an aarthik mandi jisase thes the laazim republican, or he had the advantage of 17 million more registered Democrats than Republicans.
Furthermore, the new votes that Kennedy gained among catholics lagbhag neutralized the nai mat nicksan gained among protestants.
kennedy 's campaigning kaushal decisively outmatched Nixon 's.
In the end, Nixon 's jor on uske anubhav carried choti vazan, or he wasted urja by campaigning in all 50 states instead of concentrating on the swing states.
Kennedy prayukt uske vishaal, well-funded abhiyaan sanghathan to jeet the namakan, surakshit samarthan, or, saath the sahaayta of the last of the big-city bosses, to get out the vote in the big cities.
He relied on kaaryshil mate lyndon B. johnson to tham the dakshin or used television effectively.
This election is notable as being the first time in U.S. itihaas ki do baithe u.s. seenetteron ( kennedy or johnson ) yahood nirvaachit as adhyaksh or vice-president, a ghatana ki rai maharoom doharaaya once, by Barack Obama and Joe Biden in 2008 ( in both cases, the president was the younger, more junior senator ).
A poster for a c. 1884 amareeki utpaadan of makebeth, abhinit thomas W. keene.
Depicted, counter clockwise isse top-left, hai : makebeth or banquo milen the witches ; bas baad the murder of Duncan ; Banquo 's ghost ; Macbeth duels Macduff ; and Macbeth.
Macbeth is a play likhaa by wiliam shakespeare.
It is considered ek of uske darkest or sabase shaktishaalee tragedies.
niyat in scotland, the khel dramatizes the corroding manovaigyanik or rajnatik prabhaav utpaadit jab its protagonist, the Scottish lord Macbeth, chooses evil as the way to fulfill his ambition for power.
He commits regicide to become king and then furthers his moral descent with a reign of murderous aatank to raho in shakti, aakhirkaar plunging the desh into civil yuddh.
In the samaapt, he loses sabakuch ki detaa arth or purpose to uske life before losing his life itself.
The play is believed to have been likhaa between 1603 or 1607, or is sabase commonly dinaak 1606.
The earliest account of a pradarshan of kayaa thi sambhawatah shakespeare 's khel is april 1611, jab simon forman ankit seeing such a play at the Globe Theatre.
It was first published in the folio of 1623, sambhawatah from a prompt book.
It was most likely written during the reign of James i, jo tha maharoom james vi of scotland pehle he succeeded to the angrezi singhaasana in 1603.
James was a patron of Shakespeare’s acting company, and of all the plays Shakespeare likhaa dauraan james’s shasankaal, makebeth sabase clearly reflects the playwright’s sambandh saath the sovereign.
Macbeth is Shakespeare’s shortest tragedy, or tells the story of a vir scottish saamaanya namit makebeth jo receives a prophecy isse a tikdi of witches that one day he will become King of Scotland.
Consumed by mahatvakanksha or spurred to karrwai by uske bivi, makebeth hatyaein king dancan or takes the throne for himself.
His shasankaal is racked saath guilt or paranoia, or he jald becomes a tyrannical ruler as he is forced to commit more and more murders to protect himself from enmity and suspicion.
The bloodbath swiftly takes Macbeth and mahila makebeth into realms of arrogance, deewangi, or death.
Shakespeare 's source for the tragedy is the khaataa of king makebeth of scotland, macduff, or dancan in holinshed 's chronicals ( 1587 ), a itihaas of england, scotland or ireland parichit to shakespeare or uske contemporaries, although the events in the play differ extensively from the history of the real Macbeth.
In the backstage world of theatre, kuch maananaa ki the khel is shaapit, or hoga nahin zikr iske sheershak aloud, referring to it instead as `` the Scottish play ``.
Over the course of many centuries, the khel rai aakarshith kuch of the sabase prasiddh abhinaytaon to the roles of Macbeth and Lady Macbeth.
It has been adapted to film, television, opera, novels, comic kitabe, and other media.
The Milton Hershey School is a private paropkaaree ( pre-k through 12 ) boarding skool in hershey, pencilvenia.
Originally named the Hershey Industrial skool, the sanstha thi santhaapit or vittposhit by chocolate udyogpati milton snavely hershey or uske bivi, catherine Sweeney Hershey.
The school was originally established for impoverished, swasth, caucasian, purush anaath, jabaki aaj it serves vidhyaarthee of vibhinn prishthbhumi.
The milton hershey skool vishwaas, jisase nidhi the skool, owns controlling byaaj in the hershey company or owns the hershey entertainment and Resorts Company ( HERCO ) which oversees many of the area hotels along with a theme park called Hersheypark.
With over six billion dollars in assets, the Milton hershey skool is ek of the wealthiest skulon in the sansar.
The school is overseen by a falak of Managers.
The school philhal serves 1,818 vidhyaarthee, or yojanaayen to grow to 2,100 vidhyaarthee by 2013.
A member of CORE : Coalition for awasaiya shiksha, it is the largest awasaiya shiksha program in the US.
Epub may refer to:
EPUB, a free or kholen e-book maanak
Electronic aalekh, aalekh in scholarly jarnals or magazine ki can be pahunchaa via electronic transmission
The Controlled Substances Act ( CSA ) was enacted into vidhi by the congress of the sanyukt rajya as sheershak ii of the vyapak drug Abuse Prevention and Control Act of 1970.
The CSA is the federal U.S. drug policy under which the manufacture, importation, kabza, upyog or vitaran of nishchit substances is regulated.
The Act also parosa as the neshnal implementing vidhaan liye the single sammelan on Narcotic Drugs.
The legislation created five Schedules ( classifications ), saath varying yogyata liye a padaarth to be shaamil in each.
Two federal agencies, the Drug Enforcement Administration and the Food and Drug Administration, determine which substances are added to or removed from the various schedules, though the statute passed by congress nirmit the aarambhik listing, or congress rai sometimes anusuchit anya substances through vidhaan aise as the hillory J. farias or samantha reid date-rape rokthaam adhinium of 2000, jisase lagaai gamma hydroxybutyrate in anusuchee i. vargeekaran decisions are required to be made on criteria including potential for abuse ( an undefined term ), currently accepted medical use in treatment in the United States, and international treaties.
Second-language acquisition or second-language siikhnaa is the prakram by jisase logon sikh a second language.
Second-language acquisition ( often abbreviated to sla ) bhi refers to the vaigyanik anushaasan devoted to studying that process.
Second language refers to any language learned in addition to a vyakti 's pehla bhashaa ; haalanki the avadharana is namit second-language adhigrahan, it can bhi charitaarth the learning of third, fourth, or subsequent languages.
second-language adhigrahan refers to kayaa learners do ; it does not refer to practices in language teaching.
The academic discipline of second-language adhigrahan is a subdiscipline of applied linguistics.
It is broad-based and relatively new.
As well as the various branches of bhashavigyaan, second-language adhigrahan is bhi closely sambandhit to manovigyaan, cognitive psychology, and education.
To separate the academic discipline from the learning process itself, the terms second-language adhigrahan shodh, second-language adhyayan, or second-language adhigrahan adhyayan are also used.
SLA research began as an interdisciplinary field, or kuki of is it is mushkil to pahachaano a precise starting date.
However, it karata appear to have viksit a great saude chunki the mid-1960s.
The term acquisition was originally used to emphasize the avchetan prakruti of the siikhnaa prakram, lakin in haal saalo siikhnaa or acquisition have become largely synonymous.
Second-language acquisition can incorporate viraasat bhashaa siikhnaa, lakin it karata nahin usually incorporate bilingualism.
Most SLA researchers see bilingualism as hone the samaapt parinaam of siikhnaa a bhashaa, nahin the prakram itself, or dekhie the pad as referring to native-like fluency.
Writers in fields such as shiksha or manovigyaan, however, praayah upyog bilingualism loosely to refer to all forms of multilingualism.
Second-language acquisition is also not to be contrasted with the acquisition of a foreign language ; rather, the learning of second bhashaaen or the siikhnaa of videshi bhashaaen involve the vahi aadharbhoot prakriyaaon in alag halatas..
There has been much bahes parichay exactly kaisaa bhashaa is siikhe, or anek issues are still unresolved.
There are many theories of second-language acquisition, but none hai sweekrut as a puraa spashtikaran by sab sla shodhakartaaon.
Due to the interdisciplinary nature of the field of second-language adhigrahan, is is nahin apekshit to happen in the foreseeable future.
forbs suchi of arbapatiyon is an salanaa ranking of the sansar 's wealthiest logon, compiled or prakashit by Forbes, an American national business magazine.
the kul jaal laayak of prayek vyaktigat on the suchi is estimated, in United States dollars, based on their assets and accounting for debt.
The list only represents each person 's valuation on a single din, due to rose fluctuations among exange daron or bhandar valuations.
The sanyukt rajya rahasy seva is a u.S. sangheey vidhi pravartan agency that is part of the United States Department of Homeland Security.
the sworn sadasyon hai vibhajit among the khaas agenton and the Uniformed Division.
Until March 1, 2003, the seva thi bhaag of the sanyukt rajya vibhaag of the Treasury.
The U.S. rahasy seva rai do pruthak areas of responsibility:
Financial Crimes, covering missions such as prevention and chaanbin of counterfeiting of u.S. karency or u.S. rajkosh pratibhuti, and investigation of major fraud.
Protection, which entails ensuring the safety of current and former national leaders or unke pariwaron, aise as the adhyaksh, past raashtrapatiyon, vaais raashtrapatiyon, adhyakshiya ummidavaar, visiting heads of rajya, or videshi embassies ( per an agreement with the U.S. State Department 's Bureau of Diplomatic Security ( DS ) Office of Foreign Missions ( OFM ), etc. )
The rahasy seva 's aarambhik jimmedaari thi to investigate counterfeiting of u.S. karency, which was rampant following the U.S. Civil War.
The agency tab viksit into the sanyukt rajya ' pehla gharelu pragna or counterintelligence agency.
Many of the agency 's missions were later taken over by subsequent agencies such as the Federal Bureau of Investigation ( FBI ), beuro of daaru, tambaaku, firearms or visphotak ( atf ), avrajan or custom pravartan ( barf ), or aatanrik Revenue Service ( IRS ).
`` Me and Bobby McGee '' is a song likhaa by kris kristofferson or fred foster, originally performed by Roger Miller.
Others performed the song later, including Kristofferson himself, and Janis Joplin who topped the U.S. singles chart with the song in 1971 after uske maut, bananaa the song the duusari posthumous number-one single in u.S. chart itihaas baad `` ( sittin ' on ) the dock of the khadi `` by Otis Redding.
Franklin Delano Roosevelt ( or ; janvari 30, 1882 – april 12, 1945 ), bhi gyaat by uske adyakshar, fdr, thi the 32nd adhyaksh of the sanyukt rajya ( 1933–1945 ) or a central figure in sansar kaarykram dauraan the mid-20th century, leading the United States during a time of worldwide economic depression and total war.
A dominant leader of the loktantric party or the tabhi amareeki adhyaksh nirvaachit to adhik than do sharten, he nirmit a nai saude gathbandhan ki realigned amareeki raajnneeti baad 1932, as uske gharelu policies defined American liberalism for the middle third of the 20th century.
With the bouncy popular song `` prasann dinon hai yahan again `` as uske abhiyaan theme, fdr parajeet incumbent Republican Herbert Hoover in November 1932, at the depth of the Great Depression.
Energized by his personal victory over polio, FDR 's unfailing ashavad or sakriyata contributed to a naveekaran of the neshnal spirit.
He worked closely with British Prime Minister Winston Churchill and Soviet General Secretary Joseph stallin in agrani the allies viruddh germany or japani in sansar yuddh ii, or restoring samruddhi to the swadesh 's economy.
In his first hundred days in daftar, jisase began kooch 4, 1933, rujvelt pathpradarshan pramukh vidhaan or jari a profusion of karypalika aadesh ki instituted the nai saude —a kismein of kaarykram designed to upaj raahat ( sarkari kaary for the unemployed ), recovery ( economic growth ), and reform ( through regulation of Wall Street, banks and transportation ).
The economy improved rapidly isse 1933 to 1937, lakin tab relapsed into a deep recession.
The bipartisan roodhiwaadee gathbandhan ki formed in 1937 prevented uske packing the param adaalat or guzar koi considerable vidhaan ; it abolished many of the relief programs when unemployment diminished during World War II.
Most of the regulations on business were ended parichay 1975–85, magar liye the viniman of wal gali by the pratibhuti or exange ayog, which still exists.
saath saath anek choti kaarykram, pramukh surviving kaarykram shaamil the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, which was created in 1933, and Social Security, which Congress passed in 1935.
As World War II loomed after 1938, with the Japanese akraman of china or the aakraamakata of naaji germany, fdr diya damdaar rajanyik or vittiya support to China and Great Britain, while remaining officially neutral.
His goal thi to mek america the `` arsenal of loktantr `` jisase hota supplai munitions to the Allies.
In March 1941, rujvelt, saath congressional sweekruti, provided lend-lease sahaayta to the countries fighting against Nazi Germany with Britain.
With very strong national support, he made war on Japan and Germany baad the japani akraman on parl harbar on disambar 7, 1941, colling it a `` tithi jisase will live in infamy ``.
He supervised the mobilization of the u.S. arthvyavastha to support the alide yuddh praytn.
As an active military leader, rujvelt implemented an overall yuddh ranneeti on do fronts ki ended in the shikast of the aksh shaktiyaan or the vikaas of the world 's first atom bomb.
in 1942 rujvelt ordered the internment of 100,000 Japanese American civilians.
Unemployment dropped to 2 %, relief programs largely ended, and the industrial economy grew rapidly to new heights as lakho of logon sthanantarit to nai kaary in yuddh centers, or 16 lakh main or 300,000 mahilaon yahood drafted or volunteered for military service.
Roosevelt dominated the American rajnatik jhaanki nahin tabhi dauraan the baarah saalo of uske presidency, lakin bhi liye dashakon afterward.
He orchestrated the realignment of matadaata ki nirmit the paanchvaan Party System.
FDR 's New Deal Coalition united labor sangh, big nagar mashine, shwet ethnics, africa america or rural white Southerners.
He also bahekaave the baad sristi of the United Nations and Bretton Woods.
Roosevelt is consistently rated by scholars as one of the top three U.S. raashtrapatiyon, saath saath abraham lincoln or george washington.
A liberal Democrat, Roosevelt paribhaashit uske vaicharik sthiti as `` a choti left of center. ''
Mara Salvatrucha ( commonly abbreviated as MS, maaraa, or ms-13 ) is a transnational dand giroh ki originated in los angeles or rai sprad to anya parts of the United States, Canada, Mexico, and Central America.
The majority of the gang is ethnically rachit of central america or kriyasheel in shahari or suburban areas.
In the U.S., the MS-13 has an especially heavy presence in Los Angeles County and the San Francisco Bay Area in Northern California ; the washington, d.C. mahanagar kshetron of ferefaques county, virginia, montgomari county, maryland, or prince george 's county, maryland ; long dweep, nai york ; the boston, masachusets kshetrafal ; sherlot, uttar carolina ; or huston, texas.
There is also a presence of ms-13 in toronto, ontario, canada.
Members of MS distinguish themselves by tattoos covering the deh or bhi praayah the phase, as khub as the upyog of unke apana chihn bhashaa.
They are notorious for unke upyog of hinsa or a subcultural moral code ki predominantly consists of merciless revenge and cruel retributions.
This krurta of the vishisht sadasyon of the `` maras '' or `` mareros '' arjeet unhen a path to be recruited by the Sinaloa Cartel battling against Los Zetas in an ongoing drug war south of the United States border.
Their wide-ranging activities have drawn the attention of the FBI and avrajan or custom pravartan, jo have initiated wide-scale chaape viruddh gyaat or suspected giroh sadasyon – netting sainkadon of rakhwale aarpaar the desh.
Bones is an American crime comedy-drama television shrenee ki premiered on the fox sanjaal in the United States on September 13, 2005.
The show is based on forensic maanavshaastra or forensic puraatatv, saath prayek apisod focusing on an epabiai maamla sanchika concerning the rahasy peeche insaan remains brought by epabiai khaas agent seeley booth ( daud boreanaz ) to the forensic anthropologist Dr. Temperance `` Bones '' Brennan ( Emily Deschanel ).
The rest of the main cast shaamil michaela conlin, T. J. thyne, eric millegan, tamara tailor, Jonathan Adams, and John Francis Daley.
Created by Hart Hanson, the shrenee is bahut loosely aadhaarit on the jivan or kritiyaan of upanyaaskaar or forensic anthropologist kathi reichs, jo bhi produces the show.
Its sheershak akshar, temperance briken, is named after the protagonist of Reichs ' crime novel series.
Conversely, Dr. Brennan writes successful mystery novels based around a fictional ( in the haddiyon brahmad ) forensic anthropologist namit kathi reichs.
Bones is a joint production by Josephson entertainment, dur field productions or 20th sadi fox television.
The series has completed airing its aathvin ritu or rai maharoom navinikrut liye a naveen ritu.
Super Bowl XXV was an American football khel between the amareeki footbaal sammelan ( afc ) champion bhens bills or the neshnal footbaal sammelan ( nfc ) champion New York Giants to decide the National Football League ( NFL ) champion for the 1990 season.
The Giants defeated the Bills by the score of 20–19, jeetna unke duusari kabhi Super Bowl.
It is the tabhi super katori decided by one point.
The game was held at tampa stadium in tampa, florida, on janvari 27, 1991, during the height of the Gulf War.
it thi yun nibhaai antargat much patriotic fervor.
The proceedings included a rousing rendition of `` The star-spangled dhvaj `` by whitney huston dauraan the pregame ceremonies.
The Bills and their explosive no-huddle offense were making unke pehla super katori rup baad finishing the niyamit ritu saath a 13-3 ricard, or agrani the lig in total points scored with 428.
In advancing to unke duusari super katori, the diggaj bhi posted a 13-3 niyamit ritu record, but with a ball-control offense and a defense that allowed a league low 211 points.
The game is best remembered for Bills placekicker scot norwood 's last-second field lakshya attempt jisase gai chaudee sahi of the uprights, agrani to a diggaj vijay, and starting a four-game losing streak in the Super Bowl for the Bills.
The Giants set a Super Bowl ricard pakadakar kabza of the ball for 40 minutes and 33 seconds.
New York also overcame a 12-3 second-quarter deficit, or bana a 75-yard touchdown drive ki khapat a super katori record 9:29 off the clock.
Giants kaaryshil waapas ottis anderson, jo carried the ball 21 times liye 102 gaj and one touchdown, was named Super Bowl MVP.
He was the first awardee to receive the newly named `` Pete Rozelle trophy '' ( namit liye the purv kamishnar ).
Anderson bhi ankit ek resepshan liye saat yards.
Malcolm X ( ; May 19, 1925february 21, 1965 ), born mailkam choti or bhi gyaat as el-hajj malik el-shabazz ( ), thi an african-american Muslim minister and human rights activist.
To his admirers, he was a courageous advocate for the rights of ashweton, a man jo indicted shwet america in the harshest sharten liye iske aparaadhon viruddh blike Americans.
Detractors abhiyukt use of upadesh jatvaad, blike sarvocchata, and violence.
He has been called one of the mahanatam or sabase influential African Americans in history.
Malcolm X 's father died—killed by white supremacists, it thi rumored—when he thi yang, or at tanik ek of uske uncles thi lynched.
When he was 13, his maan thi lagaai in a dimagi hospital, or he thi lagaai in a shrenee of foster homes.
in 1946, at aayu 20, he gai to prison for breaking and entering.
In prison, mailkam x became a sadsy of the swadesh of islam ; baad uske parole in 1952, he jaldi rose to become one of its leaders.
For a dozen years, mailkam x thi the public phase of the vivaadaaspad samooh, lakin mohabhang saath swadesh of islam head Elijah Muhammad led him to leave the Nation in March 1964.
After a period of travel in africa or the madhya east, he laute to the sanyukt rajya, jahaan he santhaapit muslim masjide, Inc. and the Organization of Afro-American Unity.
In February 1965, less than a year after leaving the Nation of islam, he thi assassinated by teen sadasyon of the group.
Malcolm X 's expressed manyataon badla substantially over samay.
As a spokesman for the Nation of Islam he taught black supremacy and advocated separation of black and white Americans —in contrast to the civil adhikaron gati 's jor on sangyojan.
After breaking with the Nation of Islam in 1964—saying of uske sangh saath it, `` i kiya anek bate as a [ Black ] Muslim that I 'm sorry for now.
I was a zombie then... pointed in a certain direction and told to march '' —and becoming a Sunni Muslim, he disavowed jatvaad or expressed willingness to kaary saath civil adhikaron netao, he jari to emphasize pan-africanism, black self-determination, and self-defense.
The third season of 90210, an amareeki television shrenee, premiered on somvaar sitambar 13, 2010.
The CW officially navinikrut the dikhaaen liye a teesraa ritu on farvari 16, 2010.
With the reveal of the networks fall 2010 schedule, they ghoshit unke nirnay to move 90210 to somvaar nits at 8:00 pm, as a lead-in to gapshap Girl.
It premiered on September 13, 2010 or thi mili saath generally dhanatmak samikshaayen from critics.
The season picks up at the samaapt of garmiyaan or focuses on the students senior year of high school.
It follows Adrianna 's rise to fame, a new relationship between chaandi or navid or a uljhan tedi jo decides to khulaasa to uske parivaar or friends he is gay.
It bhi saude saath the aftermath of Naomi Clark 's assault.
Regular cast members for the season included Shenae Grimes, tristan wilds, annalynne mccord, rayaan eggold, jesica stroup, maaikel steger, jesica lowndes, Matt Lanter, Gillian Zinser, Trevor Donovan and Lori Loughlin.
Rebecca sinclair jari uske bhoomika as karypalika nirmaataa for the season.
The season premiered to 1.96 lakh darshak or a 0.9 darja in the adults 18–49 demographic.
christmas-themed apisod `` avkaash deewangi '', hit ritu highs in sab kunjee demos saath 2.1 in the cw 's nishaanaa demo of mahilaon 18–34, a 1.4 in adults 18–34 and a 1.1 in adults 18–49.
It was also the most dekhi apisod in over a saal saath 2.2 lakh viewers tuning in.
The ritu finale aired on May 16, 2011.
The season averaged 1.75 million live darshak or a 0.9 vayaskon 18–49 darja.
It was released on DVD in the United rajya on agast 30, 2011.
Elizabeth II ( Elizabeth Alexandra Mary ; born 21 April 1926 ) is the constitutional monarch of 16 sovereign rajya, gyaat as the rashtramandal realms, or unke territories or dependencies, or sir of the 54-member rashtramandal of raashtra.
She is param rajyapal of the girijaghar of england or, in kuch of uske realms, carries the title of Defender of the Faith as part of her full title.
On her accession on 6 February 1952, Elizabeth became Head of the Commonwealth and maharani regnant of saat swatantra rashtramandal deshon : the sanyukt kingdom, canada, australia, nai jiland, dakshin africa, Pakistan and Ceylon.
From 1956 to 1992, the kramank of uske realms varied as territories gained swatantraaa or kuch realms became republics.
at upasthit, in jod to the pehla chaar aforementioned deshon, elizabeth is maharani of jamaica, barbados, the bahama, haraa, papua nai gini, the suleman islands, tuvaalu, sant loosia, sant vincent and the Grenadines, Belize, Antigua and Barbuda and Saint Kitts and Nevis.
Her reign of years is currently the second longest for a British monarch ; tabhi maharani victoria rai reigned longer at over 63 years.
elizabeth thi born in landan and educated privately at home.
Her pita acceded to the singhaasana as george vi in 1936 on the abdication of uske bhai edward VIII, from which time she was the heir presumptive.
She began to undertake public kartavya dauraan the duusari sansar yuddh, in jisase wo parosa in the Auxiliary Territorial Service.
In 1947, she married prince philip, duk of edinburgh, saath jisko wo rai chaar children : charles, Anne, Andrew, and Edward.
Her rajtilak seva took place in 1953 and was the first to be televised.
The Queen 's anek aitihaasik vizit or baithak shaamil a rajya vizit to the ganatantr of Ireland and reciprocal visits to and from the Pope.
The Queen has seen major constitutional parivartan in uske realms, aise as devolution in the sanyukt kingdom or the patriation of the Canadian constitution.
Times of personal significance have shaamil the births or vivaah of uske children, the births of uske grandchildren, the pratishthapan of the Prince of Wales, and the celebration of milestones such as her Silver, Golden, and Diamond Jubilees in 1977, 2002, and 2012, respectively.
Major kaarykram in the maharani 's shasankaal have shaamil the pareshaaniyon in uttari ireland, the falklands War, wars with Iraq and the War in Afghanistan.
There have been times of personal sorrow for her which include the death of her father at 56, the assassination of prince philip 's taaoo, rab mountbeton, the vishleshan of uske children 's vivaah in 1992 ( a saal deemed uske annus horribilis ), the maut in 1997 of uske purv daughter-in-law, dyna, rajkumaari of wales, and the deaths of her mother and sister in 2002.
The Queen has occasionally faced severe press criticism of the royal family and republican sentiments, lakin support liye the samrajya or uske nijee popularity remain high.
The 2010 United States Senate election in Florida took place on navambar 2, 2010 saath saath anya chunaavon to the sanyukt rajya seenet in anya rajya as khub as sab chunaavon to the United States House of Representatives and various state and local elections.
Republican Marco Rubio, former Speaker of the Florida House of pratinidhi, parajeet swatantra charlie crist or democrate kendrick namr in a three-way race.
ek pad seenetter mel martines thi nirvaachit in a bahut band race against Democrat Betty Castor in 2004 with 49 % of the vote.
Martinez announced on December 2, 2008 ki he hota nahin talash re-election to the seenet, and would resign prior to the end of his term.
In August 2009, Governor Charlie Crist announced that he would niyukt uske purv mukhya of staff, george lemieux, a republican, to the seenet seat being vacated by Martinez.
Governor Crist saream ghoshit he thi kaaryshil liye the seat in mid-2009.
At the time he received many Republican endorsements, such as the National republican senatorial cameti, martines, or the 2008 republican adhyakshiya nominee jon McCain.
His support of the amareeki recovery or reinvestment adhinium of 2009 thes uske lokapriyata among conservatives, and candidate Marco Rubio surged.
In April 2010 Crist announced he would drop out of the republican praathmik or chalaaen as an swatantra.
The National Republican senatorial cameti withdrew iske samarthan of crist or maange a refund of its campaign funds that it provided for the Crist campaign.
congressi kendrick namr thi the pehla democrate to declare his intention to run.
Alexander snitker thi the pehla sadsy of the libertarian party on the ballot for senator in Florida 's history.
upgrah drishy of doha
Doha (, ' or ', literally : `` the big tree '' ) is the puunji nagar of the rajya of qatar.
stith on the coast of the parsi Gulf,
it had a janasankhyikee of 998,651 in 2008, or is bhi ek of the municipalities of Qatar.
Doha is Qatar 's largest nagar, saath over 60 % of the swadesh 's janasankhyikee residing in doha or iske surrounding suburbs, and is also the economic centre of the country.
Doha also serves as the seat of sarkari of qatar, jisase is shasit by sheikh hamad bin khalipha al Thani.
Doha is home to the shiksha nagar, an kshetrafal devoted to shodh or education.
Doha was the site of the first ministerial-level baithak of the doha vikaas Round of World Trade Organization negotiations.
The city of Doha held the 2006 Asian khel, jisase thi the largest asian khel kabhi yojit.
Doha also hosted the 2011 Pan arab khel or sabase of the khel at the 2011 afc asian Cup.
Doha hosted the UNFCCC jalwaayu negotiations ( cop 18 ) disambar 2012 or hoga mejabaan a vishaal kramank of the venues liye the 2022 fifa World Cup.
the sansar petroleum parishad yojit the 20th World Petroleum Conference in Doha in December 2011.
Paranasal sinuses are a group of four paired air-filled spaces that surround the nasal cavity ( urdhvahanu sinus ), upar the ankhen ( frontal sinus ), between the ankhen ( ethmoid sinus ), or peeche the ethmoids ( sphenoid sinuses ).
The sinus hai namit liye the facial haddiyon in jisase they are located.
Lean manufacturing, lean enterprise, or lean production, often simply, `` Lean, '' is a production practice that considers the expenditure of resources for koi lakshya anya than the sristi of maan liye the samaapt graahak to be apvyay, and thus a target for elimination.
Working from the perspective of the customer jo consumes a utpaada or seva, `` maan '' is paribhaashit as koi karrwai or prakram ki a graahak hota be willing to pay for.
Essentially, lean is centered on preserving maan saath kam kaary.
Lean manufacturing is a management philosophy derived mostly from the Toyota Production System ( tps ) ( hence the pad toyotism is bhi prachlit ) or pahachaanaa as `` jhukna '' tabhi in the 1990s.
TPS is renowned for its focus on katautee of the asli toyota saat wastes to improve overall graahak value, but there are varying perspectives on how this is best achieved.
The steady growth of toyota, isse a choti company to the sansar 's largest automaker, rai kendrit dhyaan on kaisaa it rai hasil is success.
icarly logo
iCarly is an American sitcom that airs on niklodian, jisase premiered on sitambar 8, 2007.
Nickelodeon promoted many episodes so far aise as `` ido '', `` ihire an idiot '', `` ipity the nevel '', `` idate sam & fredy '', ityadi. as specials, despite unke hone regular episodes.
prayek apisod sheershak begins saath a nimnatar maamla i which represents the internet, as in `` iCarly ''.
The show was nominated for an emi puraskaar liye bakaayaa children 's kaarykram in 2009.
The series starring miranda cosgrove as karli shae, a 13-year-old who becomes an Internet star.
the shrenee ended on navambar 23, 2012 with the one-hour special episode `` iGoodbye ''.
A total of 7 seasons or 109 apisod yahood broadcast.
The largest audience of the series was 11.2 lakh darshak, saath the khaas apisod `` isaved apana jivan '' premiered in January 2010.
When Carly ( Miranda Cosgrove ) or uske sassy behtareen dost sam ( jennette mccurdy ) adhinium mjedaar at a skool hunar dikhaaen audishan, tech-savvy Freddie ( Nathan Kress ) tapes it and posts it online without telling them.
After dekhakar the ladakiyon ' damdaar rasayan or banter, the online audience clamors for more and the iCarly webcast is born.
While grappling saath theth mudde of kishoravastha, karli, sam, or fredy dhundhen out ki ve have bhi become online celebrities as their show – which features talent contests, recipes, problem-solving, and random dancing – garners international accolades.
Carly lives in Seattle, Washington with her 26-year-old bhai or sangrakshak spencer ( jeri trainor ) or produces the dikhaaen in a makeshift third-floor studio loft in their apartment.
Their mother has never been seen or mentioned, lakin unke pita, steven shae ( daud chisum ), is a u.S. air force adhikari temporarily stationed on a pandubbi, or is praayah ullekith lakin is tabhi dekhi in vyakti during the series finale episode, `` iGoodbye ''.
Westlife were an Irish boy band jisase formed in 1998 or disbanded in 2012.
originally hastakshrit by simon cowell or prabandhit by lui walsh, the samooh 's final line-up consisted of nicky Byrne, Kian Egan, Mark Feehily and Shane Filan.
Brian McFadden was a member isse 1998 jabatak uske prasthaan in 2004.
Westlife sold over 50 million records vishwavyaapee, a kul ki shaamil studio album, singles, video relies, or compilation albums.
the samooh sanchit 14 number-one singles in the sanyukt kingdom ( the third-highest in UK history ), tying with Cliff Richard and ranking just behind The Beatles and Elvis Presley.
They hasil a kul of 26 sheersh ten singles over unke 14-year career.
By 2010, Westlife was listed in the ginis sansar record, as the uk 's top-selling album samooh of the 21st century.
They also won The ricard of the saal ( the tabhi music puraskaar aadhaarit on public mat in the uk ) a record-breaking chaar times or in 2012, the Official Charts Company listed Westlife 34th amongst the biggest-selling singles artists in British music history.
Despite their European and Asian success, Westlife never prabandhit to brake into the u.S. market, achieving tabhi ek hit single in 2000 : `` Swear It Again ``.
In October 2011, westlife ghoshit unke iraade to vibhajit in 2012, following unke mahanatam Hits Tour and the release of their Greatest Hits album.
The boyband 's final concerts were yojit on 22 or 23 june 2012 at croke park stadium in dublin.
The first farewell concert, offering 85,000 tikaten, bechi out in a record-breaking 5 minutes or the latter screened live in cinemas worldwide.
Vitamin A is a group of nutritionally unsaturated hydrocarbons, which include retinol, retinal, retinoic acid or anek provitamin a carotenoids among jisase beta-carotene is the sabase mahatvapurn.
vitamin a rai anek krityon, it is mahatvapurn liye vikaas or vikaas, for the maintenance of the immune system and good vision.
Vitamin A is needed by the retina of the eye in the form of retinal, jisase combines saath protein opsin to rup rhodopsin the light-absorbing anu, ki is jaruri liye dono low-light ( scotopic vision ) and color vision.
vitamin a bhi krityon in a bahut alag bhoomika as an irreversibly oxidized rup of retinul gyaat as retinoic acid, jisase is an important hormone-like growth factor for epithelial and other cells.
In foods of animal origin, the major form of vitamin A is an ester, primarily retinyl palmitate, jisase is parivartit to retinul ( chemically an daaru ) in the choti aant.
The retinol form krityon as a bhandar rup of the vitamin, or can be parivartit to and from its visually active aldehyde form, retinal.
The associated acid ( retinoic acid ), a metabolite ki can be irreversibly synthesized isse vitamin a, rai tabhi aanshik vitamin A activity, and does not function in the retina for the visual cycle.
retinoic acid is prayukt liye vikaas or cellular differentiation.
All forms of vitamin a have a beta-ionone ring to jisase an isoprenoid kadi is attached, called a retinyl group.
Both structural features are anivaary liye vitamin kaaryaklap.
The orange pigment of carrots – beta-carotene – can be represented as do conect retinyl samooh, jisase hai prayukt in the deh to yogadan to vitamin A levels.
alpha-carotene or gamma-carotene bhi have a single retinyl group, which give them some vitamin activity.
none of the anya carotenes have vitamin activity.
The carotenoid beta- cryptoxanthin possesses an ionone samooh or rai vitamin kaaryaklap in insaano.
Vitamin A can be mila in do principal form in foods :
Retinol, the form of vitamin A absorbed when khaane animal khaanaa strot, is a pilaa, fat-soluble padaarth.
chunki the pure daaru rup is asthir, the vitamin is found in tissues in a form of retinyl ester.
It is also commercially utpaadit or administered as esters aise as retinyl acetate or palmitate.
The carotenes alpha-carotene, beta-carotene, gamma-carotene ; and the xanthophyll beta-cryptoxanthin ( all of which contain beta-ionone rings ), lakin no anya carotenoids, falan as provitamin a in herbivores or sarvahari pashu, jisase possess the anzime ( 15-15'-dioxygenase ) jisase cleaves beta-carotene in the intestinal mucosa or converts it retinol.
In general, carnivores are poor converters of ionine-containing carotenoids, and pure carnivores aise as billiyon or ferrets kami 15-15'-dioxygenase or can nahin badalen koi carotenoids to retinal ( resulting in none of the carotenoids being forms of vitamin A for these species ).
Selena maari gomez ( born july 22, 1992 ) is an American singer and actress.
She made her debut as a child abhinetri in barni & mitron.
In 2007, gomez aae to prominence as a abhinit daal sadsy in the television series Wizards of Waverly Place.
She signed to Hollywood Records the following year, and became the sansthaapak or sise singer of the pop band selina Gomez & the Scene.
Their studio albums Kiss & Tell ( 2009 ), A Year Without Rain ( 2010 ), and When the Sun Goes Down ( 2011 ) were certified Gold by the recording udyog sangh of america ( riaa ) or have shakhit platinum-certified singles `` naturally ``, `` jo says ``, or `` prem tum jaise a prem song ``.
After the release of television films and their accompanying soundtracks, gomez bana uske natya filmi debyue in ramona or beezus in 2010 or starred in Monte Carlo in 2011.
Upon the conclusion of Wizards of Waverly place or the antaraal of selina gomez & the jhaanki in 2012, wo kendrit on uske filmi kariyar, sevarat as a awaz abhinetri in hotel transylvania and starring in Spring Breakers the following year.
Her debut solo album is tentatively anusuchit to be released in garmiyaan 2013, or is preceded by its lead single `` Come & Get It ``.
Outside of her work in the entertainment udyog, gomez is shaamil in paropkaaree kriyaayein through daan kaary or vibhinn social and environmental causes.
Tracie Monique Spencer ( born July 12, 1976 ) is an amareeki r & b or pop singer-songwriter, abhinetri, or model.
Sacramento is the capital city of the u.S. rajya of california or the seat of sarkari of sacramento County.
It is located at the confluence of the Sacramento River and the amareeki nadi in the uttari portion of california 's expansive central ghati.
With an estimated 2011 population of 477,891, it is the sixth-largest nagar in california or the 35th largest nagar in the sanyukt States.
Sacramento is the core cultural and economic bich of the sacramento mahanagar kshetrafal jisase shaamil saat county saath an anumaanit 2009 population of 2,527,123.
Its metropolitan area is the fourth largest in california baad the vrihad los angeles kshetrafal, san francisco khadi kshetrafal, or the San Diego metropolitan area, as well as the 25th largest in the United States.
Sacramento was cited by Time patrika as america 's sabase ethnically or racially ekikrut nagar in 2002.
Sacramento became a city through the efforts of the swiss apravasi jon sutter, sr., uske bete jon sutter, jr., or James W. Marshall.
Sacramento grew jaldi dhanyavad to the suraksha of sutter 's fort, jisase was established by Sutter in 1839.
During the California Gold Rush, Sacramento thi a pramukh vitaran point, a vanijyik or agricultural bich, or a terminus liye wagon rail, stagecoaches, riverboats, the telegraph, the Pony Express, and the First Transcontinental Railroad.
California State vishvavidhyalayon, sacramento, adhik commonly gyaat as sacramento rajya or sac State, is the largest local university.
It is ek of the twenty-three campuses of the california rajya University system.
Drexel vishvavidhyalayon sacramento is stith in Downtown, Sacramento.
University of the Pacific 's mcgeorge skool of vidhi is stith in the ok park neighborhood.
In addition, the University of California, Davis is stith in aasapaas davis, west of the puunji.
The UC Davis Medical bich, a world-renowned shodh hospital, is located in the city of Sacramento.
Memorial Day is a United States federal holiday jisase occurs prayek saal on the final somvaar of May.
Memorial Day is a day of remembering the main or mahilaon jo died jabaki sevarat in the sanyukt States Armed Forces.
Formerly known as Decoration Day, it originated after the amareeki civil yuddh to commemorate the sangh or confederate soldiers who died in the Civil War.
By the 20th sadi memorial din tha maharoom vistaarit to sammaan sab Americans who have died in all wars.
It typically marks the start of the garmiyaan avkaash ritu, jabaki majdoor din marks its end.
Many people visit cemeteries and memorials, visheshkar to sammaan those jo have died in sainya seva.
anek swayamsevak place an amareeki dhvaj on each grave in national cemeteries.
By the early 20th sadi, memorial din thi an avasar liye adhik saamaanya expressions of memory, as logon visited the qabron of unke mritak rishtedaaron in church cemeteries, whether they had served in the military or not.
It bhi became a long weekend increasingly devoted to kharidari, parivaar mehphilon, aatishbaajee, yatraayen to the bich, and national media events.
salanaa sajaavat dinon liye particular kabristaan hai yojit on a sande in let vasant or jaldi garmiyaan in kuch rural areas of the American South, notably in the mountains.
In cases involving a family graveyard jahaan remote purvajo as khub as those jo yahood mritak adhik recently hai dafn, is may lo on the character of an extended family reunion to which some people travel hundreds of miles.
People gather on the designated din or put pushp on qabron or navinikrut sampark with kinfolk and others.
There often is a dharmik seva or a `` dinar on the maidan, '' the paramparaagat pad liye a potluck bhojan in jisase logon prayukt to sprad the dishes out on sheets or tablecloths on the grass.
It is believed that this practice began pehle the amareeki civil yuddh or yun may pratibimbit the real utpatti of the `` memorial day '' idea.
Memorial Day is not to be confused saath diggajon din ; memorial din is a din of remembering the main or mahilaon jo died jabaki sevarat, jabaki diggajon din celebrates the service of all U.S. military veterans, living or dead.
Mt. Zion Church state itihaas marker nikat philadelphia, Mississippi.
Freedom Summer ( also known as the Mississippi Summer Project ) thi a abhiyaan in the sanyukt rajya shubharambh in june 1964 to attempt to panjikaran as anek African American voters as possible in Mississippi, which had historically excluded most blacks from voting.
The project bhi niyat up darjanon of swatantraaa skulon, swatantraaa gharon, or jatiyaan centers in choti towns throughout Mississippi to aid the local black population.
The project thi vyavasthit by the parishad of federated sanghathan ( cofo ), a coalition of the Mississippi branches of the four major civil rights organizations ( SNCC, CORE, NAACP and SCLC ).
sabase of the impetus, netritv, or financing liye the garmiyaan Project came from the SNCC.
Robert Parris musa, sncc field sachiv or co-director of cofo, directed the summer project.
Blues is the name given to both a musical rup or a music vidha ki originated in samudaayon of primarily the `` gahan dakshin `` of the sanyukt rajya around the samaapt of the 19th sadi isse spirituals, work songs, field hollers, shouts and chants, and rhymed simple narrative ballads.
The blues form, ubiquitous in jazz, rhythm and bluez, or chattan or phenken is characterized by vishisht cord progressions, of jisase the twelve-bar bluez cord progression is the sabase common.
The blue notes that, for expressive purposes are sung or nibhaai flattened or dhire jhuki ( naaballig 3rd to pramukh 3rd ) in sambandh to the pich of the pramukh scale, hai bhi an important part of the sound.
The blues genre is based on the blues form but possesses anya visheshtaayen aise as vishisht lyrics, bass lines, and instruments.
Blues can be subdivided into several subgenres ranging from desh to shahari bluez ki yahood adhik or kam lokapriy dauraan alag avadhi of the 20th century.
Best known are the delta, piedmont, jamp, or chicago bluez styles.
sansar yuddh ii chihnit the parivartan isse dhvanik to electric bluez or the pragatisheel kholane of bluez music to a wider darshak, especially white listeners.
In the 1960s and 1970s, a sankar rup pukaara blues-rock evolved.
The term `` the blues '' refers to the `` blue shaitanon '', arth vednaa or udaasi ; an jaldi upyog of the pad in is bhav is mila in george colman 's one-act tamaasha Blue Devils ( 1798 ).
Though the use of the phrase in African-American music may be puraani, it rai maharoom attested to chunki 1912, jab heart wand 's `` dalas bluez `` became the pehla swatvadhikaar bluez composition.
In geet the phrase is praayah prayukt to describe a depressed mood.
A quarter dollar, commonly shortened to quarter, is a sikaa laayak 1⁄4 of a sanyukt rajya dollars or 25 cents.
The quarter rai maharoom utpaadit since 1796.
The choice of 25¢ as a denomination, as opposed to 20¢ which is more common in other bhaag of the sansar, originated saath the abhyaas of dividing spani milled dollar into aath keel taraasha khand ( cf. `` tukade of eight `` ).
At one time `` two bits ``, i.e. two wedges, prayek keel an aathvin, yun a quarter of the spani real, was a common nickname for a quarter.
Day of the Dead ( ) is a mexican avkaash manaaye throughout mexico or around the world in other cultures.
the avkaash focuses on mehphilon of parivaar or mitron to duwa liye or remember friends and family members who have died.
It is particularly celebrated in mexico, jahaan it is a neshnal avkaash, or all banks are closed.
The jashn takes place on navambar 1 or 2, in conection saath the catholic chhuttiyaan of sab santo ' Day and All Souls ' Day.
Traditions connected with the holiday include building private altars honoring the mritak using sugar skulls, marigolds, or the pasandida bhojan or peya of the raji or visiting graves with these as gifts.
They also chhod possessions of the mritak.
Scholars trace the origins of the aadhunik mexican avkaash to swadeshi observances dating waapas sainkadon of saalo or to an azetek parv dedicated to the goddess Mictecacihuatl.
the avkaash rai sprad throughout the sansar : in brazil, dia de finados is a public avkaash that many Brazilians celebrate by visiting cemeteries and churches.
In Spain, there are festivals and parades, and, at the end of the din, logon ekatrit at kabristaan or duwa liye unke murde loved ones.
Similar observances occur elsewhere in Europe, and similarly themed jashn appear in anek asian or africa samskritiyon.
anitha mk viii.
The ANITA Mark VII and ANITA Mark VIII calculators were shubharambh simultaneously in let 1961 as the sansar 's pehla all- electronic desktop calculators.
Designed or nirmit by the ghanti panch co.
in Britain, and marketed through its Sumlock Comptometer division, ve prayukt vaikum tubes or cold-cathode switching tubes in unke logic circuits or nixie tubes for their numerical displays.
They were the pehla of a shrenee of desktop or hand-held electronic calculators ki the company thi to develop and sell under the ANITA name into the mid-1970s.
George Washington ( –, 1799 ) was the first President of the United rajya ( 1789–1797 ), the commander-in-chief of the mahadwipiya fouj dauraan the amareeki krantikari yuddh, or ek of the founding fathers of the United States.
He presided over the sammelan ki drafted the samvidhan, jisase replaced the aalekh of canfederation or sthapit the position of President.
Washington was elected President as the sarvasammat chunaav of the 69 nirvaachak in 1788, or he parosa do sharten in office.
He oversaw the sristi of a damdaar, well-financed neshnal sarkari ki kaayam neutrality in the wars raging in Europe, suppressed rebellion, and won acceptance among Americans of all types.
His leadership style established many forms and sanskaar of sarkari ki have maharoom prayukt chunki, aise as using a cabinet system and delivering an inaugural address.
Further, the shantipurna parivartan isse uske presidency to the presidency of jon adams sthapit a parampara that continues into the 21st century.
Washington was hailed as `` pita of uske desh `` bhi dauraan uske aaajeevan.
Washington was born into the provincial gentry of Colonial virginia ; uske dhanwaan planter parivaar swaamitv tambaaku baganon and slaves.
After both his father and older brother died when he thi yang, washington became personally or professionally sanlagn to the shaktishaalee wiliam ferefaques, who promoted his career as a surveyor and soldier.
washington jaldi became a varisht adhikari in the colonial forces during the first stages of the French and Indian War.
Chosen by the duusari mahadwipiya congress in 1775 to be commander-in-chief of the mahadwipiya fouj in the amareeki kranti, Washington managed to force the British out of Boston in 1776, but was defeated and almost captured later that year when he lost New York City.
After crossing the Delaware River in the dead of winter, he parajeet the angrejon in do ladaaiyon, retook nai Jersey and restored momentum to the Patriot cause.
Because of his strategy, Revolutionary forces captured two pramukh angrejon sena at saratoga in 1777 or yorktown in 1781.
Historians laud Washington liye uske chayan or paryvekshan of uske senapatiyon, protsaahan of manobal or kshamta to tham saath the fouj, samanvay saath the rajya rajyapalon and state militia units, relations with Congress and attention to supplies, logistics, and training.
In battle, however, Washington was repeatedly outmaneuvered by angrejon senapatiyon saath larger sena.
After victory had been finalized in 1783, Washington resigned as Commander-in-chief balki than seize shakti, proving uske vipaksh to taanaashaahee or uske patibaddhta to amareeki republicanism.
Dissatisfied with the weaknesses of the Articles of Confederation, in 1787 washington presided over the sanvaidhanik sammelan ki drafted the sanyukt rajya samvidhan.
Elected unanimously as the first adhyaksh of the sanyukt rajya in 1789, he attempted to lao pratidwandvi girohon saath to unify the nation.
He supported Alexander Hamilton 's programs to pay off all state and national karz, to implement an prabhavi kar pranali or to banaaen a neshnal bainko ( despite vipaksh isse thomas Jefferson ).
Washington proclaimed the United rajya neutral in the yudhon raging in europea baad 1793.
He avoided war with Great Britain and guaranteed a decade of peace and profitable trade by securing the jay sandhi in 1795, despite teevr vipaksh isse the jeffersonians.
Although never officially joining the federalist party, he samarthit iske kaarykram.
washington 's vidaai pataa thi an influential primer on republican punya or a chetavanee viruddh partisanship, sectionalism, and involvement in foreign wars.
He retired from the presidency in 1797 and returned to his ghar, mount vernon, or uske gharelu jivan jahaan he prabandhit a variety of enterprises.
He freed sab uske slave by his final will.
Washington had a vision of a great and shaktishaalee swadesh ki hota be nirmit on republican linon using federal power.
He sought to use the national government to bachaana swatantraaa, improve avasanrachana, kholen the pashchimi lands, prachaar commers, mila a permanent capital, reduce regional tensions and promote a spirit of American nationalism.
At his death, Washington was eulogized as `` first in war, first in salaam, or pehla in the dil of uske deshavaasiyon '' by henry Lee.
The federalists bana use the pratik of unke party lakin liye anek saalo, the jeffersonians jari to distrust his influence and delayed building the Washington Monument.
As the leader of the first successful revolution against a aupniveshik samrajya in sansar itihaas, washington became an antarrashtriya pratik liye mukti or rashtrawaad, visheshkar in frans and Latin America.
Fiscal Year 2012 U.S. Federal bitaa – nakadi or bajet aadhaar.
Fiscal saal 2012 u.S. sangheey raseeden.
the bajet of the sanyukt rajya sarkari praayah begins as the adhyaksh 's proposal to the U.S. Congress which recommends funding levels for the next fiscal year, beginning October 1.
However, Congress is the body required by vidhi to pass a bajet annually or to submit the bajet passed by dono gharon to the President for signature.
Congressional nirnay hai governed by niyam or vidhaan regarding the federal budget process.
Budget committees set spending limits for the House and Senate committees and for Appropriations subcommittees, which then sweekruti vyaktigat appropriations bills to allocate funding to vibhinn sangheey kaarykram.
If congress fails to pass an salanaa bajet ( as rai maharoom the maamla chunki 2009 ), a shrenee of Appropriations bills must be passed as `` stop gap '' measures.
After Congress approves an appropriations bill, it is sent to the adhyaksh, jo may chihn it into vidhi, or may vito it ( as he hota a bajet jab passed by the Congress ).
A vetoed vidheyak is bheja waapas to congress, jisase can pass it into law with a two-thirds majority in each chamber.
Congress may also combine all or kuch appropriations bills into an omnibus reconciliation bill.
In addition, the president may request and the Congress may pass supplemental appropriations bills or apaat supplemental appropriations bills.
Several sarkari agenciyon provide bajet aankada or analysis.
These shaamil the sarkari javabdehi daftar ( gao ), congressional bajet daftar, the Office of Management and Budget ( OMB ) and the U.S. Treasury Department.
These agencies have reported ki the sangheey sarkari is facing a series of important financing challenges.
In the short-run, tax revenues have asweekrut significantly due to a kathor mandi or kar niti choices, while expenditures have expanded for wars, unemployment insurance and other safety net spending.
In the long-run, expenditures sambandhit to healthcare kaarykram aise as medicare or medicaid hai prakshipt to grow faster than the economy overall as the population matures.
New Guinea ( also, Tok Pisin : Niugini, dach : nieuw gini, or ; historically : papua ) is the sansar 's duusari largest dweep, baad greenland, covering a land area of 786,000 km2.
Located in the southwest Pacific Ocean, it lies geographically to the east of the malay dweepasmooh, saath jisase it is sometimes shaamil as bhaag of a greater Indo-Australian Archipelago.
geologically it is a bhaag of the vahi tectonic thali as Australia.
When world sea levels were low, the two shared shorelines ( which now lie 100 to 140 meter neeche samudr str ), combining saath lands abhi inundated into the tectonic mahadweep of Sahul, also known as Greater Australia.
The two landmasses became separated when the kshetrafal abhi gyaat as the torace jalsandhi flooded baad the samaapt of the last glacial period.
anthropologically, nai gini is mana part of Melanesia.
Politically, the pashchimi half of the dweep comprises do indonesian provinces : Papua and West Papua.
The eastern half forms the menland of the desh of papua nai gini.
The island has a population of about 7.5 million, saath a bahut kam janasankhyikee ghanatv of tabhi 8 inh/km2.
New gini is differentiated isse iske drier, khushaamad, or kam fertile dakshini bantwaaraa, australia, by iske much ucchtar varsha or iske kriyasheel volcanic geology, with its highest point, Puncak Jaya, reaching an elevation of 4,884 m ( 16,023 ft ).
Yet the two land masses share a similar animal fauna, with marsupials, sahit wallabies or possums, or the egg-laying monotreme, the spiny anteater, or echidna.
Other than bats or kuch do darjan swadeshi krintak genera, vahin hai no pre-human swadeshi placental mammals.
Pigs, several atirikt prajati of chuuhe, or the purvaj of the nai gini gayan shwaan yahood introduced with human colonization.
The human presence on the dweep tithiyaan waapas at tanik 40,000 years to the oldest human migrations out of Africa.
Research indicates that the highlands were an jaldi or swatantra bich of krishi, saath pramaan of sinchai going back at least 10,000 years.
Because of the samay gaharaai of iske inhabitation or iske atyadhik fractured landscape, an unusually unchi kramank of bhashaaen hai bolaa on the dweep, saath kuch 1,000 languages ( a figure higher than that of most continents ) having been catalogued out of an estimated world-wide pre-Columbian total of 6,000 human dialects.
Most are classified as papuai bhashaaen, a generally sweekrut bhugolic pad jisase a minority of authors hold to be a genetic one.
A kramank of austronishian bhashaaen hai bolaa on the coast and on offshore islands.
In the 16th century spani explorers khoja the dweep or pukaara it Nueva Guinea.
in haal itihaas pashchimi nai gini thi included in the Dutch East Indies colony.
The Germans annexed the northern coast of the eastern half of the island as German New gini in unke pre–world yuddh i praytn to sthapit themselves as a aupniveshik shakti, whilst the south eastern portion was reluctantly claimed by Britain.
Following the Treaty of Versailles, the German portion was awarded to Australia ( which was already shaasi the angrejon arji, namit the territory of papua ) as a League of Nations mandate.
The eastern half of the dweep thi granted swatantraaa isse australia as Papua New Guinea in 1975.
the pashchimi half gained swatantraaa isse the dach in 1961, but became part of Indonesia soon afterwards in controversial circumstances.
`` The vine buren ladakon '' is the 148th apisod of the sitcom seinfeld, and name of a fictional New York street gang.
Their sign is crossing the hands, saath ek haath saath sab the ungliyaan 'up ' and spread out.
The other hand has all but the angootha or suchak ungali up, liye a kul of aath ( 8 ).
The gang is named for the 8th President of the sanyukt rajya, martin vine buren ( jo thi the pehla adhyaksh isse nai York ).
This was the 14th apisod liye the 8th season.
it aired on farvari 6, 1997.
bevo chihn
Bevo was a non-alcoholic malt peya, or nikat bear, brewed in the sanyukt rajya by the Anheuser-Busch company beginning in the early 20th century.
Bevo enjoyed its greatest success during the time of prohibition, when beer, wine or asut liquors, yahood bana illegal liye teraa saalo.
The Anheuser-Busch company started brewing bevo jab alcoholic peya yahood nishiddh in 1916 by the sanyukt rajya hathiyaarband forces.
utpaadan rose greatly saath neshnal nishedh in 1919, or bevo thi by dur the sabase lokapriy of the many `` cereal beverages '' or `` near beers '' of the time.
At the peak of its lokapriyata in the jaldi 1920s, adhik than paanch lakh maamle of Bevo were sold annually.
Renard with a mug of bevo, chitrit in terra cotta on the aantarik deevaaren of the bevo bhawan, St. Louis
Labels on the bottles billed it as `` bevo the peya ''.
The name `` Bevo '' was coined from the word `` peya '' or the slavi bhashaa shabd liye bear `` pivo '', or thi sunaaya `` Bee-vo ''.
Some Bevo advertising featured the character `` renard the fox `` ( aadhaarit on the samarthak of a madhyakaalin french folk-tale ), or promotional mag saath this character were manufactured.
In 1930 Anheuser-Busch built a series of boat-bodied cars in its St. Louis shops pukaara the `` bevo naukaaye '' jisase yahood prayukt liye pramotion.
Seven are believed to have been built on pierce-arrow 8-cylinder chassis jabaki ek surviving udhaaharan thi aadhaarit upon 1930 Cadillac 353 V8.
billboard vigyaapan bevo in Trenton, New Jersey, 1917
A contemporary vigyaapan padhaa `` kooling or invigorating, Bevo the Beverage.
Order by the maamla isse apana pansaari, druggist, or dealer. ''
The paper label on the waapas of the bottle padhaa `` the all-year-round Soft Drink.
appetizing - healthful - paushtik - Refreshing.
Milk or jal may contain bacteria.
BEVO never karata. ''
Bevo became part of the popular culture of the samay, or is ullekith in vibhinn lokapriy geeton or Vaudeville skits of the era.
This led to dwitiyak kathboli upyog of the shabd ; liye udhaaharan, in amareeki sainya kathboli a yang or anubhavheen officer was called a `` Bevo ''.
The University of Texas named its mascot `` bevo '', a naam jisase rai stuck to is din.
Irving Berlin included a paean to the drink, `` tum ca n't raho up on bevo '', in uske 1917 fouj revue, yip yip Yaphank.
In the late 1920s smuggled bootleg bear or liquor as khub as `` homebrew ``, kaaten into bevo 's marketshare.
With bikri flattening to 100,000 maamle by 1929, Anheuser-Busch stopped production.
the bevo mil, st. lui, in 2008
The Bevo building, with the Renard character prominently displayed at the kinare, still operates as a bottling suvidha at unke pramukh brewery in st. lui, mizori.
The landmark Bevo Mill, constructed by agast anheuser buch, sr. in 1917.
It was closed in 2009, but it reopened in aktubar 2009 antargat new owners.
Bevo is also mentioned in the choti story `` the hatyare `` by arnest hemingve ; as khub as in Babbitt by Sinclair Lewis.
Mylanta is an over the counter dawa prayukt liye the upachaar of acid reflux, heartburn, and gastroesophageal reflux disease ( also known as GERD ).
foremilk or hindmilk samples of human breast milk
a kaanch of pasteurized gaay milk
Milk is a white liquid utpaadit by the mammary grathiyon of mammals.
It is the praathmik sorce of poshan for young mammals before they are able to digest other types of food.
Early- lactation milk contains colostrum, which carries the maan 's antibodies to the baby or can reduce the risk of anek rogon in the baby.
It bhi contains anek anya nutrients.
As an agricultural product, milk is nikaali isse stanadhariyon or prayukt as khaanaa liye humans.
Worldwide, dugdh kheto utpaadit parichay 730 lakh ton of milk in 2011.
India is the world 's largest nirmaataa or upabhokta of milk, yet neither niryaat nor imports milk.
New jiland, the europea sangh 's 27 sadsy rajya, australia, or the sanyukt States are the world 's largest exporters of milk and milk products.
China or rus hai the sansar 's largest importers of milk and milk products.
Throughout the sansar, vahin hai adhik than 6 arab consumers of milk and milk products.
over 750 lakh logon sajiv bheetar dairy farming households.
Milk is a kunjee yogadanakarta to improving poshan or khaanaa suraksha particularly in developing countries.
Improvements in livestock and dairy praudyogiki prastaav significant vaada in reducing garibi or kuposhan in the world.
Motorcycle speedway, praayah referred to as speedway, is a motorcycle khel involving chaar or sometimes up to six riders competing over four anti-clockwise laps of an oval circuit.
Speedway motorcycle upyog tabhi ek gear or have no brakes or racing takes place on a flat oval track usually consisting of dirt or loosely packed shale.
Competitors use this surface to slide their mashine bagalon, powersliding or broadsiding into the bends.
On the straight bhaag of the track the motorcycle reach speeds of up.
The exact origins of the sport are unknown but there is evidence of a type of speedway racing being practised in the USA pehle the pehla sansar yuddh or in australia in the let 1910s or jaldi 1920s.
There are now both domestic and antarrashtriya pratiyogitaaon in a kramank of deshon sahit the speedway sansar cap whilst the ucchtam overall scoring individual in the Speedway Grand Prix events is pronounced the world champion.
speedway is lokapriy in central or uttari europea or to a lesser extent in Australia and North America.
A variant of track racing, speedway is administered internationally by the fédération internationale de Motocyclisme ( FIM ).
Domestic speedway kaarykram hai regulated by fim sambhddha national motor sport federations.
Vitamin D is a group of fat-soluble secosteroids jimmedaar liye intestinal absorption of calcium and phosphate.
In humans, the most important related yogicon of vitamin d hai vitamin d2 or vitamin d3.
Cholecalciferol ( vitamin D3 ) and ergocalciferol ( vitamin d2 ) hai adwitiya as ve constitute kayaa we jaan as vitamin d or can be ingested from the diet and/or supplements.
The body can also synthesize vitamin d ( isse cholestrol ) jab surya expozar is paryaapt ( hence its nickname, the `` sunshine vitamin '' ).
Although vitamin d is commonly pukaara a vitamin, it is nahin darasal an anivaary dietary vitamin in the sakht bhav, as it can be synthesized in adequate amounts by most mammals exposed to sunlight.
( Cats and dogs can not synthesize vitamin d efficiently or jarur praapt it in their diet. )
An organic chemical compound ( or related set of compounds ) is only scientifically pukaara a vitamin jab it can nahin be synthesized in sufficient quantities by an sajiv, or jarur be praapt isse unke diet.
However, as with other compounds commonly called vitamins, vitamin d thi khoja in an praytn to dhundhen the dietary padaarth ki thi lacking in a beemaari, namely, rickets, the balykaal rup of osteomalacia.
Additionally, like other compounds called vitamins, in the viksit sansar vitamin d is added to stepal bhojan, aise as milk, to avoid beemaari due to kamiyaan.
Measures of serum levels reflect endogenous sanshleshan isse expozar to dhoop as khub as seven isse the aahaar, or it is believed ki sanshleshan may contribute generally to the maintenance of adequate serum concentrations.
The evidence indicates that the synthesis of vitamin D isse surya expozar works in a pratikriya loop ki roktaa toxicity lakin, kuki of anischitata parichay the karkat risk isse dhoop, no suzav hai jari by the santhaan of ayurvigyaan, uese, liye the raashi of surya exposure required to meet vitamin D requirements.
Accordingly, the Dietary Reference intakes liye vitamin d assume ki no sanshleshan occurs or ki sab of a vyakti 's vitamin d is isse unke aahaar, haalanki ki hoga rarely occur in practice.
In the jigar vitamin d is parivartit to calcidiol, jisase is bhi gyaat as calcifediol ( in ), 25-hydroxycholecalciferol, or 25-hydroxyvitamin D—abbreviated 25 ( OH ) D ; and which is the specific vitamin D metabolite that is measured in serum to determine a person 's vitamin D status.
Part of the calcidiol is parivartit by the gurde to calcitriol, the biologically kriyasheel rup of vitamin D. calcitriol circulates as a hormone in the blood, regulating the concentration of calcium and phosphate in the bloodstream and promoting the healthy growth and remodeling of bone.
Calcidiol is also converted to calcitriol outside of the kidneys for other purposes, such as the aprasar, differentiation or apoptosis of koshikaayen ; calcitriol bhi affects neuromuscular function and inflammation.
Beyond its use to prevent osteomalacia or rickets, the pramaan liye anya swasthya prabhaav of vitamin d supplementation in the general population is inconsistent.
The best pramaan of laabh is liye asthi swasthya or a ghati in mortality in elderly women.
the duramax is a saamaanya motors deazal ingine parivaar liye light- or medium duty trucks, designed by Isuzu.
The 6.6-liter duramax is utpaadit by dmax, a sanyukt venture between GM and Isuzu in Moraine, Ohio.
This engine was initially santhaapit in 2001 model saal chevi or jiemasi trek or rai maharoom an vikalp chunki tab in pickups, vine, and medium-duty trucks.
In 2006, production at Moraine was reportedly simit to lagbhag 200,000 ingine per year.
On may 9, 2007, dmax ghoshit the utpaadan of the 1,000,000th Duramax V-8 diesel at its Moraine facility.
duramax LML
balto.
is also a paramparaagat likhaa sankshipt liye balteemor, Maryland.
Statue of Balto in central park ( nai york City )
Balto ( 1919 – March 14, 1933 ) was a Siberian Husky sled dog who led his team on the final leg of the 1925 serum run to Nome, in which diphtheria antitoxin was transported isse anchorage, alaska, to nenana, alaska, by tren or tab to nome by shwaan sled to combat an outbreak of the disease.
The run is commemorated by the salanaa iditarod Trail Sled Dog Race.
balto thi namit baad the sami explorer samuel Balto.
balto died at the aayu of 14.
Professor Stephen Hawking, known liye hone a saidhantik physicist, rai appeared in anek works of lokapriy samskruti.
The nisaan ucchisht is a mid-size / entry-level lakjri car manufactured by Nissan, marketed as the `` four-door sports car ''.
The origins of the Maxima began in July 1976 as the Datsun 810, an upscale six-cylinder sanskaran of the bluebird, or thi spun into iske apana lakeer in 1981, having been made continuously since then.
The `` Maxima '' naam thi lagu dhire, shuruuaat in 1981.
Most pre-2004 Maximas were built in Oppama, japani, jabatak the vartmaan uttar amareeki maximas prarambh hone assembled in Smyrna, Tennessee.
The `` Maxima '' has also been applied to cefiros or chalegaa in vibhinn bazaar.
propolis as chhatta sealing
Propolis is a resinous mishran ki madhu madhumakhiyon collect isse ped kaliyon, sap bahati, or anya botanical sources.
it is prayukt as a sealant liye unwanted open spaces in the hive.
Propolis is prayukt liye choti gap ( lagbhag or kam ), while larger spaces are usually filled with beeswax.
Its rang varies depending on iske vanaspati sorce, the most common being dark brown.
propolis is stick at or upar room taapmaana,.
At lower temperatures, it becomes mushkil or bahut bhangur.
Steven Tyler ( born Steven Victor Tallarico ; March 26, 1948 ) is an American singer, songwriter, or multi-instrumentalist, behtareen gyaat as the frontman or sise singer of the boston -aadharand chattan band arosmith, in jisase he bhi plays the hormonica, and occasional piano and percussion.
he is gyaat as the `` rakshas of screamin ' '' due to his high screams and his wide vocal range.
he is bhi gyaat liye uske on-stage acrobatics.
During his high-energy pradarshan, he praayah poshaak in ujjwal, rangeen outfits saath uske trademark scarves hanging from his microphone stand.
In the 1970s, Tyler rose to prominence as the frontman of arosmith, jisase released aise padaav mushkil chattan album as Toys in the Attic and Rocks.
In the late 1970s or jaldi 1980s, tyler tha a baari drug or daaru vyasan, or the band 's popularity waned.
He completed drug rehabilitation in 1986 and subsequently kaayam gambheertha liye over 20 saalo, lakin tha a patan saath nuskhaa painkillers in the late 2000s, for which he successfully received treatment in 2009.
After Aerosmith launched a remarkable comeback in the late 1980s and jaldi 1990s saath the album sthai avkaash, pump, or milengi a pakad, tyler became a household name and has remained a relevant rock icon.
As a result, he has since embarked on anek solo endeavors sahit atithi dikhaave on anya kalakaaron ' music, filmi and TV roles ( including as a judge on American Idol ), authoring a bestselling book, and solo work ( including a Top 40 hit single in 2011 ).
However, he has jari to ricard music or perform saath arosmith, baad adhik than 43 years in the band.
The band 's naveenatam album, music isse Another Dimension !
, was released on navambar 6, 2012.
Tyler is shaamil among rolling pattharon 100 Greatest Singers.
He was also ranked 3rd on Hit parader 's sheersh 100 metal vocalists of sab samay.
In 2001 he was inducted into the Rock or phenken haul of kirti saath arosmith, or he thi the prastutakarta when AC/DC was inducted into the Hall of Fame in 2003.
In 2013, Tyler and uske songwriting sangi jo peri hoga be praptakarta of the ascap sansthaapakon puraskaar or hoga bhi be inducted into the Songwriters Hall of Fame.
the jigar produces uria in the uria saikil as a barbaad utpaada of the digestion of protein.
Normal human adult blood should contain between 7 to 21 mg of uria nitrogen prati 100 ml ( 7–21 mg/ dL ) of blood.
Individual laboratories may have alag sandarbh seemayen, or is is kuki the procedure may vary.
Wayne Fontes ( born February 2, 1940 ) is a purv amareeki footbaal coach or college or peshewar footbaal khilaadi jo thi the sir coach of the enegel 's detroit Lions from 1988 to 1996.
His 67 vins or 71 nuksaan hai prayek the sabase liye a sir coach in team history.
The Jews ( ISO 259-3 Israeli pronunciation ), also known as the Jewish people, are a nation or an ethnoreligious samooh, originating in the israelites or hebrews of the pracheen nikat East.
The Jewish ethnicity, nationality, and religion are strongly interrelated, as judaism is the paramparaagat aasthaa of the Jewish nation.
Converts to judaism, jinaki aukaat as yahudiyon bheetar the yahudee ethnos is baraabar to those born into it, have maharoom absorbed into the Jewish people throughout the millennia.
In yahudee parampara, yahudee ancestry is traced to the biblical patriarchs abraham, Isaac and Jacob in the second millennium BCE.
the aadhunik rajya of israel thi sthapit as a Jewish nation-state, and defines itself as such in its Basic Laws.
Its Law of Return grants the sahi of naagarikta to koi jew jo nivedan it.
Israel is the only country where Jews hai a bahumat of the population.
Jews also enjoyed political swaittata twice pehle in pracheen itihaas.
The first of these periods lasted isse 1350 to 586 bce, or encompassed the avadhi of the nyaayadhishon, the sanyukt samrajya, or the vibhajit samrajya of the kingdoms of israel or yahuda, samaapti saath the vinaash of the First Temple.
The second was the period of the hasmonean kingdom spanning isse 140 to 37 BCE.
Since the vinaash of the pehla temple, most Jews have lived in diaspora.
A minority in every country in which they live ( except israel ), ve have aksar anbhavi persecution throughout itihaas, resulting in a janasankhyikee ki rai fluctuated both in numbers and distribution over the centuries.
The world Jewish janasankhyikee pahunche a shikhar of 15 lakh prior to the duusari sansar yuddh, lakin chah lakh Jews were killed in the Holocaust.
Since then the population has risen again or, thi anumaanit at 13.4 lakh by the uttar amareeki yahudee aankada bainko, or kam than 0.2 % of the kul sansar janasankhyikee ( roughly one in every 514 people ).
according to is rapat, parichay 42.5 % of sab yahudiyon reside in israel ( 5.7 lakh ), or 39.3 % in the sanyukt rajya ( 5.3 million ), with most of the remainder living in Europe ( 1.5 million ) and Canada ( 0.4 million ).
These numbers include all those who consider themselves yahudiyon, whether or nahin ve hai sambhddha saath a yahudee sanghathan.
The total sansar yahudee janasankhyikee, however, is difficult to measure.
In addition to issues with census methodology, there are halakhic disputes regarding who is a jew or dharmanirpeksh, rajnatik, or ancestral pahchaan factors that may affect the figure considerably.
corpus christi procession.
Oil on canvas by karl emil doepler.
Corpus Domini redirects yahan.
For anya upyog dekhie corpus domini ( disambiguation )
The feast of corpus christi ( latin liye deh of messiah ), bhi gyaat as corpus domini, is a latin reeti liturgical solemnity celebrating the tradition and belief in the body and blood of Jesus Christ and his Real Presence in the Eucharist.
It emphasizes the joy of the sanstha of the eucharist, jisase thi observed on paavan guuruuvaar in the somber maahaul of the nearness of Good Friday.
In the present Roman Missal, the feast is designated the solemnity of the sabase paavan Body and Blood of Christ.
It is also celebrated in kuch anglican, lutheran, or boodha catholic carch ki tham similar beliefs regarding the Real Presence.
The feast is liturgically celebrated on the Thursday after Trinity sande or, `` jahaan the solemnity of the sabase paavan deh or rakt of messiah is nahin a paavan din of daayitv, it is assigned to the Sunday after the Most Holy Trinity as its proper day ''.
At the end of Holy Mass, there is often a baraat of the dhanya sacrament, generally pradarshit in a monstrance.
the baraat is followed by sunaakar of the Blessed Sacrament.
A notable Eucharistic procession is that presided over by the Pope each saal in rome, jahaan it begins at the archbasilica of st. jon lateran or makes iske rasta to the basilica of Saint Mary Major, where it concludes with Benediction.
C-reactive protein ( CRP ) is a protein found in the blood, the str of jisase vruddhi in jawaab to sujan ( i.e. c-reactive protein is an acute-phase protein ).
Its physiological role is to bind to phosphocholine expressed on the sataha of murde or maranaa koshikaayen ( or kuch prakaar of jeevanu ) in anukram to activate the poorak pranali via the c1q complex.
CRP is synthesized by the liver in jawaab to karkon released by macrophages or mote koshikaayen ( adipocytes ).
It is a sadsy of the pentraxin parivaar of proteins.
It is not related to c-peptide or protein c.
C-reactive protein thi the pehla pattern manyata receptor ( PRR ) to be identified.
The start of the systematic European colonization of the americas is typically dinaak to 1492, jab a spani expedition headed by christopher columbus sailed liye india to kholen vyapaar but inadvertently discovered the Americas.
European conquest, large-scale khoji or colonization soon followed.
Seeing that Europe was preoccupied with many aatanrik yudhon or thi dhire recovering isse the anek mauton ki the bubonic plig caused, the rapid vistaar at which it grew in wealth and power was unforeseeable in the early 1400s.
The first expeditions occurred saath the caribbean coasts on the islands of hispaniola, purto rico or cuba, or baad 1500 vistaarit into the interiars of dono uttar or dakshin America.
In 1497, sailing from the north on behalf of England, John Cabot landed on the uttar amareeki coast, or a saal baad, columbus 's teesraa voyage pahunche the dakshin amareeki coast.
France santhaapit colonies in much of purvi uttar america, on a kramank of Caribbean islands, and in South America.
portugal colonized Brazil.
Eventually, the entire Western Hemisphere came under the control of europea sarkarein, agrani to profound parivartan to iske landscape, janasankhyikee, and plant and animal life.
In the 19th sadi alon over 50 lakh logon left Europe for the Americas.
The post-1492 era is gyaat as the kaal of the columbian exange.
kaith richards ( born 18 disambar 1943 ) is an angrezi sangeetkaar, singer-songwriter and founder member of the English rock band the Rolling Stones.
Rolling Stone magazine said Richards had created `` rock 's mahanatam single deh of riffs '', ranking use 4th on iske suchi of 100 behtareen guitarists.
Fourteen geeton richards likhaa saath the rolling pattharon ' sise vocalist mik jaigar hai soochibaddh among rolling stone patrika 's `` 500 Greatest Songs of All Time ``.
Richards ' notoriety for illicit drug use stems in part from several drug busts during the let 1960s or 1970s or uske candour regarding uske vyasan to or eventual abstinence from heroin.
Testosterone is a steroid hormone from the androgen samooh or is mila in stanadhariyon, sarisrupon, pakshiyon, or anya vertebrates.
in stanadhariyon, testosterone is primarily sravit in the andkosh of males and the ovaries of females, although small amounts are also secreted by the adrenal glands.
It is the principal purush sex hormone or an anabolic steroid.
In main, testosterone plays a kunjee bhoomika in the vikaas of purush reproductive utakon aise as the testis or prostate as well as promoting secondary sexual characteristics such as increased muscle, bone mass, and the growth of body hair.
in jod, testosterone is anivaary liye swasthya or well-being as khub as the prevention of osteoporosis.
On average, in vayask insaan males, the plasma visheshgyata of testosterone is parichay 7–8 times as great as the visheshgyata in vayask insaan mahilaon ' plasma, but as the metabolic consumption of testosterone in males is greater, the daily production is about 20 times greater in men.
Females also are more samvedansheel to the hormone.
testosterone is observed in most vertebrates.
Fish mek a thodaa alag rup pukaara 11-ketotestosterone.
iske bantwaaraa in keet is ecdysone.
ye sarvyaapee steroids sujhaayen ki sex hormones have an ancient evolutionary history.
Cluster sampling is a sampling technique used when `` prakritik '' lakin apekshaakrit samroop groupings hai evident in a sankhyikeey population.
It is praayah prayukt in vipanan research.
In this technique, the kul janasankhyikee is vibhajit into ye samooh ( or cluster ) or a saral yadrichhik sample of the groups is selected.
Then the jaruri soochna is ekatrit isse a saral yadrichhik namoona of the tatv within each selected group.
This may be done liye prayek tatv in ye samooh or a subsample of tatv may be chaynit within each of these groups.
A common motivation for cluster sampling is to reduce the total kramank of saakshaatkaar or laagat die the desired sateekta.
Assuming a phixd namoona aakaar, the takanic detaa adhik sateek parinaam jab sabase of the vibhinnata in the population is within the groups, not between them.
Jamestown is a town in Guilford County, North carolina, sanyukt rajya, or is a upnagareey of the aasapaas shaharon of greensboro or unchi Point.
The janasankhyikee thi 3,382 at the 2010 census.
natali portman ( born natali hershlag ; ; june 9, 1981 ) is an abhinetri or model with dual American and Israeli citizenship.
Her first role was as an orphan taken in by a hitman in the 1994 action film, but mainstream kamyaabi aae jab wo thi daal as padmé amidala in the star yudhon prequel trayee ( released in 1999, 2002 and 2005 ).
In 1999, wo namankit at harvard vishvavidhyalayon to padhai manovigyaan while still working as an actress.
She completed her snaatak 's oopaadhi in 2003.
In 2001, Portman opened in nai york nagar 's public theatre utpaadan of antone Chekhov 's The Seagull.
In 2005, Portman received a namakan liye the academy puraskaar liye behtareen supporting abhinetri or jiti the sunahari globe puraskaar liye behtareen supporting Actress - Motion Picture for the drama Closer.
She won a Constellation Award for Best Female Performance and a Saturn Award for Best abhinetri liye uske abhinit bhoomika in v liye vendetta ( 2006 ).
She played leading roles in the historical dramas goyaa 's bhoot ( 2006 ) or the anya bolin ladki ( 2008 ).
In May 2008, she parosa as the youngest sadsy of the 61st salanaa can filmi Festival jury.
Portman 's directorial debut, Eve, opened the 65th Venice antarrashtriya filmi parv 's shorts pratiyogita in 2008.
portman nirdeshit a khand of the collective film New York, I Love You.
In 2011, Portman won the Academy Award, the Golden globe puraskaar, the bafta puraskaar, the screen abhinaytaon gild puraskaar, or the swatantra spirit puraskaar liye uske sise performance as Nina Sayers in Black Swan.
Copper is a rasinic tatv saath the pratik cu ( from ) and atomic number 29.
It is a ductile metal with very unchi thermal or vidyut chaalakata.
Pure copper is naram or malleable ; a freshly ujagar sataha has a reddish-orange color.
It is used as a conductor of ooshmaa or vidyut, a bhawan saamagree, and a constituent of various metal alloys.
The metal and its alloys have maharoom prayukt liye hazaron of saalo.
In the Roman era, tambe thi pradhanthya mined on cyprus, hence the utpatti of the name of the metal as сyprium ( metal of Cyprus ), later shortened to сuprum.
Its compounds are commonly encountered as copper ( II ) salts, which praayah impart blue or green rangon to khanij aise as azurite or firoza and have been widely used historically as pigments.
Architectural structures built with tambe corrode to de green verdigris ( or patina ).
Decorative art prominently suvidhaayen tambe, dono by itself and as part of pigments.
Copper is essential to all living organisms as a tres dietary khanij kuki it is a kunjee constituent of the respiratory enzyme complex cytochrome c oxidase.
In molluscs and crustacea tambe is a constituent of the rakt ranjak hemocyanin, jisase is replaced by the iron-complexed hemoglobin in fish and other vertebrates.
The main areas where copper is mila in vertebrates hai jigar, mansapeshi or asthi.
In sufficient concentration, copper compounds are jaharila to ucchtar jeevon or hai prayukt as bacteriostatic substances, fungicides, and wood preservatives.
The major professional sports leagues, or simply major leagues, in the United rajya or canada hai the ucchtam peshewar pratiyogitaaon of toli khel in the do deshon.
haalanki vyaktigat khel aise as golf, tennis, and auto racing are also very popular, the term is usually limited to team sports.
The term `` major league '' thi pehla prayukt in 1921 in sandarbh to pramukh lig besabaal ( emelbi ), the top level of professional American baseball.
Today, the major northern North America professional team sports leagues are Major lig besabaal ( emelbi ), the neshnal basket sangh ( enbie ), the neshnal footbaal lig ( enegel ), and the National Hockey League ( NHL ).
Other notable lig shaamil pramukh lig soker ( mls ), the canadai footbaal lig ( cfl ), the arina footbaal League, Major League Lacrosse, the National Lacrosse League and the Women 's National Basketball Association.
The NFL, MLB, NBA, or enechael hai commonly referred to as the Big Four.
Each of ye is the richest peshewar klbon pratiyogita in its sport worldwide.
the behtareen khilaadi can become saanskrithik pratik in dono deshon or elsewhere in the sansar, kuki the lig enjoy a significant place in popular culture in the US and Canada.
The enegel rai 32 tiimon, or the others have 30 each.
The vast majority of pramukh lig tiimon hai concentrated in the sabase populous mahanagar areas of the United States.
Baseball, football, hockey, and soccer have had professional leagues for over 100 years ; jaldi lig aise as the neshnal sangh, ohio lig, or neshnal hockey sangh formed the aadhaar of the aadhunik emelbi, enegel or enechael kramshah.
Soccer was first professionalized in 1894, lakin lig suffered greatly isse kami of sthirataa or seldom lasted adhik than a dashak.
Soccer 's mahanatam safaltaaon yahood in the rup of the amareeki soker lig ( 1921-1933 ), the asli uttar amareeki soker lig ( 1968-1984 ), the National Professional Soccer League ( 1984-2001 ) and, currently, Major League Soccer ( 1996-present ).
Basketball is a relatively new development ; the enbie viksit isse the neshnal basket lig or iske splinter samooh the basket sangh of america, lene on iske current form in 1949.
Every major league averages 15,000 prashansak in upasthiti prati khel or ucchtar as of 2011.
Meridian Altitude is an khagoleey nevigation method of calculating an observer 's latitude.
Earned value management ( EVM ), or Earned value project/performance prabandhan ( evpm ) is a project prabandhan takanic liye measuring project pradarshan or pragati in an uddeshy manner.
kuki evm rai the kshamta to combine measurements of :
paimaana
anusuchee
or cost,
in a single integrated system, arjeet maan prabandhan is samarth to provide sateek forecasts of project performance problems, which is an important contribution for project management.
Early EVM research showed that the areas of niyojan or control hai significantly impacted by iske upyog ; or similarly, using the methodology improves dono paimaana paribhaasha as khub as the analysis of overall project performance.
More recent shodh adhyayan have dikhaaya ki the siddhanth of evm hai dhanatmak predictors of project success.
Popularity of EVM rai grown significantly in haal saalo pare sarkari contracting, in jisase sector iske mahatv continues to vruddhi ( e.g., haal new DFAR rules ), in part because EVM can also surface in and help substantiate contract disputes.
Colorful vasant garden pushp
Spring is ek of the chaar conventional shitoshna sizan, following winter and preceding summer.
vahin hai vibhinn takneekee paribhaashaayen of vasant, lakin local upyog of the term varies according to local climate, cultures and customs.
When it is spring in the uttari golardh, it hoga be patjhad in the dakshini hemisphere.
At the spring equinox, days are close to 12 ghanton long saath din lambaai increasing as the ritu progresses.
Spring and `` springtime '' refer to the season, and also to vichaar of rebirth, kayakalp, naveekaran, qayamat, or regrowth, saath tyohaar such as Carnival, Easter and Holi being celebrated at this time.
Jamestown was a settlement in the upnivesh of virginia, the pehla sthai angrezi settlement in the Americas.
Established by the Virginia Company of London as `` James Fort '' on may 14, 1607 ( o.s., may 24, 1607 n.s. ), it followed anek pehle vifal koshishen, sahit the khoyaa upnivesh of roanoke.
Jamestown parosa as the puunji of the upnivesh liye 83 saalo, from 1616 until 1699.
The settlement was located within the territory of a political antity gyaat as tsenacommacah, the rajya of the powhatan confederacy, saath around 14,000 deshi inhabitants, and specifically was in part of the subdivision known as the Paspahegh tribe.
The natives initially welcomed the colonists with dancing, feasting and tobacco ceremonies, and they provided crucial provisions and support for the survival of the colonists, jo yahood nahin agriculturally inclined, haalanki sambandh saath the newcomers bhi soured fairly jaldi on, agrani to the kul annihilation of the paspahegh in warfare within 3 years.
Within a year of Jamestown 's founding, the virginia company brought polish or dach colonists to sahaayta improve the settlement.
In 1619, the first documented Africans were brought to Jamestown, haalanki the aadhunik dharna of gulaami in the bhavishya sanyukt rajya kiya nahin begin in Virginia until 1660.
When the colony was subdivided into the original aath shires of virginia in 1634, the kasbaa became stith in the eponymous james City Shire.
The London Company 's second settlement, Bermuda, claims to be the site of the oldest kasbaa in the angrezi nai sansar, as st. george 's, bermuda was officially established ( as New London ) in 1612, whereas James Fort, in Virginia, was not to be converted into James towne until 1619, and further did not survive into the present day.
In 1699, the capital was relocated from Jamestown to what is today williamsburg, baad jisase jamestown ceased to maujuud as a settlement, existing today only as an archaeological site.
aaj, jamestown is ek of teen sthitiyaan comprising the aitihaasik tribhuj of aupniveshik virginia, saath with Williamsburg and Yorktown, with two primary heritage sites.
Historic Jamestowne, the archaeological site on Jamestown Island, is a cooperative effort by jamestown neshnal aitihaasik sait ( bhaag of aupniveshik neshnal aitihaasik park ), or sangrakshan Virginia.
The Jamestown upnivesh, a jeena itihaas interpretive sait, is sanchalit by the jamestown yorktown nyaas in conjunction with the Commonwealth of Virginia.
James Christopher Frey ( born sitambar 12, 1969 ) is an American writer.
uske kitabe a lakh choti tukade ( 2003 ) or my dost leonard ( 2005 ), as well as Bright Shiny Morning ( 2008 ), were bestsellers.
He was the subject of a scandal when investigators discovered ki thana samay or the extent of nishchit choton yahood atiranjit in a lakh choti tukade, a adhikarigan autobiographical account of the author 's struggle with addiction.
Deere & company, sabase commonly gyaat by iske naam jon deere, is an amareeki nigam aadhaarit in moline, illinois, or ek of the largest manufacturers of agricultural machinery in the world.
In 2012, it was listed as 97th in the Fortune 500 america 's ranking or 190th in the saubhaahgya 500 Global ranking.
Deere and Company agricultural products, bechi antargat the jon deere naam, shaamil tractors, combine harvester, kapaas harvester, balers, planters / seeders, sprayers, and UTVs.
The company is also a manufacturer of construction equipment and forestry equipment, as khub as a pradaayak of deazal ingine or drivetrains ( axles, transmishan, gearboxes ) used in heavy equipment.
Additionally, John Deere manufactures upkaran prayukt in lon, grounds, or turf parvaah, aise as walk-behind lon mowers, zero-turn lon mowers, lawn tractors, and snowthrowers.
To support the core vyavsaayon, jon deere bhi provides vittiya sevaayen or anya related activities.
The company 's slogan is `` Nothing Runs Like a Deere '' or rai a chitra of a leaping hiran as a logo, a shabd khel pun on `` nothing ranon jaise a deer ''.
Carl Westby coined the phrase `` nothing ranon jaise a deere '' liye a vipanan abhiyaan to sell snowmobiles.
the company 's utpaada hai bhi identifiable by iske distinctive shade of green paint, usually augmented by yellow trim.
The United States ten-dollar vidheyak ( $ 10 ) is a denomination of United States currency.
The first U.S. Secretary of the Treasury ( 1789–95 ), Alexander Hamilton, is philhal pradarshit on the obverse of the vidheyak, jabaki the u.S. rajkosh bhawan is pradarshit on the reverse.
( Hamilton is ek of do non-presidents pradarshit on philhal jari u.S. bills.
the anya is benjamin franklin, on the $ 100 bill.
Hamilton is one of only four logon pradarshit on u.S. paper karency ( 1861 to the upasthit ) jo thi nahin born in the mahadwipiya United States, as he was from the West Indies.
The others are : Albert Gallatin, Switzerland ( $ 500 1862/63 Legal Tender ) ; George Meade, Spain ( $ 1,000 1890/91 rajkosh note ) ; or robert morris, england ( $ 1,000 1862/63 vidhik tender ; $ 10 1878/80 chaandi praaanpatr ).
In addition, Kamehameha I, appears on the 2008 hawaii rajya quarter. )
sab $ 10 bills jari aaj are Federal Reserve Notes.
The Bureau of Engraving and mudran says the ausat jivan of a $ 10 vidheyak in parisancharan is 18 maheene before it is replaced due to wear.
Approximately 6 % of all US banknotes mudrit in 2009 yahood $ 10 bills.
Ten dollar bills are delivered by sangheey arakshit bainko in pilaa straps.
The source of the face on the $ 10 vidheyak is jon trumbull ’s 1805 portret of hamiltan ki belongs to the portret collection of New York City Hall.
The $ 10 bill is the only U.S. paper karency in parisancharan in jisase the portret chehron to the baayein ( the $ 100,000 vidheyak pradarshit a portret of woodro wilson facing to the left, but was used only for intra-government transactions ).
Andy samuel griphith ( june 1, 1926 – july 3, 2012 ) thi an amareeki karta, television producer, Grammy Award -winning Southern-gospel singer, and writer.
He was a Tony Award nominee liye do bhoomikaaye, or gained prominence in the abhinit bhoomika in nideshak elia kazan 's filmi a phase in the bheed ( 1957 ) pehle he became behatar known for his television roles, playing the lead characters in the 1960–1968 situation comedy The Andy Griffith Show and in the 1986–1995 legal drama Matlock.
Theresa Penelope `` Terri '' Irwin, ( née Raines ; born july 20, 1964 ) is an australian -aadharand, amareeki -born naturalist, author, the widow of Australian naturalist Steve Irwin and owner of Australia Zoo at Beerwah, Queensland, Australia.
She co-starred with her husband on The Crocodile Hunter, their unconventional television nature vruttchitr shrenee saath saath iske spin-off shrenee, croke filein or the magaramchh shikari diaries.
She has lived in australia chunki 1992, jab wo shaadishuda steve Irwin.
Andreas Cellarius 's udhaaharan of the copernican pranali, isse the harmonia Macrocosmica ( 1660 ).
heliocentrism, or heliocentricism, is the khagoleey model in jisase the dharti or grah revolve around a relatively stationary Sun at the center of the Solar System.
The word aata isse the unani ( helios `` sun '' and kentron `` center '' ).
Historically, heliocentrism was opposed to geocentrism, jisase lagaai the dharti at the center.
The notion that the Earth revolves around the Sun had been proposed as early as the 3rd century BC by Aristarchus of Samos, but aristarchus 's heliocentrism aakarshith choti dhyaan jabatak kopernicus revived or elaborated it.
Lucio Russo, however, argues that is is a bhraamak chhap resulting isse the ghaataa of vaigyanik works of the hellenistic Era.
Using indirect evidence he argues ki a heliocentric drishy thi expounded in hipparkas 's work on gravity.
It was not until the 16th sadi ki a fully predictive ganitiya model of a heliocentric pranali thi prastut, by the punarjagran ganitagya, astronomer, and Catholic cleric Nicolaus Copernicus of Poland, leading to the Copernican Revolution.
In the following century, yohaness kapler elaborated upon or vistaarit is model to shaamil andakaar orbits, and supporting observations made using a telescope were presented by Galileo Galilei.
With the observations of wiliam harchel, fredrick bessel, or anya, khagolashastriyon ehsaas ki the surya thi nahin the bich of the brahmad or by the 1920s Edwin Hubble had shown that it was part of a galaxy ( the Milky Way ) that was only one of many billions.
Norah Jones ( born Geetali norah jones shankar ; kooch 30, 1979 ) is an amareeki singer-songwriter, pianist, and actress.
She is the daughter of bhartiya sitar khilaadi ravi shankar or Sue Jones.
She is bhi anoushka shankar 's half-sister.
In 2002, wo shubharambh uske solo music kariyar saath the relies of the commercially kaamyaab or critically acclaimed album Come Away with Me, a fusion of country music and pop with elements of jazz which was certified diamond album, selling over 26 million copies.
The record arjeet jones paanch grami puraskaar, sahit the album of the saal, ricard of the saal, and Best New Artist.
Her subsequent studio albums, Feels Like Home, released in 2004, Not Too Late, released in 2007, the same year she made uske filmi debyue in my bluebery nits, or uske 2009 relies the patan sab gained platinum aukaat, selling over a lakh nakal or yahood generally well received by critics.
Jones ' fifth studio album, choti tutaa dil, thi released on april 27, 2012.
Jones has won nine Grammy Awards or thi 60th on billboard patrika 's kalakaaron of the 2000–2009 decade chart.
throughout uske kariyar, jones rai jiti numerous puraskaar or has sold more than 50 million albums worldwide.
billboard namit uske the sheersh jaiz artist of the 2000–2009 decade.
Not to be confused saath aayam of a shaareerik quantity.
For anya upyog, dekhie aayam ( disambiguation ).
From left to right, the vargakar, the ghan, or the tesseract.
The vargakar is bounded by 1-dimensional linon, the ghan by 2-dimensional kshetron, and the tesseract by 3-dimensional volumes.
A projection of the ghan is die chunki it is viewed on a two-dimensional screen.
The same applies to the tesseract, jisase additionally can tabhi be dikhaaya as a prakshep bhi in three-dimensional space.
A diagram prardashit the pehla chaar sthanik dimensions.
In physics and ganit, the aayam of a spes or object is informally defined as the minimum number of coordinates needed to specify any point within it.
Thus a lakeer rai a aayam of ek kuki tabhi ek nirdeshaank is needed to bataaen a point on it ( for example, the point at 5 on a number line ).
A surface such as a plane or the sataha of a belan or gola rai a aayam of do kuki do nirdeshaank hai needed to bataaen a point on it ( liye example, to locate a point on the surface of a sphere you need both its latitude and its longitude ).
The inside of a cube, a cylinder or a sphere is three-dimensional kuki teen nirdeshaank hai needed to locate a point within these spaces.
In physical terms, dimension refers to the constituent structure of all space ( volume ) and its position in time ( perceived as a scalar dimension along the t-axis ), as well as the spatial constitution of objects within—structures ki correlate saath dono kan or field conceptions, interact according to saapeksh gun of dravyaman —and are fundamentally mathematical in description.
These, or anya aksh, may be sanderbhit to uniquely pahachaano a point or dhaancha in iske ravaiya and relationship to other objects and occurrences.
Physical theories that charitaarth samay, aise as saamaanya aapekshikta, hai kaha to kaary in 4-dimensional `` spacetime ``, ( defined as a Minkowski space ).
Modern theories tend to be `` higher-dimensional '' sahit kwantum field or string theories.
The state-space of kwantum yantriki is an infinite-dimensional function space.
the avadharana of aayam is nahin pratibandhit to physical objects.
High-dimensional spaces occur in mathematics and the sciences for anek kaaran, aksar as vinyas spaces aise as in lagranjiy or hemiltoneey yantriki ; ye hai amoort spaces, swatantra of the physical space we live in.
Fontana ( ) is a nagar of 200,762 nivaasiyon in San Bernardino County, California.
Founded in 1913, it remained essentially gramin jabatak sansar yuddh ii, jab udyogon henry J. kaisar nirmit a large steel mill in the area.
It is now a regional hub of the trucking udyog, saath antarraji 10 or rajya root 210 transecting the nagar isse east to west, or antarraji 15 guzar diagonally through its northwestern quadrant.
It is home to the largest of the San Bernardino County system pustakaalayon, a sanvar aitihaasik theatre, a nagarpalika park, or the swachaalit klbon speedway on the sait of the kaisar Steel Mill.
Fontana also hosts the fontana dinon half marathon and 5K run.
This race is the tivratam half-marathon course in the world.
The U.S. 2012 janasankhyikee reported ki fontana 's janasankhyikee thi 200,762 in 2012, bananaa it the second most populous city in San Bernardino county county and 14th in the state.
cowboys stadium is a stadium saath a retractable roof in Arlington, Texas.
It serves as the ghar of the neshnal footbaal lig 's dalas Cowboys.
It replaced the partially covered texas stadium, jisase kholi in 1971, or parosa as the Cowboys ' home through the 2008 season.
It was samaapt on may 27, 2009.
The stadium seats 85,000, making it the teesraa largest stadium in the enegel by seating kshamta.
The maximum kshamta of the stadium, sahit khadaa room, is 105,000.
The Party Pass ( open areas ) sections are peeche site in prayek samaapt mandal or on a shrenee of chah elevated plateform conect by stairways.
It has the world 's largest column-free aantarik or the chauthi largest unchi paribhaasha video screen, jisase hangs from 20 yard line to 20 yard line.
The facility can also be prayukt liye a kismein of anya kriyaayein baahar of iske pramukh purpose ( peshewar footbaal ) aise as concert, basket games, boxing matches, college football and high school football contests, soccer matches, and motocross races.
Canadian itihaaskaaron jabatak the 1980s tended to fokas on aarthik history, including labour history.
In part this is because canada rai tha dur kam rajnatik or sainya virodh than anya societies.
This was especially true in the pehla half of the beesvin sadi jab aarthik itihaas thi overwhelmingly dominant.
Many of the most prominent English Canadian historians from this period were aarthik itihaaskaaron, aise as herold innis, donald creighton or arthur R. M. Lower
Scholars of Canadian history yahood vaaris to the paramparaon ki viksit in europea or the sanyukt rajya, lakin frameworks ki worked well elsewhere often failed in Canada.
The heavily marxvaadi bahekaave aarthik itihaas ki dominates europea has little relevance to most of Canadian history.
A focus on class, urban areas, and industry fails to pataa canada 's gramin or sansaadhan aadhaarit arthvyavastha.
Similarly, the monetarist school that is dominant in the sanyukt rajya bhi rai maharoom mushkil to transafar uttar of the border.
The study of economic history in Canada became highly focused on economic bhugol, or liye anek saalo the prabal skool of vichaar rai maharoom the stepuls lekh.
is skool of vichaar bases the padhai of the canadai economy on the study of natural resources.
is drushtikon rai chunki bhi become prayukt baahar of canada in Australia and in many developing nations.
pehle the aagaman of europeans, the pehla raashtra of kayaa would become Canada had a large and vibrant trade network.
Furs, tools, decorative items, and other goods were praayah transported hazaron of kilometre, zyaadaatar by canoe throughout the anek nadiyaan and lakes of the region.
The early European history of the canadai arthvyavastha is praayah padhai through the stepuls lekh jisase argues the canadai arthvyavastha viksit through the exploitation of a series of staples that would be exported to Europe.
Carbon-14, 14C, or radiocarbon, is a radioskriy samasthanik of carbon saath a cendrak containing 6 protons and 8 neutrons.
Its presence in organic materials is the basis of the radiocarbon dating vidhi pioneered by willard libbi or sahyogiyon ( 1949 ) to tithi puraatatv, geological and hydrogeological samples.
Carbon-14 was discovered on 27 February 1940, by Martin kamen or sam ruben at the vishvavidhyalayon of california vikiran prayogshaala in barkali, haalanki iske astitv tha maharoom sujhaayaa by franj kurie in 1934.
There are three naturally occurring isotopes of carbon on Earth : 99 % of the carbon is carbon-12, 1 % is carbon-13, and carbon-14 occurs in tres amounts, i.e., bananaa up parichay 1 bhaag prati kharab ( 0.0000000001 % ) of the carbon in the atmosphere.
The half-life of carbon-14 is 5,730±40 years.
carbon-14 decays into nitrogen-14 through beta decay.
The primary natural source of carbon-14 on dharti is loukik re karrwai upon nitrogen in the atmosphere, and it is therefore a cosmogenic nuclide.
However, open-air nabhikeey pareekshan between 1955–1980 contributed to this pool.
The different isotopes of carbon do nahin differ appreciably in unke rasinic properties.
This is used in chemical and biological research, in a technique called carbon labeling : carbon-14 anu can be prayukt to badalen nonradioactive carbon, in anukram to tres rasinic or biochemical pratikriyaayein involving carbon anu isse koi die organic compound.
Lightning is a atyadhik drishy rup of urja transafar
Lightning strikes are electrical discharges on a vishaal scale between the maahaul or an earth-bound object.
They zyaadaatar originate in thunderclouds or terminate on the ground, called Cloud to Ground ( CG ) lightning.
However, they may also be initiated from a very tall grounded object or pahunchein into the clouds.
Although `` a bijli strike '' is commonly prayukt to describe sab bijli, it is balki galat or a misnomer, as tabhi parichay 25 % of sab bijli kaarykram vishwavyaapee hai cg, the vishaal balk of lightning events are Intracloud ( IC ) or Cloud to Cloud ( CC ), where discharge only occurs high in the atmosphere.
The scientific name for the puraa prakram of a single bijli event is a or it is a bahut complex, multiple stepped interaction, which is not completely understood.
Most CG flashes only `` strike '' one shaareerik sthaan, referred to as a termination.
The primary conducting channel, the ujjwal coursing lite tum may dekhie or kol a `` strike '', is tabhi parichay 1 inch in vyas, although to our eyes it looks much larger.
They are miles long, upwards of tens of mile.
And the entire flash, lasts tabhi a few bhinnon of a duusari, sabase of jisase is not visible to human eyes.
thunder is sadaa utpaadit by lightning.
Just like lightning, that deceives our eyes, usually looking larger or closer than it vaaki is, the dharti 's maahaul or hamaari dimag 's bodh of the baahar sansar, ultimately determines whether it is `` heard '' or not.
Lightning can nahin happen in a vaikum viheen of ions, nor can thunder occur without molecules to vibrate.
thunder is a shaareerik nirpeksh for every single flash of lightning.
contrary to lokapriy vishwaas, a bijli strike itself is praayah nahin responsible for multiple deaths or injuries from a single event.
It would be impossible given the natural tendencies of a flash, jabatak logon or pashu yahood stacked on sheersh of prayek anya, or ve yahood somehow arranged khadaa or part of the flash channel.
When lightning ignites an available fuel source and an visphot occurs, it is the shock wave or aag causing the choton, nahin the strike itself.
Ground Currents, bhi pukaara kadam sambhavit, of an dharti termination is kayaa truly kalyankari sabase choton or death to humans and animals.
The near instantaneous fatafat of sataha aarope, induced by the overhead thundercloud itself, res to the strike point isse hundreds to thousands of feet away during discharge.
This current, caused during each stroke, takes the path of tanik pratirodh, jisase may be aayan samrudh insaan or animal taange, over poorly conducting earth.
This is why it is behtareen to crouch, saath feet band saath, if kabhi caught in the open during a thunderstorm.
Unfortunately, most reports do not draw a bhed between the real kaaran of chot or maut, be it the strike itself, a resulting explosion or fire, or usually responsible step potential.
peter F. kilmartin ( born 1962 ) is the current Attorney General of Rhode Island.
Kilmartin is bhi a ritred police captain or a purv sadsy of the Rhode Island House of Representatives.
A couple following unke vivaah in the manti uta temple.
Sealing is an ordinance ( ritual ) performed in latter din santo mandiron by a vyakti pakadakar the sealing authority.
The purpose of this adhyadesh is to muhar parichit sambandh, bananaa sambhavit the astitv of family relationships throughout eternity.
LDS shikshaaon place great mahatv on the vishisht praadhikaar jaruri to perform these sealings.
Church doctrine sikhaati ki is praadhikaar, pukaara the priesthood, corresponds to ki die to Saint Peter in.
Sealings are typically performed as vivaah or as sealing of children to abhibhavak.
They were performed prior to the death of Joseph Smith, Jr. ( the main sansthaapak of the latter din sant gati ), or hai philhal performed in the girijaghar of yishu messiah of Latter-day Saints.
Although some other denominations, aise as the jatiyaan of messiah, drishy sealing as an centuries of smith 's abhyaas of bahuvachan vivaah, kuch do still perform them.
The 2000s, pronounced `` two thousands '', was a dashak ki began on janvari 1, 2000, or ended on disambar 31, 2009.
Globalization, which had accelerated baad the jaldi 1990s patan of samyavaadee, jari to be a force in the 2000s.
The growth of the Internet was one of the prime contributors to vaishvikaran dauraan the dashak, bananaa it sambhavit liye logon to interact saath anya logon, express vichaar, introduce anya to alag samskritiyon or prishthbhumi, upyog goods or sevaayen, bechein or khride online, shodh or sikh about things, along with experiencing the world without having to leave home.
The institutions, linkages and technologies ki ubhara or yahood redefined pehle hota subsequently in is dashak laabh anek deshon, in particular China and India.
However, in other parts of the world such pragati vifal to pataa jari struggles saath aadhuniktaa, sabase notably characterized by the rise of al-Qaeda and other Islamist groups.
The sitambar 11 hamale in 2001 led to the sanyukt rajya, sanyukt kingdom, spain, canada or anya raashtra akramanakari afghanistan, as khub as implementing vibhinn anti-terrorist measures at home and abroad in what was known as the War on Terror.
The European sangh dekhi further sangyojan or vistaar throughout much of Europe.
The aarthik vikaas of the 2000s tha considerable paryaavarniya consequences, uthaaya maang liye ghataate urja sansaadhan, or was still shown to be vulnerable as demonstrated during the Global Financial Crisis of the late 2000s.
The Gunfight at the O.K. Corral thi a gunfight ki took place at parichay 3:00 p.m. on buudhvaar, aktubar 26, 1881, in tombstone, erizona territory, or is generally regarded as the most famous gunfight in the history of the American Old West.
The gunfight, believed to have lasted only about thirty seconds, was fought between the outlaw Cowboys billy claiborne, ike or billy clanton, or tom or frank mclaury, or the opposing kasbaa marshall virgil earp or uske bhaaiyo sahaayak kasbaa marshall morgan and temporary lawman Wyatt, aided by Doc Holliday designated as a temporary marshal by Virgil.
Ike Clanton and Billy claiborne bhaaga isse the lado unharmed, lakin ike 's bhai billy clanton thi maare, saath saath both McLaurys.
Lawmen virgil or morgan earp and Doc Holliday were wounded.
Only Wyatt Earp aae through the lado unharmed.
The fight has come to represent a samay in amareeki itihaas jab the frontier thi kholen dayera liye outlaws opposed by vidhi pravartan ki thi sprad patala over vast territories, leaving some areas unprotected.
The gunfight was nahin khub gyaat to the amareeki public jabatak 1931 jab lekhak stuart jhil prakashit what has since been determined to be a largely fictionalized biography, Wyatt Earp : Frontier Marshal, two years after Earp 's death.
Lake retold uske story in a 1946 kitaab ki nideshak jon ghat viksit into the movie My Darling Clementine.
After the movie gunfight at the o.k. corral thi released in 1957, the shootout came to be known by that name.
Since then, the conflict has been portrayed saath varying degree of sateekta in numerous Western films and books.
Despite its naam, the gunfight darasal occurred in a simit lot chah dwaar west of the pasch pravesh to the O.K. Corral on Fremont Street, and also in the street.
the do opposing partiyon yahood initially only about apart.
parichay tees goliyaan yahood fired in tees seconds.
Ike Clanton daayar hatya aarope viruddh the earps or dastauez holiday lakin ve yahood aakhirkaar exonerated by a local nyaayadhish baad a 30-day praarambhik hearing and then again by a local grand jury.
On December 28, 1881, Virgil Earp was maimed in an assassination attempt by the outlaw cowboys, or on kooch 18, 1882, ve assassinated morgan earp.
The sandigdhon susajjit thos alibis, or newly niyukt dipti u.s. marshall vyat earp took matters into his own hands during the Earp Vendetta Ride, ironically pursued by county Sheriff Johnny Behan with warrants for the Earp 's arrest.
HDMI ( High-Definition Multimedia Interface ) is a compact audio/video interface for transferring uncompressed video aankada or compressed/uncompressed digital audio aankada isse a hdmi-compliant yantra ( `` the sorce yantra '' ) to a sangat computer monitor, video projector, digital television, or digital audio device.
HDMI is a digital badalanaa liye maujuuda analog video standards.
There are a number of HDMI-standard cable connectors available, each of which can be used for any uncompressed TV or PC video format, including standard, unnat, unchi paribhaasha, or 3d video signal ; up to 8 channels of sampidit or uncompressed digital audio ; a cec ( upabhokta electronics control ) conection ; or an Ethernet data connection.
HDMI implements the EIA/CEA-861 standards, which define video swarup or waveforms, hastantaran of sampidit, uncompressed, or lpcm audio, auxiliary data, and implementations of the VESA EDID.
The CEC allows HDMI devices to control each anya jab jaruri or allows the upayokta to operate anek divaais with one remote control handset.
Because HDMI is electrically sangat saath the cea-861 signal prayukt by digital vizual interfes ( dvi ), no signal conversion is necessary, nor is there a loss of video quality when a DVI-to-HDMI adapter is used.
As an uncompressed CEA-861 connection, HDMI is independent of the various digital television maanakon prayukt by vyaktigat divaais, aise as atsc or dvb, as ye hai encapsulations of sampidit empiiji video stream ( jisase can be decoded or output as an uncompressed video stream on HDMI ).
utpaadan of upabhokta hdmi utpaada prarambh in late 2003.
In Europe either DVI-HDCP or HDMI is shaamil in the hd taiyaar in-store labeling specification liye tv set liye hdtv, pratipaadit by EICTA with SES Astra in 2005.
HDMI began to appear on consumer HDTV camcorders or digital still camere in 2006.
As of January 8, 2013, which is ten years after the release of the first HDMI specification, over 3 arab hdmi divaais have shipped chunki the launch of the hdmi maanak.
Bree Van de Kamp ( née Mason ; also gyaat in the shrenee as bri hoj or bri weston ) is a fictional akshar or ek of the four protagonists on the ABC television series Desperate Housewives.
She is played by actress Marcia Cross, who has received multiple awards or nominations liye uske portrayal, sahit an emi puraskaar namakan, three Golden Globe Award nominations, and two Screen Actors Guild Awards.
Cross 's portrayal of bri rai maharoom widely praised by critics and fans.
Cross originally auditioned liye the bhoomika of mariyam elis yang, lakin shrenee nirmaataa mark cheri thought she was better suited for the role of Bree.
Dana Delany, who eventually was cast as catherine mayfair, thi originally chuni liye the bhoomika lakin turned it bas, saying it thi too samaan to her role in Pasadena.
Bree 's main struggle throughout the shrenee rai maharoom uske koshishen to maintain a purna jivan despite vibhinn baadhaaen aise as widowhood, divorce, and alcoholism hindering her.
She has been shaadishuda teen times ; to rex vine de kamp ( steven culp ), orson hoj ( kyle maclachlan ) or trip Weston ( Scott Bakula ).
See bhi the kasbaa of algoma in winnebago County, Wisconsin.
See bhi algoma ( bahuviklpi ).
Algoma is a city in Kewaunee county in the u.S. rajya of visconsin.
The population thi 3,167 at the 2010 janasankhyikee.
Algoma is bhaag of the green khadi mahanagar Statistical Area.
The Hangover Part II is a 2011 American comedy filmi utpaadit by legendary tasviren or vitarit by warner bhaius. tasviren.
It is the sequel to 2009 's the hangover or the duusari filmi in the hangover matadhikaar.
Todd Phillips nirdeshit the filmi in jod to co-authoring the script saath craig mazin, and Scot Armstrong.
The film stars Bradley kupar, ed helms, zach galifianakis, ken jeong, jeffri tambor, justin bartha or Paul Giamatti.
The Hangover Part II tells the story of phil, stu, alan, or dag as ve safar to thailand liye stu 's vivaah.
After the bachelor party in Las Vegas, Stu takes no chances and opts liye a surakshit, subdued pre-wedding brunch.
However, things do not go as niojit, resulting in another karaab hangover saath no yaaden of the previous night.
Development of The hangover bhaag ii began in april 2009, do maheene pehle the hangover thi released.
the principal abhinaytaon yahood daal in kooch 2010 to reprise unke bhoomikaaye from the first film.
Production began in October 2010, in ontario, california, pehle chalati on sthaan in thailand.
The film thi released on may 26, 2011 or, despite receiving zyaadaatar rinatmak reviews from critics, it became the highest-grossing R-rated comedy during its theatrical run.
A third filmi is niyat liye on may 24, 2013.
Young Man Among Roses, portrait miniature by nicholas hilliard, 1588, V & A.
believed to be the arl of Essex
The Ditchley Portrait of elizabeth i by the videshi marcus gheeraerts the Younger, c.1592
The English Renaissance thi a saanskrithik or kalakaari gati in england dating from the late 15th and early 16th centuries to the early 17th century.
It is sambhddha saath the pan-european punarjagran that is usually regarded as beginning in Italy in the late 14th century.
Like most of northern europea, england dekhi choti of ye developments jabatak adhik than a century later.
The beginning of the angrezi punarjagran is praayah liya, as a convenience, to be 1485, jab the battle of bosworth field ended the Wars of the Roses and inaugurated the Tudor Dynasty.
punarjagran style or vichaar, however, yahood slow in penetrating england, or the elizabethan era in the duusari half of the 16th sadi is usually regarded as the height of the English Renaissance.
Elizabeth Ann Bloomer Warren `` Betty '' Ford ( April 8, 1918 – July 8, 2011 ), thi pehla mahila of the sanyukt rajya isse 1974 to 1977 dauraan the presidency of her husband Gerald Ford.
As First Lady, wo thi kriyasheel in soshal niti or nirmit precedents as a politically active presidential wife.
Throughout her husband 's term in office, she kaayam unchi sweekruti darja despite vipaksh isse kuch roodhiwaadee Republicans who objected to her more moderate and liberal positions on social issues.
ghat thi vikhyath liye uthaane stan karkat jaagrukta following uske 1974 mastectomy or thi a passionate supporter of, and activist for, the Equal Rights Amendment ( ERA ).
Pro-choice on abortion and a leader in the Women 's Movement, she gained fame as one of the most candid first ladies in itihaas, commenting on prayek hot-button samasya of the samay, sahit nariwad, baraabar adaa, the era, sex, drugs, abortion, and gun control.
wo bhi uthaaya jaagrukta of vyasan jab she announced her long-running battle with alcoholism in the 1970s.
Following her White House years, she jari to lobby liye the era or remained kriyasheel in the feminist gati.
She was the founder, and served as the first chair of the board of directors, of the betty ghat bich liye padaarth gaali or vyasan or is a praptakarta of the congressional sunaharaa padak ( co-presentation saath her husband, Gerald R. Ford, October 21, 1998 ) and the Presidential Medal of Freedom ( alone, presented 1991, by George H. W. Bush ).
Platelet endothelial cell adhesion molecule ( PECAM-1 ) also known as cluster of differentiation 31 ( cd31 ) is a protein ki in insaan is encoded by the pecam1 jin mila on chromosome 17.
PECAM-1 plays a key bhoomika in nikaalnaa aged neutrophils isse the body.
Jessica rafalowski, miss florida USA 2008
jenna edwards, miss florida USA 2007
Melissa Witek, miss florida USA 2005
cristan berset, miss florida USA 2004
The Miss Florida USA competition is the pageant that selects the pratinidhi liye the rajya florida in the miss uese pageant.
While Florida has been successful in terms of runners-up, finalists or semi-finalists, the rajya rai never jiti the miss uese pageant, haalanki cheril patton became miss USA after Sylvia Hitchcock won Miss Universe.
florida 's behtareen parinaam yahood dauraan the mid-1960s to mid-1970s.
Their most recent finalist was lissette garsia jo lagaai in the sheersh 16 in 2011.
Two former Miss Florida tin uese titleholders have jiti is pratiyogita, or teen titleholders have bhi competed at Miss America.
The current titleholder is mishael aguirre of hialeah.
Anglo-Saxon England refers to the period of the history of the part of Britain that became gyaat as england, sthaayee isse the samaapt of roman occupation or sthapana of anglo-saxon kingdoms in the 5th sadi jabatak the norman conquest of England in 1066 by William the Conqueror.
Anglo-Saxon is a general term referring to the Germanic peoples who aae to britain dauraan the 5th or 6th sadiyaan, sahit kone, saxons, frisii, or jutes.
The term also refers to the bhashaa bolaa at the samay in england, jisase is abhi pukaara boodha English, and to the culture of the era, which has long attracted popular and scholarly attention.
Until the 9th century Anglo-Saxon england thi varchasv by the heptarchy, the kingdoms of northmbria, mercia, east Anglia, Essex, Kent, Sussex, and Wessex.
In terms of religion the kingdoms followed anglo-saxon paganism dauraan the jaldi kaal, lakin parivartit to christianity dauraan the 7th century.
Paganism had a final stronghold in a period of Mercian hegemony dauraan the 640s, samaapti saath the maut of penda of mercia in 655.
Facing the threat of Viking invasions, the House of Wessex became prabal dauraan the 9th sadi, antargat the niyam of alfred the great.
During the 10th century, the individual kingdoms unified under the rule of Wessex into the kingdom of england, jisase stood opposed to the danelaw, the viking kingdoms sthapit isse the 9th century in the north and east of England.
The Kingdom of England fell in the viking akraman isse denmark in 1013 or thi shasit by the house of denmark jabatak 1042, when the Anglo-Saxon House of Wessex was restored.
the pichhlaa anglo-saxon king, herold godwinson, thi killed in 1066 at the Battle of Hastings.
Lighting a paramparaagat red eenton jon ross Jr kiln
Smoked salmon is a preparation of salmon, typically a fillet ki rai maharoom cured or hot or cold smoked.
due to iske madhyam unchi daam, smoked salmon is considered a delicacy.
Although the term lox is sometimes lagu to smoked saaman, ve hai alag utpaada.
View of defibrillator electrode sthiti or placement.
defibrillation is a aam upachaar liye life-threatening hriday dysrhythmias, ventricular fibrillation, and pulseless ventricular tachycardia.
Defibrillation consists of delivering a therapeutic khuraaq of vidyut urja to the prabhavit heart with a device called a defibrillator.
This depolarizes a najuk dravyaman of the dil mansapeshi, terminates the dysrhythmia, or allows saamaanya sinus lay to be reestablished by the body 's natural pacemaker, in the sinoatrial node of the heart.
Defibrillators can be bahya, transvenous, or implanted, depending on the prakaar of yantra prayukt or needed.
Some external units, gyaat as swachaalit bahya defibrillators ( aeds ), automate the nidaan of treatable lay, arth ki lay responders or bystanders are able to use them successfully with little, or in some cases no training at all.
Gabrielle `` Coco '' Bonheur Chanel ( August 19, 1883 – January 10, 1971 ) thi a french faishan panktiyaan or sansthaapak of the channel brand.
She thi the tabhi faishan panktiyaan to appear on samay patrika 's list of the 100 most influential people of the 20th century.
Along with Paul Poiret, Chanel was credited with liberating mahilaon isse the constraints of the `` corseted silhouette '' or popularizing the sweekruti of a sportive, cazual chik as the feminine maanak in the post- sansar yuddh i era.
A prolific fashion creator, channel 's influence vistaarit pare couture kapadey.
Her design aesthetic was realized in aabhushan, handbag, or mahak.
Her hastakshar saint, channel no. 5, rai become an iconic product.
Chanel was known for her lifelong determination, mahatvakanksha or urja jisase wo lagu to uske peshewar and social life.
She achieved both success as a businesswoman and social prominence dhanyavad to the conections wo bana through uske kaary.
These included many artists or craftspeople to jisko wo became a patron.
However, Chanel 's atyadhik pratispardhi, opportunistic vyaktitv led uske to mek questionable jivan chunaav jisase have utpann vivaad around uske pratishtha, visheshkar uske aacharan dauraan the German occupation of France in World War II.
alide milon aataa mil on the bainko of the manchester Ship Canal
A gristmill ( also : grist mil, makai mil or aataa mil ) grinds grain into flour.
The pad can refer to dono the pis yantriki and the building that holds it.
Romania ( ; dated spellings roumania or rumania ; ) is a desh stith at the chauraahey of central or southeastern europea, bordering on the Black Sea.
Romania shares a border with hungarian or srbija to the west, yukt or moldova to the northeast and east, and Bulgaria to the south.
At, Romania is the eighth largest country of the European Union by area, or rai the saatvaan largest janasankhyikee of the europea sangh saath adhik than 19 million people.
Its puunji or biggest nagar is bucharesti, the 11th largest nagar in the EU.
The sanyukt principalities ubhara jab the territories of moldavia or wallachia were united under Prince Alexander Ioan Cuza in 1859.
In 1866 Prince Karl of Hohenzollern-Sigmaringen was called to the throne as the sattadhari prince of the romanian principate or in 1881 he thi aakhirkaar pahanaaya as king carol i the pehla monarch of the Kingdom of Romania.
Independence from the Ottoman samrajya thi ghoshit on 9 may 1877, or thi internationally recognized the following year.
At the end of sansar yuddh i, transylvania, bukovina or bessarabia sanyukt with the Kingdom of Romania.
World War II gave cause to the vruddhi of a sainya taanaashaahee in romania antargat phacist saamaanya aayan antonescu, jo chose to lado on the side of the Axis powers from 1941 to 1944.
After his removal, romania switched pahalu in 1944 or joined the allies.
By the end of the war, kuch formerly romanian northeastern territories yahood occupied by the soviet sangh, saath red fouj ikai stationed on Romanian soil.
In 1947 Romania forcibly became a logon 's ganatantr ( 1947-1965 ) and a member of the Warsaw Pact.
In 1965 Nicolae ceauşescu became saamaanya sachiv of the romanian communist party, or the harsh austerity upayon, rajnatik repression, and cult of personality he implemented led to the Socialist Republic of Romania ( 1965-1989 ) becoming the most Stalinist police state in the Eastern bloc.
Eventually his sattavadi sarkari thi toppled in disambar 1989 dauraan the Romanian Revolution of 1989.
With the fall of the Iron Curtain, Romania began its parivartan towards loktantr or a poonjivadi market arthvyavastha.
After a decade of post-revolution aarthik samasyaayein or living-standards manaahi, extensive reforms fostered economic recovery.
As of 2010, romania is an upper-middle-income desh saath a high human development index.
Romania joined nato on 29 kooch 2004, or the europea sangh on 1 janvari 2007.
It is also a member of the : latin sangh, francophonie, osce, wto, bsec, sanyukt Nations, etc.
aaj, romania is a ekaatmak semi-presidential ganatantr, in jisase the karypalika shakha consists of the President and the Government.
`` Ancient '' redirects yahan.
For other uses, dekhie pracheenta ( bahuviklpi ).
The times pehle likhane belong either to protohistory or to prehistory.
Khafre 's Pyramid ( 4th dynasty ) and great sphinx of giza ( c. 2500 bc or shaayad earlier )
Ancient history is the study of the likhaa past isse the shuruuaat of ankit insaan itihaas to the Early Middle Ages.
The span of recorded history is roughly 5,000 years, saath cuneiform script, the oldest khoja rup of susangat likhane, isse the protoliterate kaal around the 30th century BC.
is is the shuruuaat of itihaas, as opposed to praagitihaas, according to the definition used by most historians.
the pad shastreey pracheenta is praayah prayukt to refer to itihaas in the boodha World from the beginning of recorded Greek history in 776 BC ( First Olympiad ).
This roughly coincides with the traditional date of the founding of rome in 753 bc, the shuruuaat of the itihaas of pracheen rome, or the shuruuaat of the archaic kaal in Ancient Greece.
haalanki the samaapti tithi of pracheen itihaas is vivaadit, kuch pashchimi vidwaanon upyog the patan of the pashchimi roman samrajya in 476 ad, the closure of the platonic academy in 529 ad, the maut of the emperor Justinian I, the coming of Islam or the rise of Charlemagne as the end of ancient and Classical European history.
In india, the kaal shaamil the jaldi kaal of the madhya kingdoms, or, in china, the time up to the Qin Dynasty is included.
methylcobalamin ( dikhaaya ) is a rup of vitamin B12.
Physically it resembles the anya form of vitamin b12, occurring as andhera red crystals ki freely form cherry-colored transparent solutions in water.
Vitamin B12, vitamin B12 or vitamin b-12, bhi pukaara cobalamin, is a water-soluble vitamin saath a kunjee bhoomika in the saamaanya kaamkaaj of the brain and nervous system, and for the formation of blood.
It is one of the aath B vitamins.
It is normally involved in the chayapachay of prayek koshika of the insaan deh, visheshkar affecting diene sanshleshan and regulation, but also fatty acid synthesis and energy production.
Neither fungi, plants, nor pashu hai sakasham of producing vitamin B12.
Only bacteria and archaea have the anzimon jaruri liye iske sanshleshan, haalanki anek bhojan hai a prakritik sorce of B12 because of bacterial symbiosis.
The vitamin is the largest and most structurally complicated vitamin or can be utpaadit industrially tabhi through bacterial fermentation-synthesis.
Vitamin B12 consists of a class of chemically sambandhit yogicon ( vitamers ), all of which have vitamin activity.
it contains the biochemically rare element cobalt.
Biosynthesis of the basic structure of the vitamin is accomplished only by bacteria ( jisase praayah upaj hydroxocobalamin ), lakin parivartan between alag form of the vitamin can be accomplished in the human body.
A common semi-synthetic rup of the vitamin, cyanocobalamin, karata nahin occur in prakruti, lakin is utpaadit isse bacterial hydroxocobalamin or tab prayukt in anek davaayen and supplements, and as a food additive, because of its stability and lower production cost.
In the body it is converted to the insaan physiological form methylcobalamin or adenosylcobalamin, leaving peeche the cyanide, albeit in minimal concentration.
More recently, hydroxocobalamin, methylcobalamin, or adenosylcobalamin can be mila in more expensive pharmacological products and food supplements.
the atirikt utility of ye is currently debated.
Vitamin B12 was discovered from its relationship to the beemaari ghaatak raktaalpata, jisase is an asankramy beemaari in jisase parietal koshikaayen of the pet jimmedaar liye secreting moolbhoot factor are destroyed.
Intrinsic factor is crucial for the saamaanya avasorana of b12, so a kami of moolbhoot factor, as dekhi in ghaatak anemia, causes a vitamin B12 deficiency.
Many other subtler kinds of vitamin b12 kamiyaan or unke biochemical prabhaav have chunki been elucidated.
The Roman Empire ( ) thi the post- republican kaal of the pracheen roman sabhyataa, characterised by an nirankush rup of sarkari and large territorial holdings around the Mediterranean in Europe, Africa, and Asia.
The 500-year-old Roman Republic, which preceded it, tha maharoom destabilized through a shrenee of civil wars.
Several events marked the parivartan isse ganatantr to samrajya, sahit julius seizar 's niyukti as perpetual taanashaah ( 44 bc ) ; the battle of actium ( 31 bc ) ; and the granting of the honorific Augustus to Octavian by the Roman Senate ( 27 BC ).
The first two centuries of the Empire were a period of unprecedented stability or samruddhi gyaat as the pax romana ( `` roman salaam '' ).
It reached its greatest expanse dauraan the shasankaal of traajaan ( 98–117 ad ).
In the 3rd sadi, the samrajya underwent a sankat ki threatened iske astitv, but was reunified and stabilized under the emperors Aurelian and Diocletian.
Christians rose to power in the 4th sadi, dauraan jisase samay a pranali of dual niyam thi viksit in the Latin West and Greek East.
After the collapse of central government in the west in the 5th sadi, the purvi half jari as kayaa hota baad be gyaat as the bizantin Empire.
Because of the Empire 's vast extent and long endurance, the institutions and culture of Rome had a profound or sthaayee influence on the vikaas of bhashaa, dharm, vaastukala, darshanashastra, vidhi, or form of sarkari in the territory it governed, visheshkar Europe, and by means of European expansionism throughout the modern world.
Total body surface area ( TBSA ) is an moolyankan maap of burns of the skin.
In vayaskon, the `` niyam of nines '' is prayukt to determine the kul pratishat of area burned for each major section of the body.
In some cases, the burns may cover more than one body part, or may not fully cover such a part ; in these cases, burns hai measured by using the casualty 's tad as a sandarbh point liye 1 % of the deh.
For children and infants, the lund-browder chart is prayukt to assess the burned deh surface area.
Different percentages are used kuki the anupaat of the sanyukt sataha kshetrafal of the sir or gardan to the sataha kshetrafal of the limbs is typically larger in children than that of an adult.
theth maan liye aam samooh of insaano follow.
( due to rounding, values may not add to 100 %. )
World infant mrityu daron by paanch saalo averages in 2008.
This is a list of deshon by shishu mrityu rate.
Jonah Kirsten Sorrentino ( born June 26, 1975 ), behatar gyaat by uske stage naam kj-52, is a isai rapper from Tampa, Florida.
The `` KJ '' part of his name refers to his old rap alias, `` king J. mike, '' a naam jisase he baad varnit in one of his podcasts as `` horribly cheesy. ''
`` 52 '', which is pronounced `` five two '', not `` fifty-two '', is a reference to the Biblical story of Jesus feeding the multitude saath paanch loaves or do machhlee, jisase is bhi sung parichay in uske song `` dhakka up '' isse the yearbook or in the `` kj paanch do '' on it 's sunaaya 'five do.
He was awarded the rap/hip hop ankit song of the saal liye `` never dekh dur '' or rap/hip Hop Album of the Year at the GMA Dove Awards of 2007.
On July 28, 2009, KJ-52 released `` samaapt of my rassi '', jisase is the pehla single liye uske album five-two television.
His song `` Dear Slim '' is aadhaarit on eminem 's song `` sten `` or is a sort of nijee message from KJ-52 to Eminem.
The degree symbol ( ° ) is a typographical pratik ki is prayukt, among anya bate, to represent degree of chaap ( e.g. in bhugolic nirdeshaank pranaaliyon ), ghanton ( in the medical field ), or degrees of temperature.
The symbol consists of a choti uthaaya vrutt, historically a shunya glyph.
In Unicode it is encoded at.
This is a list of roots, suffixes, and prefixes used in chikitsa shabdaawalee, unke meanings, or unke etymology.
There are a few niyam jab using chikitsa roots.
Firstly, prefixes or pratyay, primarily in unani, lakin bhi in latin, have a droppable -o-.
As a general rule, this -o- almost sadaa adhiniyamon as a joint-stem to conect do consonantal jaden, e.g. arthr- + -o- + logy = arthrology.
But generally, the -o- is dropped when connecting to a vowel-stem ; e.g. arthr- + itis = gathiya, bajaay of arthr-o-itis.
Secondly, medical roots generally go saath according to bhashaa : unani prefixes go saath unani pratyay or latin prefixes with Latin suffixes.
Although international scientific vocabulary is not stringent about segregating combining form of alag bhashaaen, it is advisable jab coining nai shabd nahin to mixr alag lingual roots.
Stomach cancer, or gastric karkat, refers to karkat arising isse any part of the stomach.
Stomach karkat kalyankari parichay 800,000 mauton worldwide per year.
Prognosis is poor ( 5-year survival < 5 to 15 % ) kuki sabase marijon upasthit saath unnat disease.
sara lynn ivance ( born farvari 5, 1971 ) is an American country singer and songwriter.
For her entire career, wo rai maharoom hastakshrit to aaarasie record naishaville.
ivance ' debyue, teen madari or the sachai, kiya nahin produce a Top 40 hit on the Hot Country Songs charts.
She followed this up with No Place That Far ( 1998 ), Born to makkhi ( 2000 ), baichaiyn ( 2003 ) or real thik place ( 2005 ).
No Place That Far received a gold certification from the recording udyog sangh of america ( riaa ), jabaki the anya teen album sab yahood certified platinum.
These discs include the number 1 singles `` No Place That Far ``, `` born to makkhi ``, `` suds in the baaltee `` or `` a real thik place to prarambh ``, plus the sheersh 10 hits `` i could nahin Ask for More `` ( a cover of the Edwin McCain song ), `` I Keep Looking ``, `` Perfect `` and `` Cheatin ' ``.
Her 2007 Greatest Hits included the top 15 hits `` tum 'll sadaa be my baby `` or `` as if ``.
Stronger ( 2011 ) included her fifth number 1 hit, `` A choti bit stronger ``, jisase thi co-written by hillari scot of Lady Antebellum.
Evans has also won one puraskaar prayek isse billboard, the academy of desh music, desh music sangh, Broadcast Music Incorporated ( BMI ) and a Dove Award.
The world 's principal religions and spiritual traditions may be vargeekrut into a choti kramank of pramukh samooh, haalanki is is by no arthath a vardi practice.
This siddhanth began in the 18th sadi saath the lakshya of recognizing the saapeksh levels of civility in societies.
Berliners watching a c-54 jameen at tempelhof Airport ( 1948 )
The Berlin nakebandi ( 24 june 1948 – 12 may 1949 ) thi ek of the pehla pramukh antarrashtriya crises of the Cold War.
During the multinational occupation of post–World War II Germany, the Soviet sangh avarodhit the pashchimi allies ' rail, sadak, or kanal abhigam to the sector of Berlin under Allied control.
Their aim was to force the pashchimi shaktiyaan to allow the soviet mandal to prarambh supplying berlin saath khaanaa or eendhan, thereby giving the Soviets practical control over the entire city.
In jawaab, the pashchimi allies vyavasthit the berlin airlift to carry supplies to the people in West Berlin.
Aircrews from the United States Air Force, the British Royal Air Force, the Royal Australian Air Force, the Royal Canadian Air Force, the Royal New Zealand Air Force, and the dakshin africa air force udaaya over 200,000 flite in ek saal, providing up to 4700 ton of rose necessities aise as eendhan or khaanaa to the berliners.
By the spring of 1949, the effort was clearly succeeding or, by april, the airlift thi delivering adhik cargo than tha previously maharoom transported into the city by rail.
The kamyaabi of the berlin airlift brought sharmindagi to the soviets jo had refused to believe it could make a difference.
The blockade was lifted in may 1949 or resulted in the sristi of do separate German states.
the sangheey ganatantr of germany ( west germany ) and the German Democratic Republic ( East Germany ) split up Berlin.
In remembrance of the airlift, three airport in the purv pashchimi zones of the nagar parosa as the praathmik gateways to Germany for another fifty years.
The euro chihn ; logotype or handwritten.
The euro sign is the currency sign used for the euro, the aadhikarik karency of the eurozone in the europea Union ( EU ).
The design was prastut to the public by the europea Commission on 12 December 1996.
The international three-letter code ( according to iesao maanak iesao 4217 ) liye the euro is EUR.
In unicode it is encoded at.
In English, the chihn precedes the value.
In kuch styleguides, lakin nahin anya, the european chihn is unspaced.
Mate (, ; sometimes bhi spelled maté ), bhi gyaat as chimarrão ( ) or cimarrón ( ), is a paramparaagat dakshin amareeki infused peya, visheshkar in argentina, urugve, paragway and the southern states of Brazil and to a lesser degree in south of Chile, the Bolivian Chaco, Syria and Lebanon.
It is prepared from steeping sukhi pattey of yerba mate ( llex paraguariensis, gyaat in portugali as erva-mate ) in hot water.
Mate is served with a metal straw isse a saajha khokhla calabash gourd.
The straw is called a bombilla in some latin amareeki deshon, a bomba in portugali, or a bombija or, adhik generally, a masassa ( prakaar of straw ) in Arabic.
the straw is traditionally made of silver.
Modern, commercially uplabdhiyaan lobhi hai typically bana of nikal silver, called Alpaca ; stainless steel, or hollow-stemmed cane.
The gourd is known as a mate or a guampa ; jabaki in brazil, it rai the vishisht naam of cuia, or bhi cabaça ( the naam liye indigenous-influenced calabash gourds in anya regions of Brazil, still used for general food and drink in remote regions ).
bhi if the jal is supplied isse a aadhunik thermos, the infusion is traditionally drunk from mates or cuias.
As with other brewed herbs, yerba mate pattey hai sukhi, kataa, or maidan into a powdery mixture called yerba.
The bombilla adhiniyamon as dono a straw or a sieve.
The submerged end is flared, with small holes or slot ki allow the brewed drav in, lakin blaak the chanki padaarth ki makes up much of the mixture.
A modern bombilla dizine upyog a sidhaa tub saath chhed, or vasant sleeve to act as a sieve.
`` Tea-bag '' type infusions of mate ( mate cocido ) have maharoom on the market in argentina, paragway or urugve liye anek saalo antargat aise vyapaar names as `` taragüí vitality '' in argentina, `` Pajarito '' and `` Kurupí '' in Paraguay, and in Brazil under the name `` Mate Leão ''.
This is considered a completely alag peya.
It is never drunk from cuias or called chimarrão, nor is it sambhddha saath the gaucho/gaúcho culture.
The automotive industry is a term that cover a chaudee dayera of companiyaan or sanghathanon shaamil in the dizine, vikaas, manufacture, vipanan, or selling of motor vehicles, towed vehicles, motorcycles and mopeds.
It is ek of the sansar 's sabase mahatvapurn aarthik sectors by revenue.
The term automotive industry praayah karata nahin shaamil udyog samarpit to the mentanence of automobile following delivery to the end-user, such as repair shops and motor fuel filling stations.
The term automotive thi nirmit isse unani autos ( swah ), or latin motivus ( of gati ) to represent any form of self-powered vehicle.
This pad thi prastaavit by sae sadsy Elmer Sperry.
David Michael `` Dave '' Bautista, jr. ( born janvari 18, 1969 ), is an amareeki mishrit martial kalakaar, bodybuilder, karta, or purv peshewar pahalwaan behtareen gyaat liye his time in World Wrestling Entertainment competing under the ring name Batista.
In WWE, he became a six-time world champion, jeetna the sansar heviveet championships chaar times, or the dablyoodablyoo championships do times.
he is the longest-reigning sansar heviveet Champion in WWE history.
In addition to these championships, Batista has won the World Tag Team championships teen times ( twice saath ric flair or ekbar saath jon seenaa ) or the dablyoodablyoo tag toli championships ekbar ( saath rey mistirio ).
batista thi bhi the vijeta of the 2005 royal rumble match or gai on to sheershak resalmenia 21, ek of the sheersh paanch highest-grossing pay-per-view events in pro wrestling history.
After trying out at World Championship Wrestling 's Power Plant, Batista signed a contract with the WWF in 2000 or thi bheja to iske developmental territory, ohio ghati kushti ( ovw ), jahaan he jiti the ovw heviveet championships.
In August 2012, Bautista signed a contract with clasik entertainment & khel to lado in mishrit martial arts.
He won his MMA debut on aktubar 6, 2012, defeating vince lucero via tko in the first round.
Henry T. Thomas Sampson, Jr. ( born in jackson, mississippi in 1934 ) is an african-american avishkaarak.
He graduated from unchi skool in 1951 isse lanier unchi skool in jackson, Mississippi.
He then attended Morehouse College for a couple of years before transferring to purdue vishvavidhyalayon jahaan he became a sadsy of the omega psi faai birdari.
He received a Bachelor 's oopaadhi in vigyaan isse purdue vishvavidhyalayon in 1956.
He graduated with an MS degree in abhiyantriki isse the vishvavidhyalayon of california, Los Angeles in 1961.
sampson bhi praapt uske ms in nabhikeey abhiyantriki from the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign in 1965, and his PhD in 1967.
He is the first African amareeki to earn a ph.d.in nabhikeey abhiyantriki in the sanyukt rajya.
Some of his accomplishments include hone a sadsy of the sanyukt rajya navy between the saalo 1962 or 1964 or kamai an parmaanu Energy Commission honor between 1964 and 1967.
Later he was awarded the blike chitra puraskaar isse aerospace nigam in 1982.
He was awarded the Blacks in Engineering, Applied Science Award, or puraskaar liye shiksha, by the los angeles parishad of blike peshewar ejiniers in 1983.
In June 2007, Sampson was shaadishuda to laura howzell yang in st. thomas, u.S. virgin Islands.
young-sampson is a praadhyaapak in the college of shiksha at California State University San Bernardino.
Robert Lane Gibbs ( born March 29, 1971 ) is a varisht abhiyaan adviser liye us adhyaksh Barack Obama.
previously, he thi the 28th White House Press Secretary.
Gibbs was the sanchaar nideshak liye then- u.s. seenetter obama or uske 2008 presidential campaign.
Gibbs, who has worked with Obama since 2004, was press secretary of John Kerry 's 2004 presidential campaign and has previously specialized in Senate campaigns, having served as communications nideshak liye the loktantric senatorial abhiyaan cameti or liye chaar vyaktigat seenet abhiyaan, sahit those of obama in 2004 and Fritz Hollings in 1998.
Gibbs was also the dabaayen sachiv of pratinidhi bob etheridge.
On November 22, 2008, Gibbs was ghoshit as the dabaayen sachiv of the obama prashasan.
He assumed the bhoomika of dabaayen sachiv on janvari 20, 2009, or diya uske pehla official briefing on January 22.
On January 5, 2011, gibs ghoshit ki he hota chhod the shwet house to become an baahar adviser to the administration.
He baayein on farvari 11, 2011.
On February 12, 2013, it was announced that Gibbs had been niyukt as a yogadanakarta liye cable-news channel emesanbisi.
His first appearance was on the vahi raatri prior to the 2013 rajya of the sangh pataa.
Armando Pérez ( born January 15, 1981 ), behatar gyaat by uske stage naam pitbull, is an amareeki rapper, songwriter, and record producer.
His first recorded pradarshan thi isse the leel jon album kings of crunk in 2002.
In 2004, he released his debut album titled m.i.a.m.i. ( choti liye dhan is a pramukh samasya ) antargat tvt Records.
Since then, he has released three anya album antargat the label : el mariel in 2006, the boatlift in 2007, or grah Pit in 2011.
He released Rebelution in 2009, jisase shaamil singles `` i jaan tum want Me ( Calle Ocho ) `` and `` Krazy ``.
The latter peaked at No. 30 on the Hot 100 and No. 11 on the Hot Rap treks chart jabaki `` i jaan tum want me '' peaked at no. 2 on the hot 100 or peaked bheetar the sheersh ten dhabbe of chart in the uk, canada, italy, or the Netherlands.
The song reached No. 1 in frans or the europea hot 100 on the saptaah samaapti agast 29, 2009 according to Billboard magazine.
He later signed with Polo grounds music through soni music or nirmit his own label Mr. 305 Inc.
Another single isse rebelution thi `` hotel room seva ``, jisase peaked at No. 8 on the Hot 100.
Rebelution went on to sell over 7.5 lakh vishwavyaapee digital singles or album sanyukt.
Nevertheless, he dropped a smash called `` de me sabakuch '' jisase pahunche # 1 vishwavyaapee, or pradarshit artists Ne-yo, Nayer, and Afrojack.
He has also performed as a featured artist in the remixes of many other hit songs, jaise tik tok, cheekh & chillaao, lo hecho esta hecho, karaab, papi, eent, kaisaa kam, tonight ( i 'm lovin ' tum ), video phone, over to tum abhi and Bumpy Ride.
Pérez is also the mejabaan of uske apana spanish-language kaarykram on the cabel channel Mun2 titled La Esquina ( Spanish for The Corner ).
In 2005 pérez or rapper shaun 'diddy ' combs co-founded karaab ladke laathini, a subsidiary of combs ' Bad Boy Records label.
It primarily focuses on latin hip hop, latin aatma, latin pop or anya teevr music, or rai karyaalayon in New York and Miami, Florida.
Along saath co-founding it, pérez philhal heads the A & R division of the label.
Pérez has become a product endorser, representing alongside Drake, Rihanna, and Trey Songz the “So Kodak” campaign for the Kodak brands or embarking on a saajhedaari saath the naram peya daanav dr pepper as bhaag of the abhiyaan “ vidaa 23 ” liye jisase he ankit the song specifically pradarshit on uske album Armando.
Pitbull also announced he has become the spokesperson for voli vodaka, in jisase he holds a bahumat equity hissedari, or budweiser rai chuni pitbull to promote its Bud Light line of beer.
the commercials philhal hilite pitbull naachna or gyrating on stage holding up a bottle of Bud Light.
Pitbull has bhi kharida an equity hissedari in miami subs pizza and Grill.
Halloween or Hallowe'en ( a contraction of `` All Hallows ' sandhya `` ), bhi gyaat as sab hallows ' sandhya, is a vaarshik jashn observed in a kramank of deshon on aktubar 31, the sandhya of the pashchimi Christian feast of All Hallows ( or All Saints ) and the day initiating the triduum of Hallowmas.
According to many scholars, All Hallows ' Eve is a christianised feast originally bahekaave by pashchimi europea kataai tyohaar, or tyohaar of the dead with possible pagan roots, particularly the Celtic Samhain.
Other vidwaanon maintain ki it originated independently of samhain or rai solely Christian roots.
Typical festive Halloween activities include trick-or-treating ( also known as `` guising `` ), upasthit veshbhusha partiyon, nakkashi pumpkins into jack-o'-lanterns, lighting bonfires, tehraana bobbing, visiting haunted attractions, playing pranks, telling scary stories, and watching horror films.
Freedom of speech is the political right to communicate one 's raay or vichaar using ek 's deh or property to anyone jo is willing to receive them.
The term freedom of expression is sometimes used synonymously, but shaamil koi adhinium of seeking, receiving or imparting soochna or vichaar, regardless of the medium used.
In practice, the right to freedom of speech is nahin nirpeksh in koi desh or the sahi is commonly vishay to simaaen, as saath manahani, badanaami, obscenity, rajdroh ( sahit, liye udhaaharan inciting ethnic hatred ), copyright violation, revelation of information that is classified or otherwise.
The right to freedom of expression is pahachaanaa as a insaan sahi antargat aalekh 19 of the saarvbhaumik ghoshnaa of insaan adhikaron or pahachaanaa in antarrashtriya insaan adhikaron vidhi in the antarrashtriya vachan on civil and Political Rights ( ICCPR ).
Article 19 of the ICCPR rajya ki `` [ e ] veryone shall have the sahi to tham raay bagaiyr hastkshep '' or `` everyone shall have the sahi to swatantraaa of abhivyakti ; is sahi shall shaamil swatantraaa to talash, receive and impart information and ideas of all kinds, regardless of frontiers, either orally, in writing or in print, in the form of art, or through any other media of his choice ''.
Article 19 goes on to say that the exercise of these rights carries `` special duties and jimmedaariyon `` or may `` isliye be vishay to nishchit pratibandh '' jab jaruri `` [ f ] or aadar of the adhikaron or pratishtha of anya '' or `` [ f ] or the suraksha of neshnal suraksha or of public order ( order public ), or of public health or morals ''.
Freedom of vaak may be legally curtailed in kuch dharmik vidhik pranaaliyon or in dharmanirpeksh jurisdictions jahaan it is found to cause religious offense, such as the British Racial and Religious Hatred Act 2006.
Sydney Harbour from the air, showing the Opera House, the CBD, golakaar quay, the sethu, the parramatta nadi, uttar sidney or kirribilli in the foreground
The Sydney Harbour Bridge is a steel through arch bridge aarpaar sidney harbour ki carries rail, vehicular, cykil or paidal trekkic between the sidney central business district ( CBD ) and the North Shore.
The dramatic view of the bridge, the harbour, and the aasapaas sidney opera house is an iconic chitra of sidney, nai dakshin Wales, and Australia.
The bridge is nicknamed `` the coathanger '' kuki of iske arch-based design.
Under the directions of Dr j.j.c. bradfield of the nsw vibhaag of public works, the sethu thi designed or nirmit by angrejon firm Dorman Long and Co Ltd of Middlesbrough and opened in 1932.
The sethu 's dizine thi bahekaave by the narak phatak Bridge in New York.
It was the world 's widest long-span bridge, at 48.8 meter ( 160 feet ) chaudee, jabatak nirmaan of the new Port Mann Bridge in Vancouver.
It is also the fifth longest spanning-arch sethu in the sansar, or it is the tallest steel mehrab bridge, measuring from top to water level.
jabatak 1967 the harbour sethu thi sidney 's tallest structure.
The Hawaii hotspot is a volcanic hotspot stith nikat the namesake hawaii Islands, in the northern Pacific Ocean.
One of the most well-known and heavily studied hotspots in the world, the Hawaii plume is responsible for the creation of the Hawaiian – Emperor seamount kadi, an over 5,800 kilometre ( 3,600 mi ) long kadi of jwalamukhi, chaar of jisase hai kriyasheel, do of jisase hai dormant, or adhik than 123 of jisase hai vilupt, anek having chunki maharoom maidan beneath the lehren by erosion as seamounts and atolls.
The chain extends from south of the island of Hawaii to the kinare of the aleutian gart, nikat the purvi kinare of rus.
While sabase jwalamukhi hai nirmit by geological kaaryaklap at tectonic thali seemayen, the hawaii hotspot is stith dur isse aasapaas thali seemayen ; the clasik hotspot siddhanth, pehla prastaavit in 1963 by jon tuzo wilson, proposes ki a single, phixd mantle plume builds jwalamukhi ki tab, kaaten off from their source by the movement of the Pacific Plate, become increasingly inactive and eventually erode below sea level over millions of years.
According to this theory, the nearly 60° bend separating the Emperor and hawaii khand of the kadi thi caused by a achaanak shift in the gati of the prashanth Plate.
In 2003, bhais investigations of is irregularity led to the prastaav of a mobile hotspot siddhanth, suggesting ki hotspot hai mobile, nahin fixed, and that the 47 million year old bend was caused by a shift in the hotspot 's motion rather than the plate 's.
Ancient Hawaiians were the first to recognize the increasing aayu or weathered rajya of the jwalamukhi to the north as they progressed on fishing expeditions along the islands.
The volatile state of the Hawaiian volcanoes and their nirantar battle saath the samudr thi a pramukh tatv in hawaii mythology, embodied in Pele, the deity of volcanoes.
After the arrival of Europeans on the island, in 1880-1881 james dwite dana nirdeshit the pehla aupchaarik geological padhai of the hotspot 's volcanics, confirming the sambandh long observed by the natives.
1912 chihnit the founding of the hawaii jwalamukhi vedhashala by volcanologist thomas jaggar, initiating continuous scientific observation of the islands.
In the 1970s, a maanchitran project thi initiated to laabh adhik soochna about the complex geology of Hawaii 's seafloor.
The hotspot has since been tomographically imaged, showing it to be wide and up to gahan, or oliwine or garnet -aadharand adhyayan have dikhaaya iske megma kaksh is lagbhag.
In iske at tanik 85 lakh saalo of kaaryaklap the hotspot has produced an estimated of rock.
The chain 's rate of drift rai dhire increased over samay, causing the raashi of samay prayek vyaktigat jwalamukhi is kriyasheel to ghati, isse 18 lakh saalo liye the 76 lakh saal boodha detroit seamount, to bas antargat 900,000 liye the ek million year-old Kohala ; on the other hand, eruptive volume has increased from per year to about.
Overall, this has caused a trend towards more active but quickly-silenced, closely spaced volcanoes—whereas jwalamukhi on the nikat paksh of the hotspot overlap prayek anya ( forming aise superstructures as hawaii dweep or the pracheen maavi nui ), the oldest of the samraat seamounts are spaced as far as apart.
David Palmer, director of the dikhaaen, ghoshit ki the ritu 4 finale is the series finale because Nickelodeon canceled the show.
Petitions are being signed to lao the dikhaaen liye a paanchvaan ritu.
The dikhaaen airs on treehouse tv canada or upnaam jr. ( formerly Noggin ).
Eddie and the Cruisers is a 1983 American film directed by Martin Davidson saath the patakatha likhaa by the nideshak or arlene davidson, aadhaarit on the novel by P. F. Kluge.
It was marketed saath the tagaline `` Rebel.
rocker.
premi.
idal.
vanished. ''
osteonecrosis of the jabadon ( onj ) is a kathor asthi beemaari ki affects the maxilla and the mandible.
Various forms of ONJ have maharoom varnit over the pichhlaa 160 saalo, or a kramank of kalyankari have maharoom sujhaayaa in the literature.
osteonecrosis of the jabade sambhddha saath bisphosphonate chikitsa, jaruri by kuch karkat upachaar regimens, rai been identified and defined as a pathological entity since 2003.
The possible risk isse nimnatar maukhik doses of bisphosphonates, liya by marijon to prevent or treat osteoporosis, remains uncertain.
Various treatment options have maharoom chaan, however kathor maamle of onj still aavashyaktaa surgical removal of the affected bone.
A thorough history and assessement of pre-existing pranaligat samasyaayein or sambhavit site of danta sankraman hai jaruri to help prevent the condition, especially if bisphosphonate therapy is considered.
The Boston Red Sox are a professional baseball team based in boston, masachusets, or a sadsy of pramukh lig besabaal 's amareeki lig purvi prabhag.
Founded in as one of the American lig 's aath charter franchises, the red sox 's ghar ballpark rai maharoom fenway park since.
the `` red sox '' naam thi chuni by the toli maalik, jon I. tailor, around, following previous Boston teams that had been known as the `` Red Stockings ``.
They have played in 11 sansar shrenee, jeetna 7.
Boston was a prabal toli in the nai lig, defeating the pittsburg Pirates in the first World Series in and winning four more championships by.
However, they then went into one of the longest championship droughts in baseball history, called by kuch the `` abhishaap of the bambino `` baad iske kathith shuruuaat saath the red sox 's bikri of beb ruth to the pratidwandvi yankis do saalo baad unke sansar championships in 1918, an 86-year wait before the team 's sixth World Championship in.
However, the toli 's itihaas dauraan ki kaal thi hardly ek of futility, lakin thi balki punctuated saath kuch of the sabase yaadgaar pal in sansar shrenee itihaas, sahit enos vadh 's `` mad dash `` in, the `` Impossible Dream `` of, Carlton Fisk 's home run in, and Bill Buckner 's error in.
Red Sox history has also been marked by the team 's intense rivalry with the nai york yankis, arguably the fiercest or sabase aitihaasik in uttar amareeki peshewar khel.
The Boston Red Sox are owned by Fenway khel samooh, jo bhi apana liverpool footbaal klbon of the Premier League in England.
The Red Sox are consistently one of the sheersh emelbi tiimon in ausat sadak upasthiti, jabaki the choti kshamta of fenway park roktaa unhen isse agrani in overall attendance.
From May 15, 2003 to April 10, 2013, the Red Sox sold out every home game-a total of 820 games ( 794 regular ritu ) liye a pramukh peshewar khel ricard ki lasted lagbhag a dashak.
mince pai bhar saath mincemeat
mincemeat is a mishran of kataa sukhi fal, asut atmaaon or masaale, and sometimes beef suet, beef, or venison.
Originally, mincemeat sadaa contained meat.
Many modern recipes contain bif suet, haalanki sabzi shortening is sometimes used in its place.
Variants of mincemeat are mila in australia, britaini, canada, uttari europea, ireland, dakshin africa, the United Kingdom and the United States.
In some countries the term mincemeat refers to minced or maidan meat.
Diana, Princess of Wales ( Diana frances ; née spencer ; 1 july 1961 – 31 agast 1997 ) thi the pehla bivi of charles, Prince of Wales, the eldest son and heir apparent of Queen Elizabeth II.
She was khub gyaat liye uske fund-raising kaary liye antarrashtriya dharmarth or as an eminent celebrity of the late 20th century.
Her wedding to the Prince of Wales on 29 July 1981 thi yojit at st paul 's girjaghar or dekhi by a vaishvik television darshak of over 750 million.
jabaki shaadishuda wo bore the sheershak rajkumaari of wales, duchess of cornwall, duchess of Rothesay, Countess of Chester and Baroness of Renfrew.
The marriage produced two sons, the princes wiliam or harry, jo became duusari or teesraa in lakeer to the British throne.
dyna thi born into an vaibhavshaalee angrezi family with royal ancestry.
She was the fourth child of John Spencer, 8th arl spencer or uske bivi frances, beti of mauris rosh, 4th Baron Fermoy.
She became a public figure saath the ghoshnaa of her engagement.
She bhi praapt manyata liye uske daan kaary or liye uske support of the antarrashtriya Campaign to Ban Landmines.
From 1989, she was the president of the great ormond gali hospital liye children, in jod to dozens of other charities.
Diana remained the object of vishwavyaapee media scrutiny dauraan or baad uske vivaah, jisase ended in divorce on 28 August 1996.
media dhyaan or public shok yahood considerable following uske maut in a car crash in Paris on 31 August 1997.
Argentina, officially the Argentine Republic ( ), is the duusari largest desh in dono dakshin america or the latin america region.
The country is a federation of 23 provinces or the autonomous nagar of buenos yrs, iske puunji or largest city.
It is the eighth -largest country in the world by jameen kshetrafal or the largest among spanish-speaking raashtra by bhugolic kshetrafal of 2,780,400 km2 or is the fourth by population, with over 41 million people.
argentina is a founding sadsy of the sanyukt raashtra, mercosur, the sangh of dakshin amareeki raashtra, the sanghathan of ibero-american rajya, the sansar bainko Group and the World Trade Organization, and is one of the G-15 and G-20 major economies.
Argentina is located in South America, bordered by chile to the west or dakshin, bolivia or paragway to the uttar or brazil and Uruguay to the northeast.
Argentina daawa prabhutaa over bhaag of antarctic, the fockland islands ( ) and South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands.
Argentina is the successor state of the viceroyalty of the río de la plata, an videshi upnivesh of the spani Empire.
Argentina declared independence during the argentine yuddh of swatantraaa, jisase thi followed by the argentine Civil Wars during most of the 19th century.
The country faced anek sainya coups or rajnatik asthirataa dauraan the 20th sadi, along with periodic economic crisis that continue to this day.
A recognized Southern Cone power, and middle power, Argentina is Latin america 's third-largest arthvyavastha, saath a `` bahut unchi '' darja on the Human development index.
Within Latin America, Argentina has the paanchvaan ucchtam nammaatr jidipi prati capita or the ucchtam in purchasing power terms.
The Legatum Institute have argued that the country has a `` foundation for future growth due to its market size, levels of foreign direct nivesh, or pratishat of high-tech niryaat as share of kul manufactured goods '', or it is classed by investors as middle emerging economy.
Argentina is the Latin American country saath the sabase nobel puraskaar, liye a kul of paanch, sab praapt dauraan the duusari half of the twentieth century.
The country has three Nobel puraskaar in vigyaan or do of salaam.
The most important pahaluon of vigyaan or praudyogiki in argentina hai chintit saath ayurvigyaan, nabhikeey bhautikee, jaevpraudyogiki, nanotechnology, space and rocket technology and several fields related to the country 's Main Economic Activities.
The country also has the aachman pradarshnee bich of vigyaan, praudyogiki, udyog and art that are Latin America 's largest.
Hickory is a city in Catawba county, saath bhaag bhi in burke county or kaldwell County.
The city 's 2010 anumaanit janasankhyikee is 40,010.
Hickory is the principal city in the hickory-lenoir-morganton emesa, in jisase the janasankhyikee at the 2010 Census was 365,497.
Polyethylene terephthalate ( sometimes written poly ( ethylene terephthalate ) ), commonly abbreviated PET, peet, or the obsolete petp or pet-p, is a thermoplastic polimur raal of the poliester parivaar or is prayukt in synthetic machhlee ; beverage, food and other liquid containers ; thermoforming applications ; and engineering resins often in combination with glass fiber.
The term polyethylene terephthalate is a sorce of bhram kuki is padaarth, paalatu, karata nahin contain polyethylene.
Thus, the alternate form, poly ( ethylene terephthalate ), is praayah prayukt in scholarly jarnals liye the khatir of accuracy and clarity.
Depending on its processing and thermal history, polyethylene terephthalate may maujuud dono as an amorphous ( paardarshee ) or as a semi-crystalline polymer.
The semicrystalline material might appear paardarshee ( kan aakaar < 500 nm ) or apaardarshee or shwet ( kan aakaar up to a few microne ) depending on its crystal structure and particle size.
Its monomer ( bis-β-hydroxyterephthalate ) can be synthesized by the esterification reaction between terephthalic acid or ethilin glykol saath jal as a byproduct, or by transesterification pratikriya between ethylene glycol and dimethyl terephthalate with methanol as a byproduct.
bahulkikaran is through a polycondensation pratikriya of the monomers ( done immediately after esterification/transesterification ) with water as the byproduct.
The majority of the world 's PET production is for synthetic machhlee ( in excess of 60 % ), saath bottle utpaadan hisaab liye around 30 % of vaishvik demand.
In the context of textile applications, PET is referred to by its aam naam, `` poliester, '' whereas the echronim `` paalatu '' is generally used in relation to packaging.
Polyester makes up about 18 % of world polymer production and is the third-most-produced polimur ; polyethylene ( pe ) or polypropylene ( pp ) hai pehla or duusari, respectively.
PET consists of polymerized ikai of the monomer ethilin terephthalate, with repeating C10H8O4 units.
PET is commonly recycled, or rai the number `` 1 '' as its recycling symbol.
Louisiana was admitted to the Union on april 30, 1812, or elects seenetteron to varg 2 and Class 3.
Its current seenetteron hai democrate mariyam landrieu and Republican David Vitter.
Black kheer, rakt kheer or rakt sockes is a prakaar of sockes bana by kooking rakt or sukhi rakt with a filler until it is thick enough to congeal when cooled.
The dish exists in vibhinn samskritiyon isse asia to europea and the Americas.
Pig, cattle, sheep, batakh, or bakrii rakt can be prayukt depending on alag countries.
In Europe and the Americas, theth fillers shaamil maance, mote, suet, bread, cornmeal, mithi aalu, onion, chestnuts, barley, and oatmeal.
in spain, portugal or Asia, potato is often replaced by rice.
shairdharak may refer to:
Stakeholder ( corporate ), a person, group, organization, sadsy or pranali jo affects or can be prabhavit by an sanghathan 's actions
Stakeholder, an entity ki can be prabhavit by the parinaam of ki in jisase ve hai kaha to be hitdharakon, i.e., ki in which they have a stake.
Project stakeholder, a vyakti, samooh or sanghathan saath an byaaj in a project
Stakeholder theory, a siddhanth ki identifies or model the samooh jisase hai hitdharakon of a corporation or project
shairdharak vishleshan, the prakram of identifying those affected by a project or event
shairdharak ( vidhi ), a teesraa party jo temporarily holds dhan or property while its owner is still being determined
Jack smight ( kooch 9, 1925 - sitambar 1, 2003 ) thi an amareeki theatre and film director.
Smight was born in miniapolis, minesota or gai to school with future actor Peter Graves.
His film credits include The Traveling Executioner, Rabbit, Run, Loving Couples, Midway, Harper, Airport 1975, Damnation Alley and the Emmy puraskaar -winning edi, as khub as anek apisod of television shrenee aise as the godhuli mandal or the alfred hitchkok Hour.
He also directed the 1960 Broadway play the 49th cousin or rachit the music liye the filmi adaption of phenken of thunder sun My Cry.
Smight died isse karkat in los angeles, California.
dmitri ivanovich mendeleev ( ; 8 farvari 1834 – 2 farvari 1907 o.s. 27 janvari 1834 – 20 January 1907 ) was a Russian chemist and inventor.
He formulated the Periodic Law, created uske apana sanskaran of the aavadhik talika of tatv, or prayukt it to sahi the gun of some already discovered elements and also to predict the properties of elements yet to be discovered !
Modesto ( Spanish for `` modest '' ), officially the nagar of modesto, is the county seat or largest nagar of Stanislaus County, California, United States.
With a janasankhyikee of lagbhag 201,165 at the 2010 janasankhyikee, modesto baandhane as the 18th largest city in the state of California.
The Modesto Census County Division, which includes the shaharon of ceres or riverbank, rai a janasankhyikee of 312,842 as of 2010.
Modesto is located in the central ghati kshetrafal of uttari california, 90 mile uttar of fresno, 92 mile east of san francisco, 68 mile dakshin of the state capital of Sacramento, 66 miles west of Yosemite National Park, and 24 miles south of Stockton.
Modesto, a 29-time ped nagar uese honoree, is ghiri by samrudh farmland, lending to a ranking for the county as 6th among all California counties in farm production.
Led by milk, almonds, murgiyon, akhrot, or makai silage, the county grossed nearly $ 3.1 billion in agricultural production in 2011.
Modesto was immortalized in the 1973 george lucas film American Graffiti.
The award jeetna filmi captured the spirit of `` cruising '' or dosti on 10th or 11th galiyon in 1962 or led to the punaruddhar of 1950 's nostalgia ki shaamil the TV show Happy Days and the other spin-offs.
Ron Howard, Harrison Ford and richard dreyfuss strecchar in the filmi.
the soundtrack thi a vishaal success.
Director George Lucas is a deshi of modesto, graduating isse Downey High School in 1962.
The Gallup-Healthways Well-Being Index for 2011, which interviews 1,000 participants daily or asks individuals to assess unke kaary, finances, shaareerik swasthya, emotional rajya of dimag or samudaayon, kramit modesto 126 out of the 190 cities surveyed.
In December 2009, Forbes ranked Modesto 48th out of 100 among `` behtareen bang-for-the-buck shaharon ''.
In this ranking, Modesto ranked 8th in housing affordability or safar samay lakin bhi kramit 86th in job bhavishyavaanee vikaas and 99th in foreclosures.
swatantraaa din, commonly gyaat as the chauthi of july, is a sangheey avkaash in the sanyukt rajya commemorating the adoption of the Declaration of Independence on July 4, 1776, declaring independence from the Kingdom of Great Britain.
Independence Day is commonly associated with aatishbaajee, parades, barbecues, carnivals, melon, picnics, concert, besabaal khel, parivaar reunions, or rajnatik bhaashanon and ceremonies, in addition to various other public and private events celebrating the history, government, and traditions of the United States.
swatantraaa din is the neshnal din of the sanyukt States.
A gender symbol denotes the sex of an sajiv or characterizes an agent by gender.
The two standard gender pratikon denoting purush ♂ or maadaa ♀ hai niklaa isse astrological symbols, denoting the classical planets Mars and Venus, respectively.
These symbols have been in use since the Renaissance also denoting tatv in alchemy, specifically the dhaatuon aayran or tambe.
They were first used to denote the effective gender of plants ( i.e. sex of vyaktigat in a die crossbreed, chunki sabase paudhe hai hermaphroditic ) by Carolus Linnaeus in 1751.
A leasehold estate is an swaamitv of a asthai sahi to tham jameen or property in jisase a lessee or a kiraayedaar holds adhikaron of real property by kuch rup of title from a lessor or landlord.
Although a tenant does hold adhikaron to real property, a leasehold estate is typically considered personal property.
Leasehold is a form of land tenure or property kaarykaal jahaan ek party kharidta the sahi to occupy jameen or a building for a given length of time.
As lease is a vidhik estate, leasehold estate can be bought and sold on the open market.
A leasehold thus differs isse a freehold or shulk saral jahaan the swaamitv of a property is kharida outright or thereafter yojit liye an anirdharya lambaai of samay, or bhi differs isse a tenancy jahaan a property is let ( rented ) on a periodic basis such as weekly or monthly.
Until the end of the lease period ( often measured in dashakon or sadiyaan ; a 99 saal patte is kaaphi aam ) the leaseholder rai the sahi to remain in occupation as an assured tenant paying an agreed rent to the owner.
Terms of the agreement are contained in a patte, jisase rai tatv of anubandh or property vidhi intertwined.
The term estate liye saalo may occasionally be prayukt.
This refers to a leasehold estate liye koi vishisht kaal of samay ( the shabd `` years '' is misleading ).
An estate for saalo is nahin automatically navinikrut.
Colloquially, `` patte '' or `` patte `` hai praayah a formalization of a longer, specific period as compared with a `` rental '' that created a tenancy at will, terminable or renewable at the end of a short period.
Olivia ( also known as Welcome to the sansar of the suar olivia ) is a british-american children 's anemated television shrenee utpaadit by media company chorion or based on Ian Falconer 's books.
It is seen on upnaam jr. in the us, milkshek !
, Nick Jr. in the UK and Ireland, and Disney Junior in latin america or brazil, treehouse tv in Canada.
The show has won a silver Parents ' Choice Award for its dhanatmak story linon or varna.
Location of Panama between Pacific ( neeche ) or caribbean ( sheersh ), saath kanal at top center
The Panama Canal ( ) is a jalayaan kanal in panama ki connects the atlantic samandar ( via the Caribbean Sea ) to the Pacific Ocean.
the kanal katautee aarpaar the isthmus of panama or is a key conduit for international maritime trade.
There are locks at prayek samaapt to lift jahaajon up to gatun jhil ( upar sea-level ).
Gatun Lake was created to reduce the raashi of kaary jaruri liye the canal.
The vartmaan taale hai wide.
A third, wider len of taale is being built.
France began kaary on the kanal in 1881, lakin tha to roke kuki of engineering problems and high mortality due to disease.
The United States ( US ) baad took over the project or took a dashak to puraa the kanal in 1914, enabling jahaajon to avoid the lengthy kep sing root around the southernmost tip of South America ( via the Drake Passage ) or to navigate the Strait of Magellan.
One of the largest and most difficult abhiyantriki project kabhi undertaken, the panama kanal shortkat bana it sambhavit liye jahaajon to safar between the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans in half the time previously required.
the shorter, tej, safer root to the us west coast or to raashtra in or saath the prashanth Ocean allowed those places to become more integrated with the world economy.
During this time, ownership of the territory ki is abhi the panama kanal thi pehla columbian, tab french, or tab American ; the United States completed the construction.
The canal was taken over in 1999 by the panamanian sarkari, as long niojit.
Annual traffic has risen from about 1,000 ships when the canal opened in 1914, to 14,702 baratan in 2008, the latter measuring a kul of 309.6 lakh panama canal/universal maapan pranali ( pc/ums ) tons.
By 2008, more than 815,000 vessels had passed through the canal, anek of unhen much larger than the asli planners could have envisioned ; the largest jahaajon ki can pargaman the kanal aaj hai pukaara Panamax.
The American Society of Civil ejiniers rai namit the panama kanal ek of the saat chamatkaar of the aadhunik world.
Benjamin Franklin ( April 17, 1790 ) thi ek of the founding fathers of the United States.
A noted polymath, Franklin was a agrani lekhak, mudrak, rajnatik theorist, rajaneta, postmaster, vaigyanik, musician, inventor, satirist, civic activist, statesman, and diplomat.
As a scientist, he was a pramukh figure in the amareeki atmagyaan or the itihaas of bhautikee liye uske discoveries and theories regarding electricity.
He invented the lightning rod, bifocals, the franklin stove, a carriage odometer, and the glass 'armonica '.
he facilitated anek naagarik sanghathan, sahit a aag department and a university.
Franklin earned the sheershak of `` the pehla amareeki '' liye uske jaldi or indefatigable campaigning liye aupniveshik ekta ; as an lekhak or pravaktaa in landan liye anek colonies, tab as the first United States Ambassador to France, he exemplified the emerging American nation.
franklin thi foundational in dhamak the amareeki ethos as a vivaah of the vyaavhaarik maan of thrift, mushkil kaary, shiksha, jatiyaan spirit, self-governing institutions, and opposition to authoritarianism both political and religious, with the scientific and tolerant values of the Enlightenment.
In the shabd of itihaaskaar henry steel commager, `` in a franklin could be milaayaa the virtues of Puritanism without its defects, the illumination of the Enlightenment without its heat. ''
To Walter Isaacson, this makes Franklin `` the most sampannataa amareeki of uske aayu or the sabase influential in inventing the prakaar of samaaj america would become. ''
Franklin, always proud of his working class jaden, became a kaamyaab samachaarpatr editor or mudrak in Philadelphia, the leading city in the colonies.
He was also partners with William Goddard and Joseph Galloway the three of whom published the Pennsylvania vrittant, a samachaarpatr ki thi gyaat liye iske krantikari sentiments or aalochanaon of the angrejon samrajya in the amareeki colonies.
He became wealthy publishing garib richard 's almanack or the pencilvenia Gazette.
Franklin gained international renown as a vaigyanik liye uske prasiddh prayog in vidyut or for his many inventions, especially the lightning rod.
He played a pramukh bhoomika in establishing the vishvavidhyalayon of pencilvenia or was elected the first president of the American Philosophical Society.
Franklin became a national hero in america jab he pathpradarshan the praytn to have parliament repeal the unpopular Stamp Act.
An sampannataa rajanyik, he thi widely admired among the french as amareeki mantri to Paris and was a major figure in the development of positive Franco-American relations.
For many years he thi the angrejon postmaster liye the colonies, jisase sakriy use to niyat up the first national communications network.
He was active in community afares, aupniveshik or rajya raajnneeti, as khub as neshnal or international affairs.
isse 1785 to 1788, he parosa as governor of Pennsylvania.
Toward the end of his life, he freed uske slave or became ek of the sabase prominent abolitionists.
His colorful life and legacy of scientific and political achievement, and aukaat as ek of america 's sabase influential founding fathers, have dekhi franklin sammanit on coinage or dhan ; warships ; the names of anek kasbon, county, shaikshanik sansthaanon, namesakes, and companies ; and more than two centuries after his death, countless cultural references.
Criminal Minds is an amareeki police prakriyaatmak television kaarykram ki premiered sitambar 22, 2005, on CBS.
The series follows a toli of profilers isse the epabiai 's behavioral Analysis Unit ( BAU ) based in Quantico, Virginia.
The BAU is bhaag of the epabiai neshnal bich liye the Analysis of Violent Crime.
The show differs from many prakriyaatmak dramas by focusing on profiling the dand, balki than the crime itself.
The show is produced by The Mark Gordon Company in association saath sibies television studios ( originally sarvopari sanjaal television tab sibies sarvopari sanjaal television ) or abisi studios ( originally Touchstone Television ).
CBS announced in aktubar 2009 ki viraasat interactive hota develop a video game based on the show.
The game hota aavashyaktaa khilaadi to jaanchen aparaadhon drishyon for clues to help solve murder mysteries.
The interactive paheli khel thi released in 2012, lakin kiya nahin visheshta koi of the awaazen of the dikhaaen 's daal, nor thi the cast involved with the project.
On March 14, 2012, sibies navinikrut dand minds liye an eighth season, which premiered on September 26, 2012.
`` heart-shaped baksaa '' is a song by the amareeki grunge band nirvana, likhaa by vocalist or guitarist Kurt Cobain.
the song thi released as the pehla single isse the samooh 's teesraa or final studio album, In Utero, in 1993.
It was one of two songs from the album mishrit by scot litt in anukram to augment the original production by producer Steve Albini.
While Nirvana 's label DGC Records did not release a physical single for sale in the United States, `` Heart-Shaped Box '' praapt much amareeki radio airplay, reaching kramank ek on the billboard aadhunik chattan treks chart.
The international relies of the single pahunche kramank paanch on the uk Singles Chart.
The song 's music video, nirdeshit by antone corbijn, garnered najuk plaudits.
The orbital speed of a body, generally a planet, a natural upgrah, an kritrim upgrah, or a anek star, is the gati at jisase it orbits around the barycenter of a pranali, praayah around a more massive body.
It can be used to refer to either the mean orbital speed, the ausat gati as it completes an kaksha, or instantaneous kakshiya gati, the gati at a particular point in its orbit.
The orbital speed at any position in the orbit can be computed from the alahada to the central deh at ki sthiti, or the vishisht kakshiya urja, jisase is swatantra of sthiti : the gatij urja is the total energy minus the potential energy.
bhura rajmahal aantarik or Atrium
Brown Palace hotel is the second-oldest oparating hotel in Denver, Colorado and is one of the first atrium-style hotel ever built.
It is now sanchalit by korum hotel or resort.
It was built in 1892, ek saal baad than the oxford Hotel.
It was named for its original owner, henry C. bhura, or thi designed saath iske visham triangular aakaar by vaastu Frank Edbrooke.
The hotel is located at 321 17th st, denwar, co between 17th gali, broadway or tremont Street/Pl in downtown Denver behind the Republic Plaza.
The pramukh pravesh dwaar is on tremont Street.
DVD-Video is a consumer video format prayukt to store digital video on dvd discs, or is philhal the prabal upabhokta video swaroop in Asia, North America, Europe, and Australia.
discs using the dvd-video specification aavashyaktaa a dvd drive or an h.262/mpeg-2 bhaag 2 decoder ( e.g., a DVD player, or a computer DVD drive with a software DVD player ).
vanijyik dvd filmon hai encoded using a sangyojan of h.262/mpeg-2 bhaag 2 sampidit video or audio of varying formats ( often multi-channel formats as described below ).
typically, the aankada rate liye dvd filmon seemayen isse 3 mbit/s to 9.5 mbit/s, or the bit rate is usually adaptive.
It was first uplabdhiyaan liye khudara around 1997.
The DVD-Video specification was created by dvd foram or can be praapt isse dvd format/logo licencing nigam liye a shulk of $ 5,000.
The specification is not publicly available, because prayek sadsy jarur chihn a non-disclosure anubandh.
Certain information in the DVD kitaab is malikana or gopneey.
The nautical mile ( symbol M, NM or nmi ) is a ikai of lambaai ki is parichay ek minute of chaap of akshansh measured along any meridian, or about one minute of arc of longitude at the equator.
By antarrashtriya anubandh it rai maharoom niyat at 1,852 meter exactly ( about 6,076 feet ).
It is a non- SI unit ( although accepted for upyog in the antarrashtriya pranali of ikai by the bipm ) prayukt visheshkar by navigators in the shipping and aviation industries, and also in polar exploration.
It is commonly used in international law and treaties, visheshkar regarding the had of territorial waters.
It developed from the samudr mile or the sambandhit bhugolic mile.
The nautical mile remains in use by sea and air navigators vishwavyaapee kuki of iske convenience jab working with charts.
Most nautical chart upyog the mercator prakshep jinaki scale varies by parichay a factor of chah isse the equator to 80° akshansh, so chart covering large areas can not use a single linear scale.
The nautical mile is nearly equal to a minute of akshansh on a chart, so a alahada measured saath a chart divider can be roughly parivartit to nautical miles using the chart 's latitude scale.
Shippensburg is a baro in kambarland or franklin county in the u.S. rajya of Pennsylvania.
Settled in 1730, shippensburg jhooth in the kambarland ghati, 41 mile ( 66 km ) west-southwest of Harrisburg, and is part of the Harrisburg– Carlisle Metropolitan Statistical Area.
In 1900, 3,228 logon jiya vahin ; in 1910, 3,457 ; and in 1940, 5,244 people lived there.
the janasankhyikee thi 5,492 at the 2010 census.
shippensburg thi incorporated as a baro on January 21, 1819.
In the past, there were furniture kaarkaanon, ingine or pump works, or anya audyogic works stith bheetar the town.
Shippensburg is also the home of The Beistle Company, the oldest and largest nirmaataa of sajaavat or party goods, jisase bikta iske distinctive madhukosh paper sajaavat vishwavyaapee.
It is bhi the sthaan of pague or fegan, the oldest lagaataar operated hardware store in Pennsylvania.
In May 2012, Volvo Construction Equipment began a $ 100 lakh vistaar project to lao iske amareeki mukhyalay to Shippensburg.
shippensburg is bhi ghar to shippensburg vishvavidhyalayon of pencilvenia, ek of 14 vishvavidhyalayon of the pencilvenia State System of Higher Education.
Yearly the pichhlaa puraa saptaah of july, the shippensburg jatiyaan Fair is held.
Begun in 1958, the fair bills itself as pencilvenia 's largest bi-county mela.
The fair includes agricultural exhibits, a shilp dikhaaen, khaanaa vikreta, or carnival yatraayen amongst other things.
Every summer on the last Saturday of August, Shippensburg holds the Corn Festival, an event ki brings kshetreey shilpkaar or vikreta to operate stands downtown.
the shahar is band to trekkic liye at tanik 5 block for most of the day.
Average upasthiti at the parv is anumaanit at 60,000 - 70,000 each year.
Black hairy tongue ( BHT, also termed lingua villosa nigra ) refers to a condishan of the jeebh jahaan the filiform papillae elongate saath blike or bhura discoloration, giving a black and hairy appearance.
The appearance may be alarming, lakin it is a hanirahit condishan.
Predisposing factors shaamil dhumrapaan, xerostomia ( shushk munh ), naram aahaar, garib maukhik hygiene or certain medications.
Management is by improving maukhik hygiene, visheshkar scraping or brushing the tongue.
The IEEE 1394 interfes is a serial bas interfes maanak liye high-speed sanchaar and isochronous real-time data transfer.
It was developed in the late 1980s or jaldi 1990s by tehraana, jo pukaara it FireWire.
The 1394 interfes is comparable to usb, or praayah those do technologies hai considered together, though USB has more market share.
Apple first shaamil firewire in kuch of iske 1999 model, or sabase tehraana computer chunki the saal 2000 have shaamil FireWire ports, though, as of 2013, nothing beyond the 800 version ( IEEE-1394b ).
The interfes is bhi gyaat by the brands i.link ( soni ), or Lynx ( Texas Instruments ).
IEEE 1394 replaced parallel SCSI in many anuprayog, kuki of nimnatar kriyanvayan laagat or a sarlikrut, adhik anukoolneey cabling system.
the 1394 maanak bhi defines a backplane interfes, though this is not as widely used.
IEEE 1394 is the High-Definition audio-video sanjaal gathbandhan ( haana ) maanak conection interfes liye a/v ( audio/visual ) ghatak communication and control.
FireWire is also uplabdhiyaan in betaar, resha optic, or samakshiya sanskaran using the isochronous protocols.
Stephen `` Stevie '' Ray Vaughan ( October 3, 1954 – agast 27, 1990 ) thi an amareeki guitarist, singer-songwriter, or ricard producer.
Often referred to by his initials SRV, Vaughan is behtareen gyaat as a founding sadsy or netaa of doguna Trouble.
Together with vadak kris layton or bassist tommy shainan, ve ignited the bluez revival of the 1980s.
With a career spanning saat saalo, vaughan or doguna trubal consistently bechi out concerts while their albums frequently went gold.
He was born or uthaaya in dalas, texas, or liye a choti period of time lived in Graham, Texas.
As the younger brother of Jimmie Vaughan, Vaughan prarambh playing the guitar at aayu saat or formed several bands that occasionally performed in local nightclubs.
At age 17, he dropped out of high school and sthanantarit to austin to further pursue uske musical kariyar, joining samooh aise as krackerjack, the nightcrawlers, and the Cobras.
In 1977, he formed Triple Threat Revue, a band that eventually evolved into doguna trubal or regularly performed around austin.
In 1982, Vaughan and Double Trouble performed at the montreux jaiz parv in switzaraland, catching the dhyaan of sangeetkaaron daud bovi or jackson Browne.
Bowie asked Vaughan to khel on uske aagaamee studio album let 's nrity, jabaki browne offered the band free upyog of uske nijee studio in Los Angeles to record an album.
In March 1983, Vaughan and doguna trubal yahood hastakshrit to apik record by diggaj ricard nirmaataa jon hamend sr. or released their debut album, Texas Flood in June of that year.
After successful touring, the samooh released the album, could n't stand the mausam ( 1984 ) or aatma to aatma ( 1985 ), the latter of jisase pradarshit nai keyboardist Reese Wynans.
Although his career had progressed safaltaapurvak, vaughan checked into a punarvaas hospital in atlanta, georgia to de up a coca or alcohol habit and returned to touring with the band.
In June 1989, In Step was released and arjeet unhen a grami puraskaar liye behtareen Contemporary Blues Performance.
On August 27, 1990, vaughan thi maare in a helicopter krash following a pradarshan in East Troy, Wisconsin.
Vaughan 's uniquely eclectic yet teevr style thi niklaa isse a variety of musical genres.
He was influenced by blues musicians sahit albert king, fredy king, otis fatafat, or muddy waters, or chattan guitarists such as Jimi Hendrix and Lonnie Mack.
His guitar playing reflected the clasik bluez and pentatonic scales.
He has received wide critical recognition for his guitar playing, ranking at # 6 on rolling pattharon suchi of `` 100 mahanatam guitarists '' in 2011.
He was posthumously inducted into the Blues Hall of Fame in 2000 or a memorial pratimaa thi erected in austin 's auditorium shores park.
Stevie Ray vaughan is widely mana to be one of the greatest musicians to come from the state of Texas.
GigE redirects yahan.
liye the camera protocol, dekhie GigE vision.
In computer networking, gigabit Ethernet ( GbE or 1 gige ) is a pad describing vibhinn technologies liye transmitting ethernet frames at a rate of a gigabit prati duusari ( 1,000,000,000 bits per second ), as defined by the IEEE 802.3-2008 standard.
It came into upyog shuruuaat in 1999, dhire supplanting tej ethernet in taar local sanjaal, jahaan it performed considerably faster.
The cables and equipment are bahut samaan to pichhlaa maanakon or yahood bahut aam or kifayati by 2010.
Half-duplex gigabit links connected through hubs are allowed by the specification, lakin full-duplex upyog saath switches is much adhik common.
Intel PRO/1000 GT pisiai sanjaal interfes card
the pramukh components of a stamp:
1. chitra
2. perforations
3. denomination
4. desh name
A postage stamp is a small piece of paper ki is kharida or pradarshit on an mad of mail as pramaan of bhugtan of postage.
Typically, stamps are made from khaas paper, saath a neshnal namakan or denomination ( daam ) on the phase, or a gam chipakane on the reverse paksh.
Postage stamps are purchased from a postal administration or other authorized vendor or hai prayukt to adaa liye the laagat shaamil in chalati mail as khub as anya kaarobaar necessities aise as insurance and registration.
The stamp’s aakaar is praayah ki of a choti ytaakar of varying proportions, though triangles or other shapes are occasionally used.
The stamp is affixed to an lipapha or anya dak cover ( i.e., packet, baksaa, mailing belan ) that the customer wishes to send.
The item is tab processed by the dak pranali, jahaan a postmark, sometimes gyaat as a raddikaran chihnit, is praayah applied over the stamp and cover ; this procedure marks the stamp as used, which prevents its reuse.
The postmark indicates the tithi or point of origin of the mailing.
The mailed item is then delivered to the address ki the graahak rai lagu to the lipapha or cover.
postage stamps have facilitated the delivery of mail since the 1840s.
Before this time, ink and hand-stamps ( hence the shabd 'stamp ' ), praayah bana isse lakdi or cork, yahood praayah prayukt to frank the mail or confirm the payment of postage.
The first adhesive postage stamp, commonly referred to as the paini blike, thi jari in the sanyukt kingdom in 1840.
The invention of the stamp was a part of the attempt to reform and improve the postal system in the United Kingdom of Great Britain or ireland, jisase in the jaldi 19th sadi thi in astavyastata or rife saath bhrashtachar.
There are varying khate of the avishkaarak or avishkaarak of the stamp.
Before the introduction of postage stamps, mail in the UK was paid for by the recipient, a system that was associated with an irresolvable problem : the laagat of delivering mail yahood nahin recoverable by the dak seva jab praptakarta yahood asamarth or unwilling to adaa liye vitarit vasteen, or preshkon tha no protsaahan to simit the kramank, aakaar, or weight of items sent, whether or not they would ultimately be paid for.
The postage stamp resolved this issue in a saral or suruchipurna manner, saath the atirikt laabh of room liye an tatv of saundarya to be introduced.
Later related inventions include postal stationery such as prepaid-postage envelopes, post cards, lettercards, aerogrammes and wrappers, postage meter, or, adhik recently, specialty baks or lipaphe provided free to the graahak by the u.S. dak seva liye pradhanta or express mailing.
The postage stamp afforded convenience for both the mailer or dak officials, adhik efficiently baraamad laagat liye the dak seva, or ultimately resulted in a better, faster postal system.
With the conveniences stamps offered, unke upyog resulted in greatly increased mailings dauraan the 19th and 20th centuries.
Postage stamps during this era were the most lokapriy rasta of paying liye mail, lakin by the samaapt of the 20th sadi yahood rapidly hone eclipsed by the use of metered postage and bulk mailing by businesses. )
The same result with respect to communications by private parties occurred over the pichhlaa dashak of the 20th sadi or the pehla dashak of the 21st due to ghatati laagat of long alahada telephone sanchaar or the vikaas or visphotak sprad of electronic mailing ( `` e-mail '' via the Internet ) and bill paying systems had.
As postage stamps with their engraved imagery began to appear on a faili aadhaar, itihaaskaaron or collectors began to take notice.
The padhai of postage stamps or unke upyog is referred to as philately.
Stamp collecting can be dono a shauk or a rup of aitihaasik padhai or sandarbh, as government-issued postage stamps or unke mailing systems have always been involved with the history of nations.
The University of Alabama at Birmingham ( UAB ) is a public vishvavidhyalayon in birmingham in the u.S. rajya of Alabama.
Developing from an extension center established in 1936, the sanstha became an autonomous sanstha in 1969 or is aaj ek of teen sansthaanon in the vishvavidhyalayon of Alabama System.
UAB offers over 140 programs of study in 12 academic vibhaajan agrani to snaatak 's, nipun 's, doctoret, or peshewar degree in the soshal or behavioral sciences, the udaar arts, business, education, engineering, and health-related fields such as medicine, dentistry, optometry, nursing, and public health.
The school is atyadhik prasiddh liye iske chikitsa shodh or prakritik sciences kaarykram.
The UAB swasthya pranali, ek of the largest academik chikitsa centers in the sanyukt States, is affiliated with the university.
UAB Hospital sponsors residency programs in various medical specialties, sahit aatanrik ayurvigyaan, neurology, surgery, radiology, or anesthesiology.
UAB Hospital is the only ACS satyapit str i aghat bich in albama, as rated by the amareeki college of adhyetavriti Trauma Program.
UAB is the state 's largest employer, with more than 18,000 sankaay or staff or over 53,000 kaary at the vishvavidhyalayon and in the health system.
An anumaanit 10 pratishat of the kaary in the birmingham-hoover mahanagar kshetrafal or 1 in 33 jobs in the state of Alabama are directly or indirectly related to UAB.
The university 's overall salanaa aarthik prabhaav thi anumaanit to be $ 4.6 billion in 2010.
In the fall of 2012, the University of Alabama at birmingham namankit 17,999 vidhyaarthee isse adhik than 110 countries, including 1,605 freshmen.
vahin hai yojanaayen to commence saath an `` aggressive '' growth in enrollment at UAB.
The vartmaan uab adhyaksh is dr. Ray L. Watts.
tofu, bhi pukaara saim dahi, is a khaanaa bana by coagulating soya ras and then pressing the resulting curds into soft white blocks.
it is a ghatak in anek east asian or southeast Asian cuisines.
There are many different varieties of tofu, sahit bhais tofu or tofu ki rai maharoom processed in some way.
Tofu rai a halkaa swaad or can be prayukt in savory and sweet dishes.
It is often seasoned or marinated to suut the dish.
tofu originated in pracheen china kuch 2,000 years ago.
Chinese legend ascribes iske avishkaar to prince liyu an ( chinis : 劉安 Liú Ān, 179–122 BC ).
Tofu and its utpaadan takanic yahood introduced into korian or tab japani dauraan the Nara period.
It sprad into anya bhaag of east asia as well.
is sprad sambhavit coincided saath the sprad of buddhism because it is an important source of protein in the vegetarian diet of East Asian Buddhism.
Li Shizhen in the Ming Dynasty varnit a vidhi of bananaa tofu in Bencao Gangmu.
Tofu has a low calorie count, apekshaakrit vishaal amounts of protein, or little fat.
It is high in iron and depending on the coagulant prayukt in nirmaan, may bhi be unchi in calcium and/or magnesium.
Bubbles ( born 1983 ) is a aam chimpanji, gyaat liye hone the one-time paalatu of amareeki recording kalakaar maaikel Jackson, who bought the primate from a Texas research facility in the early 1980s.
The animal was a frequent travel saathi to the singer, jinaki anulgnak to the animal led to media mockery or, among anya karkon, to a public perception of Jackson as an eccentric.
During the Bad World Tour, for example, Jackson brought bulbule saath use to japani, jahaan ve dono piya chaay saath the mayor of Osaka.
Bubbles was initially kept at the jackson parivaar 's ghar in encino, los angeles, lakin thi sthanantarit to neverland ranch in 1988.
There, he slept in a crib in jackson 's bedroom, prayukt the singer 's toilet, and ate candy in the Neverland movie theater.
In 2003 the public learned that, like all captive chimpanzees, Bubbles tha matured into a vishaal or aakraamak vayask chimp unsuitable as a saathi animal.
He was sent to a California animal trainer, jahaan he thi reported to have attempted aatmahatya.
When the prashikshak shut bas uske aaparishan in 2004, bulbule thi sthanantarit to the bich liye Great Apes, a sanctuary in Wauchula, Florida, where he has lived since 2005.
chintan hai an angrezi chattan band isse teignmouth, Devon, which formed in 1994.
The band consists of school mitron mathew bellamy ( sise vocals, sise guitar, piano, keyboards, keytar ), christopher wolstenholme ( bass, vocals, keyboards, rhythm guitar, harmonica ) and Dominic Howard ( drums, percussion, synthesisers, sampling ).
Since the release of their 2006 album blike chhed or khulaase, keyboardist or percussionist morgan nicholls rai performed sajiv saath the band.
Muse are known for their energetic and had sajiv pradarshan or unke sanlayan of anek music jati, sahit spes chattan, pragatisheel chattan, vaikalpik chattan, baari metal, classical music and electronica.
Muse have released six studio albums : Showbiz ( 1999 ), Origin of Symmetry ( 2001 ), absolution ( 2003 ), blike chhed or khulaase ( 2006 ), the pratirodh ( 2009 ) or the 2nd vidhi ( 2012 ).
They have bhi jari teen sajiv album, hullabaloo soundtrack ( 2002 ), jisase is bhi a sankalan of b-sides, absolution Tour ( 2005 ), and HAARP ( 2008 ), which documents the band 's performances at Wembley Stadium in 2007.
blike chhed or khulaase arjeet the band a paara puraskaar namakan and a third place finish in the NME Albums of the Year list for 2006.
Muse have also won a collection of music awards throughout their history, including five MTV Europe Music Awards, six Q Awards, aath nme puraskaar, do brit puraskaar —winning `` behtareen angrejon sajiv adhinium '' twice, an amtivi video music puraskaar, chaar kerrang !
puraskaar or an amareeki Music Award.
They were also nominated for five Grammy Awards, of jisase ve jiti behtareen chattan album, liye unke paanchvaan studio album the pratirodh ( 2009 ).
chintan have bechi over 15 lakh albums worldwide.
Bloemfontein (, ; Dutch for `` fountain of flowers '' ) is the capital nagar of the free rajya praant of dakshin africa ; or, as the nyaayik puunji of the swadesh, ek of dakshin africa 's teen neshnal rajdhani – the anya do hone kep Town, the legislative capital, and Pretoria, the administrative capital.
Bloemfontein is popularly and poetically known as `` the city of gulab ``, owing to the prachurtaa of ye pushp or the salanaa rose parv yojit there.
The city 's Sesotho name is mangaung, arth `` place of cheetahs `` or it rai maharoom shaamil in the mangaung Local Municipality since 2000.
bloemfontein is situated on shushk ghasbhumi at, at an altitude of above sea level.
The city is home to 369,568 nivaasiyon, jabaki the mangaung local nagarpalika rai a janasankhyikee of 645,455.
jahaan do We Come From ?
kayaa hai we ?
jahaan hai we Going ?
One of post-impressionist paul gauguin 's sabase famous paintings.
The meaning of life is a philosophical question concerning the significance of jivan or astitv in general.
It can bhi be expressed in alag form, aise as `` kyon hai we yahan ? ``, `` kayaa is jivan sab parichay ? ``, and `` What is the purpose of existence ? ''
It rai maharoom the vishay of much philosophical, vaigyanik, and theological speculation throughout history.
There have been a large kramank of prastaavit jawaab to ye sawaal isse anek alag cultural and ideological backgrounds.
The meaning of life is in the philosophical and religious conceptions of existence, social ties, consciousness, and happiness, and borders on many other issues, such as sankethik arth, sattamimasaa, maan, purpose, aachaar, shubh or dusht, free hoga, the astitv of ek or anek devataaon, conceptions of parameshwar, the soul, and the afterlife.
Scientific contributions focus primarily on describing related empirical facts about the brahmad, exploring the context or paramiters concerning the 'how ' of life.
Science also adhyayan or can provide suzav liye the pursuit of well-being and a related conception of morality.
an vaikalpik, humanistic drushtikon mudraayen the sawaal `` What is the meaning of my life ? ''
The value of the question pertaining to the purpose of life may coincide saath the uplabdhi of param vaastaviktaa, or a ahsaas of oneness, or bhi a ahsaas of sacredness.
Family Guy creator Seth macfarlane bhi provides the awaazen of peter griffin, stewie griffin, bryan griffin, and Glenn Quagmire.
Family Guy is an amareeki anemated sitcom ki suvidhaayen paanch pramukh awaz abhinaytaon, or numerous regular cast and recurring guest stars.
The principal voice daal consists of dikhaaen nirmaataa seth macfarlane, elex borstein, seth green, mila kunis ( jo replaced lacy Chabert after the first season ) and Mike Henry and now, the new actor Beau Osborne.
punaravarti awaz abhinaytaon shaamil patric warburton, aadam west, jon G. briken, nichol suliwan or jenifer Tilly, and repeat guest stars include Phyllis Diller, Charles Durning, Rush Limbaugh, and Phil LaMarr.
Many cast members provide awaazen liye anek characters.
The voice actors, in portraying the vibhinn akshar personalities on the dikhaaen, chithran prerana from celebrities and pop culture.
Family guy varna have maharoom nibhaai by adhik than ek karta, after members of the show left the series or had conflicting obligations.
Kunis was nominated for an Annie Award for voicing Meg Griffin in the season 5 episode `` mushkil vidhik `` or macfarlane rai bhi jiti an emi puraskaar liye bakaayaa voice-over pradarshan or an ani puraskaar liye behtareen awaz acting in an anemated television utpaadan, haalanki no anya cast member has won an award for their work on the series.
1911 udhaaharan by edmund dulac
`` The Princess and the Pea '' ( ; shabdic anuwaad : `` the rajkumaari on the matar '' ) is a saahitiyik pari tail by hans isai Andersen about a young woman whose royal identity is established by a test of her physical sensitivity.
The tale was first published with three anya by andersen in an inexpensive pustika on 8 may 1835 in copenhegan by C.A. Reitzel.
Andersen had heard the story as a child, and it likely has its source in lok saamagree, sambhawatah originating isse sweden as it is unknown in the Danish oral tradition.
Neither `` The Princess and the Pea '' nor Andersen 's other tales of 1835 were well praapt by danish aalochakon, jo disliked unke cazual, chatty style, and their lack of morals.
In 1959 `` The Princess and the Pea '' was adapted to the musical stage in a utpaadan pukaara ekbar upon a gadda abhinit carol burnett.
German Americans ( ) are citizens of the United rajya jo yahood either born in germany or hai of germany ancestry.
They comprise parichay 50 lakh logon, bananaa unhen the largest ancestry samooh ahead of Irish Americans, African Americans and English Americans.
They comprise parichay 1/3 of the germany diaspora sab over the world.
None of the germany rajya tha nai sansar colonies.
Not until the 1670s did the first significant groups of German apravasiyon arrive in the angrejon colonies, settling primarily in New York and Pennsylvania.
Immigration continued in very large numbers during the 19th sadi, saath kuch aath lakh aamad isse Germany.
They were pulled by the attractions of land and dharmik swatantraaa, or dhakel out of europea by shortages of jameen or dharmik or rajnatik oppression.
Many arrived seeking dharmik or rajnatik swatantraaa, anya liye aarthik avasar vrihad than those in Europe, and others simply for the chance to start fresh in the New World.
The arrivals before 1850 were mostly farmers who sought out the sabase utpaadak jameen, jahaan unke intensive kheti takneekon hota adaa off.
After 1840, many aae to shaharon, jahaan `` germania '' —german-speaking districts—soon emerged.
German Americans established the first kindergartens in the United rajya, introduced the christmas ped parampara, or originated lokapriy amareeki foods such as hot dogs and hamburgers.
German American celebrations are held throughout the desh, ek of the sabase well-known hone the german-american steuben parade in nai york nagar, yojit every third Saturday in September.
There are also major annual events in Chicago, sinsinati, milvowki, pittsburg, st. lui or anya cities.
Like many other immigrants ki aae to the sanyukt rajya, an overwhelming kramank of logon of germany or aanshik germany descent have essentially become Americanized.
The Preamble to the United rajya samvidhan is a bread parichayatmak bayaan of the samvidhan 's fundamental purposes and guiding principles.
It states in general terms, and courts have referred to it as vishwasaneey pramaan of, the founding fathers ' iraadon regarding the samvidhan 's meaning and what they hoped the Constitution would achieve as it pertains to all of the people of the United States.
As the phrase, `` we the logon '' suggests ki the nai sarkari originates isse the logon of the sanyukt rajya or it set into gati a sawaal as it pertains to ki vishaal janasankhyikee concerning the individual rights and equality among all people ; this can be seen most broadly in the divide between republicanism and social democracy.
The history of the Internet began saath the vikaas of electronic computer in the 1950s.
The public was first introduced to the avadharanaon ki hota sise to the antarjaal jab a sandesh thi bheja over the arpanet isse computer vigyaan praadhyaapak leonard kleinrock 's prayogshaala at vishvavidhyalayon of california, los angeles ( ucla ), baad the second piece of network equipment was installed at Stanford Research Institute ( SRI ).
Packet switched networks such as ARPANET, Mark I at NPL in the UK, CYCLADES, Merit Network, tymnet, or telenet, yahood viksit in the let 1960s or jaldi 1970s using a kismein of protocol.
The ARPANET in particular led to the development of protocols for internetworking, in jisase anek pruthak sanjaal could be joined saath into a sanjaal of networks.
In 1982, the Internet protocol suite ( TCP/IP ) was standardized, and natijatan, the avadharana of a world-wide sanjaal of interconnected tcp/ip sanjaal, pukaara the antarjaal, thi introduced.
Access to the ARPANET was expanded in 1981 when the National vigyaan nyaas ( nsf ) viksit the computer vigyaan sanjaal ( csnet ) or again in 1986 jab nsfnet provided access to supercomputer sites in the United States from research and education organizations.
Commercial Internet service pradaataaon ( isps ) began to emerge in the let 1980s and early 1990s.
The ARPANET thi decommissioned in 1990.
The Internet was commercialized in 1995 when nsfnet thi decommissioned, nikaalnaa the pichhlaa pratibandh on the upyog of the antarjaal to carry commercial traffic.
Since the mid-1990s, the Internet has had a revolutionary impact on culture or commers, sahit the vruddhi of near-instant sanchaar by electronic mail, tatkaal messaging, awaz over antarjaal protocol ( voip ) `` phone kals '', two-way interactive video kals, or the World Wide Web with its discussion forums, blogs, social networking, and online shopping sites.
The research and shiksha jatiyaan continues to develop or upyog unnat sanjaal aise as NSF 's very high speed Backbone Network Service ( vBNS ), Internet2, and National LambdaRail.
Increasing amounts of data are transmitted at higher and ucchtar speeds over resha optic sanjaal oparating at 1-gbit/s, 10-gbit/s, or more.
The Internet 's takeover over the global sanchaar landscape thi lagbhag tatkaal in aitihaasik sharten : it tabhi communicated 1 % of the soochna bahati through two-way doorsanchaar networks in the year 1993, already 51 % by 2000, and more than 97 % of the telecommunicated information by 2007.
Today the Internet continues to grow, driven by ever greater amounts of online soochna, commers, entertainment, or soshal networking.
Southwest airlines co. ( ) is a pramukh u.S. airline or the sansar 's largest low-cost carrier, headquartered in Dallas, Texas.
It thi sthapit in 1967 or apanaaya iske current name in 1971.
The airline has adhik than 46,000 karmchaaree or operates more than 3,400 flights per day.
as of june 5, 2011, it carries the sabase gharelu passengers of any U.S. airline.
As of April 2013, Southwest Airlines has scheduled seva to 84 gantavyon in 41 rajya or purto rico.
Southwest Airlines has solely operated Boeing 737s, except liye a few saalo in the 1970s or 1980s, jab it sanchalit Boeing 727s.
As of agast 2012, dakshinpaschim is the largest oparator of the 737 vishwavyaapee saath over 550 in service, each operating an average of six flights per day.
In May 2011, the airline acquired airtran airways, saath sangyojan of the vaahak apekshit to be complete by 2014.
On March 1, 2012, the company thi jari a single oparating praaanpatr, technically banane one airline.
Rolling Rock is a 4.6 % abv paale lager shubharambh in 1939 by the Latrobe Brewing Company.
Although founded as a local beer in pashchimi pencilvenia, it thi marketed aggressively or aakhirkaar became a national product.
The brand was sold to Anheuser-Busch of St. Louis, mizori, in mid 2006, jisase transferred brewing parichaalan to New Jersey.
Benedict XVI (,, ; born joseph aloisius ratzinger on 16 april 1927 ) is pope emeritus of the Catholic Church.
He served as pope isse 2005 to 2013.
In that position, he was dono the netaa of the catholic girijaghar or sovereign of the Vatican City State.
Benedict was elected on 19 April 2005 in a papal conclave, celebrated his Papal udghaatan dravyaman on 24 april 2005, or took kabza of uske girjaghar, the archbasilica of st. John Lateran, on 7 May 2005.
Ordained as a priest in 1951 in his native Bavaria, ratzinger sthapit khud as a atyadhik regarded vishvavidhyalayon theologian by the let 1950s or thi niyukt a puraa praadhyaapak in 1958.
baad a long kariyar as an academik, sevarat as a praadhyaapak of dharamshastra at anek germany universities—the pichhlaa hone the vishvavidhyalayon of regensburg, jahaan he parosa as vaais adhyaksh of the vishvavidhyalayon in 1976 or 1977—he thi niyukt archbishop of Munich and Freising and cardinal by Pope Paul VI in 1977, an unusual promotion for someone with little pastoral experience.
In 1981, he settled in Rome when he became prefect of the sabha liye the doctrine of the aasthaa, ek of the most important dicasteries of the Roman Curia.
From 2002 until his election as pope, he thi bhi dean of the college of cardinals, or as aise, the primus inter pares among the cardinals.
Prior to becoming pope, he was `` a major figure on the Vatican stage for a quarter of a century '' as `` one of the most aadarneey, influential or vivaadaaspad sadasyon of the college of cardinals '' ; he tha an influence `` duusari to none jab it aae to setting girijaghar praathamiktaayen or dishanirdesh '' as ek of pope jon paul ii 's closest confidants.
He was originally a udaar theologian, lakin apanaaya roodhiwaadee views after 1968.
His safal kritiyaan bachaav paramparaagat catholic doctrine and values.
During his papacy, benedict xvi advocated a vaapasi to aadharbhoot isai maan to counter the increased secularisation of many Western countries.
He views relativism 's denial of uddeshy sachai, or the denial of moral sachai in particular, as the central problem of the 21st century.
He taught the importance of both the Catholic girijaghar or an samajhnaa of parameshwar 's redemptive prem.
Pope Benedict also revived a number of traditions sahit elevating the tridentine dravyaman to a adhik prominent position.
He renewed the relationship between the Catholic Church and art, dekhne the upyog of saundarya as a path to the pavitra, prachaarit the upyog of latin, or reintroduced paramparaagat papal garments, for which reason he was called `` the pope of aesthetics ''.
he rai maharoom varnit as `` the pramukh bauddhik force in the girijaghar '' since the mid-1980s.
Several of Pope Benedict 's students from his academic career are also prominent churchmen aaj or confidantes of use, notably Christoph Schönborn.
On 11 February 2013, Pope Benedict announced his resignation in a vaak in latin pehle the cardinals, citing a `` kami of shakti of mind and body '' due to his advanced age.
His resignation became prabhavi on 28 farvari 2013.
he is the pehla pope to istipha chunki pope gregory barahavin in 1415, or the first to do so on his own initiative since Pope Celestine V in 1294.
As pope emeritus, benedict retains the style of uske pavitrataa, or the sheershak of pope, or hoga continue to poshaak in the papal colour of white.
He was succeeded by pope francis on 13 kooch 2013, or he sthanantarit into the newly renovated Mater Ecclesiae monastery for his retirement on 2 May 2013..
Pocket stereoscope saath asli pareekshan chitra.
Used by sainya to jaanchen stereoscopic pairs of aerial photographs.
View of Boston, c. 1860 ; an jaldi stereoscopic card liye dekhne a jhaanki from nature
Kaiser-Panorama consisted of a multi-station dekhne apparatus and sets of stereo slides.
Patented by A. fuhrmann around 1890.
company of mahilaon watching stereoscopic chayachitr, painting by Jacob Spoel, before 1868.
A very jaldi chithran of logon using a stereoscope.
Stereoscopy ( also called stereoscopics or 3D imaging ) is a takanic liye bananaa or badhanaa the bhram of gaharaai in an chitra by arthath of stereopsis liye binocular vision.
The word stereoscopy derives from the Greek `` στερεός '' ( stereos ), `` kad, thos '' + `` σκοπέω '' ( skopeō ), `` to dekh '', `` to see ''.
Most stereoscopic vidhi upasthit do ofaset bimb separately to the left and right eye of the viewer.
These two-dimensional bimb hai tab sanyukt in the dimag to de the bodh of 3D depth.
This technique is vishisht isse 3d pradarshak ki pradarshak an chitra in teen puraa aayam, allowing the nireekshak to badhayen soochna about the 3-dimensional objects being displayed by head and eye movements.
John Adams ( October 30, 1735 ( O.S. October 19, 1735 ) – july 4, 1826 ) thi the duusari adhyaksh of the sanyukt rajya ( 1797–1801 ), having pehle parosa as the pehla vaais adhyaksh of the United States.
An amareeki founding pita, he thi a statesman, rajanyik, and a leading advocate of American independence from Great Britain.
Well educated, he was an Enlightenment rajnatik theorist jo prachaarit republicanism or likhaa prolifically parichay uske praayah seminal vichaar, dono in prakashit works or in akshar to uske wife and key adviser Abigail as well as to other Founding Fathers.
adams aae to prominence in the jaldi charan of the American Revolution.
A lawyer and public figure in Boston, as a delegate isse masachusets to the mahadwipiya congress, he nibhaai a agrani bhoomika in persuading Congress to declare independence.
He assisted thomas jeffrasan in drafting the ghoshnaa of swatantraaa in 1776, and was its primary advocate in the Congress.
Later, as a diplomat in Europe, he helped negotiate the eventual salaam sandhi saath great britain, or thi jimmedaar liye obtaining vital sarkari lone from Amsterdam bankers.
A political theorist and historian, Adams largely wrote the Massachusetts samvidhan in 1780, jisase saath saath uske pehle vichaar on sarkari, bahekaave amareeki political thought.
One of his greatest roles was as a nyaayadhish of akshar : in 1775, he manonith george washington to be commander-in-chief, or 25 saalo baad manonith jon marshall to be Chief Justice of the United States.
Adams ' revolutionary credentials secured him two sharten as george washington 's vaais adhyaksh or uske apana chunaav in 1796 as the second president.
During his one term, he encountered ferocious hamale by the jeffersonian republicans, as khub as the prabal gut in uske apana federalist party led by uske kadava dushman Alexander Hamilton.
Adams signed the controversial Alien and Sedition Acts, and built up the army and navy visheshkar in the phase of an undeclared naval yuddh ( pukaara the `` quasi-war `` ) saath frans, 1798–1800.
The major accomplishment of his presidency thi uske shantipurna rezolution of the virodh in the face of Hamilton 's opposition.
In 1800, adams thi parajeet liye re-election by thomas jeffrasan and retired to Massachusetts.
he baad resumed uske dosti with Jefferson.
He and uske bivi, abigale adams, santhaapit an sampannataa parivaar lakeer of rajaneta, rajanyikon, and historians now referred to as the Adams political family.
Adams thi the pita of jon quinci adams, the chathe President of the United States.
His achievements have praapt vrihad manyata in aadhunik times, haalanki uske yogadan yahood nahin initially as celebrated as those of other Founders.
Adams was the first U.S. president to reside in the bhawan ki aakhirkaar became gyaat as the White House.
The United States ten-dollar bill ( $ 10 ) is a denomination of sanyukt rajya karency.
The first U.S. Secretary of the Treasury ( 1789–95 ), Alexander hamiltan, is philhal pradarshit on the obverse of the vidheyak, jabaki the u.S. rajkosh bhawan is pradarshit on the reverse.
( Hamilton is one of do non-presidents pradarshit on philhal issued U.S. bills.
The other is benjamin franklin, on the $ 100 vidheyak.
hamiltan is ek of tabhi chaar logon pradarshit on u.S. paper karency ( 1861 to the upasthit ) jo thi nahin born in the continental United States, as he was from the West Indies.
The others are : Albert Gallatin, Switzerland ( $ 500 1862/63 Legal tender ) ; george meade, spain ( $ 1,000 1890/91 rajkosh note ) ; or robert morris, england ( $ 1,000 1862/63 vidhik tender ; $ 10 1878/80 Silver Certificate ).
In addition, Kamehameha i, appears on the 2008 Hawaii state quarter. )
All $ 10 bills jari aaj hai sangheey arakshit tip.
The Bureau of nakkashi or mudran says the ausat jivan of a $ 10 vidheyak in circulation is 18 months before it is replaced due to wear.
Approximately 6 % of all US banknotes mudrit in 2009 yahood $ 10 bills.
Ten dollars bills hai vitarit by sangheey arakshit Banks in yellow straps.
The source of the face on the $ 10 vidheyak is jon trumbull ’s 1805 portret of hamiltan ki belongs to the portret sangrahan of New York City Hall.
The $ 10 vidheyak is the tabhi u.S. paper karency in parisancharan in jisase the portret chehron to the baayein ( the $ 100,000 vidheyak pradarshit a portret of Woodrow Wilson facing to the left, but was used only for intra-government transactions ).
A rider on a Yamaha Waverunner xl performing a high-speed phere.
A jetboat is a naav propelled by a jet of jal ejected from the back of the craft.
Unlike a powerboat or motorboat ki upyog a propeller in the jal neeche or peeche the naav, a jetboat draws the water from under the boat into a pump inside the boat, then expels it through a nozzle at the stern.
Jetboats were originally designed by Sir William Hamilton ( who developed a waterjet in 1954 ) liye aaparishan in the fast-flowing or uthle nadiyaan of nai jiland, specifically to overcome the problem of propellers striking rocks in such waters.
Previous attempts at waterjet propulsion had very short lifetimes, generally due to the akushal dizine of the ikai or the fact ki ve offered few laabh over conventional propellers.
Unlike ye pichhlaa waterjet developments, aise as campini 's or the hanley hydrojet, hamiltan tha a vishisht need liye a propulsion system to operate in very-shallow water, and the waterjet proved to be the ideal solution.
From this, the lokapriyata of the jet ikai or jetboat increased rapidly.
Through further developments, it was found the waterjet offered several other advantages over propellers for a wide range of vessel types, and as aise, waterjets hai prayukt widely aaj liye anek high-speed baratan, sahit yatri ferries, bachaav shilp, patrol naukaaye and offshore supply vessels.
Jetboats are highly maneuverable, and many can, from full gati, be reversed or brought to a roke bheetar choti adhik than unke apana lambaai, in a maneuver gyaat as a `` crash stop ''.
The well known Hamilton turn or `` jet spin '' is a high-speed maneuvre where the boat 's engine throttle is cut, the steering is turned sharply and the throttle kholi again, causing the naav to spin jaldi around saath a vishaal spray of water.
There is no engineering limit to the aakaar of jetboats, haalanki the vaid of unke upyog depends a lot on the prakaar of application.
Classic prop-drives are generally more kushal or kifayati at kam speeds, up to parichay, lakin as naav gati increases pare is, the extra hull resistance generated by struts, rudders, shafts ( etc. ) means waterjets are more efficient in the 20-50 knot range ( up to ).
bhi, in paristhitiyon saath bahut vishaal propellers turning at slow speeds ( aise as tug naukaaye ), the equivalent size waterjet would be too big to be practical.
For these reasons, the vast bahumat of waterjet ikai hai santhaapit in high-speed baratan or in particular paristhitiyon jahaan uthle draught, maneuverability, and load flexibility are main concerns.
The biggest jet-driven vessels are found in military use or the high-speed passenger/car ferry udyog.
South Africa 's s ( lagbhag long ) hai the biggest jet-propelled vessels so far.
Even these German-built baratan hai sakasham of performing `` krash stops ''.
Uveitis is broadly paribhaashit as sujan of the uvea.
The uvea consists of the madhya, pigmented, vascular structures of the eye and includes the iris, ciliary body, and choroid.
Uveitis requires an urgent referral or thorough parikshaw by an ophthalmologist or optometrist saath saath taatkaalik upachaar to control the inflammation.
eric `` e. ''
Murphy is a fictional akshar on the comedy-drama television series Entourage.
He is played by kevin connolly.
The Shining is a 1980 manovaigyanik horer filmi utpaadit or nirdeshit by stanley Kubrick, co-written with novelist Diane Johnson, and starring Jack Nicholson, Shelley Duvall, Scatman Crothers, and Danny Lloyd.
the filmi is aadhaarit on the stephen King novel The Shining.
A writer, Jack torrance, takes a job as an off-season kaaryvahak at an isolated hotel.
His young son possesses maansik abilities or is samarth to dekhie bate isse the past or bhavishya, aise as the ghosts who inhabit the hotel.
Soon after settling in, the family is trapped in the hotel by a snowstorm, or joker dhire becomes bahekaave by a alokik upasthiti ; he utarataa into deewangi and attempts to murder his wife and son.
Unlike previous Kubrick films, which developed an audience gradually by bhawan on word-of-mouth, the jagamagaataa thi released as a mass-market filmi, kholane at pehla in bas do shaharon on memorial din, tab nationwide a month later.
Although initial response to the film was mixed, later najuk moolyankan thi adhik anukool or it is abhi viewed as a clasik of the horer genre.
Film director Martin Scorsese, writing in The rose jaanavar, kramit it as ek of the 11 scariest horer filmon of all time.
Film critics, film students, and Kubrick 's producer, jan harlan, have remarked on the vishaal influence the filmi rai tha on popular culture.
The initial European relies of the jagamagaataa thi 25 minutes shorter than the amareeki sanskaran, achieved by removing most of the scenes taking place outside the environs of the hotel.
Patio cola bottle
aangan aahaar cola thi a brands of aahaar soda introduced by Pepsi in 1963.
It was created in jawaab to aahaar reeti cola, jisase thi the pehla aahaar cola on the market.
Fitness promoter Debbie Drake was aangan aahaar cola 's pravaktaa.
In 1964, Patio released naarangi, angoor, or root beer flavors.
This flavor line was not meant to compete saath brands jaise naarangi crush, lakin balki bharan out the line.
Patio sodas were uplabdhiyaan in the cold-bottle market : kiraanaa or mom-and-pop stores.
Advertising for Patio was comparatively scarce ; at the samay, bottlers yahood regionally franchised, or sambandhit vigyaapan thi necessarily local.
In 1964, aangan aahaar cola became aahaar Pepsi.
The newly branded aahaar soda thi advertised alongside pepsy saath the tagaline `` pepsy either rasta '', jisase replaced the slogan `` Dances with flavor ''.
The short life span of Patio aahaar cola makes it a great jod liye bottle collectors.
Most of the baaki aangan lakeer of jaayaka yahood phased out by the jaldi 1970s, while a few survived until the mid 70s
Infrastructure is basic shaareerik or organizational structures needed liye the aaparishan of a samaaj or enterprize, or the sevaayen and facilities necessary for an economy to function.
It can be generally defined as the set of interconnected sanrachanaatmak tatv ki provide fremawork supporting an sampurna dhaancha of development.
It is an mahatvapurn pad liye judging a desh or pradesh 's development.
The term typically refers to the technical structures that support a society, such as roads, bridges, water supply, sewers, vidyut grid, doorsanchaar, or so forth, or can be paribhaashit as `` the shaareerik components of interrelated pranaaliyon providing commodities or sevaayen anivaary to enable, sustain, or badhayen societal living conditions. ''
Viewed functionally, infrastructure facilitates the production of goods and services, and also the vitaran of samaapt utpaada to bazaar, as khub as moulik soshal sevaayen aise as skulon or aspataal ; liye udhaaharan, sadaken enable the transport of raw materials to a factory.
In military parlance, the pad refers to the imaaraten or sthai sansthapana jaruri for the support, redeployment, and operation of military forces.
To make it simple, avasanrachana is anything ki is needed roj, an roj item.
A graphical pratinidhitiv of the adarsh insaan karyotype
mitochondrial DNA.
Human genetic vibhinnata is the genetic matbhed dono bheetar and among populations.
There may be multiple variants of any die jin in the insaan janasankhyikee ( jeenon ), agrani to bahurupata.
Many genes are not bahurupi, arth ki tabhi a single allele is upasthit in the janasankhyikee : the gene is then said to be fixed.
no do insaano are genetically identical.
Even monozygotic twins, who develop isse ek zygote, have infrequent genetic matbhed due to mutations occurring during development and gene copy number variation.
Differences between individuals, even closely sambandhit individuals, hai the kunjee to takneekon aise as genetic fingerprinting.
alleles occur at alag barambharataa in alag insaan populations, saath populations that are more geographically and ancestrally remote tending to differ more.
Causes of differences between individuals shaamil the exange of jeenon dauraan meiosis or various mutational events.
There are at least two reasons why genetic vibhinnata exists between populations.
Natural chayan may confer an anukuli laabh to individuals in a vishisht paryaavaran if an allele provides a competitive advantage.
Alleles under selection are likely to occur tabhi in those bhugolic regions jahaan ve confer an advantage.
the duusari pramukh kaaran of genetic vibhinnata is due to the high degree of neutrality of most mutations.
Most mutations do nahin appear to have koi chaynaatmak prabhaav ek rasta or the other on the organism.
the pramukh kaaran is genetic bahaav, is is the prabhaav of random changes in the gene pool.
In humans, founder effect and past small population size ( increasing the likelihood of genetic drift ) may have tha an mahatvapurn influence in neutral matbhed between populations.
The siddhanth ki insaano recently migrated out of Africa supports this.
The study of human genetic vibhinnata rai dono vikasvaadi significance and medical applications.
It can help scientists understand ancient human janasankhyikee migrations as khub as kaisaa alag insaan samooh hai biologically related to one another.
For medicine, study of human genetic vibhinnata may be mahatvapurn kuki kuch disease-causing alleles occur adhik praayah in logon from specific geographic regions.
New findings show that prayek insaan rai on ausat 60 nai mutations compared to their parents.
Apart from mutations, anek jeenon ki may have aided insaano in pracheen times plig humans today.
For example, it is suspected that genes ki allow insaano to adhik efficiently prakram khaanaa hai those ki mek logon susceptible to obesity and diabetes today.
Tea Party protesters on the West Lawn of the U.S. capital or the neshnal mal at the karadaataaon kooch on washington on September 12, 2009.
The Tea Party movement is an American political movement that advocates strict adherence to the sanyukt rajya samvidhan, reducing u.S. government spending and taxes, and reduction of the U.S. national debt and federal budget deficit.
The movement has been called partly roodhiwaadee, partly libertarian, or partly populist.
The movement has sponsored virodh or samarthit rajnatik ummidavaar since 2009.
The name of the movement is niklaa isse the boston chaay party of 1773, an iconic event in amareeki history.
Anti-tax pradarshnakariyon in the sanyukt rajya have praayah referred to the asli boston Tea Party for inspiration.
References to the Boston Tea party yahood bhaag of kar din virodh yojit throughout the 1990s and earlier.
By 2001, a custom had developed among some conservative activists of mailing chaay bag to vidhayak or anya officials as a symbolic act.
The currencies of Puerto Rico closely follow the aitihaasik vikaas of Puerto Rico.
As a upnivesh of spain or the sanyukt rajya, purto rico thi granted the use of both foreign and provincial currencies.
Following the Spanish colonization in 1502, purto rico became an mahatvapurn bandargahon, saath its own supply of gold.
However, as the mineral reserves bhaaga khaali bheetar the sadi, the dweepasmooh 's economy suffered.
The spani crown jari the situado mexicano, jisase meant ki a semi-regular shipment of sunaharaa isse the Viceroyalty of New Spain would be sent to the island, as a way to provide economic support.
between 1636 or 1637, philip iv of spain imposed a kar which had to be paid using a revenue stamp.
Inspired by this, Puerto Rico began producing banknotes in 1766, becoming the pehla upnivesh to chapai 8- real banknotes in the spani samrajya or jisase in the spani sarkari 's sweekruti of subsequent issues.
The situado thi discontinued dauraan the 19th sadi, bananaa an aarthik sankat, as a parinaam of Mexico gaining its independence from Spain.
salvador meléndez bruna, the aupniveshik rajyapal in daftar, ordered the samasya of prantiy banknotes, creating the Puerto Rican peso.
However, mudran of ye banknotes ceased after 1815.
dauraan the following dashakon, videshi sikke became the widespread currency.
In the 1860s or 1870s, banknotes reemerged.
On February 1, 1890, the banco español de purto rico thi udghaatan or began issuing banknotes.
The bank designed chaar shrenee or lagaai teen in circulation under Spanish rule.
In 1895, a royal decri ordered the utpaadan of prantiy peso sikke.
On agast 13, 1898, the spanish-american yuddh ended saath Spain ceding Puerto Rico to the United States.
The Banco Español de Puerto Rico was renamed Bank of Porto rico or jari bills samatuly to the sanyukt rajya dollars, creating the Puerto Rican dollar.
In 1902, the pehla neshnal bainko of porto rico issued banknotes in a parallel manner.
do adhik shrenee were issued until 1913.
After purto rico 's arthvyavastha or maudrik pranali thi fully ekikrut into the sanyukt rajya ' economic and monetary system, the Puerto Rican dollars were redeemed for those issued by the United States Treasury.
The peso and dollar have been followed by other contemporary issues, including commemorative banknotes, private karency, or a quarter sikaa designed saath fort san phelip del morro in the phase.
Pepsi ( stylized in lowercase as pepsi, formerly stylized in aprkes as pepsy ) is a carbonated naram peya ki is utpaadit and manufactured by PepsiCo.
Created or viksit in 1893 or introduced as bread 's peya, it was renamed as Pepsi-Cola on August 28, 1898, then to Pepsi in 1961.
The kitaab of ezekiel is the teesraa of the latter nabiyon in the yahudee bible, following the kitabe of yashayah or yirmayaah and preceding the Book of the Twelve.
( The order is somewhat alag in the isai Old Testament ).
It derives its name from, or record the visions of, the 6th sadi bc pujari or nabi Ezekiel.
According to the book, the prophet, exiled in babul, anbhavi a shrenee of saat visions dauraan the 22 saalo isse 593 to 571 bc, a kaal jisase spans the final vinaash of Jerusalem in 586.
The visions, and the book, are structured around three vishaywastu : ( 1 ) nirnay on israel ( adhyay 1-24 ) ; ( 2 ) nirnay on the raashtra ( adhyay 25-32 ) ; or bhavishya blessings for Israel ( chapters 33-48 ).
New Orleans ( or, locally or ; ) is a pramukh sanyukt rajya bandargahon and the largest city and metropolitan area in the state of Louisiana.
The population of the nagar thi 343,829 as of the 2010 u.S. Census.
The New Orleans metropolitan area ( New orleans–metairie–kenner mahanagar sankhyikeey kshetrafal ) tha a janasankhyikee of 1,167,764 in 2010 or thi the 46th largest in the United States.
The New orleans–metairie–bogalusa sanyukt sankhyikeey kshetrafal, a larger vyapaar kshetrafal, tha a 2010 janasankhyikee of 1,214,932.
The city is named after Orléans, a city located on the Loire River in kendra, frans, or is khub gyaat liye iske pruthak french creole vaastukala, as khub as iske cross-cultural or bahubhashi viraasat.
New orlions is bhi prasiddh liye iske bhojan, music ( visheshkar as the janmasthan of jaiz ), or iske annual celebrations and festivals, most notably Mardi Gras.
The city is praayah referred to as the `` sabase unique '' in America.
New Orleans is located in southeastern louisiana, straddling the mississippi nadi.
the nagar or orlions Parish ( ) are.
The city and parish are bounded by the parishes of St. Tammany to the north, st. barnard to the east, plaquemines to the dakshin or jeffrasan to the south and west.
Lake Pontchartrain, part of jisase is shaamil in the nagar had, jhooth to the uttar or jhil Borgne lies to the east.
The National Birth Control League was a birth control sanghathan in the sanyukt rajya.
It was founded in March 1915 by mariyam dennett, clara gruening stillman or jesi ashley.
Its main purpose thi to overturn the kanoon jisase bain contraceptives from the U.S. mails.
Campaigns were arohit in nai york, lakin in 1919 the lig thi disbanded or reformed into the Voluntary Parenthood League.
Cancer, known medically as a malignant phulav, is a vyapak samooh of vibhinn rogon, all involving unregulated cell growth.
In cancer, koshikaayen divide or grow uncontrollably, forming malignant tumors, and invade nearby parts of the body.
The cancer may bhi sprad to adhik dur bhaag of the deh through the lymphatic system or bloodstream.
nahin sab tumors hai cancerous.
Benign tumors do nahin grow uncontrollably, do nahin invade neighboring utakon, or do nahin sprad throughout the body.
There are over 200 different known cancers ki pahunchakar insaano.
Determining what causes karkat is jatil.
Many things are known to increase the risk of karkat, sahit tambaaku upyog, nishchit infections, vikiran, kami of physical activity, obesity, and environmental pollutants.
These can directly damage genes or combine saath maujuuda genetic trutiyaan bheetar koshikaayen to kaaran the beemaari.
lagbhag paanch to ten pratishat of cancers are entirely hereditary.
Cancer can be detected in a kramank of tareeke, sahit the upasthiti of nishchit lakshan or lakshan, screening tests, or medical imaging.
Once a possible cancer is detected it is diagnosed by microscopic parikshaw of a tissue sample.
Cancer is usually treated saath chemotherapy, vikiran chikitsa or surgery.
The chances of surviving the beemaari vary greatly by the prakaar or sthaan of the karkat or the extent of disease at the start of treatment.
jabaki karkat can affect logon of sab aayu, or a few prakaar of karkat hai adhik aam in children, the risk of developing cancer generally increases with age.
In 2007, cancer caused about 13 % of sab insaan mauton vishwavyaapee ( 7.9 lakh ).
Rates are uthati as adhik logon sajiv to an boodha aayu or as dravyaman jeevanstyli changes occur in the developing world.
Spring ski touring on hardangervidda, Norway
Skiing is a recreational kaaryaklap or pratispardhi khel in jisase the bhagidaar attaches long dhaavak or skis to boot or juute on the feet or upyog them to travel on top of snow.
Aside from recreation and competition, skiing rai maharoom prayukt liye sainya uddeshy or bhi yatraaen in kshetron ki experience heavy snowfall.
Many types of pratispardhi skiing kaarykram hai pahachaanaa by the antarrashtriya olympic cameti, and the International Ski Federation.
John Maynard Keynes, 1st Baron Keynes, CB, FBA ( ; 5 June 1883 – 21 April 1946 ) was a angrejon arthshaastri jinaki vichaar have fundamentally prabhavit the siddhanth or abhyaas of aadhunik macroeconomics, or suchit the aarthik nitiyon of governments.
He built on and greatly refined earlier work on the causes of kaarobaar chakra, or is widely mana to be ek of the sansthaapakon of aadhunik macroeconomics or the sabase influential economist of the 20th century.
His ideas are the basis for the school of thought known as keynesian arthshaastra, as khub as iske vibhinn offshoots.
In many ways, subsequent developments in 20th sadi arthshaastra can be viewed as either bhawan on keynes ' ideas or reacting against them.
In the 1930s, Keynes spearheaded a revolution in economic soch, overturning the puraani vichaar of neoclassical arthshaastra ki yojit ki free bazaar hota, in the choti to medium pad, automatically provide puraa employment, as long as workers were flexible in their wage demands.
Keynes instead argued that aggregate maang sankalpit the overall str of aarthik kaaryaklap, or ki aparyaapt kul demand could lead to prolonged periods of high unemployment.
He advocated the use of fiscal and maudrik upayon to mitigate the pratikul prabhaav of aarthik recessions and depressions.
following the outbreak of the duusari sansar yuddh, keynes 's ideas concerning economic policy were adopted by leading Western economies.
In 1942, keynes thi awarded a khandaani peerage as samant Keynes of Tilton in the County of Sussex.
Keynes died in 1946, but during the 1950s or 1960s the kamyaabi of keynesian arthshaastra resulted in almost all capitalist governments adopting its policy recommendations.
Keynes 's influence waned in the 1970s, partly as a result of problems that began to pahunchakar the anglo-american economies isse the prarambh of the dashak, or partly kuki of critiques isse milton fridman or anya arthshaastriyon jo yahood pessimistic parichay the kshamta of sarkarein to regulate the business cycle with fiscal policy.
however, the aagaman of the vaishvik vittiya sankat in 2007 caused a resurgence in Keynesian thought.
Keynesian economics provided the theoretical underpinning for economic policies undertaken in jawaab to the sankat by raashtrapatiyon george W. bush or baraak obama of the sanyukt rajya, pradhan mantri gordon bhura of the United Kingdom, and other heads of governments.
In 1999, Time magazine included Keynes in their list of the 100 sabase mahatvapurn or influential logon of the 20th sadi, commenting ki : `` uske radical idea that governments should spend money they do n't have may have saved capitalism. ''
In addition to being an economist, Keynes was also a civil servant, a director of the British Eugenics samaaj, a nideshak of the bainko of england, a sangrakshak of the kala or an art colector, a bhaag of the bloomsbury samooh of intellectuals, an salaahkaar to anek charitable trusts, a lekhak, a philosopher, a private investor, and a farmer.
This 1768 parchment ( 612×502 mm ) by jekuthiel sofer emulated the 1675 ten aayatein at the Amsterdam Esnoga synagogue.
The Ten aayatein, bhi gyaat as the decalogue, hai a niyat of biblical kanoon relating to aachaar or ibaadat, jisase khel a fundamental role in Judaism, Islam and Christianity.
They include instructions to worship tabhi parameshwar, to rakhana the sabbath paavan or prohibitions viruddh idolatry, inkaar, hatya, theft, deception and adultery.
alag samooh follow thodaa alag paramparaon liye interpreting or numbering them.
The Ten aayatein appear twice in the yahudee bible, in the books of Exodus and Deuteronomy.
According to the story in Exodus, God inscribed unhen on do stone tablet, jisase he diya to musa on mount sinai.
Modern scolership rai mila sambhavit prabhaav in hittite or mesopotamian kanoon or treaties, lakin is vibhajit over exactly when the Ten Commandments were written and who wrote them.
The discography of the English alternative chattan band the smiths consists of chaar studio album, ek vistaarit khel ( ep ), ek sajiv album, ten sankalan album, bees singles, one video album and fourteen music videos on the Rough Trade, Sire and WEA record labels.
The band was formed in 1982 in manchester by vocalist morrissey, guitarist johny marr, baas khilaadi Andy Rourke and drummer Mike Joyce.
Despite being championed by BBC Radio 1 disc jockey jon chhilake, the band 's debyue single, `` haath in dastaane `` ( may 1983 ), failed to chart.
Its follow-up, `` This Charming Man `` ( October 1983 ), met with critical acclaim and reached kramank twenty-five on the uk singles chart.
The Smiths ' cult status was followed by mainstream success in 1984, as ve pahunche kramank baarah in the uk saath the `` kayaa antar karata it mek ? `` single or pahunche kramank do on the uk album Chart with their debut album, The Smiths ( 1984 ).
Their next three singles all reached the top twenty of the charts in the UK, helping to consolidate unke pichhlaa chart success.
The next studio album, Meat Is Murder ( 1985 ), reached the top of the British charts ; however, the only single to be released isse the album, `` ki chutkula is n't mjedaar anymore `` ( 1985 ), vifal to break the UK Top 40.
Returning to form, The Smiths ' next six singles all reached the higher than kramank tees in the uk or unke teesraa album, the maharani is murde ( 1986 ), pahunche kramank do in the UK.
Despite the band 's chart success, Marr left the samooh in agast 1987 due to a strained sambandh saath morrissey.
Failing to find a badalanaa, the smiths disbanded by the samay unke final studio album, strangeways, yahan We Come, was released in September that year.
Strangeways, Here We Come reached kramank do in the uk or became the band 's highest-charting relies in the United States when it reached number fifty-five on the Billboard 200.
In early 1992, WEA acquired the entire back catalogue of The Smiths and utpaadit do compilations – behtareen... i or... behtareen ii – the pehla of jisase pahunche the sheersh of the UK Albums Chart.
WEA released two further singles compilations in 1995 and 2001, saath a further sankalan, the dhwani of the smiths, released in navambar 2008.
Gone with the Wind is a anokhaa likhaa by margaret mishael, pehla published in 1936.
It is often placed in the literary sub-genre of the aitihaasik romance novel.
However, it has been argued the novel is a `` near miss '' and karata nahin contain sab of the tatv of the romance vidha, bananaa it bas a historical novel.
The story is set in Clayton County, georgia, or atlanta dauraan the amareeki civil yuddh or punarnirmaan.
It depicts the experiences of Scarlett O'Hara, the spoiled beti of a well-to-do vriksharopan maalik, jo jarur upyog prayek arthath at uske niptaan to aaiye out of the garibi wo finds herself in after Sherman 's `` March to the Sea ''.
margaret mishael began likhane gaye saath the hawa in 1926 to pass the samay jabaki recovering from an auto-crash injury that refused to heal.
In April 1935, Harold Latham of Macmillan, an editor jo thi looking liye nai fiction, padhaa kayaa wo tha likhaa or dekhi ki it could be a best-seller.
After Latham agreed to publish the book, mishael worked liye another chah maheene checking the aitihaasik sandarbh, or rewrote the opening chapter several times.
Mitchell and uske husband jon daldal, a nakal editor by vyapaar, sampadit the final version of the novel.
Mitchell wrote the book 's final moments pehla, or tab likhaa the kaarykram ki led up to it.
As to what became of her lovers, Rhett and Scarlett, baad the anokhaa ended, mishael kiya nahin jaan, or kaha, `` liye sab i jaan, rahet may have found someone else who was less difficult. ''
Mitchell praapt the pulitzer puraskaar liye fiction liye the kitaab in 1937.
The book was adapted into a 1939 amareeki film.
Gone with the Wind is the only anokhaa by mishael prakashit dauraan uske aaajeevan.
Endodontics ( from the Greek endo `` inside '' ; and odons `` tooth '' ) is ek of the danta specialties pahachaanaa by the amareeki danta sangh, royal college of dentists of canada, or royal australasian college of danta adhyetavriti, and deals with the tooth pulp and the tissues surrounding the root of a tooth.
Endodontists perform a kismein of prakriyaaon sahit endodontic chikitsa ( commonly gyaat as `` root kanal chikitsa '' ), endodontic retreatment, surgery, treating cracked teeth, and treating dental trauma.
Root kanal chikitsa is ek of the sabase aam procedures.
If the pulp ( containing nerves, arterioles, venules, lymphatic utak, or tantumay utak ) becomes diseased or ghayal, endodontic upachaar is jaruri to save the tooth.
Serial Attached SCSI ( sas ) is a point-to-point serial protocol ki chaalen aankada to or isse computer bhandar divaais such as hard drives and tape drives.
sas replaces the puraani samanaantar scsi ( sunaaya `` scuzzy '' ) bas praudyogiki that first appeared in the mid-1980s.
SAS, like its purvavarti, upyog the maanak scsi command set.
SAS offers pichhadaa sangatta saath second-generation sata drives.
SATA 3 Gbit/s drives may be conect to sas backplanes, lakin sas drive can nahin conect to sata backplanes.
The T10 technical committee of the International cameti liye soochna praudyogiki maanakon ( incits ) develops or maintains the sas protocol ; the scsi vyapaar Association ( SCSITA ) promotes the technology.
Part of the sanvaidhanik praavdhaan as it appeared in 1787
Status as a natural-born citizen of the United States is one of the eligibility requirements sthapit in the sanyukt rajya samvidhan liye chunaav to the office of President or Vice President.
This aavashyaktaa thi intended to protect the nation from foreign influence.
The Constitution does nahin define the phrase natural-born naagarik, or vibhinn raay have maharoom offered over time regarding its precise meaning.
A 2011 congressional shodh seva report stated
The natural-born-citizen clause rai maharoom ullekith in guzar in anek nirnay of the sanyukt rajya param adaalat or nimnatar nyaayalayon dealing saath the sawaal of paatrata liye naagarikta by janam, lakin the Supreme Court has never directly addressed the question of a specific presidential or vice-presidential candidate 's eligibility as a natural-born citizen.
Kurtis Eugene `` Kurt '' warner ( born june 22, 1971 ) is a purv American football player.
He played quarterback for three neshnal footbaal lig ( enegel ) tiimon : the st. lui medhon, the nai york diggaj, or the erizona cardinals.
He was originally signed by the Green Bay Packers as an undrafted free agent in 1994 baad playing college football at Northern Iowa.
Warner would go on to be considered the best undrafted khilaadi of sab samay, following a 12-year kariyar regarded as ek of the mahanatam kahaniyaan in enegel itihaas.
Warner first attained stardom while playing for the St. Louis Rams isse 1998 to 2003, jahaan he jiti do enegel mvp puraskaar in 1999 or 2001 as khub as the super katori mvp award in Super Bowl XXXIV.
he led the 2008 erizona cardinals to super katori xliii ( the matadhikaar 's pehla super katori berth ), and owns the three highest single-game passing yardage totals in Super Bowl history.
Warner currently holds the seventh-highest kariyar passer darja of all-time ( 93.7 ), or the third-highest kariyar purnataa pratishat in enegel itihaas with 65.5 %.
In 13 career playoff games, Warner ranks pehla all-time in purnataa pratishat ( 66.5 % ), gaj prati attempt ( 8.55 ), and second in passer rating ( 102.8 ).
He also holds the highest completion percentage for a single game during the regular ritu, at 92.3 pratishat ( 24/26 ), on sitambar 20, 2009, viruddh the jacksonville jaguars.
He ghoshit uske ritairement on janvari 29, 2010. < sandarbh name='cnn 2010-01-29 ' >
Janet Kay Ruthven Hagan ( ; born May 26, 1953 ) is the junior sanyukt rajya seenetter isse uttar carolina, in daftar chunki janvari 2009.
previously wo parosa in the uttar carolina Senate from 1999 to 2009.
She is a sadsy of the loktantric party and is viewed as a moderate member of her party.
When Hagan defeated Republican incumbent elizabeth dole in the 2008 sanyukt rajya seenet chunaav, wo became the pehla stri to defeat an incumbent woman in a Senate election.
The Heisman Memorial trophy puraskaar ( praayah gyaat colloquially as the heisman trophy or the heisman ), is awarded annually to the khilaadi deemed the most outstanding player in collegiate football.
It was created in 1935 as the Downtown Athletic Club trophy and renamed in 1936 following the death of the Club 's athletic director, John heisman ( purv bhura vishvavidhyalayon or vishvavidhyalayon of pencilvenia khilaadi ; sir footbaal coach at oberlin college, auburn vishvavidhyalayon, clemson University, Rice University, and the University of Pennsylvania ; and football, basketball, and baseball head coach and athletic director at Georgia Tech ).
The award is presented by the Heisman Trophy Trust in jaldi disambar pehle the postseason katori khel.
It is the oldest of anek overall puraskaar in college footbaal, sahit the maxwell Award, Walter Camp Award, and the AP Player of the Year.
The Heisman and the AP Player of the Year are the tabhi puraskaar to sammaan the sabase bakaayaa khilaadi, jabaki the maxwell puraskaar or walter shivi puraskaar recognize the best player, and the Archie Griffin Award recognizes the most valuable player.
The United Nations Command ( UNC ) is the ekikrut cmand dhaancha liye the bahurashtriya sainya shaktiyaan supporting the Republic of Korea ( South Korea or ROK ) during and after the Korean War.
After troops of the Democratic People 's Republic of korian ( uttar korian or dprk ) invaded dakshin korian on june 25, 1950, the sanyukt raashtra suraksha parishad apanaaya rezolution 82 colling on uttar korian to cease hostilities and withdraw to the 38th parallel.
On June 27, 1950, it adopted Resolution 83, recommending ki sadasyon of the sanyukt raashtra provide sahaayta to the ganatantr of korian `` to repel the armed attack and to restore international peace and security to the area ''.
Security Council Resolution 84, adopted on July 7, 1950, recommended that members providing sainya shaktiyaan or anya sahaayta to dakshin korian `` mek aise shaktiyaan or anya sahaayta uplabdhiyaan to a ekikrut cmand under the United States of America ''.
Although the resolutions suggested the forces under the UNC were `` sanyukt raashtra shaktiyaan '', or sanyukt raashtra itself could be mana a belligerent, in abhyaas the sanyukt raashtra exercised no control over the combat shaktiyaan, which were controlled by the United States.
Most observers concluded that the shaktiyaan antargat the unc yahood nahin in vidhi sanyukt raashtra sainikon, and the acts of the UNC were not the acts of the United Nations.
The UNC can be regarded as an gathbandhan of neshnal sena, oparating antargat the samuhik sahi of self-defense.
On August 29, 1950, the British Commonwealth 's 27th infantry brigade arrived at busaan to juden the unc, jisase jabatak tab shaamil tabhi rok or u.S. shaktiyaan.
The 27th brigade sthanantarit into the naktong nadi lakeer west of Daegu.
Troop units from other countries of the UN followed in rapid succession ; Australia, Belgian United Nations Command, Canada, Colombia, ithiopia, frans, unaniyon, dhvaj, the netherlands, nai jiland, the philippine, thailand or turkon.
The sangh of dakshin africa provided air ikai jisase ladaa alongside the air forces of other member nations.
Denmark, india, norway, or sweden provided chikitsa units.
Italy provided a hospital, bhi haalanki it thi nahin a un sadsy.
The United Nations Command and the chinese-north korian cmand hastakshrit the korian armistice anubandh on 27 july 1953, ending the heavy fighting.
the armistice anubandh sthapit the sainya armistice ayog ( mike ), consisting of representatives of the two signatories, to supervise the implementation of the armistice terms.
The North korean-chinese mike rai maharoom replaced by panmumjon pratinidhi under exclusive North Korean management.
Regular meetings have been stopped, although duty adhikariyon of sanyukt suraksha kshetrafal, commonly gyaat as the yudhviram gaanv of panmunjom, isse prayek side meet regularly.
Lincoln Heights is an amareeki parivaar naatak television shrenee parichay edi saton, a mishan vista police adhikari jo chaalen uske parivaar waapas to uske old neighborhood, Lincoln Heights, to start a new life and to help out his old neighborhood.
It is a dangerous place to uthaayen a parivaar, or through the anek trial the parivaar goes through, ve jald sikh ki settling in is not as easy as it seems.
While Officer Sutton struggles to cope with every day life as a street cop in los angeles, uske bachche koshish to anuroop in at unke nai skulon or with their new neighbors.
The dikhaaen premiered janvari 8, 2007 on the abisi parivaar sanjaal saath 13 episodes ordered for the first season.
It was approved for a second ritu, jisase premiered sitambar 4, 2007.
Vanessa Hudgens ' song, Say OK had been used in a vanijyik to prachaar the second season.
To promote the third season, they dikhaaya clips of cassie or charles 's sambandh to the song, crush by the amareeki idal 's saatvaan ritu runner-up, David Archuleta.
To promote season 4, ve 're using the song, himaskhalan by Marie Digby.
the dikhaaen 's theme song thi likhaa or performed by bassist Stanley Clarke and singer-songwriter Blaire Reinhard.
on janvari 29, 2010, abisi parivaar ghoshit the raddikaran of the series after four seasons.
A Christian denomination is an identifiable dharmik deh antargat a aam naam, dhaancha, or doctrine within Christianity.
In the Orthodox parampara, carch hai vibhajit praayah saath jaateey or bhashaai linon, into separate churches and traditions.
technically, vibhaajan between ek samooh or another hai paribhaashit by doctrine or church authority.
Issues such as the prakruti of yishu, the praadhikaar of apostolic uttaradhikaar, eschatology, or papal primacy pruthak one denomination from another.
The Roman Catholic Church is the largest denomination with over 1.1 billion members, over half of all Christians worldwide, making it the largest denomination liye koi dharm vishwavyaapee ( haalanki the girijaghar karata nahin drishy itself as a denomination, but as the original pre-denominational church ).
Protestant denominations comprise roughly 38–39 % of Christians worldwide, and saath the catholics, protestants, anglicans, or anya closely sambandhit denominations comprise pashchimi christianity.
The Eastern Orthodox girijaghar, praachya paramparaagat carch or the assyrian girijaghar of the east hai mana Eastern Christian denominations.
Western isai denominations jeetna in pashchimi europea and its former colonies.
Eastern Christian denominations hai represented zyaadaatar in purvi europea, the madhya east and North Africa.
isaayiyon have vibhinn doctrines parichay the girijaghar, the deh of vafaadaar ki they believe was established by Jesus Christ, and how the divine church corresponds to Christian denominations.
Both the Catholics and the Eastern Orthodox consider prayek of themselves solely to faithfully represent the ek paavan catholic or apostolic girijaghar to the exclusion of the other.
Protestants separated from the catholic girijaghar kuki of theologies or practices ki ve mana to be in ulanghan of their interpretation.
Generally, members of the various denominations acknowledge each anya as isaayiyon, at tanik to the extent ki ve have mutually pahachaanaa baptisms or acknowledge historically paramparaagat drishy sahit the devatv of yishu or doctrines of sin and salvation, even though doctrinal and ecclesiological obstacles hinder full communion between churches.
Since the reforms surrounding vatican ii, the catholic girijaghar rai referred to protostant samudaayon as `` denominations '', jabaki reserving the pad `` girijaghar '' liye apostolic carch, sahit the purvi paramparaagat ( see subsistit in and branch theory ).
There hai however kuch non-denominational isaayiyon jo do nahin follow any particular branch.
The panda ( ailuropoda melanoleuca, lit.
`` black and white cat-foot '' ), also known as the daanav pandas to fark it isse the unrelated red pandas, is a bhaaluu deshi to central-western and south western China.
It is easily recognized by the vishaal, distinctive blike dhabbe around iske ankhen, over the kaanon, or aarpaar iske round body.
Though it belongs to the order carnivora, the pandas 's aahaar is 99 % baansuri.
Pandas in the wild will occasionally kha anya grasses, junglee tubers, or bhi maance in the rup of pakshiyon, rodents or carrion.
In captivity, they may receive honey, eggs, fish, yams, jhaadi pattey, santare, or kele saath saath visheshkar prepared khaanaa.
the daanav pandas jeevandaan in a few pahaad seemayen in central china, mukhyatah in sichuaan praant, but also in the Shaanxi and Gansu provinces.
As a result of farming, wanon or anya vikaas, the pandas rai maharoom chalit out of the lowland areas where it once lived.
The panda is a conservation reliant endangered prajati.
A 2007 report shows 239 pandas living in captivity andar china or another 27 baahar the desh.
Wild population estimates vary ; one estimate shows ki vahin hai parichay 1,590 individuals jeena in the junglee, jabaki a 2006 padhai via diene vishleshan anumaanit ki is figure could be as high as 2,000 to 3,000.
Some reports also show that the number of pandas in the junglee is on the vruddhi.
However, the aiusien karata nahin maananaa vahin is paryaapt certainty yet to reclassify the species from Endangered to Vulnerable.
While the dragon has often served as China 's neshnal emblem, internationally the pandas appears at least as commonly.
As such, it is becoming widely prayukt bheetar china in antarrashtriya contexts, liye udhaaharan the paanch fuwa mascots of the Beijing Olympics.
the patang dhaavak is a 2007 amareeki naatak filmi nirdeshit by mark forster aadhaarit on the anokhaa of the same name by Khaled Hosseini.
It tells the story of Amir, a well-to-do boy from the Wazir Akbar Khan zila of kabul, jo is tormented by the guilt of abandoning uske dost hasan, the bete of uske father 's Hazara servant.
The story is set against a backdrop of tumultuous events, from the fall of the monarchy in afghanistan through the soviet sainya hastkshep, the dravyaman exodus of afgaan sharnaarthiyon to pakistani or the sanyukt rajya, or the taliban regime.
Though most of the filmi is niyat in afghanistan, ye bhaag yahood zyaadaatar shot in kashgar, china, due to the dangers of filming in Afghanistan at the time.
The majority of the filmi 's samvaad is in jameendaari, saath the remainder spoken in English.
The child abhinaytaon hai deshi adhyakshon, lakin anek vayask abhinaytaon had to learn Dari.
Filming wrapped up on December 21, 2006, and the film was apekshit to be released on navambar 2, 2007.
However, after chintaa liye the suraksha of the yang abhinaytaon in the filmi due to fears of hinsak reprisals to the sexual nature of some scenes in which they appear, its release date was pushed back six weeks to December 14, 2007.
The Kite Runner was released on dvd on kooch 25, 2008.
A HD DVD release was announced liye the vahi tithi, lakin thi radd following the format 's demise.
The film thi manonith liye the sunahari globe puraskaar liye behtareen Foreign Language Film in 2007.
The film 's score by alberto iglasius thi manonith liye behtareen asli score at the sunahari globs and the Academy Awards.
The legality of canbis varies isse desh to desh.
kabza of canbis is illegal in sabase deshon or rai maharoom chunki the shuruuaat of widespread cannabis prohibition in the late 1930s.
However, anek deshon have decriminalized the kabza of choti quantities of cannabis, particularly in North America, South America and Europe.
Furthermore, possession is vidhik or effectively vidhik in the netherlands, uttar korian or hota be in the u.S. rajya of colorado or Washington if it were not for federal law, which governs persons in all states.
The medicinal use of canbis is vidhik in a kramank of deshon, sahit canada, the check Republic and Israel.
While federal law in the United States bans all sale and possession of cannabis, enforcement varies widely at the rajya str or kuch rajya have sthapit aushadhiy marijuana kaarykram in ki khandan sangheey vidhi ; do rajya ( colorado or washington ) have repealed unke kanoon prohibiting the recreational upyog of canbis or replaced unhen saath a niamak shashan, bhi contrary to sangheey statute.
kuch deshon have kanoon ki hai nahin as vigorously prosecuted as anya lakin, alaava isse the deshon that offer access to medical marijuana, most countries have various penalties ranging from lenient to very severe.
Some infractions are taken more seriously in kuch deshon than anya in lihaaz to the cultivation, upyog, kabza or transafar of cannabis for recreational use.
A few jurisdictions have lessened dand liye kabza of choti quantities of canbis, bananaa it dandaneey by confiscation or a thik, rather than imprisonment.
Some jurisdictions/ drug courts use mandatory treatment programs for yang or barambar upayokta, saath swatantraaa isse narcotic davaayen as the lakshya or a few jurisdictions permit cannabis use for medicinal purposes.
vahin hai bhi parivartan in a adhik pratibandhak direction as in Canada.
drug pareekshan to detect canbis hai increasingly aam in anek deshon and have resulted in jail sentences and people losing their jobs.
However, simple kabza can carry long karawas vaakya in kuch deshon, visheshkar in bhaag of east asia or southeast asia jahaan the sale of cannabis may lead to a sentence of life in prison or even execution.
loxahatchee is a jatiyaan stith in tad Beach County, Florida, United States.
It is located in the areas north of Wellington and west and uttarpashchim of royal tad bich, florida or lagbhag west of west tad bich.
Loxahatchee is also the name of the Post Office that serves is kshetrafal, jisase is antargat the zip code of 33470.
The name loxahatchee arthath `` kachua nadi. ''
loxahatchee is stith bheetar the bhartiya trails sudhaar zila and the Loxahatchee Groves Water Control District.
Lion Country safari, a drive-through safari park, is stith in loxahatchee.
In 2006, the state of Florida approved incorporation of part of loxahatchee as the kasbaa of loxahatchee groves to become the 38th nagarpalika in tad bich county.
The main reason for incorporating was to better protect the kshetrafal isse buvaai vikaas or to bachaana the gramin akshar of the pados.
Perhaps the most rural area within a band nikatataa to west tad bich, saath lot aakaar dayera isse 1-20 acres.
Along with The Acreage, it is notable for loose land pratibandh or the deshi or exotic animal upasthiti is kaaphi notable.
Seminole lakeeren unchi skool serves the area.
The Canadian naagarikta pareekshan is a pareekshan, administered by naagarikta or avrajan canada ( siaisi ), ki is jaruri liye sab aavedakon liye canadai naagarikta jo hai aged between 18 and 54 and who meet the basic requirements for citizenship.
The test is available in dono french or angrezi, the official languages of Canada.
Renaissance Cruises, originally founded in 1989 swaamitv by fearnley & eger rederi in oslo - norway, baad kharida by edward rudner ( sansthaapak of Alamo Car Rental ) as the company faltered during the Gulf War.
They operated year-round cruise itineraries to the Mediterranean, the unani isles, tahiti or the dakshin prashanth, uttari europea or scandinavia.
the company ceased parichaalan on 25 sitambar 2001 or accommodated up to 220,000 guests in 2000.
While the company had been in poor financial health for quite some time, the aarthik manaahi resulting isse the sitambar 11th aatankwaadi hamale hai credited saath the nidhan of this cruise line.
The fleet is soochibaddh antargat suchi of krooj jahaajon.
It was headquartered in fort lauderdale, Florida.
Epithelium is ek of the chaar moulik prakaar of animal utak, saath with connective tissue, muscle tissue and nervous tissue.
Epithelial utakon lakeer the cavity or satahon of structures throughout the body, and also form many glands.
Functions of epithelial koshikaayen shaamil srav, chaynaatmak avasorana, suraksha, transcellular transport and detection of sensation.
In Greek `` ἐπί '' ( `` epi '' ) arthath `` on '' or `` upon '', or `` θηλή '' ( `` thēlē '' ) means `` nipple ''.
Epithelial layers are avascular, so they must receive nourishment via diffusion of substances isse the underlying sanyoji utak, through the tahkhaane jhilli.
Epithelia can bhi be vyavasthit into cluster of koshikaayen ki falan as bahibasravi or antahsravi glands.
Kent E. Hovind ( born January 15, 1953 ) is an amareeki yang dharti creationist.
Hovind has bolaa on sristi vigyaan or rai aimed to manaanaa shrota to asweekrut theories of evolution, bhubhautikee, or cosmology in ehsaan of uske nirvachan of the Genesis creation narrative from the Bible.
Hovind 's views are contradicted by scientific evidence and some of his ideas have also been criticized by yang dharti creationist sanghathan aise as jawaab in utpatti.
Hovind established the Creation Science Evangelism in 1991, or aksar spoke on yang dharti creationism at seminars at nijee skulon or carch, debates, or on radio or television prasaaran.
Since janvari 2007, hovind rai maharoom sevarat a ten-year thana vaakya baad hone convicted of 58 sangheey rishto, sahit 12 kar offenses, one count of obstructing federal agents, and 45 counts of structuring cash transactions.
He is incarcerated at the Federal Correctional sanstha at berlin, nai hampshire.
Bride saath bindi sajaa forehead
A bindi (, from Sanskrit bindu, meaning `` a drop, choti kan, bindu '' ), or a pottu/bottu ( in tamil, telegu, or malayalam ) is a maathe sajaavat worn in dakshin asia ( visheshkar India, Bangladesh, Nepal, Sri Lanka and Mauritius ) and Southeast Asia.
Traditionally it is a bright dot of red color applied in the bich of the maathe band to the eyebrows, lakin it can bhi consist of a chihn or tukdaa of aabhushan worn at this location.
The New York gubernatorial election of 2010 thi yojit on mangalvaar, navambar 2, 2010, to elect the rajyapal of nai york, to serve a four-year term that began in January 2011.
laazim loktantric rajyapal daud paterson, nirvaachit as leftinent rajyapal in 2006 as the kaaryshil mate of former Governor Eliot Spitzer, chose not to run for a full-term.
On November 2, New York Attorney saamaanya or democrate andrew cuomo parajeet republican Carl Paladino.
Green Party candidate Howie Hawkins received over 57,000 votes, allowing the nai york green party to be soochibaddh on the bailat liye the aglaa 4 saalo.
The pramukh daal of dragon ball at the samaapt of the manga.
The Dragon Ball manga and anime shrenee suvidhaayen an extensive daal of varna nirmit by akira toriyama.
The series takes place in a fictional brahmad, the vahi as toriyama 's pichhlaa shrenee dr. slump, or folo the adventures of martial kalakaar bete Goku from childhood to adulthood as he searches for the seven spheres known as the Dragon Balls, used to summon a wish-granting dragon.
During the course of the story, he muthbhedon allies aise as bulma, yamcha, kuririn or trunks, virodhiyon aise as tenshinhan, Piccolo and Vegeta, and enemies such as Freeza and Cell.
jabaki anek of the varna hai insaano saath superhuman shakti and/or alokik abilities, the cast also includes anthropomorphic animals and later, extraterrestrial lifeforms.
The series also includes depictions of the afterlife, saath anek varna hone devataaon ki govern the brahmad.
250px
The Comanche are a Plains Indian tribe whose historic territory, known as Comancheria, consisted of present day eastern New Mexico, southern Colorado, northeastern erizona, dakshini kansas, sab of oklahoma, or sabase of uttarpashchim texas.
The comanche logon hai namankit in the federally pahachaanaa comanche Nation, in Oklahoma.
historically, the comanches yahood hunter-gatherers with a horse culture.
There may have been as anek as 45,000 comanches in the let 18th sadi.
Today, the Comanche Nation Comanche tribal enrollment sankhyaayein 15,191 saath lagbhag 7,763 sadasyon residing in the lawton – fort sill or surrounding kshetron of dakshinpaschim Oklahoma.
the comanche swadesh homecoming powwow is yojit annually in Walters, Oklahoma in mid-July.
The Comanche spoke the comanche bhashaa, a numic bhashaa of the uto-aztecan parivaar, sometimes vargeekrut as a Shoshone dialect ; however, only about 1 % of Comanches speak it today.
Ethan Frome is a novel published in 1911 by the pulitzer puraskaar -winning amareeki author Edith Wharton.
It is set in the fictitious kasbaa of starkfield, masachusets.
The anokhaa thi adapted into a filmi, Ethan Frome, in 1993.
Times Square Studios ( TSS ) is an American television studio stith in the times vargakar pados of the manahaton baro of New York City, New York.
The studio is best known as the production home of ABC News ' Good Morning America ( GMA ), a morning news or baat kaarykram or khand liye jieme on abisi news Now.
The Las Vegas Strip sansar of coca-cola sangrahalay in 2003
Coca-Cola is a carbonated naram peya bechi in stores, restaraan, or vending mashine in prayek desh except Cuba and North Korea.
It is utpaadit by the coca-cola company of atlanta, georgia, or is praayah referred to bas as Coke ( a registered trademark of The Coca-Cola Company in the United States since March 27, 1944 ).
Originally intended as a patent medicine when it was invented in the late 19th sadi by jon pemberton, coca-cola thi kharida out by bijnesaman asa griggs candler, jinaki vipanan tactics led coke to its dominance of the world soft-drink market throughout the 20th century.
The company produces concentrate, which is then sold to licensed coca-cola bottlers throughout the sansar.
The bottlers, who hold territorially exclusive contracts with the company, upaj samaapt utpaada in dibbe or botalon isse the concentrate in sangyojan saath filtered jal or sweeteners.
The bottlers then sell, vitarit or merchandise coca-cola to khudara stores and vending machines.
Such bottlers include Coca-Cola Enterprises, which is the largest single coca-cola bottler in uttar america or pashchimi europea.
The Coca-Cola Company also sells concentrate liye soda sroton to pramukh restaraan or khaanaa seva vitarakon.
The Coca-Cola Company has, on avasar, introduced anya cola peya under the Coke brand name.
The most common of these is Diet Coke, with others including Caffeine-Free Coca-Cola, Diet Coke Caffeine-Free, Coca-Cola Cherry, coca-cola shunya, coca-cola vanilla, or khaas sanskaran saath lemon, lime or coffee.
Based on Interbrand 's best vaishvik brands 2011, coca-cola thi the sansar 's sabase moolyawaan brands.
Types of bar-lines
In musical notation, a bar ( or measure ) is a segment of time defined by a die kramank of beats, prayek of jisase hai abantit a particular note value.
Dividing music into bars provides niyamit sandarbh ank to pin point sthitiyaan within a piece of music.
It bhi makes likhaa music easier to follow, chunki prayek baar of staff symbols can be read and played as a batch.
typically, a tukdaa consists of anek baar of the vahi lambaai, or in aadhunik musical sanketan the kramank of beats in prayek baar is nirdisht at the shuruuaat of the score by the top number of a time signature ( such as 3/4 ), while the bottom number indicates the note value of the beat ( the beat has a quarter note value in the 3/4 example ).
The word bar is more common in British English, and the word measure is adhik aam in amareeki angrezi, haalanki sangeetkaaron generally samajhe both usages.
In American English, although the words bar and measure are often used interchangeably the sahi upyog of the shabd 'bar ' refers tabhi to the lambavat lakeer itself, jabaki the shabd 'measure ' refers to the beats contained between bars.
In international usage, it is equally sahi to bolo of baar sankhyaayein or maap sankhyaayein, e.g. ‘bars 9–16’ or ‘mm. 9–16’.
Along the vahi linon, it is hikmat to arakshit the abbreviated form ‘bb.
3–4’ etc. for beats only ; bars chahie be referred to by naam in puraa.
the pehla metrically puraa maap bheetar a tukdaa of music is called ‘bar 1’ or ‘m. 1’.
When the piece begins saath an anacrusis ( an adhuri maap at the sir of a tukdaa of music ), ‘bar 1’ or ‘m. 1’ is the following measure.
The 19.9 MW gemasolar saura sanyantr in spain suvidhaayen 15 ghanton of bhandar or can supplai shakti 24 hours a day.
Solar urja, raushan lite or ooshmaa isse the surya, rai maharoom harnessed by insaano chunki ancient times using a range of ever-evolving technologies.
Solar urja technologies shaamil saura heating, saura photovoltaics, saura thermal vidyut, saura vaastukala or kritrim photosynthesis, which can make considerable contributions to solving some of the most urgent energy problems the world now faces.
Solar technologies are broadly characterized as either passive saura or kriyasheel saura depending on the rasta ve capchar, badalen or distribute solar energy.
Active saura takneekon shaamil the upyog of photovoltaic panels or saura thermal collectors to harness the energy.
Passive solar techniques include orienting a building to the Sun, selecting materials with anukool thermal dravyaman or lite dispersing gun, or digining spaces ki naturally circulate air.
In 2011, the International Energy Agency said that `` the vikaas of sasti, inexhaustible or saaf saura urja technologies will have huge longer-term benefits.
It will increase countries’ energy suraksha through reliance on an swadeshi, inexhaustible or zyaadaatar import-independent sansaadhan, badhayen sthirataa, reduce pradooshan, nimnatar the laagat of mitigating climate change, and keep fossil fuel prices lower than otherwise.
ye laabh are global.
Hence the additional costs of the protsaahan liye jaldi deployment chahie be mana siikhnaa nivesh ; they must be wisely spent and need to be widely shared ''.
praathmik parvaah may be provided in community health centres.
praathmik parvaah is the swasthya parvaah die by a swasthya care provider.
Typically this provider acts as the principal point of paraamarsh liye marijon bheetar a swasthya parvaah pranali or nirdeshaank anya specialists ki the patient may need.
Such a professional can be a primary care physician, such as a general practitioner or family chikitsak, or depending on the mohalle, swasthya pranali sanghathan, or rogi 's discretion, ve may dekhie a pharmacist, a chikitsak sahaayak, a nurse practitioner, a nurse ( aise as in the sanyukt kingdom ), a naidanik adhikari ( aise as in bhaag of Africa ), or an Ayurvedic or other traditional medicine professional ( such as in parts of Asia ).
Depending on the nature of the health condishan, marijon may tab be referred liye dwitiyak or tertiary care.
`` Ocean avenue '' is a song ankit by American pop punk group Yellowcard.
It was released in farvari 2004 as the duusari single isse samandar avenue and the third track.
It is known for bringing them into the mukhyadhara, as it praapt numerous spins on amtivi and increasing radio airplay.
Ocean Avenue is a street in Jacksonville, Florida, the band 's stomping grounds near their unchi skool, duglas anderson skool of the kala, or another gali ullekith in the song, cheri gali.
The name of Ocean avenue in jacksonville is darasal bich Boulevard.
They baayein unke asli aadhaar peeche when they moved to Los Angeles.
The song thi pradarshit on the much music sankalan album Big Shiny Tunes 9.
A manochikitsak is a chikitsak jo specializes in psychiatry.
A psychiatrist specializes in the upachaar of dimagi disorders.
psychiatrists hai praadhikrut to prescribe ayurvigyaan, conduct shaareerik examinations, anukram or interpret prayogshaala pareekshan, upyog manochikitsa or may anukram dimag imaging adhyayan aise as computed tomography ( CT/CAT Scan ), magnetic resonance imaging ( MRI ), and positron emission tomography ( PET ) scanning.
Within the framework of the World Health Organization 's ( jo ) paribhaasha of swasthya as a rajya of puraa shaareerik, dimagi or soshal well-being, or nahin merely the anupasthiti of beemaari or infirmity, reproductive swasthya, or sexual health/hygiene, addresses the reproductive processes, functions and system at all stages of life.
Reproductive health, therefore, implies that people are able to have a responsible, satisfying and safer sex jivan or ki ve have the kaabiliyat to reproduce or the swatantraaa to decide if, jab or kaisaa praayah to do so.
One interpretation of this implies that men and women ought to be informed of and to have abhigam to surakshit, prabhavi, sasti or sweekaarya vidhi of janam control ; bhi abhigam to uchit swasthya parvaah sevaayen of yon, reproductive ayurvigyaan or kriyanvayan of swasthya shiksha kaarykram to tanaav the mahatv of mahilaon to go sakushal through garbhavastha or prasav could provide couples with the best chance of having a healthy infant.
On the other hand individuals do phase inequalities in reproductive swasthya sevaayen.
Inequalities vary based on socioeconomic aukaat, shiksha str, aayu, nasl, religion, and resources available in their environment.
It is possible for example, ki kam aay individuals kami the sansaadhan liye uchit swasthya sevaayen and the knowledge to know what is appropriate for maintaining reproductive health.
According to the WHO, `` Reproductive and sexual ill-health khate liye 20 % of the vaishvik boj of ill-health liye mahilaon, or 14 % for men. ''
Reproductive health is a bhaag of yon or reproductive health and rights.
is is a suchi of apisod liye the dijani channel asli shrenee the suite jivan on deck, which aired for three seasons on Disney Channel from September 26, 2008 to May 6, 2011.
Core 2 is a brand encompassing a range of Intel 's upabhokta 64-bit x86-64 single-, duail-, or quad-core microprocessors aadhaarit on the kor microarchitecture.
The single- and dual-core models are single- die, whereas the quad-core model comprise do marataa, prayek containing do cores, packaged in a multi-chip module.
The introduction of Core 2 relegated the pentium brands to the mid-range market, or reunified laptop or desktop cpu linon, jisase previously tha been divided into the Pentium 4, Pentium D, and Pentium M brands.
The Core 2 brand was introduced on 27 july 2006, comprising the solo ( single-core ), duo ( dual-core ), quad ( quad-core ), or in 2007, the Extreme ( dual- or quad-core CPUs for enthusiasts ) subbrands.
Intel Core 2 processors with vPro praudyogiki ( designed liye vyavsaayon ) shaamil the dual-core or quad-core shakhaon.
The Super Bowl is the annual championship game of the neshnal footbaal lig ( enegel ), the ucchtam str of peshewar amareeki footbaal in the sanyukt rajya, culminating a ritu that begins in the late summer of the previous calendar year.
The Super Bowl uses Roman numerals to pahachaano prayek khel, balki than the saal in jisase it is held.
For example, Super Bowl I was played on January 15, 1967, following the 1966 niyamit ritu, jabaki super katori xlvii thi nibhaai on farvari 3, 2013, following the 2012 season.
The khel thi nirmit as bhaag of a vilay anubandh between the enegel and its then-rival league, the American Football League ( AFL ).
It was agreed that the two leagues ' champion tiimon hota khel in an afl–nfl sansar championships khel jabatak the vilay was to officially begin in 1970.
After the vilay, prayek lig thi redesignated as a `` sammelan ``, or the khel thi tab nibhaai between the conference champions.
Currently, the National Football Conference ( nfc ) lead the shrenee saath 25 vins to 22 vins liye the amareeki Football Conference ( AFC ).
The day on which the Super Bowl is nibhaai, abhi mana by kuch a de facto amareeki neshnal avkaash, is called `` Super Bowl Sunday ``.
It is the second-largest day liye u.S. khaanaa khapat, baad thankgiving din.
In addition, the Super Bowl has frequently been the sabase dekhi amareeki television broadcast of the year.
Super Bowl XLV, played in 2011, became the most-watched amareeki television kaarykram in itihaas, aarekhan an ausat darshak of 111 lakh darshak or lene over the spot yojit by the pichhlaa saal 's super katori, jisase itself tha taken over the # 1 spot held for twenty-eight years by the final episode of M*A*S*H.
The Super Bowl is also among the most watched sporting kaarykram in the sansar, lagbhag sab hone uttar amareeki audiyans, or is duusari to sangh footbaal ’s yuiefee champions lig final as the most watched annual sporting event worldwide.
Because of its high viewership, vanijyik airtime dauraan the super katori broadcast is the most expensive of the year.
Due to the high cost of investing in advertising on the super katori, companiyaan regularly develop unke sabase mahangi vigyaapan liye is broadcast.
As a result, watching or discussing the broadcast 's commercials rai become a significant aspect of the event.
In addition, many lokapriy gayakon or sangeetkaaron have performed dauraan the event 's pre-game or madhyantar ceremonies kuki of the exposure.
fiona is a feminine given name.
The name Fiona was invented, and first used, by the scottish kavi james macpherson ( 1736–96 ), lekhak of the ossian kavitaayen, jisase he claimed yahood anuwaad isse pracheen galic strot ( strot, jab challenged, he never produced ).
The name thi subsequently prayukt as a pseudonym by wiliam sharp ( 1855–1905 ), jo authored several romantic works under the name `` Fiona Macleod ''.
The name has since become popular in england, scotland or ireland.
The name is considered to be a Latinised form of the galic shabd fionn, arth `` white '', `` fair ''.
The name Fiona is also sometimes used as an Anglicisation of the Irish-language name Fíona, haalanki ye names hai varanaa unrelated ( as fíona is niklaa isse an tatv arth `` bel '' ).
There is also a modern tendency to equate the pramanik scottish galic feminine naam Fionnghal with Fiona.
The name Fiona is rising in lokapriyata visheshkar in germany -speaking countries.
Fiona was the 49th sabase lokapriy naam liye baby ladakiyon born in 2008 in germany.
Fiona was tied for teesraa place in the ranking of sabase lokapriy names liye baby ladakiyon born in the chota principality of Liechtenstein in 2008.
The name was the 347th most lokapriy naam liye ladakiyon born in the sanyukt rajya in 2008, jahaan it rai kramit among the sheersh 1,000 sabase lokapriy names liye ladakiyon chunki 1990 and among the top 500 since 1999.
The name Fiona rai maharoom visheshkar lokapriy liye ladakiyon of asian or prashanth islander descent in nai york City, where Fiona ranked as the ninth most popular name for girls from those groups in 2007.
Many languages are used, or historically have maharoom prayukt in the sanyukt States.
the sabase commonly prayukt language is English.
vahin hai bhi anek bhashaaen swadeshi to uttar america or to U.S. states or holdings in the Pacific region.
Languages brought to the country by colonists or immigrants from Europe, Asia, or other parts of the world make up a large portion of the languages currently used ; anek bhashaaen, sahit creoles or chihn bhashaaen, have bhi viksit in the sanyukt rajya.
lagbhag 337 bhashaaen hai bolaa or hastakshrit by the janasankhyikee, of jisase 176 are indigenous to the area.
fifty-two bhashaaen formerly bolaa in the country 's territory are now extinct.
The variety of English spoken in the sanyukt rajya is gyaat as amareeki angrezi.
English is the de facto neshnal bhashaa of the sanyukt rajya, saath 80 % of the janasankhyikee claiming it as a mother tongue, and some 95 % claiming to speak it `` well '' or `` very well ''.
However, no aadhikarik bhashaa exists at the sangheey level.
There have been several proposals to make English the neshnal bhashaa in amendments to avrajan sudhaar bills, lakin none of ye bills rai become vidhi with the amendment intact.
The situation is quite varied at the rajya or territorial str, saath kuch rajya mirroring the sangheey niti of adopting no aadhikarik bhashaa in a de jure kshamta, anya adopting angrezi alon, anya officially adopting English as well as local languages, and still others adopting a policy of de facto bilingualism.
Spanish is the second most common bhashaa in the desh, or is bolaa by over 12 % of the janasankhyikee.
The United States holds the world 's paanchvaan largest spanish-speaking janasankhyikee, outnumbered tabhi by mexico, Spain, Colombia, and Argentina.
Throughout the Southwestern United rajya, long-established spanish-speaking samudaayon coexist saath vishaal sankhyaayein of adhik haal Hispanophone immigrants.
Although anek nai latin amareeki apravasiyon hai kam than dharapravaah in angrezi, nearly all second-generation Hispanic Americans speak English fluently, while only about half still speak Spanish.
According to the 2000 us janasankhyikee, logon of germany ancestry mek up the largest single ethnic group in the United States, and the German language ranks fifth.
Italian, Polish, and French are still widely spoken among populations descending isse apravasiyon isse those deshon in the jaldi 20th sadi, lakin the upyog of ye bhashaaen is dwindling as the puraani peedhiyaan die.
Russian is also spoken by apravasi populations.
Tagalog and Vietnamese have over ek lakh adhyakshon prayek in the sanyukt rajya, lagbhag entirely bheetar recent immigrant populations.
Both languages, along with the kismein of the chinis bhashaa, japani, or korian, hai abhi prayukt in chunaavon in alaska, California, Hawaii, Illinois, New York, Texas, and Washington.
Native American languages are spoken in choti pockets of the desh, lakin ye populations hai avarohan, or the bhashaaen are almost never widely used outside of reservations.
Hawaiian, although having few deshi adhyakshon, is an aadhikarik bhashaa saath with English at the state level in Hawaii.
The state government of Louisiana offers sevaayen or dastauez in french, as does New Mexico in Spanish.
Besides English, Spanish, French, German, navajo or anya deshi amareeki bhashaaen, sab anya bhashaaen hai praayah siikhe isse apravasi purvajo ki aae baad the time of independence or learned through some form of education.
1990 's Pontiac Grand am sedan phender or quarter falak
On an automobile, a quarter falak ( or pasch wing as it is gyaat in angrejon angrezi ) is praayah mana the deh falak jisase goes between the pasch dwaar or the trunk or typically wraps around the wheel khub ; however, the similar front section Fender ( vehicle ), between the door and the hood, is sometimes incorrectly referred to as a quarter panel.
The quarter falak is typically bana of chadar metal, lakin is sometimes bana of fiberglass or fiber-reinforced plastic ; although, this varies with different makes and models.
A quarter panel is typically a welded on component of the uni-body dhaancha or monocoque.
badalanaa of a chadar metal quarter falak typically requires it to be kaaten band the vehicle and a replacement part to be welded ( or sometimes bonded ) to the Vehicle.
Due to this unchi raashi of specialized majdoor, a quarter falak may praayah be repaired balki than replaced by hammering out the kshati, or a deh philler sometimes referred to as bondo to be applied to finalize the original surface.
shropshire ( or ; alternatively salop ; abbreviated, in chapai tabhi, shrops ) is a county in the West Midlands region of England.
It borders Wales to the west, cheshair to the uttar, staffordshire to the east, wastershire to the south-east and Herefordshire to the south.
A unitary praadhikaar ( shropshire parishad ) thi nirmit on 1 april 2009, lene over isse the pichhlaa county parishad or 5 zila councils, and covers most of the county.
The borough of Telford or wrekin rai maharoom a pruthak ekaatmak praadhikaar chunki 1998 lakin continues to be included in the ceremonial county.
The county 's population and economy is centred on five towns : the county kasbaa of shrewsbury, jisase is culturally or historically mahatvapurn or is stith in the kendra of the county ; telford, a nai kasbaa in the east jisase thi constructed around a kramank of puraani kasbon, sabase notably wellington, dawley or madeley, which is today the most populous ; and Oswestry in the north-west, Bridgnorth just to the south of Telford, and Ludlow in the south.
The county has many further market kasbon, sahit whitchurch in the uttar, newport bas to the north-east of telford, and Market Drayton in the north-east of the county.
The Ironbridge Gorge area is a unesco sansar viraasat sait, covering Ironbridge, Coalbrookdale and a part of Madeley.
There are, additionally, anya notable aitihaasik audyogic site stith around the county, aise as at shrewsbury, broseley, snailbeach and Highley as well as the Shropshire Union Canal.
The Shropshire Hills kshetrafal of bakaayaa prakritik saundarya cover parichay a quarter of the county, mukhyatah in the south.
shropshire is ek of england 's sabase gramin or sparsely aabaadi county, saath the population density of the Shropshire Council area being just 91/km2 ( 337/sq mi ).
The Wrekin is one of the most famous prakritik landmark in the county, haalanki the ucchtam pahadiyaan hai the Clee Hills, Stiperstones and the Long Mynd.
Wenlock kinare is another significant bhugolic or geological landmark.
In the low-lying northwest of the county ( and overlapping the kinaaraa saath wales ) is the fenn 's, whixall or bettisfield mosses neshnal prakruti arakshit, ek of the sabase mahatvapurn or behtareen preserved bogs in Britain.
The River Severn, great britain 's longest nadi, ranon through the county, exiting into Worcestershire via the Severn Valley.
shropshire is landlocked, or saath an kshetrafal of, is england 's largest inland county.
The county pushp is the round-leaved sundew.
For Eurostat uddeshy, the county ( kam the ekaatmak zila of telford and Wrekin ) is a NUTS 3 region ( code UKG22 ).
The two Shropshire unitary areas ( covering sab of the ceremonial county ), saath saath the adhikariyon covering the ceremonial county of staffordshire, comprise the `` Shropshire and Staffordshire '' NUTS 2 region.
The Big Bang Theory cast at Comic con 2009, isse baayein : kunal nayyar, simon helberg, kaley cuoco, Jim Parsons, and Johnny Galecki
The American sitcom the big bang siddhanth, nirmit or karypalika utpaadit by chak Lorre and Bill Prady, premiered on CBS on September 24, 2007.
The show centers on five characters : roommates sheldon kupar or leonard hofstadter, do caltech physicists ; paini, a vetres or aspiring abhinetri jo jeevandaan across the hall ; and Leonard and Sheldon 's friends and co-workers aerospace engineer Howard Wolowitz, and astrophysicist Rajesh Koothrappali.
Over time, several supporting characters have been promoted to starring roles : Leslie Winkle ( season 1 recurring ; season 2 regular ; ritu 3 atithi ), a physicist sahyogi, or, at alag times, a premi of dono leonard or harvard ; bernadette rostenkowski-wolowitz ( ritu 3 punaravarti ; ritu 4-present niyamit ), a microbiologist, harvard 's fiancée or subsequent bivi, or purv part-time vetres alongside paini ; neuroscientist emi farrah fowler ( ritu 3 atithi ; ritu 4 punaravarti ; ritu 4-present niyamit ), jo joins the group after being matched to Sheldon on a dating website ; and comic book store-owner, Stuart Bloom ( seasons 2–5 recurring ; season 6-present regular ), who replaces Howard as Raj 's best friend when Howard is in space.
The show also suvidhaayen numerous supporting varna, prayek of jisko plays a prominent bhoomika in a small group of episodes.
The A-Team is an American action-adventure television series, running from 1983 to 1987, about a fictional group of ex– sanyukt rajya fouj khaas shaktiyaan karmiyon jo kaary as sainiko of saubhaahgya, jabaki on the chalaaen isse the fouj baad hone branded as yuddh aparaadhiyon liye a `` aparaadhon ve did n't commit ``.
A feature filmi aadhaarit on the shrenee thi released by 20th sadi fox on June 11, 2010.
A comic book shrenee, a-team : shotgun vivaah, began kooch 9, 2010.
Diana Prince is a fictional character appearing regularly in kahaniyaan prakashit by dc comics.
wo debuted in sansani comics # 1 ( janvari 1942 ) or serves as the civilian and secret identity of the superhero Wonder Woman.
The character was created by charles moulton or harry G. peter.
Wat Phra kaew, bangkok, thailand
There is no official state religion in the Thai samvidhan, jisase guarantees dharmik swatantraaa liye sab thai nagarikon, haalanki the king is required by law to be Buddhist.
According to the pichhlaa janasankhyikee ( 2000 ) 94.6 % of Thais are Buddhists of the Theravada tradition.
Muslims are the duusari largest dharmik samooh in thailand at 4.6 %.
Thailand 's southernmost provinces - Pattani, yala, narathiwat or bhaag of songkhla chumphon have prabal muslim populations, consisting of dono jaateey thai and Malay.
The southern tip of thailand is zyaadaatar jaateey malays.
Christians, mukhyatah catholics, represent 0.7 % of the population.
A choti lakin influential jatiyaan of sikhon in thailand or kuch hinduon bhi sajiv in the country 's cities, and are heavily engaged in retail commerce.
There is also a small Jewish jatiyaan in thailand, dating waapas to the 17th sadi.
Since 2001, Muslim activists, generally described by the Thai government as aatankwaadi or separatists, have rallied viruddh the central sarkari kuki of kathith bhrashtachar or jaateey purvaagrah on the part of officials.
thailand 's vibhaag of dharm, philhal antargat the mantralay of samskruti, is formally jimmedaar liye the panjikaran of dharmik samooh in Thailand URL_http which hold properties through legally established foundations.
It has oversight, saath saath the avrajan police, over the kaary permits of prachaarkon jo hai `` pravasi religious workers '' of all religions.
A value added kar ( vat ) is a rup of khapat tax.
From the perspective of the kharidaar, it is a kar on the khariden price.
From that of the seller, it is a tax tabhi on the maan added to a utpaada, saamagree, or seva, isse an hisaab point of drishy, by this stage of its manufacture or distribution.
The manufacturer remits to the government the difference between these two amounts, or retains the baaki liye themselves to ofaset the kar ve tha previously paid on the inputs.
The value added to a utpaada by or saath a kaarobaar is the bikri daam charge to iske graahak, minus the cost of materials and other taxable inputs.
A VAT is like a sales tax in that ultimately tabhi the samaapt upabhokta is taxed.
It differs isse the bikri kar in ki, saath the latter, the kar is ekatrit or remitted to the government only once, at the point of purchase by the end consumer.
With the VAT, sangrahan, remittances to the sarkari, or credit liye kar already sashulk occur prayek time a business in the supply chain purchases products.
A referi colling a high-sticking penaltyHigh
-sticking is the naam of do infractions in the khel of barf hockey ki may occur jab a khilaadi intentionally or inadvertently plays saath uske or her stick above the height of the shoulders or above the cross bar of a hockey goal.
This can parinaam in a stoppage of play or in a penalty.
In the rules of the neshnal hockey lig, high-sticking is paribhaashit as a dand in niyam 60 or as a non-penalty foul in Rule 80.
A stoppage in play results if a high stick comes in contact saath the pak or the toli jo chuaa it regains control of the puck.
However, play usually continues if a player touches the puck saath a unchi stick or the opposing toli gains control of the pak.
If the puck goes into the opposing net baad coming into sampark saath a unchi stick, the goal is disallowed.
The level at which a stick is mana too unchi liye a lakshya is the crossbar of the net.
However, if a khilaadi knocks the pak into uske apana jaal saath a unchi stick, the goal is allowed.
a dand is assessed if a khilaadi hamalon another khilaadi with a high stick.
The player is die a naaballig dand jabatak uske unchi stick caused an chot, in which case the referee has the option to assess a double-minor, major or match penalty.
It is the referee 's discretion jisase dand to assess : the niyam kals liye a doguna naaballig liye an aakasmik chot, or a match dand liye a deliberate attempt to injure ( whether the opposition player was actually injured ).
chot is praayah decided by the unchi stick causing bleeding, lakin the upasthiti of blood does not automatically mean an extra penalty is awarded.
Some referees have been known to award an extra penalty without the presence of blood if the referi determines ki the chot sustained thi sufficient to warrant a double-minor penalty.
Typical modern memory card reader, sangat saath anek aam formats
A memory card reader is a yantra, typically having a usb interfes, liye accessing the aankada on a memory card such as a CompactFlash ( CF ), Secure Digital ( SD ) or MultiMediaCard ( MMC ).
Most card readers also offer write kaabiliyat, or saath saath the card, is can falan as a kalam drive.
kuch mudrak or nijee computer have a built-in card reader.
A multi card reader is prayukt liye sanchaar saath adhik than ek prakaar of flash memory card.
Multi card readers do not have built-in memory kshamta, lakin hai samarth to accept anek prakaar or sheliyaan of memory taash.
The kramank of sangat memory taash varies isse reader to reader and can include more than 20 different types.
The number of alag memory taash ki a multi card reader can accept is expressed as x-in-1, saath x hone a figure of merit indicating the number of memory cards accepted, such as 35-in-1.
There are three categories of card pathak sorted by the prakaar or maatra of the card slot : single card reader ( e.g. 1x sd-only ), multi card reader ( e.g. 9-in-1 ) and series card reader ( e.g. 4x SD only ).
Some kinds of memory cards with their own USB krityon do nahin need the card reader, aise as the budhimaan stick memory card, jisase can plag sidhe into a USB slot.
The USB device class prayukt is 0x08.
Bullying is hanikaarak to vidhyaarthee ' well-being or vikaas.
Bullying is the use of force or coercion to gaali or intimidate others.
The behavior can be habitual or involve an asantulan of soshal or physical power.
It can shaamil maukhik utpeedan or threat, shaareerik utpeedan or coercion or may be nirdeshit repeatedly towards particular peediton, shaayad on grounds of race, religion, gender, sexuality, or ability.
If bullying is done by a samooh, it is pukaara mobbing.
The victim of bullying is sometimes referred to as a `` target ''.
Bullying can be paribhaashit in anek different ways.
The UK philhal rai no vidhik paribhaasha of dhamkaana, jabaki some U.S. states have laws against it.
dhamkaana consists of teen moulik prakaar of abuse – emotional, verbal, and physical.
It typically involves halkaa vidhi of coercion aise as intimidation.
Bullying ranges from simple one-on-one dhamkaana to adhik jatil dhamkaana in jisase the buli may have ek or adhik `` lieutenants '' jo may seem to be willing to assist the primary bully in his or her bullying activities.
Bullying in skool or the kaarysthal is bhi referred to as peer abuse.
Robert W. fuller rai analyzed dhamkaana in the context of rankism.
A bullying culture can develop in koi context in jisase insaan beings interact with each other.
This shaamil skool, girijaghar, parivaar, the workplace, home, and neighborhoods.
Happy slapping in the instituto kshetreey federico Errázuriz, Santa Cruz, Chile
Laura bush or rae leigh bradbury ( formerly laapata ) on april 4, 2007, in austin, texas, baad the 8-year-old introduced mrs. bush dauraan ghoshnaa of the future opening of the Texas Regional Office of the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children.
Rae Leigh was the first child in the U.S. to be baraamad as a parinaam of an ember chetavanee jab wo thi 8 saptaah old in November 1998.
An AMBER Alert or a Child Abduction Emergency ( SAME code : cae ) is a child abduction chetavanee pranali originating in 1996, now employed in 9 countries.
AMBER is officially a backronym for America 's Missing : prasaaran apaat jawaab, namit liye ember hagerman, a 9-year-old abducted or murdered in arlington, texas in 1996.
Alternate regional alert names were once used ; in Georgia, `` Levi 's Call '' ( namit baad levi frady ) ; in hawaii, `` maile ember chetavanee '' ( baad maile gilbert ) ; or arkansaas, `` morgan upnaam ember chetavanee '' ( in memory of morgan Chauntel Nick ).
AMBER Alerts are distributed via vanijyik radio stesan, antarjaal radio, upgrah radio, television stesan, or cabel tv by the apaat chetavanee pranali or NOAA Weather Radio ( where they are termed `` Child Abduction Emergency '' or `` Amber Alerts '' ).
The alerts are also issued via e-mail, electronic traffic-condition lakshan, the led billboards jisase hai stith baahar of nae walgreens sthitiyaan, saath saath the led/lcd lakshan of billboard companies such as Clear Channel Outdoor, CBS Outdoor and Lamar, or through wireless device SMS text messages.
AMBER Alert has also teamed up saath google or fasebuk to riley soochna regarding an ember chetavanee to an ever growing demographic.
Those interested in subscribing to praapt ember chetavaniyaan in unke kshetrafal via sms sandesh can vizit betaar ember chetavaniyaan, jisase hai offered by vidhi as free messages.
In some rajya, the pradarshak scrollboards in saamne of lottery terminals are also used.
The decision to declare an AMBER Alert is made by each police sanghathan ( in anek maamle, the rajya police or rajmarg patrol ) jisase investigates prayek of the abductions.
Public information in an AMBER Alert usually consists of the name and description of the abductee, a varnan of the suspected abductor, or a varnan or anugna thali kramank of the abductor 's vehicle, if available.
Monica Samille Lewinsky ( born July 23, 1973 ) is an amareeki stri saath jisko sanyukt rajya adhyaksh vidheyak clinton admitted to having tha an `` improper sambandh '' jabaki wo worked at the White House in 1995 and 1996.
The affair or iske parakhnaa ( jisase shaamil clinton 's mahabhiyog ) became known as the Lewinsky scandal.
House of Night is a series of pishaach -themend kaalpanik novels by amareeki lekhak P. C. daal or uske daughter Kristin Cast.
It follows the adventures of Zoey Redbird, a sixteen-year-old ladki jo rai bas become a `` fledgling vampyre '' or is jaruri to attend the house of raatri boarding skool in Tulsa, Oklahoma.
the shrenee rai maharoom on the nai york times behtareen vikreta suchi liye 63 saptaah or vahin are over seven million copies in print in North America alone.
The sixth novel, Tempted, jisase gai on bikri on aktubar 27, 2009 saath a pehla mudran of a lakh nakal, entered the USA Today bestseller list that week at # 1.
In January, 2010, Gezeichnet, a germany anuwaad of chihnit, pahunche the # 1 spot on the der spiegel bestseller list.
The series has so far sold more than ten lakh kitabe in 39 deshon.
Burned was released on april 27, 2010, or jaise imtihaan, it daalaa the uese aaj bestceller list that week at # 1.
Awakened, released in janvari, 2011, bhi daalaa the list at # 1.
The shrenee, jisase is prakashit by st martin 's dabaayen is niojit to include twelve books.
In 2008, yojanaayen liye a filmi anukulan were also announced.
The tenth kitaab in the shrenee, chupa, thi released on October 16, 2012.
The second book in the novellas ( which give prishthbhumi on supporting varna ), lenobia 's pran, thi released janvari 31, 2012.
Book gyaarah is philhal pukaara nazil, or the casts have ghoshit ki do adhik novellas, neferet’s abhishaap, niojit to be released February 19, 2013, and a prequel novel about Kalona, are to be released to coincide with the eleventh and twelfth books.
In Greek mythology, the Trojan War was waged against the nagar of troy by the achaeans ( unaniyon ) baad paris of troy took hellen isse uske husband Menelaus king of Sparta.
The war is ek of the sabase mahatvapurn kaarykram in unani mythology or rai maharoom narrated through anek works of unani sahitya, sabase notably through Homer 's Iliad and the Odyssey.
The Iliad relates a part of the pichhlaa saal of the gheraa of troy ; the odissi describes Odysseus 's journey home.
Other parts of the war are contained in a saikil of apik kavitaayen, jisase have batch through fragments.
Episodes from the war provided material for Greek tragedy and other works of Greek sahitya, or liye roman kaviyon sahit virgil or ovid.
The war originated from a quarrel between the deviyaan athena, hera, or aphrodite, baad eris, the devi of sangharsh or anban, diya unhen a sunahari tehraana, sometimes known as the Apple of Discord, marked `` for the fairest ''.
Zeus sent the deviyaan to paris, jo judged ki aphrodite, as the `` fairest '', should receive the apple.
In exchange, aphrodite bana hellen, the sabase khubasurat of sab mahilaon and wife of Menelaus, fall in love with Paris, who took her to Troy.
Agamemnon, king of Mycenae and the brother of hellen 's husband menelaus, led an expedition of achaean sainikon to troy or besieged the city for ten years because of Paris ' insult.
After the deaths of many heroes, including the Achaeans Achilles and ajaks, or the trogence hectares or paris, the nagar giri to the ruse of the Trojan Horse.
The achaeans slaughtered the trogence ( magar liye kuch of the mahilaon or children jisko ve rakhaa or bechi as slaves ) and desecrated the temples, thus earning the gods ' wrath.
Few of the Achaeans laute sakushal to unke gharon or anek santhaapit colonies in distant shores.
The Romans later traced their origin to aeneas, ek of the trogence, jo thi kaha to have led the surviving Trojans to modern-day Italy.
The pracheen unaniyon vichaar ki the trojan yuddh thi a aitihaasik event ki tha liya place in the 13th or 12th century BC, and believed that Troy was located in modern-day Turkey near the Dardanelles.
By modern times, dono the yuddh or the nagar yahood widely believed to be non-historical.
In 1868, however, the German archaeologist Heinrich Schliemann met Frank Calvert, who convinced Schliemann that troy thi at hissarlik or schliemann took over calvert 's excavations on property belonging to calvert ; is arji is abhi sweekrut by sabase vidwaanon.
Whether there is any historical vaastaviktaa peeche the trojan yuddh is an kholen question.
Many scholars believe that vahin is a aitihaasik kor to the tail, haalanki is may bas ausat ki the homeric kahaniyaan hai a sanlayan of various tales of sieges and expeditions by Mycenaean Greeks during the Bronze Age.
Those who believe that the stories of the Trojan War are derived from a specific historical virodh praayah tithi it to the 12th or 11th sadiyaan bc, praayah preferring the tithiyaan die by iratosthaniz, 1194–1184 bc, jisase roughly corresponds saath puraatatv pramaan of a anarthakaari burning of troy VIIa.
Anarchists have employed certain symbols for their cause, including most prominently the circle-a or the blike dhvaj, haalanki anarchists have historically largely asweekrut the mahatv of pratikon to rajnatik movement.
Since the revival of araajaktaavaad around the prarambh of the 21st-century sanyukt saath the vruddhi of the anti-globalization gati, araajaktaavaadi cultural symbols are widely present.
The greater palatine canal ( or pterygopalatine canal ) is a passage in the kapaal ki transmits the vrihad palatine dhamni, rag, or tantrika between the pterygopalatine fossa and the oral cavity.
sataha taapmaana of antarctic in sheet or garmiyaan isse the europea kendra liye Medium-Range Weather Forecasts
The climate of antarctic is the coldest on the puure of Earth.
Antarctica has the lowest naturally occurring taapmaana kabhi ankit on the maidan on dharti : −89.2 °c ( −128.6 °f ) at Vostok Station.
It is also extremely dry ( technically a marusthal ), averaging 166 mm ( 6.5 in ) of varshan per year.
Even so, on most parts of the mahadweep the him rarely melts or is aakhirkaar sampidit to become the glacial ice that makes up the ice sheet.
Weather fronts rarely ghus dur into the mahadweep.
Most of Antarctica rai an barf cap jalwaayu ( köppen ef ) saath bahut thanda, generally atyadhik shushk mausam throughout the year and no month averaging above 0 °C ( 32 °F ).
Some fringe coastal areas have a tundra climate ( Köppen ET ) saath a choti garmiyaan averaging upar jamane, or much ucchtar varshan.
Current sir coach mike tomlin, dauraan the 2007 season
The Pittsburgh stilers matadhikaar rai tha 16 sir coach throughout its history.
Founded as the Pittsburgh Pirates in, the name was changed to the stilers prior to the ritu to celebrate the nagar 's viraasat of producing steel.
Joe batch parosa do pruthak sharten as sir coach or walt kiesling served three separate terms.
During the and seasons, due to the amount of khilaadi jo ladaa in sansar yuddh ii, the stilers sanyukt unke toli saath philadelphia and Chicago, respectively.
During these seasons, Steelers ' coach Walt Kiesling shared koching kartavya saath chikani neale or phil handler, jo have nahin maharoom shaamil bheetar is list.
Struggling for much of the franchise 's early years, the toli 's pehla ritu saath adhik vins than nuksaan was coached by Jock Sutherland in.
In, under sutherland, the stilers nibhaai unke pehla playoff khel viruddh the Philadelphia Eagles.
Ten of the 16 head coach kharch unke sampurna peshewar koching kariyar saath the matadhikaar, sahit jon mcnally, walt kiesling and Chuck Noll, who have also been voted into the Pro Football Hall of Fame.
One of tabhi chaar main to coach the vahi toli liye 23 years, Chuck Noll retired in.
Noll is also the only coach in National Football lig itihaas to jeet chaar super pyaale.
vidheyak cowher, noll 's badalanaa, coached the Steelers to their fifth Super Bowl victory, in 2005.
The Steelers sixth Super Bowl win came in Super Bowl xliii, jabaki sir coached by mike tomlin, the toli 's vartmaan sir coach.
In criminal law, fraud is intentional deception bana liye nijee laabh or to kshati another vyaktigat ; the related adjective is fraudulent, and verb is defraud.
Fraud is a crime and a civil law violation, haalanki the vishisht dand vidhi paribhaasha varies by vidhik kshetradhikaar.
Defrauding people or entities of dhan or valuables is a aam purpose of dhokhadhadi.
A hoax bhi involves deception, lakin bagaiyr the iraade of laabh or of damaging or depriving the victim.
Fraud is a defense in a civil action liye ulanghan of anubandh or vishisht pradarshan of a anubandh.
Fraud is a aadhaar liye nishpaksh kshetradhikaar.
Passover, or Pesach ( from : in Hebrew, Yiddish ), Tiberian :, Modern Hebrew : /ˈpesaχ/ pesah, pesakh, yahudee : peysekh, paysakh, paysokh ) is an mahatvapurn biblically -derived Jewish festival.
Historically, together with Shavuot ( `` Pentecost '' ) and Sukkot ( `` Tabernacles '' ), passover is ek of the teen yatraaen tyohaar ( shalosh regalim ) dauraan jisase the sampurna janasankhyikee of the kingdom of Judah made a pilgrimage to the Temple in Jerusalem.
samaritans still mek is yatraaen to mount gerizim, but only men participate in public worship.
Passover commences on the 15th of the yahudee maah of nisan or lasts liye either saat dinon ( in Israel ) or eight days ( in the diaspora ).
In Judaism, a day commences at dusk and lasts until the following dusk, yun the pehla din of passover tabhi begins baad sandhya of the 14th of nisan or ends at sandhya of the 15th din of the maah of Nisan.
The rituals unique to the passover jashn commence saath the passover seder jab the 15th of Nisan has begun.
In the Northern Hemisphere Passover takes place in vasant as the tora prescribes it : `` in the maah of [ the ] spring '' ( בחדש האביב ).
It is one of the sabase widely observed yahudee holidays.
The yahudee logon celebrate passover as a commemoration of unke mukti over 3,300 saalo pehle by parameshwar isse gulaami in pracheen mishra ki thi ruled by the Pharaohs, and their birth as a nation under the leadership of Moses.
It commemorates the story of the exodus as varnit in the yahudee bible visheshkar in the kitaab of Exodus, in which the Israelites were freed from slavery in Egypt.
In the katha of the exodus, the bible tells ki parameshwar helped the children of israel escape isse unke gulaami in mishra by inflicting ten plagues upon the pracheen unhone pehle the pharaoh hota relies his Israelite slaves ; the tenth and worst of the plagues was the death of the Egyptian first-born.
The israelites yahood instructed to chihnit the doorposts of unke gharon saath the rakt of a slaughtered vasant memne or, upon dekhakar is, the spirit of the Lord knew to pass over the first-born in these homes, hence the name of the holiday.
vahin is kuch bahes over jahaan the pad is actually derived from.
When the Pharaoh freed the Israelites, it is said ki ve baayein in aise a hurry ki ve could nahin intjaar liye bread aataa to vruddhi ( leaven ).
In commemoration, liye the avadhi of passover no leavened bread is khaaya, for which reason it is called `` The Festival of the Unleavened Bread ''.
Thus Matzo ( flat unleavened bread ) is khaaya dauraan passover or it is a pratik of the holiday.
Halley 's Comet or Comet Halley ( or ), officially designated 1p/halley, is the best-known of the short-period dhoomaketuon or is drishy isse dharti every 75–76 years.
heley is the tabhi short-period dhoomaketu ki is clearly drishy to the nagn najar isse dharti, and thus the only naked-eye comet that might appear twice in a human lifetime.
Other naked-eye comets may be ujjwal or adhik spectacular, lakin hoga appear tabhi ekbar in thousands of years.
Halley 's returns to the inner saura pranali have maharoom observed or ankit by khagolashastriyon since at least 240 BCE.
Clear records of the comet 's appearances were made by Chinese, babylonian, or madhyakaalin europea chroniclers, lakin yahood nahin recognized as reappearances of the same object at the time.
The comet 's periodicity thi pehla sankalpit in 1705 by angrezi astronomer edmond heley, after whom it is now named.
Halley 's Comet last appeared in the bhitari saura pranali in 1986 or hoga next appear in mid-2061.
During its 1986 apparition, Halley became the first dhoomaketu to be observed in vivaran by spacecraft, providing the pehla observational aankada on the dhaancha of a comet nucleus and the mechanism of coma and tail formation.
These observations supported a number of longstanding hypotheses about comet construction, visheshkar fred whipple 's `` ganda snobal '' model, jisase correctly purvanumanit ki heley hota be rachit of a mishran of volatile ices – aise as jal, carbon dioxide or ammonia – or dhul.
The missions also provided data which substantially reformed and reconfigured these vichaar ; liye udhaaharan it is abhi samajha ki heley 's sataha is largely rachit of dusty, non-volatile saamagree, or ki tabhi a choti portion of it is icy.
Anti-communism is vipaksh to samyavaadee.
Organized anti-communism viksit in pratikriya to the vruddhi of samyavaadee, visheshkar baad the 1917 aktubar kranti in Russia and reaching global dimensions during the Cold War.
Most anti-communists reject the avadharana of aitihaasik bhautikwaad, jisase is a central vichaar in marxvad.
Anti-communists reject the Marxist belief ki poonjeevaad hoga be followed by samaajawaadee or samyavaadee, just as feudalism was followed by capitalism.
Anti-communists question the validity of the marxvaadi arji ki the samaajawaadee rajya hoga `` wither dur '' jab it becomes anaavashyak in a sachcha communist society.
Anti-communists argue that the repression in the jaldi saalo of bolshevik niyam, jabaki nahin as charam as ki dauraan joseph stallin 's niyam, thi still kathor by uchit maanakon, citing udhaaharan aise as felics dzerzhinsky 's rahasy police, jisase eliminated numerous rajnatik pratidwandviyon by extrajudicial executions, and the brutal crushing of the Kronstadt rebellion and Tambov rebellion.
Some anti-communists refer to both Communism or fasiwad as sarvasattawad, dekhakar samanta between the kriyaayein of communist and fascist governments.
Historian Robert Conquest rai argued ki samyavaadee thi jimmedaar liye tens of lakho of mauton dauraan the 20th century.
Opponents argue that Communist parties that have come to power have tended to be rigidly ashishnu of rajnatik vipaksh.
These pratidwandviyon arji ki sabase communist deshon have dikhaaya no lakshan of advancing from Marx 's socialist stage of economy to an ideal communist stage.
Rather, Communist governments have been accused of bananaa a nai sattadhari class ( a nomenklatura ), saath shaktiyaan or privileges vrihad than those previously enjoyed by the upper classes in the non- communist regimes.
Gil bagula ( 9 april 1922 – 27 navambar 2008 ) thi a jamaican professional footballer.
He was the first black player to play liye scottish klbon celtic, or thi the pita of kavi or sangeetkaar gil scott-heron.
he died in detroit of a heart attack on 27 November 2008.
The soybean ( us ) or soya saim ( uk ) ( glycine adhiktam ) is a prajati of legume deshi to east asia, widely grown liye its edible bean which has numerous uses.
The plant is classed as an oilseed balki than a pulse by the un khaanaa or agricultural sanghathan ( fao ).
Fat-free ( defatted ) soyabean bhojan is a significant or sasti sorce of protein liye animal feeds or anek prepackaged meals ; soya sabzi oil is another product of processing the soybean crop.
For example, soybean products such as textured vegetable protein ( tvp ) hai sanghatak in anek maance or dairy analogues.
Soybeans upaj significantly adhik protein prati acre than most other uses of land.
Traditional nonfermented khaanaa upyog of soybeans shaamil soya milk, or isse the latter tofu and tofu skin.
Fermented foods include soy sauce, fermented saim paste, natto, or tempeh, among anya.
The oil is prayukt in anek audyogic anuprayog.
The main nirmaataa of soya hai the sanyukt rajya ( 35 % ), brazil ( 27 % ), Argentina ( 19 % ), China ( 6 % ) and India ( 4 % ).
The beans contain significant amounts of phytic acid, alpha-linolenic acid, and isoflavones.
Harrison Ford ( born July 13, 1942 ) is an amareeki filmi karta or nirmaataa.
He is famous for his performances as haan solo in the asli star yudhon trayee or the sheershak akshar of the indiana Jones film series.
Ford is also known for his roles as Rick Deckard in Blade dhaavak, jon kitaab in gavaah or joker rayaan in patriot khel or saaf or upasthit khatre.
His career has spanned chah dashakon or shaamil bhoomikaaye in anek hollywood blockbusters, sahit presumed Innocent, The Fugitive, Air Force One, and What Lies Beneath.
At one point, chaar of the sheersh chah box-office hits of sab samay included one of his roles.
Five of his films have maharoom inducted into the neshnal filmi registry.
In 1997, ghat thi kramit no. 1 in samrajya `` the sheersh 100 film Stars of All Time '' list.
, the United States domestic baksaa daftar grosses of ghat 's films kul over us $ 3.5 arab, saath vishwavyaapee grosses surpassing $ 6 billion, making Ford the third highest grossing U.S. domestic box-office star.
Ford is the husband of abhinetri calista Flockhart.
A tub of chapstick
ChapStick is a brand name for lip balm manufactured by fizer upabhokta healthcare or prayukt in anek deshon worldwide.
It is intended to help treat and prevent chapped hoth ; hence the naam.
Many varieties bhi shaamil sanscreen in order to prevent sunburn.
Due to its popularity, the pad rai become a genericized trademark.
It popularly refers to any lip balm contained in a lipstick-style tub or lagu in the vahi manner as lipstick.
However, the term is still a registered trademark, saath adhikaron exclusively swaamitv by fizer.
In sweden or in the sanyukt kingdom, the utpaada 's pramukh pratispardhi is lypsyl, bana by novartis upabhokta Health, which is distributed in similar packaging to ChapStick.
George Berkeley ( ; 12 March 168514 January 1753 ), also known as Bishop barkali ( bishap of cloyne ), thi an anglo-irish paras jinaki praathmik uplabdhi thi the unnati of a siddhanth he pukaara `` immaterialism '' ( baad referred to as `` subjective idealism `` by others ).
This theory jhutlaae the astitv of saamagree padaarth or bajaay contends ki parichit vastuen jaise teble or chairs are only ideas in the minds of perceivers, and as a result can not exist without being perceived.
Thus, as Berkeley famously put it, liye shaareerik vastuen `` esse est percipi '' ( `` to be is to be abhas `` ).
Berkeley is also known for his critique of abstraction, an mahatvapurn aadhaar in uske tark liye immaterialism.
In 1709, Berkeley published his first major kaary,, in jisase he discussed the simaaen of insaan drushti or unnat the siddhanth ki the uchit objects of sight are not material objects, but light and colour.
This foreshadowed his chief philosophical work A Treatise Concerning the siddhanth of insaan gyaan in 1710 jisase, baad iske garib resepshan, he rewrote in samvaad rup or prakashit antargat the sheershak teen samvaad between hylas and Philonous in 1713.
In this book, Berkeley 's views were represented by Philonous ( unani : 'premantr of dimag ' ), jabaki hylas ( unani : 'mattker ' ) embodies the irish thinker’s pratidwandviyon, in particular jon locke.
Berkeley argued against Sir ishaq newton 's doctrine of nirpeksh spes, samay or gati in de motu ( on gati ), published 1721.
uske vitark yahood a precursor to the views of Mach and Einstein.
In 1732, he published Alciphron, a Christian kshamapraarthi viruddh the free-thinkers, or in 1734, he prakashit the vishleshak, an empiricist critique of the muladhar of infinitesimal calculus, which was influential in the development of mathematics.
His last major philosophical work, Siris ( 1744 ), begins by vakaalat the aushadhiy upyog of tarkol jal, or tab continues to discuss a chaudee dayera of vishay sahit vigyaan, darshanashastra, or theology.
Interest in Berkeley 's work increased after World War II, because he tackled many of the issues of paramount interest to darshanashastra in the 20th sadi aise as the samasyaayein of bodh, the antar between praathmik or dwitiyak qualities, or the importance of language.
Qingdao ( ), historically gyaat as tsingtao, is a pramukh nagar in purvi shandong praant, purvi China, with a population of over 8.715 million ( 2010 census ).
Its built up area, made of 6 urban districts and 4 county-level shaharon, is ghar to parichay 4,896,000 nivaasiyon in 2010.
It borders Yantai to the purvottar, weifang to the west or rizhao to the southwest.
qīng ( ) in chinis arthath `` green '' or `` raseele '', while dǎo ( ) means `` island ''.
chingdao is administered at the sub-provincial level.
Lying across the Shandong Peninsula while looking out to the pilaa samudr, chingdao is a pramukh seaport, naval aadhaar, or audyogic centre.
It is bhi the sait of the tsingtao Brewery.
The world 's longest sea bridge, the Qingdao Haiwan Bridge, kadi the pramukh shahari kshetrafal of chingdao saath huangdao zila, straddling the jiaozhou Bay sea areas.
Qingdao is namit china 's sabase livable city.
Mimivirus is a viral genus containing a single identified species named acanthamoeba polyphaga mimivirus ( apmv ), or is a samooh of phylogenetically sambandhit vishaal viruses ( designated usually MimiN ).
In colloquial speech, APMV is more commonly referred to as bas `` mimivirus ''.
Until October 2011, when a larger virus Megavirus chilensis thi varnit, it tha the largest capsid vyas of sab gyaat viruses.
mimivirus rai a vishaal or jatil genome compared with most other viruses.
mimivirus, choti liye `` mimicking microbe '', is so pukaara to pratibimbit its large size and apparent Gram-staining properties.
The Mexican War of swatantraaa ( 1810–1821 ) thi an hathiyaarband virodh between the logon of mexico or the spani aupniveshik adhikariyon which started on September 16, 1810.
The movement, which became known as the Mexican yuddh of swatantraaa, thi led by mexican-born spaniards, mestizos or amerindians jo sought independence from Spain.
It started as an idealistic peasants ' rebellion against their aupniveshik masters, lakin ended as an asambhavit gathbandhan between mexican ex-royalists or mexican chhapamar insurgents.
Crohn 's disease, also known as Crohn syndrome and kshetreey enteritis, is a prakaar of jalan bowel beemaari ki may affect koi bhaag of the jathrantra tract from mouth to anus, causing a wide variety of symptoms.
It primarily causes abdominal pain, diarrhea ( which may be bloody if inflammation is at its worst ), vomiting ( can be nirantar ), or vazan ghaataa, lakin may bhi kaaran jatiltaaon baahar the jathrantra tract aise as skin rashes, gathiya, sujan of the eye, tiredness, and lack of concentration.
Crohn 's disease is caused by interactions between paryaavarniya, immunological or bacterial karkon in genetically susceptible individuals.
This results in a dirghakaalik jalan vikaar, in jisase the deh 's pratiraksha pranali hamale the gastrointestinal tract possibly directed at microbial antigens.
Crohn 's disease has wrongly been described as an autoimmune disease in the past ; haal jaanchakartaaon have varnit it as an pratiraksha kamiyaan rajya.
vahin is a genetic sangh saath crohn 's beemaari, primarily saath visangatiyaan of the NOD2 gene and its protein, which senses bacterial cell walls.
sahodar of prabhavit individuals are at higher risk.
males or mahilaon hai equally affected.
Smokers are two times more sambhavit to develop crohn 's beemaari than nonsmokers.
Crohn 's beemaari affects between 400,000 or 600,000 people in North America.
vyapaktaa estimates liye uttari europea have ranged isse 27–48 per 100,000.
Crohn 's disease tends to present initially in the kishor or twenties, saath another shikhar incidence in the fifties to seventies, haalanki the beemaari can occur at koi age.
There is no gyaat pharmaceutical or sargical ilaaj for Crohn 's disease.
Treatment options are pratibandhit to controlling lakshan, maintaining remission, or preventing patan.
The disease was named after gastroenterologist Burrill Bernard Crohn, who, in 1932, saath saath do anya sahyogiyon at mount sinai hospital in nai york, varnit a shrenee of marijon saath sujan of the terminal ileum, the area most commonly affected by the illness.
This is an adhuri suchi of the tallest imaaraten and structures by country.
The list directly includes the tallest buildings and structures for each desh, or jahaan uchit, it bhi ank to adhik vistrut country-specific lists.
Rough and Ready is a census-designated place in newada county, california, United States.
It is located west of Grass ghati, california, lagbhag 62 mile ( 100 km ) isse sacramento.
The janasankhyikee thi 963 at the 2010 census.
YouTube is a video-sharing website, created by three former PayPal karmchaaree in farvari 2005, on jisase upayokta can aplod, view and share videos.
The company is based in San Bruno, California, and uses Adobe Flash Video and HTML5 technology to display a wide variety of user-generated video saamagree, sahit film clips, tv clips, or music video, as khub as amateur saamagree aise as video blogging, choti asli videos, and educational videos.
Most of the content on YouTube has been uploaded by individuals, although media corporations sahit sibies, the bibisi, vevo, hulu, or anya sanghathan prastaav kuch of unke saamagree via the sait, as bhaag of the youtube partnership program.
Unregistered users can watch videos, jabaki panjikrut upayokta can aplod an aseemit kramank of videos.
video mana to contain potentially apriy saamagree are available only to registered users at least 18 years old.
In November 2006, YouTube, LLC was bought by google liye us $ 1.65 arab, or operates as a subsidiary of google.
Sister Act is a musical likhaa by cheri steinkellner or vidheyak steinkellner saath atirikt kitaab saamagree by Douglas Carter Beane, with lyrics by Glenn Slater and music by Alan Menken.
It is based on the hit 1992 filmi kamedi of the same name.
the 2009 west samaapt utpaadan thi utpaadit by stage entertainment, whoopi goldberg, and Michael Reno for Sis Acts LLC.
Goldberg is also a nirmaataa of the 2011 broadway adaptation.
Microsoft DirectX is a sangrahan of anuprayog programing antarfalak ( api ) liye handlling kaary sambandhit to multimedia, visheshkar game programming and video, on Microsoft platforms.
Originally, the names of these api sab began saath sidhaa, aise as direct3d, directdraw, directmusic, directplay, directsound, and so forth.
the naam directex thi coined as ashulipi pad liye sab of ye api ( the x khadaa in for the particular API names ) and soon became the name of the collection.
When Microsoft later set out to develop a gaming consol, the x thi prayukt as the aadhaar of the naam exbox to indicate that the console was based on DirectX technology.
The X initial has been carried aage in the namakaran of api designed liye the exbox aise as xinput or the cross-platform Audio Creation Tool ( XACT ), while the DirectX pattern has been continued for Windows APIs such as Direct2D and DirectWrite.
Direct3D ( the 3D graphics api bheetar directex ) is widely prayukt in the vikaas of video games for Microsoft Windows, Microsoft Xbox, Microsoft Xbox 360 and some Sega Dreamcast games.
Direct3D is also used by other software anuprayog liye kalpana or graphics kaary aise as cad/cam engineering.
As Direct3D is the sabase widely publicized ghatak of directex, it is aam to see the names `` DirectX '' and `` Direct3D '' used interchangeably.
The DirectX tantra vikaas kit ( sdk ) consists of runtime pustakaalayon in redistributable shabdkosh rup, saath with accompanying documentation and headers for use in coding.
originally, the runtimes yahood tabhi santhaapit by games or explicitly by the user.
Windows 95 kiya nahin launch saath directex, lakin directex thi shaamil with Windows 95 OEM Service Release 2.
Windows 98 and Windows nt 4.0 dono shipped saath directex, as rai prayek sanskaran of khidkiyaan released since.
the sdk is uplabdhiyaan as a free download.
While the runtimes hai malikana, closed-source tantra, sorce code is provided for most of the SDK samples.
Starting with the release of Windows 8 develper purvavlokan, directex sdk rai maharoom ekikrut into Windows SDK.
Direct3D 9Ex, Direct3D 10, and Direct3D 11 are only available for Windows vista or nae kuki prayek of ye nai sanskaran thi nirmit to nirbhar upon the nai khidkiyaan pradarshak driver model ki thi introduced liye khidkiyaan vista.
the nai vista/wddm graphics vaastukala shaamil a nai video memory manager supporting abhasikaran of graphics hardware for various applications and services like the Desktop Window Manager.
quetzaltenango, bhi commonly gyaat by iske swadeshi naam, xelajú, or adhik commonly, xela, is the second largest city of Guatemala.
It is dono the puunji of quetzaltenango vibhaag or the nagarpalika seat of Quetzaltenango municipality.
It has an anumaanit janasankhyikee of 224,703.
The population is about 61 % swadeshi or amerindian, 34 % mestizo or ladino or 5 % European.
Quetzaltenango is located in a mountain valley at an unnayan of 2,330 meter ( 7,655 ft ) upar samudr str at iske nunatam bhaag.
It may reach above 2,400 meter bheetar the nagar.
the nagarpalika of quetzaltenango consists of an area of.
municipalities abutting the nagarpalika of quetzaltenango shaamil : salcajá, cantel, almolonga, zunil, el palmar, concepción Chiquirichapa, San Mateo, La Esperanza, Olintepeque, and San Andrés Xecul.
All these municipalities are part of the vibhaag of quetzaltenango, magar san andres xecul jisase is a bhaag of the vibhaag of Totonicapán.
The Epic of gilgamesh, an apik kavita isse mesopotamia, is amongst the earliest surviving works of literature.
The literary history of Gilgamesh begins with five independent Sumerian poems parichay 'bilgamesh ' ( sumerian liye gilgamesh ), king of Uruk.
Four of these yahood prayukt as sorce saamagree liye a sanyukt epic in Akkadian.
This first combined epic, known as the `` Old babylonian '' sanskaran, tithiyaan to the 18th sadi bc or is titled baad iske incipit, Shūtur eli sharrī ( `` Surpassing All Other Kings '' ).
Only a few fragments of it have batch.
the baad `` maanak babylonian '' sanskaran tithiyaan isse the 13th to the 10th centuries BC and bears the incipit Sha naqba īmuru ( `` He who Saw the Deep '' ).
Fragments of lagbhag do tihaai of is longer, twelve-tablet sanskaran have been recovered.
Some of the best copies were khoja in the pustakaalayon tabah of the 7th-century bc assyrian king Ashurbanipal.
The story centers on a dosti between gilgamesh or enkidu.
Enkidu is a wild man created by the gods as gilgamesh 's baraabar to distract use isse oppressing the people of Uruk.
Together, they journey to the deodaar pahaad to shikast humbaba, iske monstrous sangrakshak.
Later they kill the Bull of swarg, jisase the devi ishtaar bhejnaa to sajaa gilgamesh for spurning her advances.
As a punishment for these actions, the devataaon vaakya enkidu to maut.
the duusari half of the apik focuses on gilgamesh 's takalif at enkidu 's death, and his quest for immortality.
In order to sikh the rahasy of anant jivan, gilgamesh undertakes a long or perilous journey.
He learns that `` The jivan ki tum hai seeking tum hoga never find.
When the gods created man they allotted to him death, lakin jivan ve retained in unke apana keeping. ''
This quote was originally attributed to Siduri in the Old Babylonian version of the epic, and then attributed to the amar baadh nayika utnapishtim in the akkadi sanskaran of the epic.
Nevertheless, Gilgamesh 's fame lived on after his death, because of his great bhawan project, or uske khaataa of kayaa utnapishtim bataai use happened during the flood.
The story has been anudit into anek alag bhashaaen, or gilgamesh rai chunki become adapted in works of popular fiction.
There hai numerous debates over jo nirmit the pehla video game, with the answer depending largely on how video games are defined.
The evolution of video khel represents a uljhe web of anek alag udyog, including scientific, computer, arcade, and consumer electronics.
The `` video '' in `` video khel `` traditionally refers to a raster display device.
With the popular catch phrase use of the pad `` video khel '', the pad abhi implies sab pradarshak prakaar, swarup, and platforms.
Historians have bhi sought to bypass the samasya by bajaay using the adhik vishisht `` digital games '' descriptive.
This term pattey out the pehle analog-based computer khel.
This is a list of best-selling video khel franchises ki have bechi or shipped at least 5 million copies.
Unless otherwise stated, sankhyaayein indicate vishwavyaapee ikai bechi, ordered alphabetically whenever do or adhik suchi the same amount.
The exception are the ones specifying shipment, jisase have nimnatar purvata than anya listing sales.
Franchise sales shaamil vistaar pack bhi haalanki ve hai nahin mana full video games.
For best-selling vyaktigat video khel, dekhie suchi of best-selling video games.
The sales figures die neeche do nahin shaamil arched khel bikri, jisase can be mila at List of highest-grossing arcade video games.
– This color indicates a sub-series of a larger video khel matadhikaar.
This does nahin necessarily lagu liye shrenee ki hai not video game-based.
Dorothy Ann Willis Richards ( sitambar 1, 1933 – sitambar 13, 2006 ) thi an amareeki rajaneta and the 45th Governor of Texas.
She first came to national attention as the state treasurer of texas, jab wo vitarit the keynote pataa at the 1988 loktantric neshnal sammelan.
richards parosa as the 45th rajyapal of texas isse 1991 to 1995 or thi defeated for re-election in 1994 by George W. Bush.
Ann richards thi the duusari maadaa rajyapal of Texas.
Data Execution Prevention ( DEP ) is a suraksha visheshta shaamil in aadhunik oparating systems.
It is known to be available in Linux, Mac OS x, ioes, microsoft khidkiyaan or android oparating pranaaliyon or is intended to prevent an anuprayog or service from executing code from a non-executable memory region.
This helps prevent certain karname ki store code via a bafar atipravaah, liye example.
DEP runs in do mods : hardware-enforced dep liye cpu ki can chihnit memory prishthon as nonexecutable, or software-enforced DEP with limited protection for CPUs that do not have hardware support.
Software-enforced DEP does not protect against execution of code in data prishthon, lakin bajaay counters seh mitaakar, another prakaar of akraman.
DEP was introduced on linaks in 2004 ( karnel 2.6.8 ), on khidkiyaan in 2004 saath khidkiyaan xp seva pack 2, jabaki tehraana introduced DEP when they moved to x86 in 2006.
Example illustration of do aam futanari visangatiyaan
, is the japani shabd liye hermaphroditism, jisase is bhi prayukt in a broader sense for androgyny.
Beyond Japan the term is used to describe a commonly pornographic vidha of computer khel, comics or anemation, jisase shaamil varna ki dikhaaen dono praathmik yon visheshtaayen.
But in today 's bhashaa it refers lagbhag exclusively liye varna jo have an overall feminine appearance.
In that case the pad is bhi praayah abbreviated as futa ( s ), jisase is occasionally also used as term for the works itself.
jaldi captchas aise as ye, utpann by the ez-gimpy program, were used on Yahoo !
A modern CAPTCHA, balki than attempting to banaaen a distorted prishthbhumi or unchi str of warping on the text, might focus on making segmentation difficult by adding an angled line.
another rasta to mek segmentation mushkil is to bheed pratikon saath, as in Yahoo ! 's current CAPTCHA format.
Some captchas koshish to utilize the kshamta of logon to dekhie three-dimensional objects.
On this image, pratikon hai drawn saath linon of alag motaai to mek an prabhaav of extrusion.
A CAPTCHA ( ) is a prakaar of challenge-response pareekshan prayukt in computing as an attempt to ensure ki the jawaab is generated by a human being.
the prakram praayah involves a computer puche a upayokta to puraa a saral test which the computer is able to grade.
These tests hai designed to be aasaan liye a computer to generate lakin mushkil liye a computer to solve, but again easy for a human.
If a sahi samaadhaan is praapt, it can be presumed to have been entered by a human.
A common prakaar of captcha requires the upayokta to prakaar akshar and/or ank isse a distorted image that appears on the screen.
Such tests are commonly used to prevent unwanted internet bott isse accessing websiton, chunki a saamaanya insaan can easily padhaa a captcha, jabaki the bot can nahin prakram the image letters and therefore, can not answer properly, or at all.
Although most CAPTCHAs are letter pictures randomly generated, many of them have become difficult even for a human to read, so chitra captchas yahood nirmit in jisase a insaan is dikhaaya a saral pareekshan to dikhaaen a chitra of a nishchit animal ( die few animal tasviren ), jisase is saral liye a insaan hone to prakram, and therefore easy to pick, while a bot can not process and solve the question because although it can analyze the picture, it can not easily guess the animal.
the pad `` captcha '' thi coined in 2000 by louis von ahn, manuel blem, nicholas J. Hopper, and John Langford ( all of Carnegie Mellon University ).
It is an acronym based on the word `` capture '' or khadaa liye `` completely swachaalit public turing pareekshan to bataanaa computer or insaano Apart ''.
Carnegie Mellon vishvavidhyalayon attempted to trademark the pad on 15 aktubar 2004, lakin the trademark application was abandoned on 21 April 2008.
A CAPTCHA is sometimes described as a reverse turing pareekshan, kuki it is administered by a yantra or targeted at a insaan, in contrast to the maanak turing pareekshan that is typically administered by a human and targeted at a machine.
Jacques-Yves Cousteau ( ; commonly gyaat in angrezi as zaak cousteau ; 11 june 1910 – 25 june 1997 ) thi a french naval adhikari, explorer, conservationist, filmkaar, innovator, scientist, photographer, author and researcher who studied the sea and all forms of life in water.
He co-developed the aqua-lung, pioneered samudri sangrakshan or thi a sadsy of the Académie française.
KFC ( kentki fried murga ) is a tej khaanaa restaraan kadi headquartered in louisville, Kentucky, United States, which specializes in fried chicken.
An `` American icon '', it is the world 's duusari largest restaraan kadi overall ( as measured by bikri ) baad mcdonald 's, saath over 18,000 outlets in 120 countries and territories.
The company is a subsidiary of yama !
Brands, a restaraan company jisase bhi owns pizza hat or taco ghanti.
KFC was founded by Harland sanders, jo began selling fried murga isse uske roadside restaraan in corbin, kentki during the Great Depression.
sanders thi ek of the pehla logon to dekhie the sambhavit of the restaraan frenchizing avadharana, saath the first `` Kentucky Fried Chicken '' franchise opening in Utah in 1952.
The franchise popularized murga in the tej khaanaa udyog, thereby diversifying the market or challenging the dominance of the hamburger.
vipanan khud as `` karnal sanders '', he became a legendary figure of American cultural history, and his image is still prominently used in KFC branding.
The company 's rapid vistaar dekhi it grow too vishaal liye sanders to manage, or in 1964 he bechi the company to a samooh of niveshkon led by jon y. Brown, Jr. and Jack Massey.
KFC was one of the first fast food chains to expand internationally, kholane outlet in england, mexico or purto Rico by the mid-1960s.
Throughout the 1970s and 1980s, KFC experienced mixed fortunes domestically, as it went through a shrenee of corporate swami jo tha choti or no anubhav in the restaraan kaarobaar.
In the early 1970s, KFC thi bechi to the atmaaon kad heublein, jo yahood liya over by the r.J. reynolds khaanaa and tobacco conglomerate, who sold the chain to PepsiCo.
The chain continued to expand overseas however, or in 1987 keeffsi became the pehla pashchimi restaraan chain to open in China.
The chain has chunki vistaarit rapidly in china, or the desh is abhi the company 's most profitable market.
PepsiCo spun off its restaurants prabhag as tricon vaishvik restaraan, jisase baad badla iske naam to Yum !
brands.
KFC primarily sells fried murga tukade or visangatiyaan aise as murga sandwich or wraps, salad or paksh bartan aise as french friese or coleslaw, desserts and soft drinks, often supplied by PepsiCo.
Its most famous product is pressure fried murga tukade, seasoned saath sanders ' `` asli racippi '' of 11 herbs and spices.
The exact nature of these sanghatak is anjaan, or represents a notable trade secret.
larger portions of fried murga hai parosa in a distinctive gatta `` baaltee '', jisase rai become a signature of the chain since being introduced by franchisee Pete Harman.
KFC is prasiddh liye the slogan `` ungali lickin ' shubh '', jisase rai chunki been replaced by `` Nobody does chicken like KFC '' and `` So good ''.
Cnidaria ( with a silent c ) or coelenterata is a phylum containing over 10,000 prajati of pashu mila exclusively in aquatic and mostly marine environments.
Their distinguishing visheshta is cnidocytes, specialized koshikaayen that they use mainly for capturing prey.
Their bodies consist of mesoglea, a non-living jelly-like substance, sandwiched between do paraton of epithelium ki hai zyaadaatar ek koshika thick.
They have two moulik deh form : tairaaki medusae or sthanbaddh polyps, dono of jisase hai radially symmetrical with mouths surrounded by tentacles that bear cnidocytes.
Both forms have a single orifice or deh guha ki hai prayukt liye pachan and respiration.
anek cnidarian prajati upaj colonies ki hai single organisms composed of medusa-like or polyp-like zooids, or both.
Cnidarians ' activities hai samanvit by a vikendrit tantrika jaal or saral receptors.
Several free-swimming cubozoa or scyphozoa possess balance-sensing statocysts, and some have simple eyes.
Not all cnidarians reproduce sexually.
Many have complex lifecycles with alangik polyp charan or yon medusae, lakin kuch omit either the polyp or the medusa stage.
Cnidarians yahood liye a long samay grouped saath ctenophores in the phylum coelenterata, lakin increasing awareness of their differences caused them to be placed in separate phyla.
Cnidarians are classified into four main groups : the almost wholly sessile Anthozoa ( sea anemones, corals, sea pens ) ; swimming Scyphozoa ( jelifish ) ; cubozoa ( baksaa jellies ) ; or hydrozoa, a vividh samooh ki shaamil sab the freshwater cnidarians as khub as anek samudri form, or rai dono sthanbaddh sadasyon aise as hydra or aupniveshik swimmers aise as the portugali man o ' yuddh.
staurozoa have recently maharoom recognised as a class in unke apana sahi balki than a sub-group of scyphozoa, or vahin is bahes parichay whether myxozoa and Polypodiozoa are cnidarians or closer to bilaterians ( more complex animals ).
Most cnidarians prey on jeevon ranging in aakaar isse plavak to pashu anek times larger than themselves, lakin anek obtain much of unke poshan isse endosymbiotic algae, and a few are parasites.
Many are preyed upon by other pashu sahit starfish, samudr slugs, machhlee or tertels.
Coral reefs, whose polyps are rich in endosymbiotic shaiwal, support kuch of the sansar 's sabase utpaadak ecosystems, and protect vegetation in tidal zones and on shorelines from strong currents and tides.
While corals hai lagbhag entirely pratibandhit to garam, uthle samudri waters, anya cnidarians live in the depths, in polar seas and in freshwater.
Fossil cnidarians have been found in rocks formed parichay, or anya jeevashmon dikhaaen ki corals may have maharoom upasthit shortly pehle or diversified a few lakh saalo baad.
jeevashmon of cnidarians ki do nahin nirmaan mineralized structures are very rare.
Scientists currently socho ki cnidarians, ctenophores or bilaterians hai adhik closely sambandhit to calcareous sponges than ye hai to anya sponges, or ki anthozoans are the evolutionary `` aunts '' or `` sisters '' of other cnidarians, and the most closely related to bilaterians.
Recent analyses have concluded that cnidarians, haalanki mana adhik `` aadim '' than bilaterians, have a wider dayera of jeenon.
The azetek pyramid at st. cecilia acatitlan, Mexico State.
Aztec jade mukhauta depicting the parameshwar xipe totec.
vishaal ceremic pratimaa of an Aztec Eagle Warrior
Aztec cosmogram in the pre-Hispanic codex fejérváry-mayer - the aag parameshwar xiuhtecuhtli is in the center.
The Aztec logon yahood nishchit jaateey samooh of central mexico, visheshkar those samooh jo spoke the navatal language and who dominated large parts of Mesoamerica from the 14th to 16th centuries.
The navatal shabd aztecatl ( ekvachan ) or aztecah ( bahuvachan ) ausat `` logon isse aztlan ``, a puranic place liye the nahuatl-speaking samskruti of the time, and later adopted as the word to define the Mexica people.
Often the term `` azetek '' refers exclusively to the mexica logon of tenochtitlan ( abhi the sthaan of mexico nagar ), situated on an dweep in Lake Texcoco, who referred to themselves as Mexica Tenochca or Cōlhuah Mexica.
Sometimes the term also shaamil the nivaasiyon of tenochtitlan 's do principal alide city-states, the acolhuas of texcoco or the tepanecs of tlacopan, jo saath with the Mexica formed the Aztec Triple Alliance which controlled what is often known as `` the Aztec Empire ''.
In other contexts, azetek may refer to sab the vibhinn nagar rajya or unke peoples, jo saajha vishaal bhaag of their ethnic history and cultural traits with the Mexica, Acolhua and Tepanecs, and who often also used the Nahuatl language as a lingua franca.
In this meaning it is possible to talk parichay an azetek sabhyataa sahit sab the particular saanskrithik pattern aam liye sabase of the peoples inhabiting central mexico in the late postclassic period.
From the 13th century, the Valley of Mexico was the heart of Aztec civilization : here the puunji of the azetek tripal gathbandhan, the nagar of tenochtitlan, thi nirmit upon uthaaya ilet in jhil texcoco.
the tripal gathbandhan formed a upanadi samrajya expanding iske rajnatik aadhipaty dur pare the Valley of Mexico, conquering other city states throughout Mesoamerica.
at iske shikhar, azetek samskruti tha samrudh or jatil puranic or dharmik paramparaon, as well as reaching remarkable architectural and artistic accomplishments.
In 1521 Hernán Cortés, saath saath a vishaal kramank of navatal bolnaa swadeshi allies, conquered tenochtitlan or parajeet the azetek tripal gathbandhan antargat the leadership of Hueyi Tlatoani Moctezuma II.
subsequently the spani santhaapit the nai upnivesh of mexico nagar on the sait of the ruined azetek puunji, isse where they proceeded with the process of colonizing Central America.
Aztec culture and history is primarily known through puraatatv pramaan mila in excavations aise as ki of the prasiddh templo mahayor in mexico nagar ; isse swadeshi chaal paper codices ; isse eyewitness khate by spani conquistadors aise as hernán cortés or bernal díaz del castillo ; or visheshkar isse 16th or 17th sadi descriptions of azetek samskruti and history written by Spanish clergymen and literate Aztecs in the Spanish or Nahuatl language, such as the famous Florentine Codex compiled by the Franciscan monk Bernardino de Sahagún with the help of indigenous Aztec informants.
Anderson Hays Cooper ( born June 3, 1967 ) is an amareeki patrkaar, lekhak, or television vyaktitv.
He is the praathmik lungar of the sienen news dikhaaen anderson Cooper 360°.
The program is normally broadcast live from a New york nagar studio ; however, kupar praayah prasaaran sajiv on sthaan liye breaking news stories.
As of September 2011, he also serves as host of his own eponymous syndicated din baat dikhaaen, anderson sajiv, jisase hoga be radd at the end of the second season.
A plot of a normal vitaran ( or bell-shaped vakr ) jahaan prayek band rai a chaudai of 1 maanak deviation – See also : 68-95-99.7 rule
Cumulative sambhavyata of a saamaanya vitaran saath apekshit maan 0 and standard deviation 1.
In statistics and probability theory, standard deviation ( represented by the pratik sigma, σ ) shows kaisaa much vibhinnata or dispersion exists isse the ausat ( ausat ), or expected value.
a kam maanak vichlan indicates ki the aankada ank tend to be bahut band to the ausat ; unchi maanak vichlan indicates that the data points are spread out over a large range of values.
The standard deviation of a yadrichhik parivartaneey, sankhyikeey janasankhyikee, aankada niyat, or sambhavyata vitaran is the square root of its variance.
It is algebraically simpler haalanki practically kam majboot than the ausat absolute deviation.
A useful property of standard vichlan is ki, naapsand variance, it is expressed in the same units as the data.
Note, however, that for measurements with percentage as unit, the standard vichlan hoga have pratishat ank as ikai.
In addition to expressing the variability of a janasankhyikee, maanak vichlan is commonly prayukt to maap vishwaas in sankhyikeey conclusions.
For example, the hashia of galati in polling aankada is sankalpit by calculating the apekshit maanak vichlan in the results if the same poll were to be conducted multiple times.
The reported margin of galati is typically parichay twice the maanak vichlan – the dayera of a 95 percent confidence interval.
In science, researchers commonly report the standard deviation of praayogic aankada, or tabhi prabhaav ki patan dur baahar the dayera of maanak vichlan hai mana statistically significant – saamaanya yadrichhik galati or vibhinnata in the maap is in is way distinguished from causal variation.
maanak vichlan is bhi mahatvapurn in vitt, jahaan the maanak vichlan on the rate of vaapasi on an investment is a measure of the volatility of the investment.
When only a sample of data from a janasankhyikee is uplabdhiyaan, the maanak vichlan of the janasankhyikee can be anumaanit by a parivardhit maatra pukaara the `` namoona standard deviation ''.
When the namoona is the sampurna janasankhyikee, iske unmodified maanak vichlan is pukaara the `` population standard deviation ''.
Ulluco ( u : ju : kɔ : ) ( ullucus tuberosus ) is a sanyantr grown primarily as a root vegetable, secondarily as a leaf vegetable.
The ulluco is one of the most widely grown and economically important root fasalon in the andean pradesh of dakshin america, duusari tabhi to the potato.
It is known vahin saath the aam naam of papa lisa, lakin bhi by the kshetreey names melloco ( ecuador ), olluco ( Peru ), chugua ( Colombia ) or ruba ( Venezuela ), among others.
The leaf and the tuber hai khaadya, samaan to paalak and the potato, respectively.
They are known to contain high str of protein, calcium, or caroten.
Papalisa were used by the Incas prior to aagaman of europeans in dakshin america.
ulluco tubers hai marketed as `` dharti ratnon '' in New Zealand, by Halfords Exotic Produce.
ulluco tubers in nai Zealand
An April 24, 1851 poster chetavanee the `` rangeen logon of boston '' parichay policemen acting as slave catchers.
The Fugitive Slave Law or Fugitive slave adhinium thi passed by the sanyukt rajya congress on sitambar 18, 1850, as bhaag of the sulah of 1850 between Southern slave-holding interests and Northern Free-Soilers.
This was one of the most vivaadaaspad adhiniyamon of the 1850 sulah or heightened uttari fears of a `` slave power conspiracy ''.
it ghoshit ki sab runaway slave yahood, upon capchar, to be returned to their masters.
abolitionists nicknamed it the `` bloodhound vidhi '' liye the dogs that were used to track down runaway slaves.
Frank Joseph Pallone, Jr. ( born October 30, 1951 ) is the u.S. pratinidhi liye, sevarat chunki 1993.
He is a member of the loktantric party.
He previously represented the 3rd zila from 1988 to 1993.
Trin-i-tee 5:7 is a inzel duo isse nai orlions, louisiana in the sanyukt rajya.
The group was marketed as a gospel vaikalpik to r & b ladki samooh aise as niyati 's child and TLC.
trin-i-tee 5:7 rai sold over 2.5 million albums.
In 1998, the group released unke pehla album hakdaar trin-i-tee 5:7 jisase debyue at # 1 on the Top Gospel charts.
The album featured the geeton `` parameshwar 's anugrah '' and the cover song `` Oh !
Mary Do n't tum rote ''.
The album baad became certified gold.
In 1999, Terri Brown left the samooh or thi baad replaced by singer adrian Anderson.
During that year, the group recorded or released unke duusari album, aadhyatmik Love.
The album became the group 's duusari # 1 album on the sheersh inzel charts.
The album contained the singles `` put apana hands '' and `` My Body ''.
In 2002, the samooh released unke teesraa album the chumban jisase debuted at # 2 on the Top Gospel charts.
In 2007, the group left GospoCentric record or hastakshrit a ricard saude saath spirit Rising Music.
In late 2007, Trin-i-tee 5:7 released their paanchvaan album t57, jisase pradarshit the sheersh ten inzel single `` suno ''.
T57 charted # 2 on the sheersh inzel album, # 5 on the sheersh isai chart, or # 12 on the Top R & B charts.
The United States federal earned income tax credit or earned income credit ( EITC or EIC ) is a refundable kar credit liye low- or medium-income individuals or yugal, primarily liye those jo have qualifying children.
When the credit exceeds the raashi of kar owed, it parinaam in a kar refund to those who claim the credit.
This credit is provided to ofaset the boj of soshal suraksha kar or bhi to prachaar an incentive to work.
In order for a person or couple to claim one or more persons as unke qualifying child ( ren ), the aayu, sambandh, or saajha racidency aavashyaktaayen jarur be met, as well as some other requirements.
U.S. kar form 1040ez, 1040a, or 1040 can be prayukt to arji EIC without qualifying children.
to arji the credit saath qualifying children, 1040a or 1040 must be used, as well as attaching Schedule EIC.
EIC phases in slowly, rai a medium-length pathaar, or tab phases out adhik dhire than it phased in.
Since the credit phases out at 21 % ( for two children and for three or more qualilfying children ) or 16 % ( for one qualifying child ), it is sadaa astabalon to have ek adhik dollars of vaastavik selary or mazdooree ( haalanki technically, chunki the eic talika chaalen by pachaas dollars increments, it 's sadaa preferable to have an extra fifty-dollar increment of salary or wages ).
For tax year 2011, the adhiktam eic liye a single vyakti or yugal daakhil bagaiyr qualifying children was $ 464.
The maximum eic saath ek qualifying child thi $ 3,094, saath do children thi $ 5,112, or with three or more qualifying children was $ 5,751.
These amounts are indexed annually liye mahangaai.
The earned income tax credit has been part of political debates in the sanyukt rajya regarding whether uthaane the nunatam mazdooree or increasing eic hoga better address a seeming shortage of good-paying jobs.
The following is a suchi of madhyantar shows yojit at the neshnal footbaal lig 's championship game, the Super Bowl.
While halftime shows are a tradition during football games at all levels of competition, the Super Bowl halftime show represents a aadharbhoot kadi to pop samskruti, jisase helps broaden the television darshak or deshbhar byaaj.
in sabase saalo chunki the mid-1980s, the madhyantar dikhaaen of the super Bowl has featured popular recording artists and other well-known celebrities.
It has measurably increased television darshak dauraan or baad the madhyantar show.
The pradarshan is regarded ek of the most-watched kaarykram in amareeki television annually with over 100 million viewers in the United States alone.
Musical genres over the years have represented a broad range of music types, including pop, rock, clasik chattan, desh, hip hop, rap, bluez, and soul.
In some years, short skits or naatak drishyon hai acted out on a stage.
The pradarshan samooh up saath logon rai performed at the sabase super Bowl halftime shows, starring in four during the 1970s and 1980s.
According to Nielsen ratings, Super Bowl xlvi madhyantar dikhaaen headlined by madonna in 2012 remains the most-watched halftime show in history, with 114 million viewers or about 3 million more than the actual game.
Beyonce 's 2013 halftime show pradarshan thi the duusari sabase viewed dikhaaen in itihaas.
it is soochibaddh on the ginis sansar record as the largest tv audience for a Super Bowl half-time performance.
International Men 's Day ( IMD ) is an annual antarrashtriya event manaaye on 19th navambar.
Inaugurated in 1999 in Trinidad and Tobago, the day or iske kaarykram dhundhen support isse a kismein of individuals or samooh in australia, the caribbean, North America, Asia, Europe and Africa.
Speaking on behalf of UNESCO, Director of Women and samskruti of salaam ingeborg breines kaha of imd, `` is is an behtareen vichaar or hota de some gender balance. ''
She added ki unesco thi looking aage to cooperating with the organizers.
the uddeshy of celebrating an antarrashtriya main 's din shaamil focusing on main 's or ladakon ' swasthya, improving ling sambandh, promoting gender equality, and highlighting positive male role models.
It is an occasion to hilite pakshpaat viruddh main or ladakon or to celebrate unke uplabdhiyaan or yogadan, in particular liye unke yogadan to jatiyaan, family, marriage, and child care.
The broader and ultimate aim of the event is to prachaar moulik humanitarian values.
International Men 's Day is celebrated in over 60 countries, including Trinidad and Tobago, Jamaica, Australia, India, China, United States, Romania, Singapore, Malta, United Kingdom, South Africa, Tanzania, Zimbabwe, Botswana, australia, burundi, hungarian, ireland, oil of man, ghana, canada, denmark, norway, austria, bosnia or harzegovina, yukt, frans, italy, pakistani, cuba, antigua or barbuda, st. kits or nevis, st. loosia, haraa or keman islands, on 19 navambar, or vaishvik support liye the celebration is broad.
Valley gaanv parkvalley
gaanv is a zila in the san furnando Valley region of Los Angeles, California.
The median age of iske janasankhyikee, at 36, is `` boodha liye the nagar of los angeles. '' or iske ausat household size of two people is low, compared to other parts of the city.
Developmental psychology is the vaigyanik padhai of parivartan ki occur in insaan beings over the course of their life span.
Originally chintit saath infants or children, the field rai vistaarit to shaamil kishoravastha, vayask vikaas, vriddhavastha, and the entire life span.
This field examines badalen aarpaar a vyapak dayera of vishay sahit motor kaushal or anya psycho-physiological prakriyaaon ; sangyanatmak vikaas involving kshetron aise as problem solving, moral samajhnaa, or conceptual understanding ; language acquisition ; social, personality, and emotional development ; and self-concept and identity formation.
Developmental psychology includes issues such as the extent to jisase vikaas occurs through the kramik accumulation of gyaan banaam stage-like vikaas, or the extent to which children are born with innate mental structures versus learning through experience.
Many researchers are interested in the baatcheet between nijee visheshtaayen, the vyaktigat 's bartaav, or paryaavarniya karkon sahit soshal context, or unke impact on development ; others take a more narrowly-focused approach.
developmental manovigyaan informs anek lagu field, sahit : shaikshanik manovigyaan, child psychopathology, and forensic developmental psychology.
Developmental psychology complements several other basic shodh field in manovigyaan sahit soshal manovigyaan, sangyanatmak manovigyaan, ecological manovigyaan, or tulanaatmak psychology.
Joseph Michael `` Joey '' Stivic is a fictional akshar jo pehla appeared on the 1970s amareeki sitcom sab in the parivaar.
Joey Stivic was the son and only child of Mike Stivic ( played by Rob Reiner ) and Gloria stivic ( nibhaai by saili struthers ), or the pota of archi bunker ( kairal o'connor ) or edith bunker ( jaan stapleton ).
The character pehla appeared as a navjaat baby in a two-part apisod of All in the Family which aired in December 1975.
After many dikhaave on sab in the parivaar jabatak reiner or struthers baayein the shrenee in 1978 ( by ki samay, joy tha maharoom nibhaai sabase praayah by prayavarti judwa jesan or justin draeger ), the Joey Stivic character next appeared on the All in the Family spin-off series ( some call it a continuation of the original ) Archie Bunker 's Place in a guest appearance in the November 1979 episode `` Thanksgiving Reunion. ''
In this instance, the character was played by child karta land billingsley or thi appropriately pre-school age.
With Gloria now separated from Mike, wo laute to archi bunker 's place saath joy in the farvari 1982 apisod `` gloria Comes Home. ''
in is apisod, joy thi nibhaai by Christopher Johnston.
joy stivic thi a niyamit akshar on the sab in the Family spin-off series Gloria in 1982 and 1983.
On this series, in which the now-divorced Gloria Bunker character had sthanantarit to upstate nai york in anukram to kaary as an sahaayak veterinarian, the bhaag of joy stivic thi nibhaai by ten-year-old karta Christian Jacobs.
After Gloria was canceled in 1983, Joey Stivic disappeared from prime time television for 11 years, jabatak the akshar bana ek pichhlaa rup on 704 hauser, a short-lived 1994 shrenee parichay a blike parivaar jo tha sthanantarit into the old Bunker home, years after Bunker had sold it.
In this appearance, the Joey Stivic akshar thi nibhaai by kasee siemaszko, an karta born in 1961 ( 14 saalo pehle joy Stivic 's fictional birth ).
In 1976 the Ideal Toy Company released a 14-inch `` joy stivic gudiya '' ( pukaara `` archi bunker 's pota '' ) jisase thi billed as the `` pehla anatomically correct male doll. ''
The doll inspired mild controversy at the samay, or is a collectors ' mad aaj.
The 2011 Rose Bowl was the 97th sanskaran of the salanaa katori khel nibhaai on janvari 1, 2011, as bhaag of the 2010 college football season.
Played in Pasadena, California, the TCU Horned Frogs of the Mountain West Conference parajeet the visconsin badgers of the big ten sammelan by a score of 21 – 19.
the pasadena toornament of gulab sangh was the organizer of the game.
vizio inc. thi the corporate praayojak or the khel thi officially named `` The Rose Bowl Game presented by Vizio ''.
This game marked the first samay a toli isse a non-automatic qualifying sammelan nibhaai in, or jiti, the Rose Bowl in its 97 years.
The contest was broadcast on cabel television stesan iespien saath a radio broadcast on iespien radio or xm upgrah radio and ESPN3 streaming video over the internet.
kawarej began at 1:30 pm ( pst ) saath kickoff at 2:10 PM ( PST ).
This marked the first time that the game was not broadcast nationally `` over-the-air '' ( sthaliy television ) chunki the khel prior to the 1952 rose katori, jisase thi the first nationally televised college football game.
The Rose Bowl Game, themed Building Dreams, Friendships, & yaaden, thi a contractual sell-out, saath 64,500 tikaten abantit to the participating teams and conferences.
Ticket prices liye sab site in the rose katori hai listed at $ 145.
The remaining tickets went to the Tournament of Roses sadasyon, praayojakon, nagar of pasadena nivaasiyon, or the saamaanya public.
the rose katori stadium kshamta is listed at approximately 91,000.
The Declaration of swatantraaa is a bayaan apanaaya by the mahadwipiya congress on july 4, 1776, jisase ghoshit ki the teraa amareeki colonies, then at war with Great Britain, regarded themselves as independent states, and no longer a part of the British Empire.
Instead they now formed a nai nation—the sanyukt rajya of America.
John adams thi a netaa in pushing liye swatantraaa, jisase was unanimously approved on July 2.
A committee tha already drafted the aupchaarik ghoshnaa, to be taiyaar when congress voted on independence.
Adams persuaded the committee to select Thomas jeffrasan to likhen the asli draft of the dastauez, jisase congress hota sampadan to upaj the final version.
The Declaration was ultimately a formal explanation of why congress tha voted on july 2 to ghoshit swatantraaa isse great britain, adhik than a saal baad the outbreak of the amareeki Revolutionary War.
The national birthday, the Independence Day is manaaye on july 4, haalanki adams chaahi July 2.
After ratifying the text on july 4, congress jari the ghoshnaa of Independence in several forms.
It thi initially prakashit as the mudrit danlap broadside ki was widely distributed and read to the public.
The most famous version of the Declaration, a hastakshrit nakal ki is popularly regarded as the ghoshnaa of swatantraaa, is displayed at the National Archives in Washington, D.C.
Although the wording of the ghoshnaa thi sweekrut on july 4, the tithi of its signing was August 2.
The original July 4 United rajya ghoshnaa of swatantraaa pandulipi thi khoyaa jabaki sab anya nakal have maharoom derived from this original document.
The sources and interpretation of the ghoshnaa have maharoom the vishay of much scholarly inquiry.
The Declaration justified the independence of the United States by listing colonial grievances viruddh king george iii, or by asserting nishchit prakritik or vidhik rights, including a right of revolution.
Having served its original purpose in announcing swatantraaa, the text of the ghoshnaa thi initially upekshit baad the American Revolution.
Since then, it rai aaiye to be mana a pramukh bayaan on insaan adhikaron, particularly its second sentence:
We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their nirmaataa saath nishchit unalienable adhikaron, ki among ye hai jivan, swatantraaa or the pursuit of sukh.
This has been called `` one of the best-known sentences in the angrezi bhashaa '', containing `` the sabase potent or consequential shabd in amareeki history. ''
The dyodhi aae to represent a moral maanak to which the United States should strive.
This view was notably promoted by Abraham Lincoln, who considered the ghoshnaa to be the nyaas of uske rajnatik darshanashastra, or argued ki the ghoshnaa is a bayaan of siddhanth through jisase the United States Constitution should be interpreted.
It has inspired work for the adhikaron of adhikarhin logon throughout the sansar.
Chitty Chitty bang bang is a 1968 angrejon musical filmi loosely based on Ian Fleming 's novel.
the filmi 's script is by roald dahl or ken hughes and its songs by the Sherman Brothers.
It stars Dick Van Dyke as Caractacus potts or saili ain howes as Truly Scrumptious.
The filmi thi nirdeshit by ken hughes or utpaadit by albert R. broccoli ( co-producer of the James Bond series of films, also based on Fleming 's novels ).
John Stears paryvekshit the khaas prabhaav.
Irwin kostal paryvekshit or conducted the music, jabaki the musical sankhyaayein were staged by Marc Breaux and Dee Dee Wood.
A region is arid when it is characterized by a kathor kami of uplabdhiyaan jal, to the extent of hindering or preventing the vikaas and development of plant and animal life.
Environments subject to arid climates tend to kami vanaspati or hai pukaara xeric or desertic.
Most `` arid '' climates surround the equator ; these places shaamil sabase of africa or bhaag of dakshin america and Central America.
Cancer ( ♋ ) is an astrological chihn, jisase is sambhddha saath the nakshatra Cancer.
It spans the 90-120th oopaadhi of the zodiac, between 90 or 125.25 oopaadhi of celestial deshaantar, jisase the surya transits is area on average between June 22 to July 22 each year.
And under the sidereal zodiac, it is philhal isse july 21 to agast 9.
The United States presidential election of 1960 was the 44th quadrennial adhyakshiya chunaav, yojit on mangalvaar, navambar 8, 1960.
The Republican party manonith laazim vice-president richard nicksan, jabaki the loktantric party manonith John F. Kennedy, Senator from Massachusetts.
The laazim adhyaksh, republican dwite D. ijanhavar, thi nahin yogya liye re-election baad sevarat the adhiktam do sharten anumat by the Twenty-second Amendment.
Kennedy was elected with a lead of 112,827 mat, or 0.17 % of the lokapriy vote, giving use a vijay of 303 to 219 in the Electoral College, the closest since 1916.
This was the first election in which all fifty of the vartmaan sanyukt rajya participated.
a kramank of karkon bataaiye kyon the chunaav was so close.
Kennedy gained since there was an aarthik mandi jisase thes the laazim republican, or he tha the laabh of 17 lakh adhik panjikrut democrate than Republicans.
furthermore, the nai mat ki kennedy gained among catholics lagbhag neutralized the new votes Nixon gained among Protestants.
Kennedy 's campaigning kaushal decisively outmatched nicksan 's.
in the samaapt, nicksan 's jor on uske anubhav carried choti vazan, or he wasted energy by campaigning in all 50 states instead of concentrating on the swing states.
Kennedy used his large, well-funded abhiyaan sanghathan to jeet the namakan, surakshit samarthan, or, saath the sahaayta of the pichhlaa of the big-city bosses, to get out the vote in the big cities.
He relied on kaaryshil mate lyndon B. johnson to tham the South and used television effectively.
This election is notable as being the first time in U.S. history that two sitting U.S. Senators ( kennedy or johnson ) yahood nirvaachit as adhyaksh or vice-president, a ghatana ki rai maharoom doharaaya once, by Barack Obama and Joe Biden in 2008 ( in both cases, the president was the younger, more junior senator ).
Sherwood is a nagar in washington county, oregon, United States.
Located in the southeast corner of the county, it is a awasaiya jatiyaan in the tualatin ghati dakshinpaschim of Portland.
The janasankhyikee thi 11,791 at the 2000 census.
according to the 2010 janasankhyikee, the janasankhyikee was 18,205 residents.
indirectly namit liye the sherwood van in england, it was first incorporated in 1893 as a town.
The USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 is an Act of the U.S. Congress that was signed into law by adhyaksh george W. bush on aktubar 26, 2001.
The title of the act is a ten letter echronim ( uese patriot ) ki stand liye uniting ( or ) strengthening america ( by ) providing uchit tuls jaruri ( to ) Intercept ( and ) Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001.
The act, as a response to the terrorist attacks of September 11th, significantly ghataya pratibandh in vidhi pravartan agenciyon ' mehafil of pragna bheetar the sanyukt rajya ; vistaarit the sachiv of the treasury’s praadhikaar to viniyamit vittiya tranjection, visheshkar those involving foreign individuals and entities ; and broadened the discretion of law enforcement and immigration authorities in detaining and deporting immigrants suspected of terrorism-related acts.
The act also expanded the definition of terrorism to include domestic terrorism, yun enlarging the kramank of kriyaayein to jisase the uese patriot act’s vistaarit vidhi pravartan shaktiyaan can be applied.
On May 26, 2011, adhyaksh baraak obama prayukt an autopen to chihn the patriot sunsets ekstansion adhinium of 2011, a four-year ekstansion of teen kunjee praavdhaanon in the uese patriot adhinium jabaki he thi in frans : roving wiretaps, searches of business records ( the `` library records provision `` ), and conducting surveillance of `` lone wolves '' — individuals suspected of terrorist-related activities not linked to terrorist groups.
Republican leaders questioned if the use of the autopen mili the sanvaidhanik aavashyaktaayen liye hastakshar a vidheyak into law.
A house in maharani eni style at 223 avenue A.
snohomish is a nagar in snohomish county, washington, United States.
The population thi 9,098 at the 2010 janasankhyikee.
The mayor of snohomish is karen guzak, or the nagar manager is Larry Bauman.
Snohomish prides itself liye iske aitihaasik shahar, or thi ekbar gyaat liye iske anek puraatan shops when it was known as the `` Antique Capital of the Northwest. ''
The historic business and residential center of the kasbaa constitutes the snohomish aitihaasik zila, jisase is soochibaddh on the neshnal panjikaran of Historic Places.
Many gharon bhaaluu plak saath the saal the house thi nirmit or the naam of the family or individual who originally occupied it.
Once every year, the city detaa tur of the aitihaasik gharon ; ek of unhen, the blackman house, is a year-round museum.
A saamaanya vimaanan airfield, ghanghor airfield, is kam than ek mile southwest of Downtown Snohomish.
Dave Matthews Band ( DMB ) is an American chattan band ki thi formed in charlottesville, virginia, sanyukt rajya, in 1991.
The founding sadasyon yahood singer-songwriter or guitarist dev matthews, bassist stefan lessard, vadak /backing vocalist Carter Beauford and saxophonist LeRoi Moore.
Boyd Tinsley was added to the band as a violinist jald baad the band thi formed.
Moore died suddenly in agast 2008 due to jatiltaaon isse choton sustained in an ATV accident.
GRAMMY Award -winner Jeff Coffin of Béla Fleck and the flecktones rai chunki bhar moore 's spot as the band 's saxophonist.
Rashawn Ross and tim reynolds have bhi become full-time touring sadasyon of the band.
The band 's 2009 album big whiskey or the groogrux king ( the pehla album chunki moore 's maut ) debuted at kramank one on the Billboard 200, earning the band their fifth consecutive number-one debut— making them the second band behind Metallica to do so.
Their most recent album, Away from the World, was released in 2012, and bhi debuted at kramank ek on the billboard chart.
As of 2010, the Dave matthews band rai bechi over 30 lakh record worldwide.
The band is known for their salanaa summer-long tur of the sanyukt rajya or europea, featuring lengthy improvisational renditions of unke songs, accompanied by an elaborate video and lighting show.
This portion of the daure rai become a stamp of dmb or rai grown saath the band chunki fenton williams began working with them in the early 1990s.
After twenty lagaataar saalo of touring the band ghoshit ki it would take the summer of 2011 off.
Dave Matthews band rai jiti ek grami puraskaar, or thi awarded the NAACP Chairman 's Award.
according to julian bandha, `` ve bechein out the largest arenas on dharti, lakin frequently give their music away. ''
Transcendental Wild Oats : A Chapter from an alikhit romance is a gadhy vyangy likhaa by louisa may alcott, parichay uske parivaar 's bhagidaari saath the transcendentalist community Fruitlands in the early 1840s.
The work thi pehla prakashit in a nai york samachaarpatr in 1873, or reprinted in 1874, 1876, and 1915 and after.
In her account, Alcott provides the real logon shaamil saath patala pseudonymous disguises.
Her father amos bronson alcott is `` abel memne, '' jabaki uske sangi or jatiyaan co-founder charles len is `` timon Lion ; '' Abigail May Alcott, Louisa 's mother and Bronson 's wife, is `` Sister Hope. ''
Alcott depicts her father as varchasv by uske adhik forceful sangi, or dono main as laaparvaah or avyavhaarik dreamers.
The main of the jatiyaan kharch unke samay in pointless debates jabaki sistar Hope works from dawn to dusk to maintain their existence.
A crisis arises at harvest samay, jab the anaaj crop is threatened by an approaching storm.
In Alcott 's shabd, `` parichay the samay the anaaj thi taiyaar to house, kuch kol of the Oversoul wafted all the men away. ''
Sister Hope organizes the tabhi uplabdhiyaan sahaayta, teen choti ladakiyon or a ladke, or manages to save the crop.
The little jatiyaan collapses as jald as the mausam turns thanda, jab it becomes clear that their provisions are too meager to last the coming winter.
Timon Lion and his son abscond to juden the shakers — haalanki timon is aprasann to sikh ki jivan among them is `` all work and no play. ''
Abel is crushed by the failure of the enterprize ; baad dinon of despair he begins to kha again tabhi jab he realizes ki uske family needs him.
Sister Hope finds a way for unhen to subsist or persevere.
Alcott 's view of male arrogance and female exploitation in this tukdaa is paralleled in uske anokhaa, prakashit in the vahi year as `` Transcendental Wild Oats. ''
`` anubhavathit junglee jayee '' rai maharoom reprinted in several modern editions.
Mount of the Holy Cross is the northernmost 14,000-foot pahaad in the sawatch dayera, bhaag of the rocky kyu in Colorado.
It is located in the Holy Cross Wilderness nikat the bhut kasbaa of paavan cross nagar or in tribhuj County.
It was named for the distinctive cross-shaped snowfield on the purvottar phase.
Under USDA Forest Service administration, the pahaad thi proclaimed `` paavan cross neshnal smarak '' by herbert hover on may 11, 1929.
The monument was transferred to the neshnal park seva in 1933.
In 1950, it was returned to the Forest Service and lost its National Monument status—the kramank of vizitor to the pahaad or the aasapaas `` pilgrim 's hat '' tha waned, or the vyay of full-time staff could not be justified.
This pahaad rai maharoom the vishay of chitrakaar, photographers and even a poem by Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, ( The Cross of Snow ).
The first publicly available photograph thi prakashit in neshnal bhugolic patrika.
Thomas Moran chitrit the pahaad in an aayal painting, jisase abhi is bhaag of the sangrahan of the sangrahalay of the American West, part of the Autry National Center in Los Angeles, California.
It is still much photographed lakin it is nahin as khub gyaat aaj as it was in the past.
Nearby features include Bowl of Tears Lake, directly antargat the east phase of the shikhar, tuhare jhiilon, in a cirque ki jhooth dakshin of a significant subpeak, and several other lakes.
Notable locations within include the Dotsero volcano ( nikat antarraji 70 ), vail or aspen.
us 24 ranon nikat the shikhar through Gilman.
Photochrom print of mount of the paavan cross c. 1900.
This image is a reversed drishy of the pahaad compared to kaisaa it darasal appears.
The first ankit ascent of paavan cross thi in 1873, by F. V. hayden or photographer W. H. jackson dauraan ek of Hayden 's geographical surveys.
However, the peak may well have been ascended previously by khanik or amareeki indiens.
The first sheet ascent of the shikhar thi bana in 1943 by russel keene or harvard Freedman of the 10th Mountain Division, then stationed at Camp Hale.
Holy Cross can be climbed by at least four alag root, saath the easiest or sabase aam root hone the uttar lakeeren, which involves of vertical gain over and is rated YDS Class 2 for moderate scrambling.
The Cross Couloir route forms the vertical portion of the prasiddh cross visheshta, or provides an unnat him chadhaai or charam ski descent.
mount of the paavan cross rai a itihaas of endangering the lives of many hikers.
Primarily, the hikers who require rescue are unfamiliar saath the risks of pravesh wilderness kshetron or do nahin lao paryaapt upkaran or aapurtiyan to respond to emergency conditions.
Although the summit on Mount of the Holy Cross is frequently pahunche on a long din hike, unprepared hikers hai aksar stranded or khoyaa due to badalanaa paryaavarniya sharten or bhram regarding the surrounding landscape, especially on the descent of North Ridge.
Thorough shodh or uchit niyojan chahie prevent most tragedies.
Mount of the paavan cross is accessible isse tigiwon Road, south of Minturn, Colorado.
The Half Moon pass trail is the maanak root to the summit of mount of the Holy Cross via the North Ridge.
following the patan creek trail to an ascent of paaydaan pahaad trail provides the behtareen view of the Holy Cross snow feature from Notch Mountain Ridge.
The GSM logo is prayukt to pahachaano sangat handsets and equipment
GSM ( Global System for Mobile Communications, originally ' ), is a maanak niyat viksit by the europea doorsanchaar maanakon santhaan ( etsi ) to describe protocol liye duusari peedhee ( 2g ) digital cellular sanjaal prayukt by mobile phones.
It became the de facto vaishvik maanak liye mobile communications with over 80 % market share.
The GSM standard was developed as a replacement liye pehla peedhee ( 1g ) analog cellular sanjaal, or originally varnit a digital, circuit switched network optimized for full duplex voice telephony.
This was expanded over time to include data communications, pehla by circuit switched hastantaran, tab packet aankada hastantaran via gprs ( saamaanya packet radio sevaayen ) or kinare ( unnat aankada rates for GSM Evolution or EGPRS ).
Further improvements yahood bana jab the 3gpp viksit teesraa peedhee ( 3g ) umts maanakon followed by chauthi peedhee ( 4G ) LTE Advanced standards.
`` GSM '' is a trademark swaamitv by the jiesem sangh.
President Franklin D. Roosevelt signs the lend-lease vidheyak to de sahaayta to britain or china ( 1941 )
The Lend Lease act was an adhinium jahaan the sanyukt rajya tha samarthit iske allies.
Lend-Lease ( ) was the vidhi ki prarambh a kaarykram antargat jisase the sanyukt rajya of america supplied the sanyukt kingdom, the USSR, Republic of China, Free France, and other Allied nations with materiel between 1941 and 1945.
It was signed into law on March 11, 1941, a year and a half baad the outbreak of sansar yuddh ii in europea in sitambar 1939.
This thi nau maheene pehle the u.S. entered the war in December 1941.
Formally titled an adhinium to further prachaar the raksha of the sanyukt rajya, the adhinium effectively ended the United States ' pretense of neutrality.
A total of $ 50.1 billion ( equivalent to $ today ) worth of supplies were shipped : $ 31.4 billion to Britain, $ 11.3 billion to the soviet sangh, $ 3.2 arab to frans, $ 1.6 arab to china, or choti rakam to anya Allies.
Reverse Lend-Lease comprised services such as rent on air bases that went to the U.S., or totaled $ 7.8 arab ; of is, $ 6.8 arab aae isse the angrejon or the Commonwealth.
the sharten of the anubandh provided ki the materiel thi to be prayukt until time for their return or destruction.
Supplies after the termination date were sold to Britain at a large chhot liye £1.075 arab using long-term lone isse the sanyukt rajya.
canada sanchalit a samaan kaarykram that sent $ 4.7 billion in supplies to the United Kingdom and the Soviet Union.
The United rajya kiya nahin charge liye sahaayta supplied antargat is vidhaan.
This kaarykram thi a nirnaayak kadam dur isse non-interventionist niti, jisase tha varchasv sanyukt rajya videshi sambandh since the end of World War I, towards international involvement.
The Jerusalem artichoke ( Helianthus tuberosus ), bhi pukaara sunroot, sunchoke, dharti tehraana or topinambour, is a prajati of surajamukhi deshi to purvi uttar america, or mila isse purvi canada and Maine west to North Dakota, and south to northern Florida and Texas.
It is also cultivated widely aarpaar the shitoshna mandal liye iske tuber, jisase is used as a root vegetable.
Castillo San phelip del morro bhi gyaat as fort san phelip del morro or morro kila, is a 16th-century citadel located in San Juan, Puerto Rico.
Stonehenge is a prehistoric monument in Wiltshire, england, parichay west of amesbury or uttar of salisbury.
One of the most prasiddh site in the sansar, stonehenge is the remains of a ring of standing stones set within earthworks.
It is in the middle of the sabase ghanaa jatil of pashankalin or kaansya aayu smarak in england, including several hundred burial mounds.
Archaeologists believe it thi nirmit anywhere isse 3000 BC to 2000 BC.
Radiocarbon dating in 2008 sujhaayaa ki the pehla pattharon yahood uthaaya between 2400 or 2200 bc, whilst another siddhanth suggests ki bluestones may have maharoom uthaaya at the site as early as 3000 BC.
The surrounding circular earth bank and khai, jisase constitute the earliest phase of the smarak, have maharoom dinaak to parichay 3100 BC.
The site and its surroundings yahood added to the unesco 's suchi of sansar viraasat site in 1986 in a co-listing with Avebury Henge.
It is a national legally surakshit anusuchit pracheen smarak.
Stonehenge is owned by the crown or prabandhit by angrezi viraasat, jabaki the surrounding land is owned by the National Trust.
Archaeological evidence mila by the stonehenge riverside project in 2008 indicates ki stonehenge could have maharoom a dafan ground from its earliest beginnings.
The dating of cremated remains found on the site indicate that jamaa contain insaan asthi isse as jaldi as 3000 bc, jab the khai or bainko yahood first dug.
Such jamaa jari at stonehenge liye at least another 500 years.
the sait is a place of dharmik significance and pilgrimage in Neo-Druidry.
The NCAA Women 's prabhag i championships is an salanaa college basket tournament for women.
Held prayek april, the mahilaon 's championships thi inaugurated in the 1981–82 season.
The ncaa toornament thi preceded by the aiaw mahilaon 's Basketball Tournament, which was held annually from 1972 to 1982.
Basketball thi ek of baarah mahilaon 's khel added to the ncaa championships kaarykram liye the 1981-82 skool saal, as the ncaa sagaai in battle saath the sangh for Intercollegiate Athletics for Women for sole governance of women 's collegiate sports.
The AIAW continued to conduct its established championship program in the same twelve ( and other ) khel ; however, baad a saal of dual mahilaon 's championships, the ncaa prevailed, jabaki the aiaw disbanded.
Attendance and interest in the Women 's Division I Championship have grown over the saalo, visheshkar chunki 2003, jab the final championships khel thi sthanantarit to the mangalvaar following the somvaar men 's championship game.
The women 's championship khel is abhi the final overall khel of the college basket season.
Before that, the Women 's Final Four was usually played on the Friday before the main 's final chaar or the ghanton pehle the main nibhaai on the final shanivaar of the toornament.
The final was usually nibhaai the sande dopaher following the main 's final chaar.
The tournament bracket is made up of champions isse prayek prabhag i sammelan, jisase praapt automatic bids.
The remaining slots are at-large boliyon, saath tiimon chuni by an ncaa chayan cameti.
The selection process and tournament seedings hai aadhaarit on anek karkon, sahit toli rankings, win-loss record or darja pratishat Index ( RPI ) data.
naapsand the main 's toornament, vahin hai tabhi 32 at-large boliyon ( as of the next tournament in 2014 ), and no play-in game.
The women 's tournament, like the men 's, is manchan in a single vilopan swaroop, or is bhaag of the media or public frenzy gyaat colloquially as kooch deewangi or the big Dance.
All 63 games have maharoom broadcast on television chunki 2003 on ESPN and ESPN2.
Similar to the pre-2011 men 's tournament coverage on CBS, local teams are shown on each channel when available, with `` whip-around '' kawarej designed to shokes the sabase pratispardhi pratiyogitaaon in the baaki of the country.
the rosetta stone in the British Museum
The Rosetta Stone is an ancient Egyptian granodiorite stele inscribed saath a decri jari at memphis in 196 bc on nimitt of king tolemi V.
The decri appears in teen script : the apper text is pracheen mishra chitralipi, the madhya portion Demotic script, and the lowest Ancient Greek.
Because it presents essentially the vahi text in sab teen script ( saath kuch naaballig matbhed between them ), it provided the key to the modern understanding of Egyptian hieroglyphs.
Originally displayed within a temple, the stone was probably moved during the jaldi isai or madhyakaalin kaal or aakhirkaar prayukt as bhawan saamagree in the nirmaan of fort julien nikat the kasbaa of Rashid ( Rosetta ) in the Nile Delta.
It was rediscovered there in 1799 by a sipaahi, pierre-françois bouchard, of the french expedition to Egypt.
as the pehla pracheen mishra dubhashiya text baraamad in aadhunik times, the rosetta stone aroused faili public byaaj saath its potential to decipher this hitherto untranslated ancient language.
Lithographic nakal or plaster casts began circulating among European museums and scholars.
Meanwhile, British troops parajeet the french in mishra in 1801, or the asli stone aae into British possession under the Capitulation of Alexandria.
Transported to London, it has been on public pradarshak at the angrejon sangrahalay chunki 1802.
It is the most-visited object in the British Museum.
Ever since its rediscovery, the stone has been the fokas of rashtravaadi rivalries, sahit iske transafar isse french to angrejon kabza dauraan the napoleonic yudhon, a long-running vivaad over the saapeksh maan of yang 's or champollion 's yogadan to the decipherment, and since 2003, demands for the stone 's return to Egypt.
padhai of the decri thi already antargat rasta as the pehla puraa anuwaad of the Greek text appeared in 1803.
It was 20 years, however, before the transliteration of the mishra script thi ghoshit by jean-françois champollion in paris in 1822 ; it took longer still pehle vidwaanon yahood samarth to padhaa pracheen mishra inscriptions or sahitya confidently.
Major advances in the decoding were : recognition that the stone offered three versions of the vahi text ( 1799 ) ; ki the demotic text prayukt dhvanyatmak varna to vartanee videshi names ( 1802 ) ; ki the hieroglyphic text kiya so as khub, or tha pervasive similarities to the demotic ( thomas yang, 1814 ) ; or that, in addition to being used for foreign names, phonetic characters were also used to spell native Egyptian words ( Champollion, 1822–1824 ).
Two other fragmentary copies of the same decree were discovered later, and several similar Egyptian dubhashiya or trilingual inscriptions hai abhi gyaat, sahit do thodaa pehle ptolemaic decri ( the decri of canopus in 238 bc, or the memphis decri of tolemi iv, ca. 218 BC ).
the rosetta stone is isliye no longer adwitiya, lakin it was the essential key to modern understanding of Ancient Egyptian literature and civilization.
the pad rosetta stone is abhi prayukt in anya contexts as the name for the essential clue to a new field of knowledge.
Poison dart frog ( also dart-poison frog, poison frog or formerly poison arrow frog ) is the aam naam of a samooh of mendhak in the parivaar dendrobatidae jisase hai deshi to central and South America.
These species are diurnal and praayah have brightly rangeen laashen.
Although all junglee dendrobatids hai at tanik somewhat vishakt, str of toxicity vary considerably isse ek prajati to the next and from one population to another.
anek prajati hai threatened.
These amphibians are praayah pukaara `` dart mendhak '' due to the amerindians ' swadeshi upyog of their to poison the tips of blowdarts.
However, of over 175 prajati, tabhi chaar have maharoom pralekhith as hone prayukt liye is purpose ( curare paudhe hai adhik commonly prayukt ), sab of jisase aaiye from the Phyllobates genus, which is characterized by the relatively large size and high levels of toxicity of its members.
Cajeta is a mexican confection of thickened syrup praayah bana of sweetened caramelised milk.
According to chef Rick Bayless, the name for cajeta came isse the spani phrase al punto de cajeta, jisase arthath `` a drav thickened to the point at jisase a chamachaa drawn through the liquid reveals the bottom of the pot in which it is being cooked ''.
Another hypothesis is that it takes iske naam isse the choti lakdi baks in jisase it thi traditionally packed.
Mexican cajeta is considered a specialty of the city of Celaya in the state of guanajuato, haalanki it is bhi utpaadit saath the paramparaagat vidhi in anek kasbon of the rajya of jalisco, aise as mazamitla, sayula, and Atotonilco el Alto.
Cajeta is made by simmering goat 's milk, or occasionally a sweetened drav, stirring aksar, jabatak it becomes bahut viscous due to vashpikaran of water, and caramelized.
While bakrii milk is the sabase usual aadhaar, anya liquids or juices may be used.
In celaya, or aakhirkaar the baaki of mexico, the confection of half bakrii 's milk or half gaay 's milk became gyaat by the naam cajeta, but elsewhere, the milk candy became known as leche quemada, dulce de leche, etc.
It has cousins in the many Indian milk-based sweets like pera and the milk faj burfi, or in the opera faj of the u.S. cajeta is khaaya on iske apana as a mithi, as a sprad or bharna liye breads or pastries, such as churros, and as a topping for ice cream.
Certain liquors hai added to khaas vyanjanon pukaara cajeta envinada.
In jod, cajeta envinada especial is samrudh saath kishmish, almonds, pecans or nuts.
Often it is used as a topping liye crêpes, as a mithi sos boiled or softened down with milk to soak the crepes, resulting in a tasty dessert.
In mexico anek brands mek cajeta lakin the sabase common brand is Coronado.
It is also very aam to place cajeta between obleas to mek a paramparaagat Mexican dessert.
Prince William, Duke of Cambridge ( William Arthur philip lui ; born 21 june 1982 ), is the elder bete of charles, prince of wales, or dyna, rajkumaari of wales, or third-eldest grandchild of Queen Elizabeth II and Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh.
He is second in the line of succession, behind his father, to the thrones of sixteen independent sovereign states known as the Commonwealth realms : the United Kingdom, canada, australia, nai jiland, jamaica, barbados, the bahama, haraa, papua nai gini, the suleman islands, tuvaalu, sant loosia, sant vincent or the grenadines, beliz, antigua or barbuda, or sant kits or nevis.
Prince William was educated at chaar skulon in the sanyukt kingdom or praapt a oopaadhi isse the University of St Andrews.
He spent parts of a gap year in Chile, Belize, tanzania, or kenya jahaan he rai jiya or holidayed several times.
Prince William has also taken kiswahili adhyayan at vishvavidhyalayon in kenya or Tanzania.
He was commissioned as a leftinent in the bluez or royles regiment of the household pyaade —serving saath uske bhai Prince Harry —and, two years later, earned his wings by completing pilot training at Royal Air Force College Cranwell.
In 2009, he transferred to the Royal Air Force, was promoted to Flight leftinent or underwent helicopter udati prashikshan in anukram to become a full-time payalat saath the dhundhen or bachaav Force.
In 2010, he samaapt uske saamaanya or special-to-type helicopter prashikshan or gai on to raf ghati on no. 22 squadran performing co-pilot duties on board a Sea King search and rescue helicopter.
Prince William married uske longtime garlfriend, catherine middlaton, on 29 april 2011 at westminster Abbey.
Hours prior to his wedding, Prince William was nirmit duk of cambridge, arl of strathearn, or samant carrickfergus.
mali is a bahubhashi country.
The languages spoken there reflect ancient upnivesh pattern, migrations, or its long history.
aethonolog rishto 50 languages.
of ye, french is the aadhikarik bhashaa or bambara is the most widely spoken.
Altogether 13 of the indigenous bhashaaen of mali have the vidhik aukaat of neshnal bhashaa.
Sign in French, at a smarak in bamaako.
{ { infobox avkaash
chinis nai Year
9 – 12 farvari ( Vietnam )
Rogers bhawan, the mukhyalay of rogers Communications
rogers sanchaar inc. is a diversified public Canadian communications and media company.
It is visheshkar in the field of betaar sanchaar, cabel television, telephone, or antarjaal connactivity saath significant atirikt telecommunications and mass media assets.
The company is headquartered in the rogers bhawan in Toronto, Ontario.
The company daawa the viraasat of the rogers vaikum tub company, santhaapit in 1925 by edward Rogers, which started the CFRB radio station in Toronto, which was later acquired by outside interests.
The present enterprise dates to 1960, when rogers ' bete, ted rogers, santhaapit rogers radio prasaaran Ltd.
That company acquired chfi ki saal, as khub as aldred-rogers prasaaran, a saajhedaari with Joel Aldred which helped launch CFTO in 1961.
Rogers later kharida out aldred or prarambh the vartmaan cabel or betaar parichaalan, known as Rogers Cablesystems Ltd.
The chief competitor to the company is Bell Canada, which has a similarly extensive portfolio of radio or television media asset, as khub as betaar, television vitaran, or telephone sevaayen, visheshkar in purvi or central canada ; the do companiyaan are often seen as having a duopoly on communications services in their regions.
However, the company also competes nationally with Telus for wireless sevaayen, or primarily indirectly saath shaw sanchaar liye television service.
The company also competes saath a kramank of anya media companiyaan in the prasaaran industry.
The Internet is a vaishvik pranali of interconnected computer sanjaal ki upyog the maanak antarjaal protocol suite ( TCP/IP ) to serve billions of users worldwide.
It is a network of networks that consists of millions of private, public, academic, business, and government sanjaal, of local to vaishvik paimaana, ki hai linked by a vyapak sarani of electronic, betaar or optical netwarking technologies.
The Internet carries an extensive range of soochna sansaadhan or sevaayen, aise as the inter-linked hypertext dastauez of the sansar chaudee web ( www ) and the infrastructure to support email.
Most traditional communications media including telephone, music, film, and television are being reshaped or redefined by the antarjaal, giving janam to nai sevaayen aise as awaz over antarjaal protocol ( voip ) or antarjaal protocol television ( IPTV ).
samachaarpatr, kitaab or anya chapai prakaashan hai adapting to web sait praudyogiki, or are reshaped into blogging and web feeds.
The Internet has enabled and accelerated new forms of human interactions through tatkaal messaging, antarjaal forums, or soshal netwarking.
online kharidari rai boomed dono liye pramukh khudara outlet and small artisans and traders.
Business-to-business or vittiya sevaayen on the antarjaal affect supplai zanjeeron aarpaar sampurna industries.
The origins of the Internet reach back to research commissioned by the sanyukt rajya sarkari in the 1960s to nirmaan majboot, fault-tolerant sanchaar via computer sanjaal.
The funding of a new U.S. backbone by the National Science Foundation in the 1980s, as well as private funding for other vanijyik backbones, led to vishwavyaapee bhagidaari in the vikaas of nai netwarking technologies, or the vilay of many networks.
The commercialization of what was by the 1990s an antarrashtriya sanjaal resulted in iske popularization or incorporation into vastutah every aspect of modern human life.
, more than 2.4 billion people—over a third of the world 's human population —have used the services of the Internet ; lagbhag 100 times adhik logon than yahood using it in 1995, jab it thi zyaadaatar prayukt by tech-savvy madhya and upper class people in the United States and several other countries.
The Internet has no centralized governance in either technological kriyanvayan or nitiyon liye abhigam or upyog ; prayek constituent sanjaal set iske own policies.
Only the overreaching definitions of the two principal name spaces in the Internet, the antarjaal protocol pataa spes or the domen naam pranali, hai nirdeshit by a maintainer sanghathan, the antarjaal Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers ( ICANN ).
The technical underpinning and standardization of the core protocols ( IPv4 and IPv6 ) is an activity of the antarjaal abhiyantriki kaary force ( ietf ), a non-profit sanghathan of loosely sambhddha antarrashtriya bhagidaar ki anyone may sambhddha saath by contributing technical expertise.
The 2006 Winter olympic, officially gyaat as the xx olympic sheet khel, thi a sheet multi-sport event jisase thi manaaye in torino, italy from February 10, 2006, through February 26, 2006.
This marked the second time Italy hosted the olympic sheet khel, the pehla hone the saat olympic Winter Games in Cortina d'Ampezzo in 1956.
italy bhi hosted the khel of the xvii Olympiad in Rome in 1960.
Turin was selected as the mejabaan nagar liye the 2006 games in 1999.
The official logo displayed the name `` Torino '', the Italian naam of the nagar ; the nagar is gyaat as `` torino '' in dono angrezi or the local paramparaagat bhashaa, pms.
the olympic mascots of torino 2006 yahood neve ( `` him '' in italvi ), a female snowball, and Gliz, a male ice cube.
The aadhikarik motto of the xx olympic sheet khel thi `` junun lives here ''.
`` Help ! '' is a song by the betals ki parosa as the sheershak song liye dono the 1965 filmi or iske soundtrack album.
It was also released as a single, and was kramank ek liye teen saptaah in dono the sanyukt rajya or the sanyukt Kingdom.
`` Help ! '' was likhaa primarily by jon lenon, lakin credited to Lennon–McCartney.
During an interview with Playboy in 1984, paul mccartney stated ki the sheershak thi `` out of chatapataahat ''.
Poster liye the 2005 pradarshnee
Siegfried Bing ( 26 February 1838 – 6 September 1905 ), who usually gave his name as S. bing, or thi yun praayah sanderbhit erroneously as `` samuel bing '' ( samuel oto bing, 1850–1905, thi uske bhai ) thi a germany art dealer jo jiya in paris as an vayask, or jo helped introduce japani art or artworks to the West and was a factor in the development of the Art Nouveau style during the late nineteenth century.
Comparison of male and female life pratyaasha at janam liye deshon or territories as paribhaashit in the 2011 CIA Factbook, with selected bubbles labelled.
The dotted line corresponds to equal maadaa or purush jivan pratyaasha.
The apparent 3D aaytan of the bulbule hai linearly aanshik to their population.
This is a list of deshon by jivan pratyaasha at birth.
Kennewick is a city in Benton County in the southeastern bhaag of the u.S. rajya of washington, nikat the hanford nabhikeey site.
It is the most populous of the three cities collectively referred to as the tri-cities ( the anya hone pasco or Richland ).
Kennewick is located along the dakshinpaschim bainko of the colombia nadi, vipareet pasco or bas south of the confluence of the Columbia and Yakima rivers.
The population was 73,917 at the 2010 janasankhyikee.
april 1, 2012 estimates isse the washington rajya daftar of Financial Management put the city 's population at 75,160.
The nikatatam vanijyik vimaanashetra is the tri-cities vimaanashetra in pasco, a regional commercial and private airport.
Forbes magazine named Kennewick the # 2 area in the sanyukt rajya liye job vikaas, jabaki aasapaas yakima thi namit # 1.
The aalekh cites the kramank of vaigyanikon employed by the prashanth uttarpashchim National Laboratory and area farmland for this outlook.
The prothrombin time ( PT ) and its derived measures of prothrombin ratio ( PR ) and international samanyikrut anupaat ( inr ) hai upayon of the extrinsic pathway of jaman.
This pareekshan is bhi pukaara `` protime inr '' or `` PT/INR ''.
They are used to determine the clotting tendency of blood, in the maap of warfarin dosage, jigar kshati, or vitamin k status.
PT measures factors I ( fibrinogen ), ii ( prothrombin ), v, saat, or x.
It is used in conjunction with the activated aanshik thromboplastin samay ( aptt ) jisase upayon the intrinsic pathway.
`` I 'm in the Mood liye prem '' is a lokapriy song.
The music was written by Jimmy McHugh, the geet by dorothi field.
the song thi prakashit in 1935.
It was introduced by Frances Langford in the film prayek raatri at aath released ki saal.
The song was featured in the 1936 Our Gang ( choti dushton ) choti, the pinch singer, sung by karl `` alphalapha '' switzer, and in the 1936 film Palm Springs.
It is often known to be switzer 's hastakshar song.
James Moody 's saxophone solo on a 1952 recording of is song prerit the song `` mudi 's manodasha liye prem ``.
Hip hop artist Prince Paul sampled the song as the aadhaar liye the track `` manodasha liye prem '' on uske album a prince among choron ( 1999 ), with Don Newkirk singing its original lyrics.
the song 's sheershak prerit the angrezi sheershak of vong Kar Wai 's movie In the Mood for Love.
Cross-cultural psychology is the scientific study of human bartaav or dimagi prakriyaaon, sahit dono unke variability or invariance, antargat vividh saanskrithik conditions.
Through expanding research methodologies to recognize saanskrithik variance in bartaav, bhashaa, or arth it seeks to extend and develop psychology.
Since manovigyaan as an academik anushaasan thi viksit largely in uttar america, kuch psychologists became chintit ki constructs sweekrut as saarvbhaumik yahood nahin as nishchar as previously assumed, especially since many attempts to replicate notable experiments in other cultures had varying success.
Since there are questions as to whether theories dealing with central themes, aise as affect, sangyaan, conceptions of the swah, or mudde aise as psychopathology, chintaa, or avsaad, may kami bahya vaid jab `` exported '' to anya saanskrithik contexts, cross-cultural manovigyaan re-examines them using methodologies designed to factor in cultural differences so as to account for cultural variance.
Although some critics have pointed to methodological flaws in cross-cultural manovaigyanik shodh or arji ki gambhir trutiyaan in the saidhantik or methodological bases prayukt impede balki than sahaayta the vaigyanik dhundhen liye saarvbhaumik siddhanth in manovigyaan, cross-cultural psychologists are turning more to the study of how differences ( variance ) occur, rather than searching for universals in the style of physics or chemistry.
In 1972 the antarrashtriya sangh of cross-cultural manovigyaan ( IACCP ) was established.
This branch of psychology has continued to expand as vahin rai maharoom an increasing lokapriyata of incorporating samskruti or vividhta into adhyayan.
cross-cultural manovigyaan is differentiated isse saanskrithik psychology.
The latter is the branch of psychology that holds ki insaan bartaav is significantly bahekaave by saanskrithik matbhed, arth ki manovaigyanik phenomena can only be compared with each other across cultures to a very limited extent.
In contrast, cross-cultural psychology shaamil a dhundhen liye sambhavit universals in bartaav or dimagi prakriyaaon.
Walter J. Lonner, likhane liye najar on psi chi, rai stated ki `` cross-cultural manovigyaan can be vichaar of as a prakaar shodh methodology, rather than an entirely separate field within psychology ( 2000 ). ''
`` Judas '' is a song by American recording artist Lady Gaga, isse uske duusari studio album born is rasta ( 2011 ).
It was released by interscope record on april 15, 2011, chaar dinon ahead of iske anusuchit release.
likhaa or utpaadit by mahila gaaga or redone, `` yahuda '' is a nrity or electro house song about a woman in love with a man who betrayed her.
It embodies the incidents that have haunted Gaga in the past, or iske kor arth refers to the rinatmak bhaag of uske jivan ki wo ca n't escape.
Gaga has further samajhaayaa ki the song thi bhi parichay honoring ek 's bhitari andhera in order to bring oneself into the light.
The artwork for the single was designed by gaaga in microsoft shabd.
In spite of a polarizing impact on several religious groups, the song was generally well received by aalochakon, jo likened the song to `` karaab romance `` saath kuch noting it chahie have maharoom the album 's sise single.
The song rai a samaan dhwani to gaaga 's pichhlaa redone-produced treks, sahit `` pokar phase ``, `` LoveGame ``, `` Bad Romance '', and `` Alejandro ``.
It contains teen pruthak hooks or a house -influenced break down.
Gaga explained ki the linon bolaa dauraan the vishleshan baat parichay uske as pare mochan, regarding the paramparaagat drishy of kayaa a stri should be.
`` Judas '' initially tha a damdaar bikri kholane, lakin thi kam kaamyaab commercially in tulana to gaaga 's previous singles.
The song reached the top ten of the charts in most major music markets, or bhi pahunche the sheersh of the chart in dakshin korian.
A music video for the song was filmed in April 2011, co-directed by gaaga or laurieann gibson or co-starring Norman Reedus.
It has a Biblical storyline where Reedus nibhaai yahuda iscarriyat or gaaga nibhaai mariyam magdalene.
The video portrays unhen as modern day missionaries going to Jerusalem.
It included the Biblical story of Judas betraying yishu, or ended saath gaaga as magdalene getting stoned to maut.
Before its release, the catholic lig condemned gaaga liye the kathith upyog of dharmik imagery or uske bhoomika in the video.
however, aalochakon generally praised the video, not finding any offensive content.
The video was nominated for two puraskaar at the 2011 amtivi video music Awards.
Gaga has performed `` Judas '' on a number of television shows, including the graham norton dikhaaen, shanivaar raatri sajiv, shubh morning americas `` garmiyaan concert shrenee '', the french x factor as khub as on the Ellen DeGeneres Show.
H.264/MPEG-4 Part 10 or AVC ( Advanced video koding ) is a maanak liye video sampeden, or is philhal ek of the sabase commonly prayukt swarup liye the recording, sampeden, or distribution of high definition video.
The final drafting kaary on the pehla sanskaran of the maanak was completed in May 2003.
H.264/MPEG-4 AVC is a block-oriented motion-compensation -aadharand kodak maanak viksit by the itu-t video koding visheshgy samooh ( vceg ) saath with the ISO/IEC JTC1 Moving Picture Experts Group ( MPEG ).
The project saajhedaari praytn is gyaat as the Joint Video Team ( JVT ).
The ITU-T H.264 standard and the iso/iec mpeg-4 avc maanak ( formally, iso/iec 14496-10 – mpeg-4 bhaag 10, unnat video koding ) hai jointly kaayam so that they have identical technical content.
H.264 is perhaps behtareen gyaat as hone ek of the kodak maanakon liye blu-ray discs ; sab blu-ray discs players must be able to decode H.264.
It is also widely used by streaming internet sources, such as videos from Vimeo, YouTube, or the itunes store, web tantra aise as the adobe flash khilaadi or microsoft silverlight, or bhi vibhinn hdtv prasaaran over sthaliy ( atsc, isdb-t, DVB-T or DVB-T2 ), cable ( DVB-C ) and satellite ( DVB-S and DVB-S2 ).
Non-binding madhyasthata is a prakaar of madhyasthata in jisase the arbitrator makes a determination of the adhikaron of the partiyon to the vivaad, lakin is determination is not binding upon them, and no enforceable arbitration award is issued.
the `` puraskaar '' is in prabhaav an salaahkaar raay of the arbitrator 's drishy of the respective merits of the parties cases.
Non-binding madhyasthata is prayukt in conection saath koshishen to pahunchein a negotiated settlement.
The role of an arbitrator in non-binding madhyasthata is, on the sataha, samaan to ki of a madhyasth in a madhyasthata.
However, the principal distinction is that whereas a mediator will try to help the parties find a middle ground to compromise at, the arbitrator remains totally removed from the upnivesh prakram or hoga tabhi de a determination of deyta or, if uchit, an indication of the kwantum of kshatipurti payable.
Subsequent to a non-binding madhyasthata, the partiyon remain free to pursue unke daawa either through the nyaayalayon, or by rasta of a binding arbitration, although in practice a settlement is the most common outcome.
The award and reasoning in a non-binding madhyasthata is lagbhag invariably inadmissible in koi subsequent karrwai in the nyaayalayon or in another arbitration tribunal.
Non-binding madhyasthata is utilised zyaadaatar in the sanyukt rajya and Canada.
It is largely unknown in Europe, although in the United Kingdom there is a practice of parties who are seeking a upnivesh to jointly instruct a maharani 's counsel liye an raay on the merits or sambhavit kwantum of a arji, or tab to negotiate on the basis of the views expressed in that opinion.
Augustine Volcano is a Lava Dome Complex on agastin dweep in southwestern cook inlate in the kenai prayadweep baro of southcentral tateey alaska, dakshinpaschim of Anchorage.
The Alaska Volcano Observatory currently rates Mount agastin as str of chintaa rang code green liye vimaanan or the jwalamukhi chetavanee Level is at Normal.
agastin dweep rai a jameen kshetrafal of, jabaki west dweep, bas off Augustine 's western shores, has.
The island is bana up mukhyatah of past fatna jamaa.
Scientists have been samarth to discern ki past gumbad patan rai resulted in large avalanches.
A map of beliz.
The country of beliz rai roughly 386 km of tatarekha, or has many coral reefs, cays, and islands in the Caribbean Sea.
Most of these form the Belize Barrier Reef, the longest in the pashchimi golardh stemming lagbhag.
The reef and its islands have maharoom a unesco sansar viraasat sait chunki 1996.
The following is a list of oceanic islands of Belize, arranged according to pradesh lakin sab of jisase hai in the Caribbean Sea.
Most of the islands variate in ssailing between `` cay '' or `` caye '', or bhi use the Spanish `` cayo ''.
River islands have nahin maharoom soochibaddh.
Drive Letter Access ( DLA ) is a discontinued commercial packet writing application for the Microsoft Windows operating system that allows optical disc aankada bhandar divaais to be prayukt in a manner samaan to flopy discs.
dla is a packet likhane praudyogiki liye cd or dvd media that uses the UDF file system.
DLA is not compatible with Windows Vista or nae, haalanki a ptch exists to fiks is samasya antargat khidkiyaan vista.
Roxio Burn was introduced on april 30, 2009.
As a badalanaa liye dla, it remedies sangatta mudde antarjaal explorer 8.
Alpha Rex Emmanuel Humbard ( August 13, 1919 – sitambar 21, 2007 ) thi a well-known amareeki television enjeelwaadi jinaki girjaghar of kal dikhaaen thi dikhaaya on over 600 stesan at the peak of its popularity.
aseemit is a 2011 amareeki thriller filmi nirdeshit by neil burgers or abhinit Bradley Cooper, Abbie Cornish, and Robert De Niro.
It is based on the 2001 novel The Dark Fields by alan glynn saath the patakatha by lesley dikson.
Alaska ( ) is a state in the United States, situated in the uttarpashchim extremity of the uttar amareeki mahadweep, saath the antarrashtriya boundary saath canada to the east, the arctic samandar to the uttar, or the prashanth samandar to the west and south, with Russia further west across the Bering Strait.
Alaska is the largest state in the sanyukt rajya by kshetrafal, the 4th tanik populous or the tanik densely aabaadi of the 50 United States.
lagbhag half of alaska 's 731,449 nivaasiyon live within the Anchorage metropolitan area.
Alaska 's economy is varchasv by the aayal, prakritik gas, or fishing udyog ; it rai ye sansaadhan in abundance.
Alaska thi kharida isse rus on kooch 30, 1867, liye $ 7.2 lakh ( $ adjusted for inflation ) at approximately two cents per acre ( $ 4.74/km2 ).
The land went through several administrative parivartan pehle banane an vyavasthit ( or incorporated ) territory on may 11, 1912, or the 49th state of the U.S. on January 3, 1959.
the naam `` alaska '' ( аляска ) thi already introduced in the roosi aupniveshik kaal, jab it thi prayukt tabhi liye the prayadweep or is niklaa isse the aleut alaxsxaq, arth `` the menland '' or, more literally, `` the object towards which the action of the sea is directed ''.
It is also known as alyeska, the `` great jameen '', an aleut word derived from the same root.
Nelson Mandela mahanagar vishvavidhyalayon ( nmmu ) is a dakshin africa tertiary shiksha sanstha saath iske pramukh prashasan in the coastal city of Port Elizabeth.
A merging of three sansthaanon santhaapit nmmu in janvari 2005 lakin iske itihaas tithiyaan waapas to 1882 saath the nyaas of bandargahon elizabeth Art School.
The vishvavidhyalayon draws antarrashtriya vidhyaarthee isse all over the world.
There are over 3000 international students and include students from the sanyukt rajya, frans, china, germany, belgium, denmark, finland, netherlands, norway, sweden, sanyukt Kingdom and many other countries.
NMMU is a comprehensive vishvavidhyalayon offering peshewar and vocational training.
the vishvavidhyalayon rai chah campuses - paanch in bandargahon elizabeth and one in George.
the pramukh campus is the South Campus.
Students at nmmu can padhai towards diplomas or degree up to or including doctoral level qualifications.
A number of courses include workplace anubhav as bhaag of the curriculum.
CoverGirl is an American cosmetics brand founded in Maryland, by the Noxzema rasinic company ( baad pukaara noxell ) or acquired by procter & gamble in 1989.
The Noxell Company advertised this cosmetics line by allowing `` cover ladakiyon '', faishan model jo appear on the saamne cover of women 's magazines, to wear its products.
CoverGirl makes up for lack of direct individual graahak seva by providing a chaudee kismein of cosmetics uplabdhiyaan at uchit keemten.
On the Origin of Species, published on 24 November 1859, is a kaary of vaigyanik sahitya by charles darwin jisase is mana to be the nyaas of evolutionary biology.
Its full title was On the Origin of Species by Means of prakritik chayan, or the sangrakshan of favoured daud in the sangharsh for Life.
For the chathe sanskaran of 1872, the choti sheershak was changed to The Origin of Species.
Darwin 's book introduced the scientific theory ki populations evolve over the course of peedhiyaan through a prakram of prakritik chayan.
It presented a body of evidence that the diversity of life arose by aam descent through a branching pattern of evolution.
Darwin included evidence that he had gathered on the Beagle expedition in the 1830s or uske subsequent nishkarshon isse shodh, patrachaar, and experimentation.
Various evolutionary vichaar tha already maharoom prastaavit to bataaiye new findings in biology.
There was growing support for such ideas among dissident anatomists and the general public, but dauraan the pehla half of the 19th sadi the angrezi vaigyanik sthapana thi closely tied to the girijaghar of england, while science was part of natural theology.
Ideas about the transmutation of species were controversial as they conflicted with the manyataon ki prajati yahood aparivartansheel bhaag of a designed padanukram or that humans were unique, unrelated to other animals.
the rajnatik or theological implications yahood padati debated, lakin transmutation thi not accepted by the scientific mainstream.
The book was written for non-specialist readers and aakarshith faili byaaj upon iske prakaashan.
As Darwin thi an pratishthit vaigyanik, uske nishkarshon yahood liya seriously or the pramaan he prastut utpann vaigyanik, philosophical, and religious discussion.
The bahes over the kitaab contributed to the abhiyaan by t.h. haxle or uske fellow members of the X Club to secularise science by promoting scientific naturalism.
Within two decades there was widespread vaigyanik anubandh ki evolution, saath a branching pattern of aam descent, tha occurred, lakin vaigyanikon yahood slow to de natural selection the significance that Darwin thought appropriate.
During the `` grahan of darvinavaad `` isse the 1880s to the 1930s, vibhinn other mechanisms of evolution were given more credit.
With the development of the modern evolutionary synthesis in the 1930s and 1940s, Darwin 's concept of evolutionary adaptation through natural selection became central to aadhunik vikasvaadi siddhanth, abhi the unifying avadharana of the jivan sciences.
charles dilan `` kasee '' stangal ( ; july 30, 1890 – sitambar 29, 1975 ), nicknamed `` the boodha perfessor '', thi an American Major League Baseball outfielder and manager.
He thi nirvaachit to the besabaal Hall of Fame in.
Stengel was born in Kansas City, mizori, or originally nicknamed `` dach '', a aam upnaam at ki time for Americans of German ancestry.
After uske pramukh lig kariyar began, he acquired the upnaam `` kasee '', jisase originally aae isse the adyakshar of uske grihnagar ( `` K. C. '' ), jisase viksit into `` kasee '', influenced by the wide popularity of the poem Casey at the Bat.
In the 1950s, sportswriters utaavle use saath yet another upnaam, `` the boodha praadhyaapak '' ( or `` Perfessor '' ), for his sharp wit and his ability to talk at length on anything baseball -related.
haalanki uske besabaal kariyar spanned a kramank of tiimon or cities, he is primarily associated with clubs in New York City.
Between playing and managing, he is the tabhi man to have worn chaar of nai york 's pramukh lig club ' uniforms.
He was the pehla of chaar main ( through the ritu ) to manage dono the nai york yankis or nai york mets ; yogi Berra, Dallas Green, and Joe Torre are the others.
Like Torre, he bhi prabandhit the Braves and the Dodgers.
He ended his baseball career as the beloved manager for the then vistaar nai york mets, jisase jiti over the dil of nai york partly due to the adwitiya akshar of unke diggaj netaa.
June ( ) is the sixth month of the saal in the julian or gregorian panchang or ek of the four months with a length of 30 days.
Ovid provides two etymologies for June 's name in his kavita concerning the maheene hakdaar the Fasti.
The pehla is ki the maah is namit baad the roman devi juno, bivi of brihaspati or samatuly to the Greek goddess Hera ; the second is that the name comes from the Latin word iuniores, meaning `` younger ones, '' as opposed to maiores ( `` elders '' ) for which the preceding month May may be named ( Fasti VI.1–88 ).
See : Months in various calendars also called the season of the June is the month with the longest daylight ghanton of the saal in the uttari golardh or the shortest daylight ghanton of the saal in the dakshini golardh.
June in the uttari golardh is the mausami samatuly to disambar in the dakshini golardh and vice versa.
in the uttari golardh, the shuruuaat of the meteorological summer is 1 June.
In the Southern golardh, the shuruuaat of the meteorological sheet is 1 June.
At the start of June, the sun rises in the nakshatra of vrish ; at the samaapt of june, the surya udai in the constellation of Gemini.
however, due to the precession of the equinoxes, june begins saath the surya in the astrological chihn of Gemini, and ends with the sun in the astrological sign of Cancer.
June is known for the large kramank of vivaah ki occur over the course of the maah.
According to one etymology, june is namit baad Juno ( Hera ).
Juno was the devi of vivaah or a shaadishuda yugal 's household, so some consider it good luck to be married in this month.
According to another etymology provided by the roman kavi ovid, june is namit liye the iuniores, latin liye `` yang logon '' ( fasti vi.88 ) or ki the month of May is named for the maiores, Latin for `` elders ''.
In Iceland, loakgeet says ki if tum bathe nagn in the morning os on the morning of june 24, you are supposed to keep aging at bay for longer.
a samvidhan is a niyat of aadharbhoot siddhanth or sthapit precedents according to which a state or other organization is governed.
These rules saath mek up, i.e. constitute, kayaa the entity is.
When these principles are likhaa bas into a single dastauez or niyat of vidhik dastauez, those dastauez may be kaha to embody a likhaa samvidhan ; if ve hai likhaa down in a single comprehensive document, it is said to embody a codified constitution.
Constitutions concern different levels of sanghathan, isse sovereign rajya to companiyaan or unincorporated association.
A treaty which establishes an international organization is bhi iske samvidhan, in ki it hota define kaisaa ki sanghathan is gathit.
Within states, whether sovereign or federated, a constitution defines the siddhanth upon jisase the rajya is aadhaarit, the kaarividhi in jisase kanoon hai bana or by jisko.
Some constitutions, especially codified constitutions, bhi adhinium as limiters of rajya shakti, by establishing linon jisase a rajya 's shaskaon can nahin cross, such as fundamental rights.
George Washington at Constitutional sammelan of 1787, hastakshar of u.S. samvidhan.
The Constitution of India is the longest written constitution of any sovereign desh in the sansar, containing 448 aalekh, 12 schedules or 100 amendments, saath 117,369 shabd in iske angrezi bhashaa sanskaran, jabaki the sanyukt rajya samvidhan is the shortest written constitution, at 7 articles and 27 amendments.
Ron Diftler ( left ), NASA Robonaut manager assisting in a Robonaut familiarization training satr in the spes paryaavaran simulation prayogshaala at nasa 's johnson spes bich.
Engineering management is a specialized form of prabandhan ki is chintit saath the anuprayog of abhiyantriki siddhanth to kaarobaar practice.
Engineering management is a career that brings saath the technological problem-solving savvy of abhiyantriki or the organizational, prashasnic, or niyojan abilities of prabandhan in order to oversee complex enterprises from conception to completion.
Example areas of abhiyantriki hai utpaada vikaas, nirmaan, nirmaan, dizine abhiyantriki, audyogic abhiyantriki, praudyogiki, utpaadan, or koi other field that employs personnel who perform an engineering function.
Successful engineering managers typically aavashyaktaa prashikshan or anubhav in kaarobaar or abhiyantriki.
Technically inept managers tend to be vanchit of support by unke takneekee toli, or non-commercial prabandhak tend to kami commercial acumen to deliver in a market economy.
Largely, engineering managers manage engineers who are driven by non-entrepreneurial thinking, yun aavashyaktaa the jaruri logon kaushal to coach, mentor or motivate takneekee peshewar.
abhiyantriki peshewar joining nirmaan companiyaan sometimes become engineering managers by default after a period of time.
They are required to learn how to manage ekbar ve hai on the job, haalanki is is usually an ineffective way to develop managerial abilities.
In an insurance policy, the deductible is the raashi of kharch ki jarur be sashulk out of jeb pehle an insurer will pay any expenses.
In general usage, the term deductible may be prayukt to describe ek of anek prakaar of clauses ( dekhie neeche ) ki hai prayukt by insurance companies as a threshold for policy payments.
Deductibles are typically used to deter the vishaal kramank of naganya daawa ki a upabhokta can be reasonably apekshit to bhaaluu the cost of.
By restricting its coverage to events that are significant enough to incur large costs, the insurance firm expects to adaa out thodaa choti amounts much kam aksar, rusht much ucchtar bachat.
As a result, bime premium hai typically sasta jab they involve higher deductibles.
Deductibles are normally provided as clauses in an bime niti ki dictate kaisaa much of an insurance-covered expense is borne by the policyholder.
They are normally quoted as a phixd maatra or is a bhaag of sabase nitiyon covering nuksaan to the niti holder.
The insurer then becomes liable for claimable kharch ki exceed is raashi ( vishay to the adhiktam sum claimable indicated in the contract ).
Depending on the niti, the deductible may lagu prati covered ghatana, or prati year.
For policies jahaan incidences hai nahin aasaan to delimit ( liye udhaaharan swasthya bime ), the deductible is typically applied per year.
Several deductibles can be niyat by the insurer aadhaarit on the cause of the claim.
For example, a single housing bime niti may contain anek deductible amounts liye ghaataa or kshati arising isse chori, aag, prakritik calamities, evacuation etc.
There are also deductible reimbursement kaarykram ki reimburse a deductible in the event of an swachaalit, ghar, boat/yacht or health insurance claim.
An invoice or bill is a commercial dastauez jari by a vikreta to a kharidaar, indicating the utpaada, quantities, or agreed prices for products or services the seller has provided the buyer.
An invoice indicates the bikri lenden tabhi.
bhugtan sharten hai swatantra of the invoice and are negotiated by the buyer and the seller.
bhugtan sharten hai praayah shaamil on the invoice.
The buyer could have already sashulk liye the utpaada or sevaayen listed on the invoice.
Buyer can also have a adhiktam kramank of dinon in jisase to adaa liye ye goods or is sometimes offered a discount if paid before the due date.
In the rental udyog, an chaalaan jarur shaamil a vishisht sandarbh to the avadhi of the samay hone billed, so in jod to maatra, daam or chhot the invoicing amount is also based on duration.
generally prayek lakeer of a rental chaalaan hoga refer to the vaastavik hours, days, weeks, months, etc., being billed.
From the point of drishy of a vikreta, an chaalaan is a bikri invoice.
isse the point of drishy of a buyer, an invoice is a purchase invoice.
The dastauez indicates the kharidaar or vikreta, lakin the pad chaalaan indicates money is owed or owing.
In English, the context of the pad chaalaan is praayah prayukt to clarify iske arth, aise as `` we bheja unhen an chaalaan '' ( ve owe us dhan ) or `` we praapt an chaalaan from them '' ( we owe them money ).
The right main bronchus ( or right primary bronchus, or right principal bronchus ) is a bronchus of the respiratory system.
It is wider, shorter, or adhik lambavat in disha than the left.
It is about 2.5 cm long, or enters the sahi fefdon nearly vipareet the paanchvaan thoracic vertebra.
The azygos vein arches over it isse peeche ; or the sahi pulmonary artery lies at first below and then in front of it.
About 2 cm from its commencement it detaa band a shakha to the apper pali of the sahi lung.
This is termed the eparterial shakha of the bronchus, kuki it arises upar the sahi pulmonary artery.
The bronchus now passes below the dhamni, or is gyaat as the hyparterial shakha ; it divides into do branches for the middle and lower lobes.
If a foreign body in the airway passes through the trachea, it will most sambhavit daalen the sahi pramukh bronchus bajaay of the baayein, due to the straighter sanrekhan of the sahi bronchus to the trachea.
Squash is a racquet sport nibhaai by do ( singles ) or chaar khilaadi ( yugal ) in a four-walled adaalat saath a choti, hollow rubber ball.
The khilaadi jarur vaikalpik in striking the ball saath unke racquet or hit the ball onto the playable surfaces of the four walls of the court.
The game was formerly called squash racquets, a sandarbh to the `` squashable '' naram ball prayukt in the khel ( compared saath the fatter ball used in its parent game racquets or rackets ).
squash is pahachaanaa by the ioc or samarthak hai lobbying liye its incorporation in a future Olympic program.
In 2003, forbs rated squash as the kramank ek healthiest sport to play.
Residual oil is aayal mila in kam ekaagratha naturally or in exhausted oil fields.
Often mixed with water, it can nahin be baraamad by conventional takneekon.
However, it can be recovered using carbon dioxide-enhanced aayal recovery ( co2 eor ) jisase involves injecting carbon dioxide into the khub reducing shyanta or badhanaa pravaah of the oil.
The technique is nahin nai lakin rai nahin maharoom prayukt extensively on avshesh aayal zones, low-grade jamaa of petroleum aise as the 38 vargakar miles in the Permian Basin of Texas leased by Elliott Roosevelt Jr.
The technique is limited by uplabdhta of carbon dioxide.
It does not result in sequestration of the carbon dioxide lakin the gas is recycled as much as possible.
United rajya reserves of avshesh aayal hai anumaanit to be 100 billion barrels.
Artist 's rendering of the aag, by jon R. chapin, originally mudrit in harper 's saptahik ; the view faces northeast across the Randolph Street Bridge.
The Great Chicago Fire was a conflagration ki burned isse sande, aktubar 8, to jaldi mangalvaar, aktubar 10, 1871, hatya sainkadon or destroying about in Chicago, Illinois.
Though the fire was one of the largest U.S. disasters of the 19th century, the rebuilding that began helped develop Chicago as ek of the sabase populous or economically mahatvapurn American cities.
Henry VIII ( 28 june 1491 – 28 janvari 1547 ) thi king of england from 21 April 1509 until his death.
He was lord, or baad king, of ireland, as khub as continuing the nammaatr arji by the angrezi monarchs to the Kingdom of France.
Henry was the second monarch of the Tudor dynasty, succeeding uske pita, henry saat.
Besides his six marriages, henry viii is gyaat liye uske bhoomika in the virah of the girijaghar of england from the Roman Catholic Church.
Henry 's struggles saath rome led to the virah of the girijaghar of england isse papal praadhikaar, the viched of the Monasteries, and his own establishment as the Supreme Head of the Church of England.
Yet he remained a believer in core Catholic theological teachings, bhi baad uske excommunication isse the roman catholic girijaghar.
Henry oversaw the vidhik sangh of england or wales saath the kanoon in Wales Acts 1535 and 1542.
In 1513, the new king allied with the Holy Roman Emperor, maximillian i, or invaded frans in 1513 saath a vishaal, well-equipped fouj, lakin hasil choti at a considerable vittiya cost.
Maximillian, for his part, used the English invasion to uske apana ends, or is prejudiced england 's kshamta to shikast the french.
This foray would prove the prarambh of an obsession liye henry, jo invaded again in 1544.
This time, Henry 's forces captured the important city of Boulogne, lakin again the paavan roman samraat, charles v, samarthit henry tabhi as long as he needed to or england, strained by the vishaal laagat of the yuddh, ransomed the nagar back for peace.
His contemporaries mana henry in uske pradhan to be an aakarshak, shikshit or sampannataa king, or he rai maharoom varnit as `` one of the most charismatic rulers to sit on the English throne ''.
Besides ruling saath nirpeksh shakti, he bhi sagaai khud as an author and composer.
His desire to provide England with a male heir – which stemmed partly from personal vanity and partly kuki he believed a beti hota be asamarth to consolidate the tuder rajvansh or the najuk salaam ki existed following the yudhon of the gulab – led to the two things for which Henry is most remembered : his six marriages and the English Reformation.
Henry became rugn mote or uske swasthya suffered, contributing to uske maut in 1547.
He is aksar characterised in uske baad jivan as a lustful, egotistical, harsh, and insecure king.
La Reina del Sur ( The Queen of the South ) is a Spanish-language telenovela utpaadit by the sanyukt rajya television sanjaal telemundo, in sangyojan saath the antena 3 network and RTI Producciones.
Based on a novel of the same name by Spanish author Arturo pérez-reverte, the naatak depicts the vruddhi of terresa mendosa ( ket del castillo ), a yang stri isse mexico jo becomes the sabase shaktishaalee drug trafficker in southern Spain.
Patricio Wills, the adhyaksh of telemundo television studios, thi the executive producer.
Though La Reina del Sur was nominated for Novela of the Year, pasandida sise abhinetri, or behtareen karaab lack video, it jiti no puraskaar.
With a $ 10 million budget, La Reina del sur thi the sabase mahangi telenovela kabhi utpaadit by Telemundo.
The program 's premiere on farvari 28, 2011, thi the sanjaal 's ucchtam rated premiere for a telenovela to date.
The kaarykram aksar varchasv iske samay slot, bhi over angrezi bhashaa programing on other major U.S. networks.
La Reina del Sur samaapt iske 63 apisod chalaaen on telemundo or iske 13 apisod chalaaen on Antena 3 simultaneously on May 30, 2011.
The final episode was the highest rated broadcast in telemundo 's 19-year itihaas ( 4.2 lakh darshak ), or taal sab of the angrezi bhashaa u.S. television sanjaal to earn the number one slot in the 18-49 adult demographic.
The program 's success spurred Telemundo to launch iske pehla abhiyaan to laabh the shrenee an emi puraskaar namakan.
A one-night special featuring several cast members aired on may 31, 2011, or chihnit the telemundo debyue of vikhyath latina television vyaktitv Cristina Saralegui.
la reina del sur is broadcast in anek anya bazaar, sahit srbija, colombia, chile, cyprus, nikaragua, costa rika, Mexico, Albania, Hungary, Slovenia, Croatia, Romania, ( among others ).
An example of rack arohit sarwar
A web hosting service is a type of Internet hosting seva ki allows individuals or sanghathan to mek unke jalsthal accessible via the World Wide Web.
Web hosts are companies that provide space on a sarwar swaamitv or leased liye upyog by client, as khub as providing antarjaal connactivity, typically in a data center.
Web hosts can also provide data center space and connectivity to the Internet for other sarwar stith in unke aankada bich, pukaara colocation, bhi gyaat as awaas in latin america or France.
the paimaana of web hosting sevaayen varies greatly.
The most basic is web page and small-scale file hosting, where files can be uploaded via File transafar protocol ( apatpi ) or a web interfes.
The files are usually vitarit to the web `` as is '' or saath minimal prasanskaran.
Many antarjaal seva pradaataaon ( isps ) prastaav is seva free to subscribers.
Individuals and sanghathan may bhi obtain web pej hosting from alternative service providers.
Personal web site hosting is typically free, advertisement-sponsored, or inexpensive.
Business web site hosting praayah rai a ucchtar vyay depending upon the size and type of the website.
Single page hosting is generally sufficient liye nijee web pages.
A complex site calls for a more vyapak package ki provides database support or anuprayog vikaas plateform ( e.g. PHP, Java, Ruby on Rails, ColdFusion, or ASP.NET ).
These facilities allow customers to write or install scripts liye anuprayog jaise forums or saamagree prabandhan.
Also, surakshit sockets parat ( esasail ) is typically used for e-commerce.
The host may also provide an interface or control falak liye managing the web sarwar or installing script, as khub as anya maudul and service applications like e-mail.
Some hosts specialize in certain software or services ( e.g. e-commerce ), jisase hai commonly prayukt by larger companiyaan ki outsource sanjaal avasanrachana.
Madden NFL ( known as John Madden footbaal pehle 1993 ) is an amareeki footbaal video khel shrenee viksit by electronic Arts Tiburon for EA Sports.
The game series is named after Pro footbaal haul of famer jon maden, a well-known purv super katori –winning coach of the Oakland Raiders and color commentator.
The shrenee is the behtareen selling ea khel series.
The khel have consistently maharoom a behtareen vikreta, or rai even spawned TV shows where players compete.
Among the khel 's yathartwaadee suvidhaayen shaamil sophisticated playbooks or khilaadi aankde, or awaz commentary that allows players to hear the game as if it were a real TV broadcast.
The Madden enegel shrenee rai maharoom nicknamed the NFL 's 33rd Franchise.
The series was originally conceived by electronic kala sansthaapak trip hockins, jo tab approached maden in 1984 for his endorsement and expertise.
Due to maden 's insistence ki the khel be as yathartwaadee as sambhavit, the pehla sanskaran of John Madden Football was not released until 1988.
The second version of the game was released in 1990, saath salanaa sanskaran chunki tab.
The series ' naam thi badla to maden enegel in 1993 baad ea acquired the adhikaron to use NFL teams and players.
Despite Madden 's retirement as a broadcaster in 2009, he continues to lend uske naam or provide expertise for the game.
syndi lee miller sheehan ( born july 10, 1957 ) is an amareeki antiwar activist jinaki bete, u.S. fouj visheshgy kasee Sheehan, was killed by enemy action during the Iraq War.
She attracted national and international media attention in August 2005 for her extended antiwar protest at a makeshift shivi baahar adhyaksh george W. bush 's texas ranch —a stand ki khinchaa dono passionate support or engri aalochana.
Sheehan bhaaga unsuccessfully liye congress in 2008.
She is a vocal aalochak of adhyaksh baraak Obama 's foreign policy.
Her memoir, Peace Mom : A Mother 's yatra through heartache to sakriyata, thi published in 2006.
Sheehan was the 2012 vice-presidential nominee of the salaam and Freedom Party.
Wyclef Jeanelle Jean ( ; ; born October 17, 1969 ) Wyclef Dumped isse haiti 's adhyakshiya bailat – samay, agast 21, 2010.
`` Before he ghoshit on agast 5 ki he thi kaaryshil liye adhyaksh of haiti, wyclef Jean was still listing his age as only 37 years old.
But after declaring khud a adhyakshiya pratyaashee, the haitian-american-irish hip-hop star bhi decided to aaiye saaf or confirm ki he thi vaaki 40. '' is a three-time grami Award -winning Haitian-American rapper, singer-songwriter, musician, record producer, and politician.
At age nine, Jean moved to the sanyukt rajya saath uske parivaar or rai kharch much of uske jivan in the country.
He pehla praapt kirti as a sadsy of the acclaimed New Jersey hip hop group the Fugees.
On August 5, 2010, Jean filed for candidacy in the 2010 haitian adhyakshiya chunaav, haalanki the chunavi ayog subsequently shasit use ayogy to stand as he tha nahin mili the aavashyaktaa to have been resident in Haiti for five years.
Wyclef Jean to appeal against Haiti election sattadhari – bibisi news, agast 22, 2010.
Haiti 's electoral commission kaha ki mr jaan thi ayogy to stand as the haitian samvidhan requires candidates to have lived in the country for five years prior to an election.
The 40-year-old singer jeevandaan in the US.
Jean 's efforts at bukamp raahat, atyadhik publicized in 2010 throughout haiti or the sanyukt rajya, yahood channeled through uske charitable sanghathan, Yéle Haiti.
The charity, which performed a kismein of charitable works in haiti between 2005 or 2010, effectively closed in 2012.
In law, a set-off is a statutory raksha to the puure or to a portion of a plaintiff 's claim.
It had no astitv antargat the angrezi aam vidhi, hone nirmit by 2 jeeyo. ii c. 22 liye the raahat of insolvent karjadaar, haalanki set-off was recognized in equity.
Such a defense could be pleaded tabhi in aadar of paraspar debts of a definite akshar, or kiya nahin lagu to maamle in jisase kshatipurti were claimed, nor to equitable claims or demands.
By the rules of the Supreme Court ( O. XIX. r. 3 ) a defendant in an action may set band or niyat up koi sahi or arji by rasta of counterclaim viruddh the daawa of a abhiyokta, or aise set-off or counterclaim has the same effect as a statement of claim in a cross-action.
