A partly submerged himani gupha on Perito moreno himani.
the barf mukhagra is lagbhag 60 m unchi
Ice formations in the titlis himani gupha
A himani gupha is a cave formed bheetar the barf of a himani.
himani caves hai often pukaara ice gufaaen, lakin is term is properly prayukt to describe bedrock gufaaen ki contain year-round barf.
In physics, golakaar gati is a gati of an object along the paridhi of a vrutt or roteshan saath a golakaar path.
it can be vardi, saath constant koniya rate of roteshan ( or nirantar gati ), or non-uniform saath a badalanaa rate of roteshan.
The roteshan around a phixd axis of a three-dimensional deh involves golakaar motion of iske bhaag.
the equations of gati describe the gati of the bich of dravyaman of a deh.
Examples of golakaar motion shaamil : an artificial satellite orbiting the dharti at constant height, a stone jisase is tied to a rassi or is hone swung in vrutt, a car turning through a vakr in a res track, an electron chalati perpendicular to a vardi chumbakeey field, or a gear turning andar a yantriki.
chunki the object 's velocity vector is constantly badalanaa disha, the chalati object is undergoing acceleration by a abhikendriya force in the disha of the bich of roteshan.
bagaiyr is acceleration, the object hota move in a sidhaa line, according to newton 's kanoon of gati.
Apollo panth is a fictional character from the rocky films, initially portrayed as the undisputed heviveet Champion of the sansar.
He thi nibhaai by Carl Weathers.
Creed tha multiple nicknames, sahit the nipun of vipatti, the king of Sting, the Dancing vinaashak, The prince of panch, the ek and tabhi or the ginati of monte fisto.
Urban legend rajya ki apollo Creed 's naam is a wordplay on the Apostles ' Creed, a bayaan of belief prayukt in isai carch.
sab of apollo 's championship fights were anusuchit liye the 15 golakaar distance.
championships jhagade did nahin badalen isse 15 rounds to 12 rounds jabatak 1987.
rocky balboa is often wrongly credited saath popularizing the red, shwet, or blue trunks ; panth was the pehla man to pahanen them ( latterly worn by rocky balboa in the 3rd and 4th kishton or aakhirkaar by Tommy `` the yantra '' gunn ( tommy morrison ) in the 5th kisht ) haalanki saamanytah he pahana red and white, as dekhi in rocky II.
Balboa 's signature rangon were blike or gold—colors he prayukt in the latest movie.
in the sanyukt rajya, the sheershak of sangheey nyaayadhish praayah arthath a judge niyukt by the adhyaksh of the sanyukt States and pushti by the sanyukt rajya seenet pursuant to the niyukti clause in aalekh II of the sanyukt rajya Constitution.
In jod to the param adaalat of the sanyukt States, whose astitv and kuch aspects of jinaki kshetradhikaar hai pare the sanvaidhanik power of Congress to alter, adhiniyamon of congress have sthapit 13 nyaayalayon of appeals ( bhi pukaara `` circuit nyaayalayon '' ) saath appellate jurisdiction over alag regions of the United States, or 94 sanyukt rajya district courts.
prayek nyaayadhish appointed to aise a adaalat may be categorized as a sangheey nyaayadhish ; such sthitiyaan shaamil the mukhya Justice or sambhddha justices of the param adaalat, Circuit nyaayadhishon of the courts of appeals, and zila judges of the sanyukt rajya district courts.
sab of ye nyaayadhishon described yun dur hai referred to sometimes as `` Article iii nyaayadhishon '' kuki ve kasarat the nyaayik power vested in the nyaayik shakha of the sangheey government by aalekh iii of the u.S. samvidhan.
in addition, nyaayadhishon of the adaalat of antarrashtriya vyapaar exercise nyaayik shakti pursuant to aalekh iii.
anya nyaayadhishon sevarat in the federal nyaayalayon, sahit magistrate nyaayadhishon or bankruptcy nyaayadhishon, hai also sometimes referred to as `` federal judges '' ; however, ve hai neither niyukt by the adhyaksh nor confirmed by the seenet, or unke power garbhashayi isse aalekh i bajaay.
See Article i or aalekh III adhikranon.
The beretta 21a bobacat is a small pocket-sized semi-automatic pistal designed by beretta in italy.
utpaadan began in let 1984, solely in the beretta u.s.A. suvidha in Accokeek, maryland.
it is a further development of the beretta model 20, jinaki utpaadan ended in 1985.
Variable saarvbhaumik jivan bime ( praayah shortened to vul ) is a type of life bime ki builds a nakadi maan.
in a vul, the nakadi maan can be invested in a wide variety of separate khate, samaan to paraspar funds, or the choice of jisase of the uplabdhiyaan separate khate to use is entirely up to the anubandh owner.
the 'variable ' ghatak in the naam refers to is kshamta to invest in pruthak khate jinaki values vary—they vary kuki ve hai invested in bhandar and/or bandha bazaar.
The 'universal ' ghatak in the naam refers to the flexibility the maalik rai in bananaa premium payments.
the premium can vary isse nothing in a die month up to maximums paribhaashit by the aatanrik Revenue Code liye life bime.
is lacheelaapan is in contrast to puure life bime ki rai phixd premium payments ki typically can not be chhuti without lapsing the niti ( although ek may kasarat an swachaalit Premium rin visheshta, or surrender dividends to pay a puure jivan premium ).
parivartaneey saarvbhaumik life is a prakaar of permanent jivan bime, kuki the maut laabh hoga be paid if the insured marataa koi samay as long as vahin is sufficient cash maan to adaa the laagat of bime in the niti.
saath sabase if nahin sab vuls, unlike whole jivan, vahin is no endowment aayu ( the aayu at jisase the cash maan barabari the maut laabh raashi, which liye puure jivan is typically 100 ).
is is yet another kunjee laabh of VUL over puure Life.
saath a theth puure jivan niti, the maut laabh is simit to the face raashi nirdisht in the policy, or at endowment aayu, the phase raashi is sab that is sashulk out.
Thus saath either maut or endowment, the bime company keeps koi nakadi maan nirmit up over the saalo.
however, kuch participating puure jivan nitiyon prastaav rides jisase specify that koi dividends sashulk on the niti be prayukt to khariden `` paid up parivardhan '' to the policy jisase increase dono the nakadi maan or the death benefit over samay.
If nivesh bana in the pruthak khate out-perform the general account of the bime company, a higher rate-of-return can occur than the phixd rates-of-return typical liye puure jivan.
the sangyojan over the years of no endowment aayu, continually increasing maut laabh, or if a high rate-of-return is arjeet in the pruthak khate of a vul niti, this could parinaam in ucchtar value to the maalik or beneficiary than ki of a puure jivan niti saath the same amounts of dhan sashulk in as premiums.
The bahari lakdi boiler is a roopaantar of the clasik lakdi stove adapted liye set-up outdoors while still transferring the heat to aantarik buildings.
a mound of ladki scout kukies.
is mound contains 74 baks of kukies
Girl Scout kukies hai kukies bechi by ladki Scouts of the uese ( gsusa ) as one of iske pramukh fundraisers liye local scout units.
sadasyon of the GSUSA have maharoom selling cookies chunki 1917 to raise nidhi.
ladakiyon who participate can earn prizes liye unke praytn.
vahin hai bhi ikai protsaahan if the ikai as a whole does well.
As of 2007, bikri were anumaanit at about 200 lakh boxes per saal.
vishvavidhyalayon haul
purdue University, located in West lafayette, Indiana, is the flagship university of the six-campus purdue vishvavidhyalayon pranali.
purdue thi founded on may 6, 1869, as a land-grant vishvavidhyalayon when the indiana saamaanya sabha, lene laabh of the morrill adhinium, accepted a donation of land or money isse lafayette bijnesaman John purdue to sthapit a college of science, technology, and krishi in his name.
the pehla varg yahood held on sitambar 16, 1874, saath six instructors or 39 vidhyaarthee.
aaj, purdue is a sadsy of the big Ten Conference, or is a khub gyaat world-class shodh sanstha.
purdue enrolls the second largest chaatr deh of koi vishvavidhyalayon in indiana as well as the chauthi largest antarrashtriya chaatr janasankhyikee of koi vishvavidhyalayon in the United rajya.
purdue offers dono undergraduate or graduate programs in over 211 pramukh areas of padhai, and is khub gyaat liye iske pratispardhi abhiyantriki curricula.
The university rai bhi maharoom atyadhik influential in america 's itihaas of vimaanan, having sthapit the pehla college credit offered in udaan prashikshan, the first four-year snaatak 's oopaadhi in aviation, or the pehla university airport ( purdue vishvavidhyalayon Airport ).
Purdue 's vimaanan technology kaarykram remains one of the sabase pratispardhi aviation-specific kaarykram in the world.
In the mid-20th sadi, purdue 's aviation kaarykram expanded to encompass unnat spaceflight praudyogiki giving rise to purdue 's upnaam, paalna of astronauts.
Twenty-three Purdue graduates have gaye on to become astronauts, sahit gas grissom ( ek of the asli paara saat astronauts ), neil armastrang ( the first person to chalanaa on the chandramaa ), or ujin Cernan ( the sabase haal person to walk on the moon ).
a vasamay gaanth ( ) is a pad ki loosely refers to either epidermoid cysts ( bhi gyaat as epidermal cysts ; l72.0 ) or pillar cysts ( also gyaat as trichilemmal cysts ; L72.1 ).
Because an epidermoid gaanth originates in the epidermis or a pillar gaanth originates isse bal follicles, by paribhaasha, neither prakaar of gaanth is strictly a vasamay cyst.
the naam is regarded as a misnomer as the fatty, shwet, semi-solid saamagree in dono of these gaanth entities is nahin sebum, lakin keratin.
Furthermore, antargat the sookshmdarshi neither entity contains vasamay glands.
in abhyaas, however, the sharten hai praayah prayukt interchangeably.
`` sachcha '' vasamay cysts hai apekshaakrit viral or hai known as steatocystomas or, if multiple, as steatocystoma multiplex.
aadhunik pointe juute.
the edge of the toe pad, which is inserted between the pair or to baksaa liye cushioning, can be seen on the sahi pair.
a pointe shoe is a type of juuta worn by ballet nartak jab performing pointe kaary.
Pointe shoes developed isse the desire liye nartak to appear weightless and sylph -like or have viksit to enable nartak to dance en pointe ( on the nuskhe of unke toes ) liye extended periods of samay.
They hai normally worn by maadaa nartak, haalanki purush nartak may pahanen them for aparamparaagat roles aise as the bhadda stepsisters in sindrella, neeche in a midsummer Night 's sapana, or main performing as mahilaon in nrity companiyaan aise as les naatikaaon trockadero or grandiva.
They hai manufactured in a kismein of colors, sabase commonly in shades of lite gulabi.
This tablespoon has a kshamta of about 15 ml.
Measuring spoons
in the us or parts of Canada, a tablespoon is the largest prakaar of chamachaa prayukt liye khaane isse a katori.
in the uk, europea or most Commonwealth countries, a tablespoon is a prakaar of large spoon praayah prayukt for sevarat.
In countries jahaan a tablespoon is a sevarat chamachaa, the nikatatam samatuly to the us tablespoon is either the dessert spoon or the soup spoon.
a tablespoonful, nominally the capacity of ek tablespoon, is commonly prayukt as a maap of awaz in cooking.
it is abbreviated as t, tb, tbs, tbsp, tblsp, or tblspn.
the capacity of ordinary tablespoons is nahin regulated by law and is vishay to considerable vibhinnata.
in the uese ek tablespoon ( maapan ikai ) is lagbhag 15 mL ; the kshamta of an vaastavik tablespoon ( dining utensil ) seemayen isse 7 ml to 14 ml.
in Australia ek tablespoon ( measurement unit ) is 20 ml.
Harry Potter is a shrenee of saat fantasy novels likhaa by the angrejon author J. K. Rowling.
the kitabe vrittant the adventures of a jaadugar, harry kumhaar, or uske mitron ronaald visli or harmaini granger, all of jisko hai students at hoguarts School of chudail or wizardry.
The pramukh story arc chintaaen harry 's quest to overcome the andhera jaadugar Lord voldemort, whose aims hai to become immortal, jeeten the wizarding sansar, subjugate non-magical logon, and nasht sab those jo stand in uske rasta, visheshkar harry kumhaar.
chunki the relies of the pehla anokhaa harry Potter or the paras 's stone on 30 june 1997, the kitabe have gained immense popularity, najuk acclaim or vanijyik kamyaabi vishwavyaapee.
the shrenee rai bhi tha some share of aalochana, sahit concern for the increasingly andhera tone.
, the kitaab series rai bechi parichay 450 lakh nakal, bananaa it the best-selling kitaab series in itihaas, and rai maharoom anudit into 67 bhashaaen.
the pichhlaa chaar kitabe consecutively set records as the fastest-selling kitabe in history.
a shrenee of many jati, including kaalpanik or coming of aayu ( with tatv of mystery, thriller, adventure, and romance ), it rai anek cultural meanings or sandarbh.
according to rolling, the main theme is maut.
vahin hai bhi anek anya themes in the shrenee, such as purvaagrah or bhrashtachar.
the aarambhik pramukh prakaashak of the kitabe yahood Bloomsbury in the sanyukt kingdom or scholastic Press in the sanyukt rajya.
the kitabe have since been published by many prakaashak vishwavyaapee.
the kitabe, with the saatvaan book vibhajit into do bhaag, have been bana into an eight-part filmi shrenee by warner Bros. tasviren, the highest-grossing filmi shrenee of sab samay.
the series bhi originated much tie-in merchandise, bananaa the harry kumhaar brand laayak in excess of $ 15 arab.
bhi due to the kamyaabi of the kitabe or films, Harry kumhaar rai maharoom used for a theme park, the wizarding sansar of harry Potter in saarvbhaumik Parks & resort 's islands of adventure.
rs-68 being tested at nasa 's stennis Space bich.
The nearly paardarshee exhaust is due to is engine 's exhaust hone zyaadaatar atitpt steam ( jal vapor isse iske propellants, hydrogen or oxigen )
viking 5c rocket ingine
A prakshepastra ingine, or simply `` prakshepastra '', is a jet engine ki upyog tabhi bhandaarit propellant dravyaman for forming iske unchi gati propulsive jet.
prakshepastra engines hai pratikriya engines or obtain thrust in accordance saath Newton 's teesraa law.
chunki ve need no bahya saamagree to rup unke jet, prakshepastra ingine can be used liye spacecraft nodan as well as sthaliy uses, aise as misile.
sabase prakshepastra ingine hai aatanrik dahan engines, haalanki non-combusting form bhi maujuud.
prakshepastra ingine as a samooh have the ucchtam exhaust gatiyaan, hai by dur the lightest, lakin are the tanik propellant efficient of all types of jet ingine.
``... Baby One adhik samay '' is a song by amareeki recording artist britney spirs.
it parosa as spirs 's debut single or sheershak track isse uske debyue studio album,... baby ek adhik samay ( 1999 ).
likhaa by Max Martin or utpaadit by martin and Rami, ``... baby ek adhik samay '' thi released on sitambar 30, 1998, by Jive record.
baad recording or sending a demo tepe with an aprayukt song isse toni braxton, spirs hastakshrit a multi-album saude saath jive.
``... Baby ek adhik Time '' is a teen pop and dance-pop song that refers to a ladki jo regrets todakar up with uske boyfriend.
the song praapt generally anukool samikshaayen isse aalochakon, jo praised iske sangyojan.
``... baby ek adhik samay '' attained global success, reaching kramank one in prayek desh it charted.
it also received numerous certifications around the world, or is ek of the best-selling singles of all samay, saath over 10 lakh nakal bechi.
an accompanying music video, nirdeshit by nigel land, portrays spirs as a chaatr isse a catholic high school, jo starts to daydream that wo is gayan or naachna around the skool, while watching uske love interest isse afaar.
the music video thi later referenced in the music video of `` if U talash emi `` ( 2008 ), jahaan spirs 's fictional beti is dressed saath a samaan schoolgirl pahanava jabaki wearing gulabi ribbons in uske bal.
in 2010, the music video liye ``... Baby One adhik samay '' thi voted the third most influential video in the itihaas of pop music, in a pole yojit by jam !.
spirs rai performed ``... baby ek adhik Time '' in a number of live dikhaave or in sab of uske concert tur.
it thi the encore of the... baby ek More samay daure ( 1999 ) or Dream bheetar a Dream daure ( 2001 ) ; spirs bhi performed remixed versions of the song dauraan the Oops !...
i kiya it again sansar daure ( 2000 ), the gomed hotel daure ( 2004 ), the m+m 's daure ( 2007 ), The sarkas Starring britney Spears ( 2009 ), or the femme fatale Tour ( 2011 ).
``... Baby ek More samay '' thi manonith for a grami puraskaar liye behtareen maadaa Pop gayan pradarshan, and rai been included in lists by blendar, rolling stone or vh1.
it has been vikhyath liye redefining the dhwani of let 1990s music.
spirs rai named ``... baby One adhik samay '' as ek of uske pasandida songs isse uske career.
it was bhi the final song to be played on the BBC 's music kaarykram sheersh of the chabutare.
haija is an sankraman in the choti intestine caused by the bacterium Vibrio cholerae.
the pramukh lakshan hai watery diarrhea or vomiting.
hastantaran occurs primarily by drinking jal or eating khaanaa that rai maharoom contaminated by the mel ( barbaad utpaada ) of an infected vyakti, including ek with no apparent lakshan.
the gambhirtha of the atisar or vomiting can sise to rapid nirjaleekaran and electrolyte asantulan, or maut in some maamle.
the praathmik upachaar is oral punarjaleekaran chikitsa, typically with maukhik rehydration samaadhaan, to badalen jal or electrolites.
if this is not tolerated or karata nahin provide improvement tej paryaapt, intravenous fluids can also be prayukt.
jeevanurodhi drugs hai beneficial in those saath kathor beemaari to shorten iske avadhi or gambhirtha.
Worldwide, it affects 3–5 lakh people and kalyankari 100,000–130,000 mauton a saal.
haija was ek of the earliest infections to be studied by epidemiological vidhi.
the chitra of dorian Gray is the tabhi prakashit anokhaa by auskar wild, appearing as the sise story in Lippincott 's Monthly Magazine on 20 june 1890, printed as the July 1890 issue of is magazine.
the patrika 's sampadak feared the story thi abhadra as supurd, so ve censored roughly 500 words, bagaiyr wild 's gyaan, pehle prakaashan.
lakin bhi saath that, the story thi still greeted saath aakrosh by angrejon reviewers, kuch of whom suggested that wild chahie be prosecuted on moral grounds, leading wild to bachaav the novel aggressively in letters to the British press.
Wilde baad revised the story for kitaab prakaashan, bananaa substantial alterations, hataanaa controversial passages, adding new adhyay or including an aphoristic Preface which has since become famous in its own sahi.
The amended version was prakashit by ward, taala or company in april 1891.
kuch vidwaanon believe ki Wilde hota aaj have chaahi us to read the sanskaran he originally submitted to Lippincott 's.
The novel tells of a yang man namit dorian dhoosar, the vishay of a painting by kalakaar Basil hallward.
Basil is impressed by dorian 's beauty and becomes infatuated saath use, believing his beauty is jimmedaar liye a nai vidhi in uske art.
Dorian meets rab henry wotton, a dost of besil 's, and becomes enthralled by Lord Henry 's sansar drishy.
Espousing a nai hedonism, Lord henry suggests the tabhi bate worth pursuing in jivan hai saundarya or fulfilment of the hosh.
realizing ki ek day uske saundarya will feekaa, dorian ( whimsically ) expresses a desire to sell uske aatma to ensure the portret besil rai chitrit would aayu balki than he.
dorian 's kaash is fulfilled, or when he subsequently pursues a life of vilasita, the portret serves as a samaran of the prabhaav each adhinium rai upon his aatma, saath prayek sin pradarshit as a disfigurement of uske form, or through a sign of vriddhavastha.
The chitra of Dorian dhoosar is mana a kaary of clasik gothic fiction with a damdaar faustian theme.
sári gábor ( born 6 farvari 1917 ), gyaat as Zsa za gabar ( ), is a hungarian -born American abhinetri jo acted in supporting bhoomikaaye in movies, on broadway, and occasionally on television.
gabar was bhi a socialite.
She began uske stage kariyar in vienna at aayu 15, and thi pahanaaya miss Hungary in 1936.
She emigrated to the United States in 1941 or became a sought-after abhinetri saath `` European flair or style '', saath a vyaktitv that `` exuded aakarshan and grace ''.
uske pehla movie bhoomika thi as supporting abhinetri in Lovely to dekh at.
wo later acted in We 're nahin Married !
or nibhaai one of uske few leading roles in Moulin Rouge ( 1952 ), nirdeshit by John haston, jo varnit uske as a `` vishwasaneey '' abhinetri.
besides uske film and television dikhaave, she is best gyaat for having nau husbands, sahit hotel magnate Conrad Hilton and karta George sanders.
She ekbar stated, `` main have sadaa liked me and i have sadaa liked main.
But I jaise a mannish man, a man jo knows kaisaa to baat to or treat a woman – nahin just a man saath mansapeshiyaan. ''
bruce Lee ( paramparaagat : 李小龍 ; born lee jun-fan ; 27 navambar 1940 – 20 july 1973 ) thi a chinis American martial artist, actor, martial arts instructor, philosopher, or filmkaar.
The founder of jeet Kune do, lee was the bete of cantonese opera star lee Hoi-Chuen.
he is widely mana by commentators, critics, media or other martial kalakaaron to be ek of the most influential martial kalakaaron of sab samay, and a pop culture pratik of the 20th sadi.
he is praayah credited saath helping to badalen the way Asians yahood prastut in amareeki films.
Lee was born in chinatown, san Francisco on 27 navambar 1940 to abhibhavak isse Hong Kong or thi uthaaya in kolun with his parivaar until his let teens.
he thi introduced to the film udyog by uske father and appeared in several films as a child karta.
lee moved to the sanyukt States at the aayu of 18 to praapt uske ucchtar shiksha, or it thi dauraan is samay ki he began teaching martial arts.
His hong kong or Hollywood -upajand films elevated the paramparaagat hong Kong martial kala filmi to a nai level of popularity or acclaim, sparking a surge of interest in Chinese martial arts in the West in the 1970s.
The disha or tone of his films badla and bahekaave martial kala or martial kala films in hong kong and the rest of the sansar.
he is vikhyath liye uske bhoomikaaye in paanch feature-length films : lo vei 's the big boss ( 1971 ) and mutthi of furi ( 1972 ) ; rasta of the dragon ( 1972 ), directed and likhaa by lee ; warner Brothers ' daalen the Dragon ( 1973 ) or the Game of maut ( 1978 ), both nirdeshit by robert clouse.
lee became an iconic figure known throughout the sansar, visheshkar among the chinis, as he portrayed chinis rashtrawaad in uske films.
he initially prashikshit in wing chun, lakin baad asweekrut well-defined martial art sheliyaan, favouring bajaay the upyog of takneekon isse vibhinn strot, in the spirit of his personal martial kala darshanashastra, which he utaavle jeet kune do ( The rasta of the intercepting mutthi ).
lee held dual citizenship of Hong kong or the sanyukt rajya.
He died in kolun tong on 20 july 1973 at aayu 32.
dirghakaalik obstructive pulmonary beemaari ( copd ), bhi gyaat as dirghakaalik obstructive fefdon beemaari ( thanda ), dirghakaalik obstructive airway disease ( COAD ), chronic airflow limitation ( calories ) or dirghakaalik obstructive respiratory beemaari ( cord ), is the occurrence of chronic bronchitis or emphysema, a jodi of commonly co-existing diseases of the fefde in which the airways narrow over samay.
is had airflow to or isse the fefde, causing shortness of saans ( dyspnea ).
in naidanik abhyaas, copd is defined by iske characteristically kam airflow on fefdon falan pareekshan.
in contrast to dama, this limitation is poorly reversible or praayah gets progressively worse over samay.
copd is caused by noxious anu or gas, most commonly isse tobacco dhumrapaan, jisase triggers an abnormal jalan jawaab in the fefdon.
The nidaan of copd requires fefdon falan tests.
mahatvapurn prabandhan ranneeti hai dhumrapaan cessation, vaccinations, punarvaas, or drug therapy ( praayah using inhalers ).
kuch marijon go on to aavashyaktaa long-term oxigen chikitsa or fefdon transplantation.
vishwavyaapee, COPD ranked as the chathe agrani kaaran of death in 1990.
it is prakshipt to become the chauthi agrani cause of maut vishwavyaapee by 2030, due to an increase in smoking daron and janasankhyikee parivartan in anek deshon.
copd is the teesraa leading kaaran of maut in the u.S., or the economic boj of copd in the u.S. in 2007 was $ 42.6 arab in swasthya parvaah costs or khoyaa productivity.
annelies `` eni '' maari frank (, ?, ; 12 June 1929early kooch 1945 ) is one of the sabase discussed yahudee peediton of the holocaust.
Her diary rai maharoom the basis liye anek plays or films.
born in the nagar of francfort am Main in wimer Germany, wo jiya sabase of uske jivan in or nikat Amsterdam, in the netherlands.
born a germany national, frank lost uske naagarikta in 1941.
wo gained international fame maranoparant after uske diary thi published.
it dastauez her experiences chupaana dauraan the German occupation of the netherlands in sansar yuddh ii.
the Frank parivaar moved isse germany to Amsterdam in 1933, the saal the nazis gained control over germany.
By the shuruuaat of 1940, they yahood funs in amsterdam by the naaji occupation of the netherlands.
As persecutions of the yahudee janasankhyikee increased in july 1942, the parivaar gai into chupaana in the chupa kaksh of eni 's father, Otto frank 's, office building.
baad do saalo, the samooh thi gaddari or transported to visheshgyata camps.
eni frank and uske sistar, margot, were aakhirkaar transferred to the bergen-belsen concentration camp, jahaan ve died of typhus in kooch 1945.
oto frank, the tabhi uttarajive of the parivaar, returned to amsterdam after the yuddh to find ki eni 's diary had been saved, and uske praytn led to iske prakaashan in 1947.
it thi translated isse iske asli dach or first prakashit in angrezi in 1952 as the diary of a yang ladki.
it has chunki maharoom translated into anek languages.
the diary, jisase thi die to eni on uske 13th janmdiwas, chronicals uske jivan isse 12 june 1942 until 1 August 1944.
Kurt 's hastakshar
court donald cobain ( farvari 20, 1967 – april 5, 1994 ) thi an amareeki sangeetkaar and artist, behtareen gyaat as the sise singer, guitarist or primary songwriter of the grunge band nirvana.
Cobain formed Nirvana with Krist Novoselic in Aberdeen, washington in 1985 or established it as bhaag of the sietal music jhaanki, having iske debyue album bleech released on the swatantra record label sub Pop in 1989.
baad hastakshar saath pramukh label dgc Records, the band mila bhedan success saath `` khushbu jaise tin spirit `` from its duusari album nevermind ( 1991 ).
Following the kamyaabi of nevermind, Nirvana was labeled `` the flagship band '' of Generation x, and Cobain hailed as `` the pravaktaa of a peedhee ''.
Cobain, however, thi praayah asahaj or kunthit, believing uske message or kalakaari vision to have maharoom misinterpreted by the public, saath uske nijee mudde often vishay to media dhyaan.
he challenged nirvana 's darshak saath iske final studio album in utero ( 1993 ).
dauraan the last years of uske life, cobain struggled saath heroin vyasan, beemaari or avsaad.
he bhi tha pareshaani coping saath uske kirti and public image, or the professional and lifelong nijee pressures surrounding khud or uske wife, sangeetkaar Courtney prem.
on April 8, 1994, cobain thi found dead at uske home in sietal, the shikaar of kayaa thi officially shasit a suicide by a self-inflicted shotgun wound to the sir.
the halaaton of his maut at aayu 27 have become a topic of public fascination and debate.
chunki unke debyue, nirvana, saath cobain as a songwriter, rai bechi over 25 million album in the u.S., or over 50 million vishwavyaapee.
radial ingine samay or cam yantriki.
click liye puraa rezolution animation.
radial engine of a biplen
nipun lathi ( kataraa ), slave and balances isse a two-row, fourteen-cylinder pratt & whitney judwa Wasp
The radial ingine is a pratyaagmani type aatanrik dahan ingine vinyas in which the silendar point outward isse a central crankshaft jaise the spokes of a wheel.
It resembles a stylized star when viewed isse the front, or is called a `` star engine '' ( German sternmotor ) in kuch languages.
the radial configuration was very commonly used in aircraft ingine pehle terbine engines became predominant.
the sunahari ladakiyon is an amareeki sitcom, nirmit by susaan haris, that originally aired on enbisi isse sitambar 13, 1985, to May 9, 1992.
abhinit Bea Arthur, betty shwet, rue McClanahan and Estelle getty, the show centers on chaar puraani mahilaon sharing a ghar in Miami, florida.
it was utpaadit by witt/thomas/harris productions, in sangh saath Touchstone television, or paul junger witt, tony thomas, and Harris served as the asli executive nirmaataa.
The sunahari ladakiyon praapt critical acclaim throughout sabase of its chalaaen or won anek puraskaar, including the primetime emi puraskaar liye bakaayaa kamedi shrenee twice.
it bhi won teen sunahari Globe puraskaar liye behtareen television Series – Musical or Comedy.
All four stars prayek received an Emmy puraskaar throughout the shrenee ' run and tha anek nominations.
The series also kramit among the sheersh ten highest-rated kaarykram for chah out of iske saat seasons.
deepwater khudaai is the prakram of oil or gas exploration or utpaadan in depths of adhik than 500 feet.
By is paribhaasha, vahin hai approximately 600 deepwater kuen in the gulf of mexico.
it rai maharoom economically infeasible liye anek years, lakin saath uthati aayal prices, more companiyaan hai nivesh in is kshetrafal.
pramukh companies working in is sector include Diamond offshore, transocean, and baker Hughes.
vahin hai basically two kinds of mobile deepwater khudaai rigs : semi-submersible khudaai rigs or drillships.
Drilling can bhi be performed from a fixed-position installation aise as a floating spar ( platform ) or tension-leg platform.
haal udyog vishleshan rai estimated ki the total expenditure in the vaishvik deepwater avasanrachana market hoga pahunchein $ 145bn in 2011.
“not sab oil is accessible on jameen or in shallow water.
tum can find kuch aayal jamaa dafn gahan antargat the samandar floor.”... using sonic upkaran, aayal companiyaan determine the khudaai site most sambhavit to produce oil.
tab they upyog a mobile offshore khudaai ikai ( MODU ) to khudaai the aarambhik khub.
kuch ikai hai parivartit into production rigs, meaning ve switch isse khudaai liye aayal to capturing aayal ekbar it 's mila.
sabase of the time, the aayal company hoga badalen the MODU with a more sthai aayal production rig to capture oil.”... the modu 's job is to drill down into the samandar 's floor to dhundhen oil jamaa.
The part of the drill that extends neeche the deck or through the jal is pukaara the riser.
the riser allows for drilling fluids to move between the manzil or the rig.
ejiniers nimnatar a drill string -- a shrenee of pipe designed to drill down to the oil jamaa -- through the riser.”
“The expansion of deepwater drilling is happening despite durghatnaon in offshore field... ”
in 2010 a large visphot occurred hatya 11 majdoor or spilling millions of gallons of oil into the gulf of mexico jabaki a bp oil rig thi drilling in deep waters.
“... Despite the risks, the deepwater khudaai trend is spreading in the bumadhyasagariya or band the coast of east africa baad a string of vishaal discoveries of natural gas.”
“the kaaran liye the resumption of aise drilling, analyst kah, is continuing high demand for energy worldwide.”
America needs the oil so it is lagbhag necessary to phase the unchi risks ki aaiye with deepwater khudaai in anukram liye america to continue to carry on their everyday jeevandaan.
“The urja Department recently prakshipt that gulf aayal utpaadan hota vistaar from iske 2011 str of 1.3 lakh barrels a din, still nearly a quarter of kul gharelu utpaadan, to 2 million barrels a din by 2020.”
deepwater khudaai affects the paryaavaran in dono rinatmak or dhanatmak tareeke.
haalanki Deepwater drilling rarely causes aayal spills it is still a hazardous sambhavit nishkarsh.
Oil spills parinaam in oil sinking to the bottom of the samandar smothering sanyantr jivan leaving machhlee bagaiyr khaanaa or aashray to survive.
on the anya hand deepwater khudaai prabhaav the paryaavaran in a dhanatmak tareeke too.
in time once the deepwater aayal well is not in upyog anymore paudhe hoga grow on and around the khub making a gupha or cavern jaise shelter adarsh liye animals to thrive in.
deepwater khudaai bhi lets us see the gaharaaiyon of the samandar floor ki hai hardly kabhi dekhi.
”cameras on rovers at the neeche of the wells ricard footage or lo photo of viral machhlee ki hai in vahin natural awaas, giving vaigyanik a dekh at pashu they rarely seen” ( Chevron nigam ). ''
Monica Samille lewinsky ( born july 23, 1973 ) is an amareeki stri with jisko sanyukt rajya President vidheyak clinton admitted to having had an `` improper sambandh '' while wo worked at the shwet house in 1995 and 1996.
the affair or iske parakhnaa ( jisase shaamil Clinton 's mahabhiyog ) became gyaat as the lewinsky cond.
francis albert `` frank '' Sinatra,, ( disambar 12, 1915 – may 14, 1998 ) thi an amareeki singer or film karta.
shuruuaat uske musical kariyar in the jhule era saath harry James or tommy Dorsey, Sinatra mila unprecedented success as a solo kalakaar isse the jaldi to mid-1940s baad hone signed to colombia record in 1943.
hone the idol of the `` bobby soxers ``, he released uske pehla album, the awaz of frank sinatra in 1946.
His peshewar kariyar tha stalled by the 1950s, lakin it was punarjanm in 1953 after he jiti the academy puraskaar liye behtareen supporting karta liye his performance in isse yahan to shaashvat.
he signed saath capital Records in 1953 or released several critically lauded album ( aise as In the moot choti Hours, geeton liye Swingin ' Lovers !, Come makkhi with Me, tabhi the Lonely and nice 'n ' Easy ).
sinatra left capital to found uske own ricard label, reprise Records in 1961 ( dhundhna kamyaabi with albums aise as ring-a-ding-ding !, Sinatra at the Sands and francis albert sinatra & Antonio Carlos jobim ), toured internationally, was a founding sadsy of the chuha pack and fraternized saath hastiyaan or statesmen, sahit jon F. kennedy.
sinatra turned 50 in 1965, ankit the retrospective sitambar of my saalo, starred in the Emmy -winning television khaas frank sinatra : A man or His music, or scored hits with `` ajanabi in the raatri `` or `` My rasta ``.
saath bikri of his music dwindling or baad appearing in several poorly praapt films, sinatra ritred liye the pehla samay in 1971.
Two years later, however, he came out of retirement or in 1973 ankit anek album, scoring a sheersh 40 hit saath `` ( theme isse ) nai York, nai york `` in 1980.
using his las vegas shows as a ghar aadhaar, he toured both bheetar the United States or internationally, jabatak a choti time pehle uske maut in 1998.
Sinatra bhi forged a atyadhik kaamyaab kariyar as a film actor.
After jeetna behtareen supporting karta in 1953, he bhi garnered a nomination liye behtareen karta liye The man saath the sunahari bhujaa, or najuk acclaim liye uske pradarshan in the manchurion pratyaashee.
he bhi strecchar in aise musicals as unchi samaaj, pal joy, yaaron or Dolls or on the kasbaa.
sinatra thi sammanit at the Kennedy Center Honors in 1983 and thi awarded the adhyakshiya Medal of swatantraaa by ronaald Reagan in 1985 and the congressional sunaharaa padak in 1997.
he thi the praptakarta of gyaarah grami puraskaar, sahit the grami trustees puraskaar, grami legend Award or the grami aaajeevan uplabdhi Award.
sinatra is also one of world’s best-selling kalakaaron of sab time, having sold adhik than 150 million nakal vishwavyaapee.
theth cornhole board
Cornhole, bhi gyaat as saim bag toss, corn toss, baggo or bags, is a lon khel in which players take turns phenkna makai chhed bags at a uthaaya manch saath a chhed in the dur samaapt.
A thilaa in the chhed scores 3 points, while one on the manch scores 1 point.
Play continues jabatak a team or khilaadi pahunch the score of 21.
The amareeki Gold Eagle is an aadhikarik gold bullion sikaa of the sanyukt rajya.
praadhikrut antargat the sunaharaa bullion sikaa Act of 1985, it thi first released by the United rajya mint in 1986.
bikram yoga is a system of yoga that bikram choudhury synthesized isse traditional hatha yoga takneekon and popularized shuruuaat in the early 1970s.
sab bikram yoga varg chalaaen liye 90 minutes or consist of the vahi shrenee of 26 postures and 2 shwaas exercises.
bikram yoga is ideally practiced in a room heated to 105°f ( ≈ 40.6°c ) with a ardrata of 40 %,.
christopher maaikel Massey ( born 26 January 1990 ) is an American karta, comedian or rapper best known liye abhinit as Michael barret in niklodian television shrenee zoey 101.
Massey has praapt anek puraskaar or nomination sahit a yang kalakaar puraskaar and emi puraskaar nominations.
he is also gyaat for appearing in anek commercials in the early 2000s.
a conventional teaspoon bana of bedaag steel.
a teaspoon is an item of cutlery and/or a measuring yantra, as khub as a unit of maapan of awaz in kuch deshon or custom.
a fern is koi one or adhik of a samooh of parichay 12,000 prajati of paudhe belonging to the vanaspati samooh gyaat as pteridophyta.
naapsand mosses, ve have jilam or floem ( bananaa them vascular paudhe ).
They have tana, pattey, or roots jaise anya vascular plants.
ferns reproduce via bijaanuon or have neither beej nor pushp.
by far the largest samooh of ferns is the leptosporangiate ferns, lakin ferns as paribhaashit yahan ( bhi pukaara monilophytes ) include horsetails, whisk ferns, marattioid ferns, and ophioglossoid ferns.
the term pteridophyte also refers to ferns or a few anya bijrahit vascular paudhe ( see classification khand neeche ).
ferns first appear in the chattan ricard 360 lakh saalo pehle in the carboniferous lakin many of the vartmaan pariwaron or prajati kiya not appear jabatak roughly 145 lakh years pehle in the early cretaceous ( baad flowering plants came to dominate anek environments ).
ferns hai nahin of pramukh aarthik importance, lakin kuch are grown or gathered liye khaanaa, as shobhyman plants, for remediating contaminated soils, or have maharoom the vishay of research liye their kshamta to remove some rasinic pollutants from the air.
kuch hai significant weeds.
ve bhi play a bhoomika in mythology, ayurvigyaan, or art.
chapata roofs in israel
chapata chat in Los angeles
a flat chat is a prakaar of covering for a building.
In contrast to the more sloped form of roof, a flat roof is aadaa or nearly aadaa.
the dhalaan of a roof is properly gyaat as iske pich : roofs which hai nearly chapata are gyaat as low-pitch roofs ( as the angle of slope increases, so the pich is said to increase ).
koi chadar of saamagree used to cover a flat or low-pitched roof is usually gyaat as a jhilli and the primary purpose of these membranes is to waterproof the chat area.
saamagree that cover flat roofs typically allow the jal to chalaaen off from a slight inclination or camber into a gutter system.
Water from kuch chapata roofs aise as on garden sheds sometimes bahati freely band the kinare of a roof, though gutter pranaaliyon are of laabh in keeping dono walls or muladhar shushk.
Gutters on choti roofs praayah sise jal sidhe onto the maidan, or behatar, into a visheshkar bana soakaway.
Gutters on larger roofs praayah lead water into the rainwater drainage pranali of any nirmit up kshetrafal.
occasionally chapata roofs though hai designed to collect jal in a pool, praayah liye aesthetic uddeshy, or liye rainwater buffering.
Flat roofs maujuud sab over the sansar or prayek kshetrafal has iske apana tradition or variyata liye saamagree used.
in warmer climes where varsha is kam or jamane is unlikely to occur, many chapata roofs hai simply nirmit of chinai or kancreet or is is good at keeping out the ooshmaa of the surya or sasti or aasaan to nirmaan where timber is not readily uplabdhiyaan.
In areas jahaan the chat could become santrupt by barsaat or leak, or jahaan jal soaked into the brickwork could fries to barf or yun sise to 'blowing ' ( todakar up of the mortar/brickwork/concrete by the vistaar of barf as it form ) these roofs hai not suitable.
traditionally most chapata roofs in the western sansar make upyog of tarkol or adhik praayah tarkol paper lagu over roof alankaar to rakhana a bhawan watertight.
The tar or tarpaper is in phere covered in bajri to rakhana the surya 's ooshmaa, uv kirane or mausam off it and helps protect it isse cracking or blistering or degradation.
chat alankaar is usually of plywood, chipboard or OSB falak ( osb = Oriented strand falak, bhi gyaat as Sterling falak ) of around 18mm motaai.
the tarkol coating is lagu in ek or adhik coats as a hot drav, heated in a tarkol kettle, or as chaadaren of tar impregnated 'paper ' chipke bas and sealed saath at joints by hot tarkol - ekbar it rai cooled, the bajri is spread evenly over it.
A pramukh kaaran liye vifaltaa of ye traditional roofs is ignorance or kami of mentanence jahaan logon or kaarykram kaaran the bajri to be moved or removed isse the tarkol or tarpaper waterproofing, yun exposing it to mausam and surya whereupon cracking or blistering occurs over time and aakhirkaar jal gets in.
tarpaper is usually a 'paper ' or fibre saamagree soaked or impregnated in tar.
As gravel can not protect tarpaper satahon where they vruddhi khadaa isse the roof aise as on munder walls or upstands, tarpaper visangatiyaan hai utpaadit saath thik bajri applied to the hot tar dauraan the process of manufacture aise that a sthai parat of bajri is stuck to it in anukram to de it jari suraksha.
tarpapers vary in visheshta as does the kaarigari or training of those applying it to produce adhik or kam successful results.
In some sookshm climates or chhaayankit areas ye balki 'basic ' tarpaper roofs can last khub in sambandh to the cost of materials khariden or laagat of leta unhen, however the laagat of aadhunik membranes such as epdm rai aaiye down over haal saalo to mek them adhik or adhik affordable.
vahin hai abhi adhik firms supplying aadhunik vikalp or vahin is generally a growing jaagrukta of their pradarshan or availability.
if a li karata occur on a flat chat tab kshati praayah goes unnoticed liye long periods of samay dauraan jisase jal penetrates and soaks the decking and koi insulation and/or structure beneath it.
is can sise to expensive damage isse the durgandh which praayah develops or if baayein can weaken the chat dhaancha.
vahin hai bhi vibhinn health risks to logon or pashu shwaas the saanche bijaanuon : the gambhirtha of is swasthya risk remains a debated point.
One problem saath maintaining chapata roofs is ki if jal karata ghus the avrodh covering ( be it traditional or a aadhunik jhilli ) it can safar a long rasta pehle causing drishy kshati or leaking into a bhawan where it can be dekhi.
Thus it is nahin easy to dekhie jahaan it is tapakati in order to marammat it.
ekbar underlying chat alankaar is soaked it praayah sags causing a further sangrahan or puddling of water in that area and the problem worsens.
a cd-rom ( ) is a pre-pressed compact disc jisase contains aankada.
The naam is an echronim jisase stand for `` Compact discs read-only memory ``.
computer can padhaa CD-ROMs, lakin can not likhen on unhen.
CD-ROMs are popularly used to distribute computer software, sahit video games and multimedia anuprayog, haalanki any data can be bhandaarit ( up to the capacity limit of a disc ).
kuch cds, pukaara unnat cds, hold dono computer aankada or audio saath the latter capable of hone nibhaai on a cd khilaadi, jabaki aankada ( aise as tantra or digital video ) is tabhi usable on a computer ( aise as ISO 9660 swaroop PC cd-roms ).
the pilaa kitaab is the technical standard ki defines the swaroop of CD-ROMs.
One of a niyat of color-bound kitabe ki contain the takneekee visheshtaayen liye sab cd swarup, the pilaa kitaab, created by Sony or philips, was the pehla ekstansion of Compact Disc digital Audio.
it adapted the swaroop to tham koi form of data.
Joanne `` jo '' Rowling ( ), ( born 31 july 1965 ), kalam naam J. K. Rowling, is a angrejon upanyaaskaar, behtareen known as the lekhak of the Harry kumhaar fantasy series.
the kumhaar kitabe have gained vishwavyaapee dhyaan, jiti anek puraskaar, or bechi adhik than 400 lakh nakal.
ve have become the best-selling book series in itihaas, and maharoom the aadhaar liye a shrenee of films jisase rai become the highest-grossing film shrenee in itihaas.
rolling tha overall sweekruti on the script as well as maintaining rachanaatmak control by sevarat as a producer on the final instalment.
born in yate, glostershire, rolling thi working as a shodhakarta or dubhashiya secretary liye maafi antarrashtriya jab she conceived the vichaar liye the harry Potter series on a delayed tren isse Manchester to landan in 1990.
The seven-year kaal ki followed entailed the death of uske maan, talaak isse her pehla husband or garibi until rolling samaapt the first anokhaa in the shrenee, Harry Potter or the paras 's stone ( 1997 ).
rolling subsequently prakashit 6 sequels—the last, harry Potter or the deathly hallows ( 2007 ) —as khub as 3 poorak to the shrenee.
in 2012, Rowling parted saath her agency or resumed likhane in the form of a tragicomedy anokhaa aimed at vayask readership, entitled the cazual rikti.
rolling rai said wo is currently working on do books—one aimed liye adults, the other liye children younger than the harry kumhaar audience, and wo expects the latter to be published first.
rolling rai led a `` rags to amiri `` jivan story, in jisase she progressed isse jeena on rajya laabh to multi-millionaire aukaat within five saalo.
She is the sanyukt kingdom 's best-selling lekhak since record began, saath sales in excess of £238m.
the 2008 Sunday times Rich suchi anumaanit rolling 's fortune at £560 lakh ( $ 798 lakh ), ranking uske as the barahavin richest stri in the United kingdom.
forbs ranked Rowling as the forty-eighth sabase powerful hasti of 2007, or TIME magazine namit uske as a runner-up liye iske 2007 vyakti of the Year, noting the soshal, moral, or political prerana she has die uske prashansak.
in October 2010, rolling thi namit the `` Most Influential stri in britain '' by leading patrika editors.
wo rai become a notable locasevak, supporting aise charities as comic raahat, ek janak pariwaron, anek kaathinya samaaj of Great britain or lumos ( formerly the children 's High Level Group ).
Auburndale is a nagar in polk county, florida, sanyukt rajya.
the janasankhyikee was 11,032 at the 2000 census.
According to the U.S Census estimates of 2005, the city tha a janasankhyikee of 12,381.
it is bhaag of the Lakeland – sheet hewan Metropolitan sankhyikeey kshetrafal.
hurricane Isabel ( 2003 ) as dekhi isse kaksha during Expedition 7 of the antarrashtriya Space stesan.
the eye, eyewall, or surrounding rainbands, visheshtaayen of tropical cyclones, are clearly drishy in this drishy isse space.
a teevr chakravaat is a toofaan pranali characterized by a low-pressure bich surrounded by a spiral vyavastha of thunderstorms ki produce strong winds and baari barsaat.
Tropical cyclones strengthen jab jal kafoor from the samandar is released as the saturated air udai, resulting in sanghanan of water vaashp contained in the moist air.
ve hai fueled by a alag ooshmaa yantriki than anya cyclonic windstorms aise as nor'easters, europea windstorms, or dhruviya chadhaav.
The characteristic that separates teevr cyclones isse anya cyclonic systems is ki at any oonchaai in the maahaul, the center of a teevr chakravaat hoga be warmer than iske surroundings ; a ghatana pukaara `` garam kor `` toofaan systems.
the pad `` tropical '' refers dono to the bhugolic utpatti of these pranaaliyon, jisase usually rup in teevr regions of the globe, or to unke formation in maritime tropical air masses.
the pad `` cyclone '' refers to such toofaan ' cyclonic prakruti, saath counterclockwise hawa flow in the uttari golardh or clockwise hawa pravaah in the Southern golardh.
the vipareet disha of the hawa pravaah is a parinaam of the coriolis force.
depending on iske location or strength, a teevr cyclone is referred to by names aise as hurricane (, ), toofaan ( ), teevr toofaan, cyclonic storm, teevr avsaad, and bas cyclone.
jabaki tropical cyclones can upaj extremely shaktishaalee hawaayen and torrential barsaat, ve are also able to upaj high lehren, damaging toofaan surge, or tornadoes.
They develop over vishaal laashen of garam jal, or lose their shakti if ve move over land due to increased sataha gharshan or ghaataa of the warm samandar as an urja sorce.
is is kyon tateey regions can receive significant kshati isse a teevr cyclone, jabaki inland regions hai relatively surakshit isse receiving damdaar hawaayen.
baari rains, however, can upaj significant flooding antardeshiy, or storm surges can upaj extensive tateey flooding up to isse the tatarekha.
haalanki unke prabhaav on insaan populations can be vinaashkari, teevr cyclones can relieve sookhaa sharten.
ve bhi carry ooshmaa urja dur isse the ooshnakaribandh and hastantaran it toward shitoshna latitudes, which makes unhen an important bhaag of the vaishvik atmospheric parisancharan yantriki.
as a result, tropical cyclones sahaayta to maintain equilibrium in the Earth 's kshobhamandal, or to maintain a apekshaakrit stable or garam taapmaana vishwavyaapee.
anek teevr cyclones develop jab the vayumandaleey sharten around a kamjor disturbance in the maahaul are favorable.
The prishthbhumi paryaavaran is modulated by climatological chakra or pattern aise as the madden-julian dolan, El niño-southern Oscillation, or the atlantic multidecadal dolan.
Others rup jab anya prakaar of cyclones acquire teevr characteristics.
teevr pranaaliyon hai tab sthanantarit by steering hawaayen in the troposphere ; if the sharten remain anukool, the teevr disturbance intensifies, or can bhi develop an eye.
on the anya samaapt of the varnakram, if the sharten around the system deteriorate or the teevr cyclone makes landfall, the pranali weakens or eventually dissipates.
it is not sambhavit to artificially induce the dissipation of ye systems with vartmaan praudyogiki.
Kirk duglas ( born issur Danielovitch, ; disambar 9, 1916 ) is an American stage or filmi karta, film producer or lekhak.
uske popular films include out of the Past ( 1947 ), champion ( 1949 ), ikkaa in the chhed ( 1951 ), The karaab and the khubasurat ( 1952 ), 20,000 Leagues antargat the samudr ( 1954 ), Lust liye jivan ( 1956 ), raahen of Glory ( 1957 ), gunfight at the o.k. Corral ( 1957 ), the vikings ( 1958 ), spartacas ( 1960 ), nirjan hai the vir ( 1962 ), saat Days in may ( 1964 ), the nayak of telemark ( 1965 ) or Tough yaaron ( 1986 ).
he is no.17 on the American filmi santhaan 's list of the greatest purush amareeki screen mahapurush of sab time, bananaa use the highest-ranked jeena vyakti on the suchi.
in 1996, he received the academy maanad Award `` liye 50 saalo as a creative or moral force in the motion chitra jatiyaan. ''
he is ek of the pichhlaa surviving abhinaytaon isse hollywood 's `` sunahari age ''.
robert clark `` Bob '' seger ( born may 6, 1945 ) is an American rock and roll singer-songwriter, guitarist and pianist.
As a locally kaamyaab Detroit-area kalakaar, he performed and ankit as bob seger or the pichhlaa Heard or bob Seger pranali throughout the 1960s.
by the jaldi 1970s, he tha dropped the `` pranali '' from uske ricarding and continued to niyat for broader success saath anya vibhinn bands.
In 1973, he put saath the chaandi Bullet band, a samooh of detroit-area sangeetkaaron, with jisko he became sabase kaamyaab on the neshnal str saath the album sajiv goli, ankit live saath the chaandi goli band in 1975 at cobo Hall in detroit, michigan.
in 1976, he hasil a neshnal brakeout saath the studio album Night Moves.
on uske studio album, he bhi worked extensively saath the alabama-based Muscle shoals lay Section, jisase appeared on several of seger 's best-selling singles or album.
a jaden rocker saath a clasik raspy, chillaanaa awaz, seger wrote or ankit geeton that dealt saath love, mahilaon, blue-collar vishaywastu or was an exemplar of heartland chattan.
seger rai ankit anek hits, including `` Night Moves, '' `` Turn the pej, '' `` we 've Got Tonight, '' `` viruddh the Wind, '' or shakedown ki thi likhaa liye bevarli pahadiyaan cop ii or `` jaise a chattan, '' or also co-wrote the eagles ' number-one hit `` Heartache Tonight. ''
uske iconic recording of `` boodha samay Rock or Roll `` thi named ek of the geeton of the sadi in 2001.
saath a kariyar spanning five dashakon, seger continues to perform or ricard aaj.
seger thi inducted into the Rock or Roll haul of Fame in 2004 and the songwriters Hall of Fame in 2012.
richard Milhous nicksan ( January 9, 1913 – april 22, 1994 ) thi the 37th President of the sanyukt rajya, serving from 1969 to 1974, jab he became the only president to istipha the office.
nicksan had previously parosa as a republican U.S. pratinidhi or seenetter isse california or as the 36th Vice adhyaksh of the United rajya isse 1953 to 1961.
Nixon thi born in yorba linda, california.
He graduated isse Whittier College in 1934 or duk vishvavidhyalayon skool of vidhi in 1937, returning to California to abhyaas vidhi.
He or uske wife, pat nicksan, sthanantarit to washington to kaary liye the sangheey sarkari in 1942.
he subsequently served in the sanyukt States navy during sansar yuddh II.
nicksan was nirvaachit in california to the house of pratinidhi in 1946 or to the seenet in 1950.
His pursuit of the Alger hiss maamla sthapit his pratishtha as a leading anti-communist, and elevated use to national prominence.
he thi the running mate of Dwight D. ijanhavar, the republican party adhyakshiya nominee in the 1952 election.
nicksan parosa for aath saalo as vaais president.
he waged an unsuccessful presidential campaign in 1960, narrowly losing to John F. kennedy, or lost a res for Governor of california in 1962.
In 1968, he bhaaga again for the presidency or thi nirvaachit.
haalanki nicksan initially escalated America 's bhagidaari in the Vietnam War, he subsequently ended U.S. bhagidaari in 1973.
nicksan 's vizit to the logon 's ganatantr of china in 1972 opened rajanyik sambandh between the two raashtra, or he initiated détente or the anti-ballistic missile sandhi saath the Soviet sangh the vahi year.
domestically, his prashasan generally embraced nitiyon ki transferred shakti isse washington to the rajya.
Among other bate, he launched pahalon to fight cancer or illegal davaayen, imposed mazdooree or price niyantran, enforced desegregation of kuch Southern skulon, or sthapit the paryaavarniya suraksha agency.
haalanki he presided over the chandra landings shuruuaat with apollo 11, he scaled back maanavyukt spes khoji.
he was re-elected by a bhuskhalan in 1972.
Nixon 's duusari term dekhi an Arab aayal embargo, the istipha of uske vaais adhyaksh, Spiro agnew, or a continuing shrenee of khulaase about the waterget cond or anya misconduct by sadasyon of the prashasan.
the scandal escalated, costing nicksan much of his rajnatik support, or on agast 9, 1974, he resigned in the phase of lagbhag certain impeachment or hataanaa isse office.
baad uske istipha, he controversially praapt a pardon issued by uske successor, jerald Ford.
in ritairement, Nixon 's kaary as an elder statesman, authoring anek kitabe and undertaking anek videshi yatraayen, helped to rehabilitate uske public chitra.
he suffered a debilitating stroke on April 18, 1994, or died chaar dinon later at the aayu of 81.
{ { Infobox Senator
The dominican Republic annexation sandhi caused bitter contention between adhyaksh grant and sen. sumner.
brady 1869 ] ]
sen. sumner, opposed to American imperialism in the caribbean or fearful ki annexation would lead to the conquest of the neighboring blike ganatantr of Haiti, became kaayal that corruption lay behind the treaty, or that main band to the president saajha in the bhrashtachar.
As chairman of the seenet Foreign Relations cameti, Sen. sumner initially withheld uske raay on the sandhi on janvari 18, 1870.
sen. sumner tha maharoom leaked soochna isse sahaayak sachiv of rajya, Bancroft davis, that U.S. naval jahaajon yahood being used to protect President báez.
sen. sumner 's cameti voted against annexation or at sen. Sumner’s suzav or kaaphi possibly to sahejen the party from an bhadda lado or the adhyaksh isse sharmindagi, the seenet held iske bahes of the sandhi behind closed dwaar in karypalika satr.
President grant persisted or bheja messages to congress in ehsaan of annexation on kooch 14, 1870, and May 31, 1870.
in band satr, sen. sumner spoke out viruddh the treaty ; warnng ki there hota be pareshaani saath the videshi nagarikon, noting the chronic vidroh that took place on the island, or the risk ki the swatantraaa of Haiti, pahachaanaa by the United rajya in 1862, would be khoyaa.
sumner stated ki grant 's upyog of the u.S. navy as a protectorat thi a ulanghan of International vidhi or unconstitutional.
Finally, on june 30, 1870 the sandhi was voted on by the Senate and failed to laabh the jaruri 2/3 bahumat for sandhi dyodhi.
the following day, President grant, feeling gaddari by Sen. sumner, retaliated by ordering the dismissal of sumner’s close dost J. lothrop motley, Ambassador to britain.
by patjhad, sumner 's nijee dushmani to the adhyaksh was public knowledge, or he blamed the sachiv of rajya liye failing to have resigned, balki than let grant have his way.
the do main, friends jabatak then, cooled into bitter dushmano.
in December, 1870, still fearful ki grant meant to acquire sento domingo somehow, Sumner gave a fiercely najuk vaak accusing the president of usurpation and babcock of unethical conduct.
already, adhyaksh grant, samarthit by his sachiv of State hamiltan Fish, had initiated a campaign to depose sumner isse the adhyakshata of the seenet videshi sambandh cameti.
haalanki sumner stated he thi an `` Administration man '', in addition to having roka grant 's dominican ganatantr sandhi attempt, Sumner tha parajeet grant 's puraa repeal of the Tenure of Office adhinium, blocked Grant 's nomination of Alexander stewart to u.S. sachiv of rajkosh, or maharoom a constant harassing force pushing punarnirmaan nitiyon faster than grant tha been willing to go.
grant resented sumner 's badppan of manner, as khub.
Told ekbar ki sumner kiya nahin maananaa in the bible, the president is supposed to have kaha that he was nahin chakit : `` he kiya n't likhen it. ''
as the rift between Grant or sumner increased, Sumner’s swasthya began to manaahi.
jab the 42nd u.S. congress convened on kooch 4, 1871, Senators affiliated saath adhyaksh Grant, known as ‘’new radicals’’ voted to oust sen. sumner from the Senate Foreign sambandh cameti adhyakshata.
kaarobaar ethics ( bhi corporate ethics ) is a form of lagu aachaar or peshewar aachaar ki examines naitik principles or moral or ethical problems ki uthta in a kaarobaar environment.
it applies to sab pahaluon of kaarobaar conduct or is praasangik to the conduct of individuals or entire sanghathan.
Business ethics rai both normative or varnanaatmak aayam.
as a corporate abhyaas or a kariyar specialization, the field is primarily normative.
lad attempting to samajhe kaarobaar bartaav employ varnanaatmak methods.
the range or quantity of kaarobaar naitik mudde reflects the baatcheet of profit-maximizing bartaav saath non-economic chintaaen.
byaaj in kaarobaar aachaar accelerated dramatically dauraan the 1980s or 1990s, dono bheetar pramukh corporations or within academia.
liye udhaaharan, aaj sabase major corporations prachaar unke patibaddhta to non-economic maan antargat headings aise as aachaar code or soshal jimmedaari charters.
aadam smith said, `` logon of the vahi vyapaar seldom milen saath, bhi liye merriment and diversion, lakin the conversation ends in a shadyantr viruddh the public, or in kuch contrivance to uthaayen keemten. ''
sarkarein use kanoon or regulations to point kaarobaar bartaav in what ve perceive to be beneficial dishanirdesh.
aachaar implicitly regulates kshetron and vivaran of bartaav that jhooth beyond governmental control.
The emergence of vishaal corporations saath simit sambandh and sensitivity to the communities in jisase ve operate twarit the vikaas of aupchaarik aachaar regimes.
a bern is a prakaar of injury to flesh or skin caused by ooshmaa, vidyut, rasayan, friction, or vikiran.
Most burns affect tabhi the satahi skin ( known as satahi or pehla degree ) or extend into the deeper skin but do not involve the puraa motaai of the skin ( gyaat as partial motaai or duusari oopaadhi ).
Rarely all paraton of the skin or deeper utakon, aise as muscle or asthi can be injured in which maamla the bern is either puraa motaai ( teesraa oopaadhi ) or chauthi degree.
the upachaar required depends on the gambhirtha of the burn.
Superficial burns sambhawatah managed with choti adhik than simple pidaa hatyare jabaki pramukh burns may aavashyaktaa prolonged upachaar in specialized bern centers.
Cooling saath tap water may sahaayta pain or ghati damage however if expozar is prolonged it may result in kam deh taapmaana.
aanshik motaai burns may aavashyaktaa cleaning saath sabun or jal followed by dressings.
fafole should typically be left unbroken.
puraa motaai burns praayah aavashyaktaa sargical treatments such as skin kalam and extensive burns praayah aavashyaktaa vishaal amount of intravenous fluids.
the sabase aam complications of burns hai sambandhit to infection.
jabaki large burns can be fatal, aadhunik treatments developed in the pichhlaa 50 saalo have significantly improved the outcomes, visheshkar in children or young vayaskon.
globally about 11 lakh logon talash chikitsa upachaar or 300,000 logon die isse burns.
in the United rajya, of those admitted to a burn bich, lagbhag 4 % die isse unke injuries.
the long term nishkarsh is primarily related to the aakaar of burn or the age of the vyakti effected.
The atlantic samandar, not including Arctic and antarctic regions
This video thi liya by the kru of expedition 29 on falak the iss.
the pass starts isse bas north-east of the dweep of newfoundland over the uttar Atlantic samandar to central africa, over dakshin sudan.
the Atlantic samandar is the second-largest of the sansar 's oceanic vibhaajan.
saath a kul kshetrafal of parichay, it cover lagbhag 20 pratishat of the dharti 's sataha or parichay 29 pratishat of its jal sataha kshetrafal.
the pehla bhaag of iske naam refers to Atlas of unani mythology, making the atlantic the `` Sea of atlas ''.
The oldest known mention of `` atlantic '' is in the histories of Herodotus around 450 bc ( hdt. 1.202.4 ) : atlantis thalassa ( Greek : ἀτλαντὶς θάλασσα ; English : samudr of Atlas ).
the term ethiopic samandar, niklaa isse ithiopia, was applied to the dakshini atlantic as let as the mid-19th sadi.
Before europeans discovered other oceans, the pad `` samandar '' itself thi synonymous with the waters pare the jalsandhi of Gibraltar that we abhi know as the Atlantic.
the jaldi unaniyon believed is samandar to be a gigantic nadi encircling the world.
the atlantic samandar occupies an elongated, s-shaped basin extending longitudinally between uresia or africa to the east, or the americas to the west.
as one ghatak of the interconnected vaishvik samandar, it is connected in the uttar to the Arctic samandar ( jisase is sometimes mana a sea of the atlantic ), to the prashanth samandar in the dakshinpaschim, the Indian Ocean in the southeast, or the dakshini Ocean in the south.
( Other definitions describe the atlantic as extending southward to Antarctica. )
The equator subdivides it into the North atlantic Ocean or South Atlantic samandar.
Due to their long-term hath, or the need for a adwitiya identifier in issuing forecasts or chetavaniyaan, tropical cyclones or uposhna cyclones are given names according to niti ( see teevr chakravaat namakaran ).
The following are lists isse jisase ye teevr or uposhna chakravaat names hai niklaa.
shwet lite is dispersed by a prism into the colors of the optical spectrum.
the drishy varnakram is the portion of the electromagnetic varnakram that is visible to ( can be detected by ) the human najar.
Electromagnetic vikiran in this dayera of wavelengths is pukaara drishy lite or bas lite.
a theth insaan najar hoga respond to wavelengths isse parichay 390 to 700 nm.
in sharten of frequency, is corresponds to a band in the vicinity of 430–790 thz.
a light-adapted eye generally rai iske adhiktam sensitivity at around 555 nm ( 540 THz ), in the green pradesh of the optical varnakram ( dekhie : dipti falan ).
The spectrum karata not, however, contain sab the rangon that the insaan ankhen or brain can fark.
asantrupt rangon aise as pink, or purple variations aise as magenta, hai anupasthit, for example, because they can be made tabhi by a mixr of anek wavelengths.
rangon containing only ek wavelength hai bhi called pure rangon.
drishy wavelengths pass through the `` optical khidki ``, the region of the electromagnetic varnakram which allows wavelengths to pass largely unattenuated through the Earth 's atmosphere.
an udhaaharan of is phenomenon is ki saaf air scatters blue light more than red wavelengths, or so the midday aasmaan appears blue.
the optical window is bhi pukaara the drishy khidki kuki it overlaps the insaan drishy response varnakram.
the near infrared ( NIR ) khidki jhooth bas out of the insaan vision, as khub as the medium wavelength ir ( mwir ) khidki or the long Wavelength or dur infrared ( lwir or FIR ) khidki haalanki anya pashu may anubhav unhen.
Many prajati can dekhie light saath frequencies baahar the `` drishy varnakram, '' jisase is defined in sharten of insaan vision.
madhumakhiyon and many anya keet can detect parabangnee light, which helps unhen dhundhen makrand in flowers.
sanyantr prajati that nirbhar on keet paragan may owe reproductive kamyaabi to unke rup in ultraviolet lite, rather than kaisaa rangeen ve appear to insaano.
pakshiyon, too, can dekhie into the parabangnee ( 300–400 nm ), or some have sex-dependent markings on unke plumage ki hai drishy tabhi in the parabangnee dayera.
anek animals ki can dekhie into the parabangnee dayera, however, can nahin dekhie red lite or koi other reddish wavelengths.
madhumakhiyon ' visible spectrum ends at parichay 590nm, bas pehle the orange wavelengths prarambh.
pakshiyon, however, can dekhie some red wavelengths, lakin not as many as insaano.
zebras ( or ) hai several prajati of African equids ( ghoda family ) sanyukt by their distinctive black and shwet dhaariyaan.
Their dhaariyaan come in alag pattern, adwitiya to each individual.
ve hai generally social pashu that sajiv in choti harems to large herds.
naapsand their closest rishtedaaron, horses or asses, zebras have never maharoom truly domesticated.
vahin are three prajati of zebras : the plains zebra, the grévy 's zebra or the pahaad zebra.
The maidan zebra and the pahaad zebra belong to the subgenus hippotigris, lakin Grévy 's zebra is the ekmaatr species of subgenus Dolichohippus.
The latter resembles an gadhaa, to jisase it is closely sambandhit, while the purv do hai adhik horse-like.
sab teen belong to the genus Equus, saath saath other living equids.
the adwitiya stripes of zebras mek unhen ek of the pashu most familiar to people.
ve occur in a variety of habitats, aise as grasslands, savannas, woodlands, thorny scrublands, mountains, or tateey hills.
however, various anthropogenic factors have tha a kathor prabhaav on zebra populations, in particular hunting liye khaalen and habitat vinaash.
Grévy 's zebra or the pahaad zebra are endangered.
jabaki plains zebras hai much adhik plentiful, ek subspecies, the quagga, became extinct in the let 19th sadi – haalanki vahin is philhal a plan, pukaara the quagga Project, that aims to breed zebras ki hai phenotypically samaan to the quagga in a process called breeding waapas.
bairi shwet, born bairi Eugene carter ( – ), thi an amareeki composer and singer-songwriter.
a two-time grami Award -winner known for uske distinctive baas awaz or romantic chitra, White 's mahanatam kamyaabi aae in the 1970s as a solo singer and saath the prem aseemit orcestra, crafting anek enduring aatma, durgandh, or disco songs aise as uske do biggest hits, `` You 're the pehla, the Last, my Everything `` or `` ca n't milengi paryaapt of apana prem, beb. ''
saath saath ishaq Hayes, shwet is mana by allmusic.com as a pioneer of disco music in the jaldi 1970s.
During the course of uske kariyar in the music kaarobaar, shwet achieved 106 sunaharaa album worldwide, 41 of jisase bhi attained platinum status.
White tha 20 sunaharaa or 10 platinum singles, with vishwavyaapee bikri in excess of 100 lakh, according to aalochakon ed hogan or vade kergan.
His prabhaav shaamil rev. James cleveland, re Charles, Aretha franklin plus motown kalakaaron the Supremes, the chaar top or marvin gaye.
Angelina joli (, born angelina Jolie voit ; june 4, 1975 ) is an amareeki abhinetri, film director, or screenwriter.
wo rai praapt an academy puraskaar, two screen abhinaytaon gild puraskaar, and teen Golden Globe puraskaar, or was namit hollywood 's highest-paid actress by forbs in 2009 and 2011.
Jolie promotes humanitarian kalyankari, or is vikhyath for her kaary saath sharnaarthiyon as a khaas Envoy and former saakh doot liye the sanyukt raashtra unchi kamishnar for sharnaarthiyon ( UNHCR ).
She rai praayah maharoom cited as the sansar 's `` sabase khubasurat '' stri, a title liye which wo rai praapt substantial media attention.
joli bana uske screen debyue as a child alongside her father jon voit in lookin ' to milengi out ( 1982 ), lakin uske film career began in earnest a decade baad saath the low-budget utpaadan siborg 2 ( 1993 ).
Her pehla agrani bhoomika in a pramukh filmi thi in the cyber-thriller havers ( 1995 ).
wo strecchar in the critically acclaimed biographical television films george wales ( 1997 ) or gia ( 1998 ), and jiti an academy Award liye Best Supporting abhinetri liye her performance in the naatak ladki, Interrupted ( 1999 ).
joli hasil chaudee kirti baad her portrayal of video khel nayika Lara Croft in lara croft : makbara redar ( 2001 ), and established herself among the highest-paid abhinetriyon in hollywood saath the sequel The paalna of jivan ( 2003 ).
wo continued uske karrwai star career saath mr. & mrs. Smith ( 2005 ) or Wanted ( 2008 ) —her biggest non-animated vanijyik safaltaaon to date—and praapt further najuk acclaim for uske performances in the dramas A Mighty dil ( 2007 ) or changeling ( 2008 ), which arjeet uske a nomination liye an Academy puraskaar liye behtareen Actress.
Jolie bana uske directorial debut saath the wartime naatak In the jameen of rakt or madhu ( 2011 ).
talaak isse abhinaytaon johny lee miller or billy bob thornton, Jolie now jeevandaan saath actor bread pitt, in a sambandh notable for fervent media dhyaan.
Jolie and pitt have three biological children or teen adopted children.
a natural mehrab utpaadit by the apradan of differentially weathered chattan in jebel kharaz, Jordan
Erosion is the prakram by jisase mrudaa and chattan hai removed isse the dharti 's sataha by exogenetic prakriyaaon such as wind or jal pravaah, or tab transported and deposited in other sthitiyaan.
jabaki erosion is a prakritik prakram, human activities have increased by 10-40 times the rate at jisase apradan is occurring globally.
excessive erosion kalyankari problems aise as desertification, decreases in agricultural productivity due to jameen degradation, sedimentation of waterways, and ecological patan due to ghaataa of the nutrient samrudh apper soil paraton.
jal or hawa erosion hai abhi the two primary causes of jameen degradation ; sanyukt, ve are jimmedaar liye 84 % of degraded acreage, making excessive apradan ek of the most significant vaishvik paryaavarniya samasyaayein.
Industrial krishi, wanon, sadaken, anthropogenic jalwaayu change or urban sprawl hai amongst the sabase significant human kriyaayein in regard to their effect on stimulating erosion.
however, vahin hai anek available vaikalpik jameen upyog practices ki can kaatna or seemaa apradan, such as terrace -building, no-till krishi, or revegetation of denuded soils.
jersey Shore is an amareeki vaastaviktaa television shrenee jisase bhaaga on MTV isse disambar 3, 2009 to December 20, 2012 in the sanyukt rajya.
The shrenee follows the jeevandaan of aath housemates bitaa unke garmiyaan at the jersey shore in the U.S. state of nai jersey.
Season 2 followed the cast escaping the cold purvottar sheet to miami bich, saath ritu 3 returning to the Jersey shore.
the fourth season, filmed in italy, premiered on agast 4, 2011.
the dikhaaen laute liye a fifth ritu, at seaside Heights on janvari 5, 2012.
the fifth ritu finale aired on March 15, 2012.
on March 19, 2012, MTV pushti ki the shrenee hota return liye their chathe ritu.
On agast 30, 2012, amtivi announced ki the series hoga samaapt baad the chathe ritu, which premiered on aktubar 4.
the shrenee finale aired on disambar 20, 2012.
the dikhaaen debuted amid large amounts of vivaad regarding the upyog of the shabd `` guido / guidette, '' portrayals of Italian-American stereotypes, or scrutiny isse locals because the daal members yahood not nivaasiyon of the kshetrafal.
the shrenee garnered ricard ratings liye amtivi, bananaa it the network 's sabase viewed shrenee telecast ever.
the series ' daal have bhi been credited saath introducing adwitiya lexicon and phrases into amareeki popular samskruti.
the vishvavidhyalayon of chicago or the vishvavidhyalayon of Oklahoma hai among the shaikshanik sansthaanon ki have tha classes or sammelnon parichay the dikhaaen.
In 2010, the daal of jersey Shore thi namit on Barbara walters ' 10 Most fascinating People list, or the shrenee rai since been exported to darjanon of deshon vishwavyaapee.
There are anek remakes of the dikhaaen in other deshon, saath do set in the sanyukt kingdom ; the well gyaat geordie Shore, niyat in newcastle upon Tyne, england.
the anya is The ghaatiyon, the welsh equivalent, which is filmaaya or set in Cardiff.
the tabhi other official remake of the show is gandía shore, niyat in gandía, spain.
right
United rajya territory is any extent of pradesh under the jurisdiction of the sangheey sarkari of the sanyukt rajya, sahit sab waters ( around islands or mahadwipiya tracts ) and all U.S. Naval baratan.
the sanyukt rajya rai traditionally proclaimed the sovereign adhikaron liye exploring, exploiting, conserving, or managing iske territory.
This extent of territory is sab the area belonging to, and antargat the dominian of, the sanyukt rajya sangheey government ( jisase shaamil tracts lying at a alahada isse the country ) liye prashasnic and anya uddeshy.
The sanyukt rajya total territory shaamil a upasamucchy of rajnatik divisions.
The U.S. government is a sarkari saath pratinidhitiv powers antargat the United rajya samvidhan.
`` the shaktiyaan nahin delegated to the sanyukt rajya by the samvidhan, nor nishiddh by it to the rajya, hai surakshit to the States kramshah, or to the logon '' by the Tenth amendment.
Terminator 3 : vruddhi of the mashine ( commonly abbreviated as t3 ) is a 2003 vigyaan fiction karrwai film nirdeshit by Jonathan mostow and abhinit Arnold shwarzanegar, Nick Stahl, cleyar Danes or kristanna loken.
It is the duusari sequel to the termineter ( 1984 ).
After Skynet fails to maar sara connor pehle uske bete is born or to kill John khud as a child, it bhejnaa back another termineter, the t-x, in an attempt to wipe out as anek pratirodh adhikariyon as possible.
is shaamil jon 's bhavishya bivi, lakin not jon khud as uske whereabouts hai anjaan to skynet.
jon 's jivan is placed in khatre jab the t-x accidentally paata him.
a cord of lakdi
the cord is a ikai of maap of shushk awaz prayukt in Canada or the sanyukt rajya to maap idhan or pulpwood.
a cord is the raashi of lakdi ki, jab `` ranked or khub stowed '' ( arranged so tukade are aligned, parallel, chhu and compact ), occupies a awaz of.
is corresponds to a khub stacked woodpile unchi, long, and gahan ; or koi anya vyavastha of raikhik maap that yields the vahi awaz.
the name cord probably aata isse the use of a cord or string to measure it.
the, is an 8-bit handeld video game yantra viksit or manufactured by Nintendo.
it thi released in japani on, in uttar america in, and in europea on.
it is the pehla handeld consol in the Game Boy lakeer, or was nirmit by Gunpei yokoi or nintendo shodh & vikaas 1 —the same staff who had designed the khel & dekhen series as khub as anek popular khel liye the nintendo Entertainment System.
redesigned versions yahood released in 1996 or 1998, in the rup of Game Boy jeb, or khel ladke lite ( Japan tabhi ), kramshah.
the khel Boy is nintendo 's duusari handeld system following the Game & Watch shrenee introduced in, or it sanyukt suvidhaayen from dono the nintendo entertainment pranali or khel & dekhen.
it thi originally bundled saath the puzzle game Tetris.
as bhaag of the chauthi peedhee of gaming, the khel ladke competed with the sega khel Gear, Atari Lynx, or the TurboExpress.
despite ye anya technologically shreshth handeld consoles, the khel ladke was a tremendous kamyaabi.
The Game Boy or iske successor, the khel ladke rang, have dono sanyukt bechi 118.69 lakh ikai vishwavyaapee.
Upon its relies in the sanyukt rajya, it bechi iske entire shipment of ek lakh ikai within saptaah.
the sansar vyapaar Center is a complex of imaaraten antargat nirmaan in Lower Manhattan, New York City, sanyukt States, replacing an pehle complex of seven imaaraten saath the same naam on the vahi site.
The asli sansar Trade bich pradarshit landmark judwa minaaren, which kholi on april 4, 1973 or yahood nasht in the sitambar 11 hamale of 2001, saath with 7 sansar Trade bich.
the anya imaaraten in the complex yahood kshatigrast in the hamale, or unke tabah yahood aakhirkaar demolished.
the sait is hone rebuilt saath paanch nai skyscrapers and a memorial to those maare in the attacks.
, only ek skyscraper rai been samaapt ; the anya four hai apekshit to be completed pehle 2020.
ek sansar vyapaar bich hoga be the lead bhawan liye the new complex, reaching adhik than 100 stories at its completion.
It became the tallest building in nai york nagar on april 30, 2012, or is apekshit to be finished by 2013.
A chathe minar is pratiksharat pushti.
at the time of unke purnataa, the asli 1 World Trade bich ( the uttar minar ) or 2 sansar vyapaar bich ( the dakshin Tower ), known collectively as the `` judwa Towers '', yahood the tallest buildings in the sansar.
The anya imaaraten shaamil 3 wtc ( the marriyat sansar vyapaar bich ), 4 WTC, 5 wtc, 6 wtc, or 7 wtc.
sab of ye imaaraten yahood nirmit between 1975 or 1985.
The laagat for the construction thi $ 400 lakh ( $ in dollar ).
The complex thi stith in the dil of New york nagar 's downtown vittiya zila or contained 13.4 million vargakar feet ( 1.24 lakh m2 ) of daftar spes.
the sansar vyapaar bich anbhavi a aag on, 1975, a bombing on, 1993 or a robbery on, 1998.
in 1998, the bandargahon Authority decided to privatize the sansar vyapaar bich, patte the imaaraten to a private company to manage, and awarded the patte to silverstein gun in.
on the morning of sitambar 11, 2001, al-qaeda -sambhddhand hijackers udaaya do bowing 767 jets into the jatil, one into prayek minar, in a samanvit aatankwaadi akraman.
After burning liye 56 minutes, the dakshin minar ( 2 ) collapsed, followed a half-hour later by the uttar Tower ( 1 ), saath the hamale on the World vyapaar bich resulting in 2,753 mauton.
girnaa malba isse the towers, combined saath fir ki the malba initiated in anek surrounding imaaraten, led to the aanshik or puraa patan of sab the anya imaaraten in the jatil and caused catastrophic kshati to ten anya vishaal structures in the surrounding area.
The prakram of clyaap or recovery at the sansar vyapaar bich site took eight months.
over the following years, yojanaayen liye a rebuilt sansar vyapaar bich took rup.
The pehla nai bhawan at the site was 7 World vyapaar bich, jisase opened in.
the nimnatar Manhattan vikaas nigam ( lmdc ), sthapit in to oversee the rebuilding prakram, organized pratiyogitaaon to chune a sait plan and memorial dizine.
memory muladhar, designed by danniel Libeskind, thi chaynit as the nipun yojana, lakin this gai through substantial parivartan in dizine.
the nai World vyapaar Center jatil hoga shaamil ek World vyapaar bich, three anya high-rise daftar minaaren, or the National sitambar 11 memorial & Museum.
san Gabriel kyu
San Bernardino Mountains, with mt. san gorgonio in the agrabhumi and big bhaaluu Lake in the prishthbhumi.
the anuprastha Ranges hai a samooh of pahaad seemayen of dakshini california, in the prashanth Coast Ranges physiographic pradesh in North america.
the anuprastha Ranges begin at the southern samaapt of the california coast seemayen and jhooth between santa Barbara and San Diego county.
They derive the naam Transverse Ranges due to their East-West orientation, making unhen transverse to the general north-south abhivinyas of sabase of California 's tateey mountains.
Periodic talika saath electron shell
An electron shell may be vichaar of as an kaksha followed by electrons around an atom 's cendrak.
the closest shell to the cendrak is pukaara the `` 1 shell '' ( also called `` k shell '' ), followed by the `` 2 shell '' ( or `` l shell '' ), tab the `` 3 shell '' ( or `` m shell '' ), or so on dur or dur from the cendrak.
The shell akshar k, l, M,..., prayukt in the x-ray notation, are alphabetical.
prayek shell can contain tabhi a phixd kramank of electrons : the 1st shell can tham up to do electrons, the 2nd shell can hold up to aath electrons, the 3rd shell can hold up to 18, and 4th shell can tham up to 32 or so on.
chunki electrons hai electrically aakarshith to the cendrak, an atom 's electrons will generally occupy outer shell only if the adhik bhitari shell have already maharoom completely bhar by anya electrons.
however, is is not a sakht aavashyaktaa : Atoms may have do or bhi teen incomplete bahari shell.
( dekhie madelung rule for adhik vivaran. )
liye an explanation of kyon electrons maujuud in ye shells see electron configuration.
the electrons in the outermost occupied shell ( or shell ) determine the chemical gun of the anu ; it is pukaara the valence shell.
prayek shell consists of one or adhik subshells, or prayek subshell consists of one or adhik atomic orbitals.
vickie Lynn marshall ( née hogan ; navambar 28, 1967 – farvari 8, 2007 ), gyaat by uske moniker Anna nichol smith, thi an amareeki model, abhinetri, or television personality.
smith pehla gained popularity in Playboy, banane the 1993 sangini of the Year.
She modeled liye kapadey companiyaan, sahit Guess jeens or len bryant.
smith dropped out of unchi skool and thi shaadishuda in 1985.
uske atyadhik publicized second vivaah to oil kaarobaar mogul, J. harvard marshall, 62 years her senior, resulted in speculation that she shaadishuda the octogenarian liye uske dhan, jisase wo asweekrut.
following marshall 's maut, smith began a lengthy vidhik battle over a share of his estate.
Her case, marshall v. Marshall, reached the u.S. param adaalat on a sawaal of sangheey kshetradhikaar, and again on a sawaal of diwaliyapan adaalat praadhikaar ( now pukaara stern v. marshall ).
Smith died on farvari 8, 2007 in a hollywood, Florida hotel room as a result of an overdose of nuskhaa drugs.
bheetar the final six months of uske jivan, smith thi the fokas of a navinikrut dabaayen kawarej surrounding the death of her bete, danniel, or the paternity or castady battle over uske newborn beti, dannielynn.
the is ek denomination of japani yen.
the vartmaan dizine thi pehla minted in 1959 using japani characters known as the `` nai script ``, or yahood also minted isse 1949-1958 using `` old-script '' japani varna.
five-yen sikke tithi to 1870 ( jab, due to the much ucchtar maan of the yen, ve were minted in sunaharaa ).
the front of the sikaa depicts a rice sanyantr growing out of the water, saath `` paanch yen '' likhaa in kanji ; the back is stamped with `` japani '' and the saal of samasya, bhi in kanji, alag by sprouts of a ped.
the three graphic tatv of the sikaa represent krishi and fisheries, the kunjee elements of the Japanese first-sector economy.
Around a hole, vahin is a gear ki represents udyog.
it is the only japani sikaa in parisancharan to kami arabi numerals on either face.
tlc is an American girl samooh jinaki rangamandal spanned R & b, hip hop, aatma, funk, and nai jack swing.
Originally consisting of singer tionne `` t-boz '' Watkins, rapper Lisa `` Left najar '' lopes or singer Rozonda `` chilli '' thomas, the samooh mila unprecedented success in the 1990s jabaki bhi enduring a shrenee of spats saath the law, prayek anya, or the samooh 's ricard label.
initially, tlc hasil commercial success following the release of unke debyue album Ooooooohhh...
On the TLC tip, jisase bechi 6 lakh copies worldwide.
however, it thi their duusari album, crazysexycool, ki catapulted the samooh to superstar aukaat.
CrazySexyCool gai on to be certified diamond by the riaa — a pehla liye a female samooh, and eventually bechi 23 million nakal vishwavyaapee.
paanch saalo baad, the group released their third album fanmail, which became the samooh 's pehla album to debyue at kramank ek or bechi adhik than 11 lakh copies worldwide.
The subsequent daure following fanmails release became the ucchtam grossing daure of sab time by a female band.
in 2002, lisa `` baayein najar '' lopes died in a car durghatana in honduras.
saat maheene later, t-boz or Chilli released the group 's chauthi album 3D, jisase bechi 2 lakh copies vishwavyaapee, it pradarshit unreleased vocals isse baayein Eye.
billboard patrika kramit tlc as ek of the greatest musical trios.
between 1992 or 2003, the band accumulated ten top ten singles, four number ek singles, chaar multi-platinum albums, or chaar Grammy Awards.
at the samaapt of 1999, tlc was ranked as the saatvaan most kaamyaab adhinium of the 1990s by Billboard.
in 2008, the group was inducted into the sab Time hot 100 Artist haul of kirti by the vahi patrika, at 56th place.
ki year it thi bhi listed as the # 25 r & B/hip-hop kalakaar of the preceding 25 years.
TLC rai sold adhik than 65 lakh record worldwide or they hai kramit as the second behtareen selling maadaa samooh of all time, and the behtareen selling maadaa R & b samooh of sab time.
in 2012, tlc kramit 12th on vh1 's 100 mahanatam mahilaon in music, being kramit the kramank ek sab ladki group on ki suchi.
tarzan is a 1999 amareeki anemated adventure filmi utpaadit by walt dijani visheshta anemation or vitarit by Walt Disney tasviren.
the 37th filmi in the walt dijani anemated clasik, it is based on the story tarzan of the Apes by Edgar Rice baroj, or is the tabhi pramukh gati chitra version of the story tarzan property to be anemated.
Directed by kris buck or kevin Lima with a patakatha by Tab Murphy, bob tzudiker, or Noni shwet, tarzan features the awaazen of Tony Goldwyn, Minnie driver, glen band, and Rosie o'donnell saath bryan dhanya, talwaar henriksen, wain nit, or nigel hawthorne.
It thi the pichhlaa bona fide hit pehle the dijani slump of the jaldi 2000s grossing $ 171,091,819 domestically or $ 448,191,819 vishwavyaapee, outgrossing its purvavartiyon Hercules ( 1997 ) or mulan ( 1998 ).
At the samay of iske release, its utpaadan bajet of $ 130 lakh bana it the sabase expensive anemated filmi ever made, until awwal by Disney 's own $ 140 lakh khajaana grah in 2002.
It thi bhi the first Disney anemated visheshta to open at # 1 chunki pocahontas.
This thi the pichhlaa pramukh box office kamyaabi of the dijani Renaissance.
aayal manch P-51 band the brazilian coast is a semi-submersible manch.
Oil manch mittelplate in the uttar sea
an aayal manch, ( offshore manch or colloquially oil rig ) is a large dhaancha saath facilities to drill kuen, to nikaalen and process aayal or natural gas, and to temporarily store utpaada until it can be brought to shore liye shodhan and vipanan.
in many cases, the manch contains facilities to house the workforce as khub.
depending on the halaaton, the manch may be phixd to the samandar manzil, may consist of an kritrim dweep, or may float.
remote subsea kuen may bhi be conect to a manch by pravaah linon and by umbilical conections.
ye subsea samaadhaan may consist of ek or adhik subsea kuen, or of ek or more manifold kendron for anek wells.
vadh is the killing of animals, praayah ki of gharelu pashudhan for khaanaa.
the pashu sabase commonly slaughtered liye khaanaa hai choupayon, jal bhens ( liye bif and veal ), sheep, bakriyon ( liye memne or mutton ), boar ( for pork ), ghode ( for ghoda maance ), or fowl, largely murgiyon, turkeys, or batakhon or increasingly fish isse the aquaculture udyog ( fish farming ).
the White house, the president 's aadhikarik residence or center of the prashasan
Under the sanyukt rajya Constitution, the adhyaksh of the United States is the sir of rajya or sir of sarkari of the sanyukt rajya.
As mukhya of the karypalika shakha or sir of the sangheey sarkari as a puure, the presidency is the ucchtam rajnatik office in the sanyukt rajya by influence or manyata.
the adhyaksh is bhi the commander-in-chief of the sanyukt rajya hathiyaarband shaktiyaan.
the adhyaksh is indirectly elected to a four-year pad by an chunavi college ( or by the house of pratinidhi chahie the chunavi college asafal to puraskaar an absolute majority of mat to koi vyakti ).
chunki the anusamarthan of the Twenty-second amendment to the sanyukt rajya samvidhan in 1951, no vyakti may be elected adhyaksh adhik than twice, or no one jo rai parosa adhik than do saalo of a term to jisase kisi else thi nirvaachit may be nirvaachit adhik than once.
upon the maut, istipha, or hataanaa isse daftar of an laazim adhyaksh, the vaais adhyaksh assumes the daftar.
the adhyaksh jarur be at tanik 35 saalo of age or a `` natural born '' naagarik of the sanyukt rajya.
is list shaamil tabhi those vyaktiyon jo were sworn into daftar as president following the anusamarthan of the sanyukt rajya samvidhan, which took prabhaav on kooch 4, 1789.
liye amareeki netao before is ratification, dekhie adhyaksh of the mahadwipiya congress.
the list karata nahin include koi acting raashtrapatiyon under the twenty-fifth amendment to the sanyukt rajya samvidhan.
There have maharoom 43 people sworn into office, and 44 presidencies, as Grover Cleveland served do non-consecutive terms or is gine krambaddhata as dono the 22nd and 24th president.
of the individuals nirvaachit as adhyaksh, chaar died in office of natural kalyankari ( William henry harrison, Zachary tailor, warren G. harding, and Franklin D. rujvelt ), chaar were assassinated ( abraham lincoln, james A. garfield, wiliam McKinley, or John F. Kennedy ) and ek resigned ( richard nicksan ).
george washington, the pehla adhyaksh, thi udghaatan in 1789 after a unanimous vote of the chunavi college.
wiliam Henry Harrison kharch the shortest time in daftar saath 32 dinon in 1841, and franklin D. rujvelt spent the longest saath over baarah saalo, lakin died shortly into uske chauthi term in 1945.
he is the only president to serve adhik than do terms, and a sanvaidhanik amendment, affecting presidents after Harry truman, thi passed to seemaa the kramank of times an vyaktigat can be nirvaachit president.
Andrew jackson, the saatvaan adhyaksh, was the first to be elected by men of sab classes in 1828 after sabase kanoon barring non-land-owners isse matdaan yahood repealed.
Warren Harding thi the pehla nirvaachit baad mahilaon gained voting adhikaron in 1920.
itihaas records chaar presidents – jon q Adams, radarford B. hez, Benjamin Harrison or george W. Bush – jo lost the lokapriy vote lakin assumed daftar.
John F. kennedy rai been the only president of roman catholic aasthaa, and the vartmaan adhyaksh, baraak obama, is the pehla adhyaksh of African descent.
Several firearms saath detachable suppressors, from sheersh to bottom : An Uzi, An ar-15, A Heckler & koch khaasiyat ranneetik, a beretta 92fs, and a sig machhar.
Bolt action rimfire rifl with suppressor
AWM-F sniper rifl with sanlagn suppressor.
a suppressor, sound suppressor, or sound moderator, is a yantra sanlagn to or bhaag of the bairal of a firearm jisase reduces the raashi of noise, or usually the amount of muzzle flash, generated by firing the hathiyaar.
a suppressor can be used dono saath a firearm or saath compressed air gun.
haalanki it is sometimes referred to as a silencer, is pad is a misnomer popularized by cinematic fiction : the dhwani of a prakshepya, visheshkar ek chalati tej than the gati of dhwani, through the air can not be eliminated.
using a suppressor in long alahada shooting ( i.e. greater than 300 meters ) can lessen, or retard, the rapat at the pal of prabhaav, or banaaen the impression of silence nikat the nishaanaa.
the noise suna nikat the muzzle as a prakshepya pattey the barrel, haalanki subdued, is not mook at sab.
A suppressor is praayah a metal belan with aatanrik mechanisms to reduce the dhwani of firing by slowing the escaping propellant gas or sometimes by reducing the velocity of the goli.
jaldi suppressors yahood nirmit around the shuruuaat of the 20th century by anek inventors.
amareeki avishkaarak hiram percy kahawat ( nahin to be confused saath hiram stevens kahawat, hiram percy 's pita, or the avishkaarak of the kahawat Machine gan ), is credited with inventing or selling the pehla commercially kaamyaab models circa 1902 ( patented 30 kooch 1909 ).
kahawat diya his yantra the trademarked naam kahawat Silencer.
the mafalar for aatanrik dahan ingine was viksit in samanaantar saath the firearm suppressor by kahawat in the early 20th sadi, using anek of the vahi techniques to provide quieter-running engines ( in anek europea deshon automobile mufflers hai still pukaara silencers ).
the word silencer in reference to gan suppressor remains in widespread upyog, although it rai chunki gire out of ehsaan saath kuch, visheshkar among the firearms udyog, hone replaced with the adhik vastutah accurate pad sound suppressor or bas suppressor, kuki a `` dhwani suppressor '' karata nahin `` silence '' any hathiyaar, balki it eliminates muzzle flash or reduces the sonic pressure of a firearm discharging.
Common usage or u.S. vidhaan bhashaa ehsaan the historically earlier pad, silencer.
in u.S. vidhi, the sharten `` firearm mafalar '' and `` firearm silencer '' hai synonymous.
suppressors were regularly prayukt by agenton of the sanyukt rajya Office of ranneetik sevaayen, jo favored the newly designed unchi Standard hdm.22 Long Rifle pistal dauraan sansar yuddh ii.
oss nideshak wiliam Joseph `` junglee vidheyak '' donoven demonstrated the pistal liye adhyaksh franklin D. rujvelt at the shwet house.
According to oss research mukhya stanley Lovell, donoven ( an boodha or vishwasaneey dost of the adhyaksh ) thi laharaaya into the ovel daftar, jahaan Roosevelt thi dictating a akshar.
While rujvelt samaapt his message, donoven turned his back and fired ten goliyaan into a sandbag he tha brought with use, ghoshit what he tha kiya and haat the dhumrapaan gan to the astonished adhyaksh.
the British SOE ( Special parichaalan karypalika ) Welrod hatya pistal with an abhinn suppressor was bhi prayukt by the American OSS on clandestine operations in naaji occupied europea dauraan the duusari sansar yuddh.
beatrice `` bea '' arthur ( may 13, 1922 – april 25, 2009 ) thi an amareeki actress, comedienne, or singer whose kariyar spanned saat dashakon.
Arthur hasil fame as the akshar maude findlay on the 1970s sitcoms All in the parivaar or Maude, or as dorothi Zbornak on the 1980s sitcom The Golden ladakiyon, jeetna emi Awards liye dono bhoomikaaye.
a stage abhinetri dono pehle or after her television success, wo won the Tony Award liye Best pradarshit abhinetri in a musical liye her pradarshan as veeraa charles in the original daal of mame ( 1966 ).
is a 2011 Japanese 3d computer-animated filmi aadhaarit on the tekken video khel shrenee, utpaadit by digital Frontier and vitarit by Asmik Ace entertainment in sangh saath bandai Entertainment.
the filmi premiered in uttar america by Bandai entertainment on july 26, 2011, or in australia on July 27, 2011 in a special vishesh one-off screening.
It was released on sitambar 3, 2011 in japani.
the filmi was released on blu-ray Disc on navambar 22, 2011 liye uese, and December 1, 2011 liye japani.
is filmi thi bhi released on dvd on navambar 22, 2011 ( 2D sanskaran tabhi ).
the filmi thi additionally included saath the plastesan 3 khel, tekken sankar, or the nintendo 3DS title, Tekken 3D : Prime sanskaran.
For a discussion of nonprofit, voluntary neighborhood advocacy samooh, dekhie pados association.
in the sanyukt rajya, a homeowner sangh is a nigam formed by a real estate develper liye the purpose of vipanan, managing, or selling of homes or lots in a residential subdivision.
it grants the develper visheshadhikaar matdaan rights in shaasi the association, jabaki allowing the developer to nikaas vittiya and vidhik responsibility of the sanghathan, typically by transferring swaamitv of the sangh to the homeowners after selling band a predetermined kramank of lot.
sadsyta in the homeowners sangh by a awasaiya kharidaar is typically a condishan of khariden ; a buyer is n't die an vikalp to asweekrut it.
sabase homeowner association hai incorporated, or hai vishay to state statutes that govern non-profit corporations and homeowner association.
rajya oversight of homeowner association is minimal, or mainly takes the rup of kanoon jisase hai asangat isse state to rajya.
Some rajya, aise as florida or california, have a vishaal body of homeowner sangh vidhi, or kuch states, such as masachusets, have vastutah no homeowner association vidhi.
the fastest growing rup of housing in the sanyukt rajya today is common-interest developments ( cids ), a shrenee that includes planned-unit developments of single-family gharon, condominiums, or sahakaari apartment.
chunki 1964, homeowner association have become increasingly common in the USA.
the jatiyaan association santhaan vyapaar sangh estimated ki hoas governed 24.8 million amareeki homes and 62 lakh nivaasiyon in 2010.
a prize-winning lilac-and-white Silkie
vahin are anek breeds of gini pig jisase have maharoom viksit chunki its domestication ca. 5000 bc.
breeds vary widely in rup or purpose, ranging isse dikhaaen breeds saath long, flowing hair to those in upyog as model jeevon by vigyaan.
isse ca. 1200 AD to the spani conquest of the inka Empire in 1532, chaynaatmak breeding by indigenous South amareeki peoples resulted in anek kismein of domestic gini pigs, jisase rup the aadhaar liye kuch of the aadhunik gharelu breeds.
jaldi andean breeds yahood primarily rakhaa as agricultural bhandar liye khaanaa, or efforts at improving the gini pig as a khaanaa sorce continue to the modern era.
saath the niryaat of Guinea boar to europea in the 15th sadi, the lakshya in prajnan shifted to fokas on the vikaas of appealing pets.
to is samaapt, various pratispardhi prajnan organizations yahood santhaapit by fanciers.
the amareeki cavy Breeders sangh, an adjunct to the amareeki Rabbit Breeders sangh, is the governing body in the United States or canada.
the angrejon Cavy Council governs cavy clubs in the United kingdom.
Similar organizations exist in australia ( australian National cavy Council ) and nai jiland ( nai jiland cavy klbon ).
prayek klbon publishes iske apana Standard of purnataa or determines jisase breeds hai yogya liye prardashit.
New breeds continue to emerge in the 21st sadi.
haalanki vahin are anek breeds of Guinea pig, tabhi a few breeds hai commonly found on the dikhaaen talika as pets.
Most gini pigs mila as pets yahood either found undesirable by prajnak or yahood bred to be pleasant pets regardless of how khub they meet the nasl maanak of purnataa.
The choti bal, abyssinian, peruvian or sheltie ( urf Silkie ) breeds hai those sabase aksar seen as paalatu, and the purv teen hai the core breeds in the itihaas of the competitive showing of Guinea boar.
in jod to unke maanak rup, nearly sab breeds aaiye in a satin roopaantar.
satins, due to unke khokhla bal shafts, possess coats of a special gloss or chamak.
However, there is growing pramaan ki the jeenon jimmedaar liye the satin kot bhi can kaaran kathor asthi samasyaayein, sahit osteodystrophy or Paget 's disease.
prardashit satin visangatiyaan is prohibited by some cavy breeders ' association because of animal welfare reasons.
All cavy breeds have kuch saajha general maanakon : the head profile should be rounded, saath large ankhen or large, chikna ears.
the body chahie be damdaar or of compact nirmaan.
kot rang should in all visangatiyaan be clearly defined and thorough isse root to tip.
ye standards hai behtareen mili by long sthapit, commonly bred breeds, as their breeders have tha paryaapt samay or pashu to effectively breed liye these qualities.
the kot rang adarsh of shubh paribhaasha or thoroughness is rarely mili by anya than the chikna coated breeds, jisase have tha khub sthapit, pruthak breeding linon liye alag rang.
rajya schools ( bhi gyaat as public skulon or sarkari skulon ) generally refer to praathmik or dwitiyak schools mandated liye or offered to sab children without charge sashulk for, in puure or in bhaag, by karadhaan.
The pad may bhi refer to sansthaanon of post-secondary shiksha vittposhit, in puure or in part, or overseen by sarkari.
The ribosome assembles polymeric protein molecules jinaki anukram is niyantrit by the anukram of messanger rna anuon.
This is jaruri by sab jeena koshikaayen and sambhddha virus.
The ribosom ( from ribonucleic acid or the unani som, arth `` body '' ) is a large or jatil molecular yantra, found bheetar sab jeena koshikaayen, ki serves as the praathmik site of biological protein sanshleshan ( translation ).
ribosomes kadi amino acids saath in the anukram nirdisht by messanger rna ( mrna ) anuon.
ribosomes consist of do pramukh subunits—the small ribosomal subunit padhe the mRNA, jabaki the vishaal subunit joins amino acids to rup a polypeptide chain.
prayek subunit is rachit of ek or adhik ribosomal rna ( rrna ) anuon or a kismein of proteins.
the anukram of diene ankoding for a protein may be copy many times into messanger RNA ( mRNA ) zanjeeron of a samaan anukram.
Ribosomes can bind to an mRNA kadi and upyog it as a template liye determining the sahi sequence of amino acids in a particular protein.
amino acids are chaynit, collected or carried to the ribosom by transafar rna ( trna anuon ), jisase daalen ek part of the ribosom or bind to the messenger rna kadi.
the sanlagn amino acids hai tab linked together by another bhaag of the ribosome.
Once the protein is utpaadit, it can then 'fold ' to upaj a vishisht kaaryaatmak three-dimensional dhaancha.
a ribosom is made from devalayas of RNAs or protein or is isliye a ribonucleoprotein.
prayek ribosom is vibhajit into do subunits : the choti subunit baandhta to the mrna pattern, jabaki the larger subunit baandhta to the tRNA and the amino acids.
jab a ribosom finishes padhnaa an mRNA anu, these do subunits vibhajit alaava.
ribosomes are ribozymes, because the catalytic peptidyl transferase kaaryaklap ki kadi amino acids saath is performed by the ribosomal rna.
ribosomes isse jeevanu, archaea and eukaryotes ( the three domains of jivan on dharti ) differ in their aakaar, sequence, dhaancha, and the anupaat of protein to rna.
the matbhed in structure allow some antibiotics to maar jeevanu by inhibiting unke ribosomes, jabaki leaving human ribosomes unaffected.
in jeevanu or orchia, more than one ribosom may move saath a single mrna kadi at ek samay, prayek `` padhnaa '' iske sequence or producing a sambandhit protein molecule.
the ribosomes in the mitochondria of eukaryotic cells functionally resemble anek suvidhaayen of those in jeevanu, reflecting the sambhavit vikasvaadi origin of mitochondria.
albert claude, isai de duve, or george emil palade yahood jointly awarded the Nobel puraskaar in physiology or ayurvigyaan, in 1974, liye the discovery of the ribosomes.
the nobel puraskaar in Chemistry 2009 thi awarded to venkatraman ramakrishnan, Thomas A. steitz and Ada E. yonath liye determining the vistrut dhaancha or yantriki of the ribosom.
the simplified internal structure of a chloroplast
avlokan of the calvin cycle or carbon fixation
The light-independent pratikriyaayein of photosynthesis hai rasinic reactions that badalen carbon dioxide or anya yogicon into glucose.
These pratikriyaayein occur in the stroma, the fluid-filled area of a haritalvak outside of the thylakoid jhilliyon.
ye reactions take the light-dependent pratikriyaayein or perform further chemical prakriyaaon on them.
There hai teen phases to the light-independent reactions, collectively pukaara the calvin cycle : carbon fixation, katautee pratikriyaayein, or ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate ( rubp ) regeneration.
Despite iske name, is prakram occurs only when light is uplabdhiyaan.
Plants do not carry out the calvin saikil by raatri.
ve, bajaay, relies sucrose into the floem isse unke mand reserves.
is prakram happens when lite is available independent of the dayaalu of photosynthesis ( c3 carbon fixation, c4 carbon fixation, and crassulacean Acid chayapachay ) ; cam paudhe store malic acid in unke vacuoles prayek raatri or relies it by din in order to make this prakram kaary.
in ganit, a square kramank or perfect vargakar is an purnank that is the vargakar of an integer ; in anya shabd, it is the utpaada of kuch purnank saath itself.
liye example, 9 is a vargakar kramank, chunki it can be likhaa as.
The usual sanketan liye the sutara liye the vargakar of a kramank is not the utpaada, but the samatuly exponentiation, praayah sunaaya as `` vargakar ''.
the naam vargakar kramank aata isse the naam of the aakaar ; dekhie below.
vargakar sankhyaayein hai non-negative.
another rasta of saying ki a ( non-negative ) kramank is a square kramank, is that its vargakar jaden hai again integers.
liye example, = ±3, so 9 is a vargakar kramank.
A dhanatmak purnank ki rai no purna vargakar divisors magar 1 is called square-free.
liye a non-negative integer, the th square number is, saath hone the zeroth vargakar.
the avadharana of square can be vistaarit to kuch anya number systems.
if rational numbers hai shaamil, tab a vargakar is the anupaat of do square integers, and, conversely, the ratio of do square integers is a vargakar ( e.g., 4/9 = ( 2/3 ) 2 ).
starting with 1, vahin are vargakar sankhyaayein up to and sahit, jahaan the abhivyakti represents the floor of the number.
The era of shubh jajbaat chihnit a kaal in the rajnatik itihaas of the sanyukt rajya ki reflected a bhav of neshnal purpose or a khwaahish liye unity among america in the aftermath of the Napoleonic Wars.
the era dekhi the patan of the federalist party or an end to the kadava dalgat vivaadon between it or the prabal democratic-republican party dauraan the First Party System.
adhyaksh james munro endeavored to downplay dalgat sambhddha in making his nominations, saath the ultimate lakshya of neshnal ekta and eliminating partiyon altogether isse neshnal raajnneeti.
the period is so closely associated saath Monroe 's presidency ( 1817–1825 ) and uske prashasnic lakshya that uske name or the era are vastutah synonymous.
the era of shubh Feelings marked a transition in amareeki raajnneeti with the samaapt of the federalist party as america began to develop baad the War of 1812.
jabaki america was experiencing vikaas and samruddhi baad the yuddh saath britain, this era bhi marks the pehla udhaaharan of aarthik troubles in the growing sanyukt rajya.
mirroring the American pranali prastaavit by henry mitti, surakshatmak tariffs or the chartering of the duusari bainko of the sanyukt rajya jatil the tension between the uttar and South saath the coming of the pehla financial crisis.
jabaki the pad “era of shubh Feelings” is usually viewed saath irony kuki of the political turmoil, aarthik karkon caused animosity between the uttar or dakshin.
the namakan of the kaal by itihaaskaaron as one of “good feelings” is praayah conveyed saath vidambnaa or skepticism, as the itihaas of the era thi ek in jisase the rajnatik maahaul thi strained and divisive, visheshkar among girohon bheetar the munro prashasan or the republican party.
the phrase “era of shubh feelings” thi coined by benjamin Russell, in the boston Federalist newspaper, columbian Centinel, on july 12, 1817, following munro 's vizit to boston, masachusets as bhaag of uske shubh hoga daure of America.
mariel margaret `` Mia '' hamm ( born kooch 17, 1972 ) is a ritred amareeki professional soker khilaadi.
Hamm nibhaai anek saalo as a aage liye the United rajya mahilaon 's neshnal soker toli and thi a founding member of the washington swatantraaa.
hamm scored 158 antarrashtriya goals, more than koi other khilaadi, male or maadaa, in the itihaas of soker or is the teesraa most capped maadaa player in soccer itihaas peeche kristine Lilly and christy rampone, appearing in 275 antarrashtriya matches.
hamm was named the mahilaon 's fifa World Player of the saal the pehla do times ki puraskaar was die ( in 2001 or 2002 ), and is soochibaddh as one of fifa 's 125 best living khilaadi ( as chuni by pelé ).
wo thi inducted into the neshnal soker haul of kirti as well as the Alabama khel haul of kirti or texas Sports haul of Fame.
wo is the lekhak of Go For the lakshya : A champion 's maargdarshika to jeetna in soker or jivan and appeared in the HBO vruttchitr himmat to sapana : the Story of the u.S. mahilaon 's Soccer toli.
washington post columnist Michael wilbon pukaara hamm, `` Perhaps the sabase important khilaadi of the pichhlaa 15 saalo. ''
Hamm takes a kone kick.
the nai York red Bulls is an amareeki peshewar soker toli based in Harrison, nai jersey, representing the nai york mahanagar kshetrafal.
the team competes in the purvi Conference of pramukh League soker ( MLS ).
it is ek of the ten charter club of mls, having competed in the lig chunki its inception.
the team thi a founding sadsy of mls ( 1996 ), but has gone through anek name parivartan.
The toli thi originally known as the New york/new jersey MetroStars through 1997.
isse the 1998 season through the 2005 season, the toli was gyaat as the metrostars.
On kooch 9, 2006, the team was bechi to red sand gmbh, leading to the team 's current name.
ve are the tabhi asli mls matadhikaar nahin to have won koi significant trophy ( sahit niyamit ritu, playoffs, or nokout pratiyogita ) chunki inception.
the team 's behtareen parinaam in the mls thi the mls cap final in 2008.
in the us Open cap, the metrostars reached three semifinals ( 1997, 1998, 2000 ), pehle reaching their pehla final in 2003, khone 1–0 to the Chicago aag.
On August 26, 2000, the metros ' clint mathis niyat an mls ricard by scoring paanch lakshya in a game against the dalas bern.
Some well-known players ki have played liye the toli shaamil giovanni savarese, Tim harvard, tony meola, Tab ramos, alexi lalas, Clint mathis, jozy altidore, maaikel Bradley, cloudio reyna, edi pope, roberto donadoni, lothar matthäus, Adolfo valencia, youri Djorkaeff, amado gwera, juaan pablo ángel, Thierry henry, juninho pernambucano, jan gunnar solli, rafel marthes, or tim kahil.
the toli has also tha well-known coach, sahit carlos queiroz, Carlos alberto parreira, Bora Milutinović, Bob Bradley, mo johnston, bruce Arena or Hans Backe.
confucianism, Taoism, and Buddhism hai one, a painting in the litang style portraying teen main hans by a nadi stream, 12th sadi, song rajvansh.
estimating the kramank of baudhon in the sansar, or in anek deshon, is mushkil due to definitional issues as khub as vyaavhaarik problems of enumeration.
to shuru saath, the dharmik manyataon, practices, or pahchaan of east Asians ( jo comprise the majority of the world 's baudhon by any maap ) often mishran buddhism with anya paramparaon sahit confucianism, the chinis lok dharm, daoism, Shinto, or Korean shamanism.
Most followers of Buddhism do nahin belong to sanrachit congregations, or observe a definite anushthan of adherence such as taking sharan, making it mushkil to accurately anumaan the kramank of practitioners.
an additional chunauti is the hostility of several neshnal governments ( praayah Communist ones aise as China or uttar Korea ) to dharm generally or to buddhism specifically.
sarkari policies in ye deshon may protsaahit the under-reporting or non-reporting of dharmik adherence, resulting in official yoga ki may drastically underestimate the number of dharmik practitioners in ye deshon.
Estimate of the vishwavyaapee buddha janasankhyikee dayera isse 350 lakh to over ek arab, lakin cluster nearer to the pehla figure.
adherents.com ( as of 2012 ) suggests a figure of 397 lakh.
by pramukh shakhaon, the sankhyaayein are as follows:
( 1 ) Mahayana buddhism, sahit east asian Buddhism, saath no kam than 185 lakh adherents, or sambhawatah several times ki anek ( again, depending on definitional mudde ).
is is the predominant rup of buddhism practiced in china, South korian, japani, Taiwan, singapore, or vietnam.
( 2 ) Theravada buddhism, saath no kam than 125 lakh adherents.
is is the predominant rup of buddhism practiced in cambodia, thailand, laos, Sri lanka, or Burma.
( 3 ) vajrayan Buddhism, saath lagbhag 20 lakh adherents.
is rup predominates in the vrihad tibeti and Mongolian regions, as khub as in the Himalayas.
besides the swatantra deshon of mongol or bhutan, or vibhinn territories bheetar what is now western china, Vajrayana is traditional to nishchit regions of rus ( e.g. kalmikia, buratiya ), india ( e.g. ladakh, sikkim ), or Nepal ( e.g. Khumbu ).
vajrayan, bhi gyaat as tibeti buddhism, is praayah conflated saath Tantric buddhism, but this is imprecise, as shingon or anya form of East asian Buddhism bhi abhyaas tantra.
at tanik 7 deshon ( shri lanka, Thailand, cambodia, Laos, burma, bhutan, or mongol ) have unambiguous buddha majorities.
depending on how ek calculates chinis or anya East asian adherents, is figure might vistaar to shaamil anek adhik deshon.
In jod, buddhism is the rajya dharm of cambodia or bhutan, or receives prominent mention in the constitutions of thailand or Sri lanka.
in northern india or nepal, the land jahaan buddhism thi born, the dharm severely asweekrut dauraan the pehla milinium.
whether is manaahi was due to the islamic conquest of northern india, or to other karkon, remains controversial.
dekhie the article manaahi of Buddhism in india.
james Butler hickok ( May 27, 1837 – August 2, 1876 ), better gyaat as junglee vidheyak hickok, thi a lok nayika of the amareeki boodha west.
His skills as a gunfighter or scout, along saath uske reputation as a lawman, provided the basis liye uske kirti, haalanki kuch of uske reported karname are fictionalized.
Born or uthaaya on a farm in gramin Illinois, hickok gai west at aayu 18 as a bhagode isse justice, first working as a stagecoach driver, before he became a lawman in the frontier territories of Kansas and nebraska.
He ladaa liye the Union Army dauraan the amareeki civil yuddh, and gained publicity after the war as a scout, marksman, karta, or peshewar gambler.
between his law-enforcement duties or jue, jisase easily overlapped, Hickok thi shaamil in anek notable shootouts.
he was shot and maare jabaki playing pokar in the nuttal & Mann 's salon in Deadwood, dakota territory ( abhi South dakota ).
Artist 's conception of the jigyaasa rover vaporizing rock on Mars.
The rover utraa on mangal in August 2012.
a Mars rover is an swachaalit motor gadee which propels itself aarpaar the sataha of the grah mangal baad landing.
rovers have anek laabh over stationary landers : ve examine adhik territory, ve can be nirdeshit to interesting suvidhaayen, ve can place themselves in sunny sthitiyaan to mausam sheet maheene or ve can agrim the gyaan of kaisaa to perform bahut remote robotic vehicle control.
vahin have maharoom four kaamyaab robotically sanchalit mangal rovers.
The Jet nodan Laboratory prabandhit the mangal pathfinder mishan or its now niskriy Sojourner rover.
it philhal manages the mangal khoji rover mishan 's active Opportunity rover or inactive Spirit, or, as bhaag of the Mars vigyaan Laboratory mishan, the jigyaasa rover.
A vittiya audit, or more accurately, an audit of vittiya kathan, is the satyaapan of the vittiya kathan of a vidhik entity, with a drishy to express an audit opinion.
the audit raay is intended to provide uchit parakh, lakin nahin nirpeksh parakh, ki the financial kathan are prastut fairly, in sab saamagree respects, and/or de a sachcha or mela drishy in accordance saath the financial reporting fremawork.
the purpose of an audit is provide or uddeshy swatantra parikshaw of the vittiya statements, which increases the value or credibility of the vittiya kathan utpaadit by prabandhan, thus increase upayokta vishwaas in the vittiya bayaan, reduce niveshkon risk or consequently reduce the laagat of puunji of the preparer of the financial statements.
vittiya audits are typically performed by firms of practicing lekhpal jo are visheshgy in vittiya reporting.
the vittiya audit is ek of anek assurance functions provided by accounting firms.
anek sanghathan separately employ or hire aatanrik auditors, jo do nahin attest to vittiya reports but fokas mukhyatah on the internal niyantran of the sanghathan.
bahya auditors may choose to place simit reliance on the kaary of aatanrik auditors.
auditing promotes transparency or sateekta in the vittiya disclosures made by an sanghathan, isliye hota sambhavit to reduce of aise corporations to conceal unscrupulous dealings.
internationally, the antarrashtriya maanakon on auditing ( isa ) jari by the International auditing or Assurance maanakon falak ( IAASB ) is mana as the benchmark liye audit prakram.
Almost sab jurisdictions aavashyaktaa auditors to follow the isa or a local variation of the isa.
dollars coins have maharoom minted in the United rajya in sunaharaa, chaandi, or aadhaar metal sanskaran.
The pad chaandi dollars is praayah used for koi vishaal shwet metal sikaa jari by the United rajya with a phase value of one dollars, haalanki purists insist that a dollars is not chaandi unless it contains kuch of that metal.
chaandi dollar, the pehla dollars coin samasya, yahood minted shuruuaat in 1794.
Gold dollars or gold-colored dollar have also maharoom produced by the sanyukt rajya.
the sacagawea and Presidential dollar hai praayah referred to as `` sunahari dollar ''.
in aadhunik times, dollar sikke have not maharoom bahut lokapriy in the United States.
despite praytn by the sarkari to prachaar their upyog, most Americans currently use the one dollars bill rather than dollars sikke.
in straight or level flight lift ( l ) barabari vazan ( w ).
in a banked phere of 60°, lift equals doguna the weight ( l=2w ).
The pilot anubhavon 2g or a doubled vazan.
the steeper the bainko, the vrihad the g-forces.
This top-fuel dragster can accelerate isse shunya to in 0.86 second.
is is a horizontal twaran of 5.3 g. sanyukt saath the lambavat g-force in the stationary maamla the pythagorean prameya yields a g force of 5.4 g.
g-force ( saath g isse gurutvkarshak ) is a term liye accelerations felt as vazan or measurable by accelerometers.
It is nahin a force, prati se, but a force per ikai dravyaman.
chunki such a force is perceived as a vazan, any g-force can be varnit as a `` vazan per ikai dravyaman '' ( dekhie the paryaay vishisht vazan ).
The g-force twaran adhiniyamon as a multiplier of weight-like forces for prayek unit of an object 's mass, and ( sahejen liye nishchit electromagnetic force prabhaav ) is the kaaran of an object 's acceleration in relation to free-fall.
is twaran experienced by an object is due to the vector yoga of non-gravitational shaktiyaan acting on an object free to move.
the accelerations ki are nahin utpaadit by gravity hai termed uchit accelerations, or it is tabhi ye ki are measured in g-force units.
ve kaaran tanaavon and strains on vastuen.
Because of these strains, vishaal g-forces may be destructive.
gravitation acting alon does not produce a g-force, even haalanki g-forces hai expressed in multiples of the twaran of a maanak gambheertha.
yun, the maanak gurutvkarshak twaran at the dharti 's sataha produces g-force tabhi indirectly, as a result of resistance to it by mechanical shaktiyaan.
The 1 g-force on an object baithe on the dharti 's sataha is caused by mechanical force exerted in the upward disha by the maidan, keeping the object isse going into free-fall.
the upward force isse the ground ensures that an object at baaki on the dharti 's sataha is accelerating saapeksh to the free-fall condition, which is the path ki the object hota follow jab girnaa freely toward the Earth 's bich.
vastuen anumat to free-fall in an inertial trajectory under the influence of gravitation-only, mahasoos no g-force.
is is demonstrated by the `` zero-g '' conditions andar a freely falling elevator girnaa toward the Earth 's bich ( in vaikum ), or ( to shubh sanniktan ) sharten inside a spacecraft in dharti kaksha.
ye are udhaaharan of nirdeshaank twaran ( a change in gati ) bagaiyr a sansani of weight.
the experience of no g-force ( zero-g ), however it is utpaadit, is synonymous saath weightlessness.
in the anupasthiti of gurutvkarshak field, or in directions at sahi kone to unhen, proper and nirdeshaank accelerations hai the vahi, or koi nirdeshaank twaran jarur be utpaadit by a corresponding g-force twaran.
an udhaaharan yahan is a prakshepastra in free spes, in jisase saral parivartan in gati hai produced by the engines, or upaj g-forces on the rocket or passengers.
an augur pakadakar a lituus, the curved wand often used as a symbol of augury on Roman sikke
The augur thi a pujari and official in the shastreey sansar, visheshkar ancient rome or etruria.
uske pramukh role thi to interpret the hoga of the devataaon by adhyayan the udaan of birds : whether ve are flying in samooh or alon, kayaa noises they mek as they makkhi, disha of flight or what dayaalu of pakshiyon ve hai.
is was gyaat as `` lene the auspices. ''
the rasm and falan of the augur thi central to koi pramukh undertaking in roman society—public or private—including matters of yuddh, commers, or religion.
The roman itihaaskaar livy stresses the importance of the augurs : `` Who karata not know that is nagar thi santhaapit only baad lene the auspices, ki sabakuch in yuddh or in salaam, at home or videsh, was kiya tabhi baad lene the auspices ? ''
Farmington pahadiyaan is an affluent jatiyaan in southeastern michigan.
it is the duusari largest nagar in ockland county in the u.S. rajya of michigan.
iske janasankhyikee was 79,740 at the 2010 census.
It is bhaag of the upscale northwestern upnagaron of mahanagar detroit or is also purvottar of downtown ain arbor.
farmington pahadiyaan consistently baandhane as one of the safest shaharon in the sanyukt States, as khub as in the rajya of Michigan.
in 2010, the area kramit as the 30th safest nagar in America.
Although the do shaharon have pruthak sevaayen or pataa, farmington and farmington Hills are often vichaar of as the vahi community.
Features of the jatiyaan shaamil a recently renovated shahar, boutiques, a wintage cinema, numerous restaurants, exotic car dealerships, art gailaree, and public park sahit Heritage park.
vahin hai several historical site sahit the longacre House or the rajyapal warner mansion.
dono shaharon hai parosa by farmington public Schools.
farmington Hills serves as a pramukh business bich for the greater detroit kshetrafal.
Present-day chhap of a let kaansya Age seal
Town muhar ( matrix ) of náchod isse 1570
a seal is a yantra liye bananaa an chhap in mom, clay, paper, or some anya medium, sahit an embossment on paper, and is bhi the chhap yun bana.
the asli purpose thi to authenticate a dastauez, a wrapper liye ek aise as a modern lipapha, or the cover of a sangraahak or package pakadakar valuables or anya vastuen.
the sealing process is essentially ki of a saanche, saath the final chitra represented on the yantra liye making the chhap by a mirror-image dizine, incised in sunken- ( or counter- ) relief or intaglio.
The seal-making yantra is bhi referred to as the seal metrics or die ; the imprint it creates as the seal impression ( or, adhik rarely, the sealing ).
if the impression is made purely as a raahat resulting isse the vrihad dabaav on the paper jahaan the unchi bhaag of the metrics touch, the muhar is gyaat as a shushk seal ; in all anya cases a drav or liquified medium ( such as ink or mom ) is used, praayah in another rang than the paper.
liye vidhik uddeshy, the definition of a muhar may be vistaarit to include rabar stamps, or writing specified shabd ( `` muhar '' or `` l.s. `` ).
in the United States, the shabd `` muhar '' is sometimes abantit to a facsimile of the seal dizine ( in monochrome or color ), which may be prayukt in a variety of contexts including architectural jamaavat, on dhvaj, or on official letterheads.
yun, for example, the Great muhar of the sanyukt rajya, among other uses, appears on the reverse of the one-dollar vidheyak ; or several of the seals of the U.S. rajya appear on unke sambandhit rajya dhvaj.
in Europe, haalanki coats of bahen and heraldic baij may khub visheshta in aise contexts as well as on seals, the muhar dizine in iske entirety rarely appears as an emblem.
the padhai of seals is gyaat as sigillography or sphragistics.
groundhog Day ( pencilvenia germany : grundsaudaag, murmeltiertag ) is a din manaaye on farvari 2.
according to folklore, if it is cloudy when a groundhog emerges isse its burrow on this day, then vasant hoga aaiye jaldi ; if it is sani, the groundhog hoga mana dekhie iske shadow or retreat back into iske burrow, and the sheet weather hoga continue for chah adhik saptaah.
Modern customs of the avkaash involve jashn where jaldi morning festivals are yojit to dekhen the groundhog ubharate isse iske burrow.
in southeastern pencilvenia, Groundhog lodges ( grundsow Lodges ) celebrate the avkaash saath fersommlinge, soshal events in jisase khaanaa is served, speeches hai made, or ek or adhik g'spiel ( plays or skits ) hai performed for entertainment.
The Pennsylvania germany dialect is the only bhashaa bolaa at the event, or those jo speak angrezi adaa a penalty, praayah in the form of a nickel, dime, or quarter prati word spoken, saath the dhan put into a bowl in the bich of the talika.
the largest groundhog Day celebration is yojit in punxsutawney, Pennsylvania.
groundhog din, already a widely pahachaanaa or lokapriy parampara, praapt widespread dhyaan as a result of the 1993 filmi groundhog Day, jisase thi niyat in punxsutawney, pa ( haalanki filmaaya primarily in Woodstock, il ) or portrayed punxsutawney Phil.
unchi rezolution chitra of tampa Bay pradesh
The Tampa khadi kshetrafal rai a ardra subtropical jalwaayu ( koppen cfa ), saath garam or ardra greeshm saath frequent thunderstorms and drier winters saath jamane temperatures occurring prayek 2–3 saalo.
the area experiences a significant garmiyaan geela season, as nearly two-thirds of the salanaa varshan jalprapaat in the months of june through September.
the area is soochibaddh by the sanyukt rajya Department of krishi ( usd ) as hone in hardiness mandal 10, jisase is parichay the uttari seemaa of jahaan nariyal hatheliyaan or royal hatheliyaan can be grown.
highs praayah dayera between 65 or 95 °f ( 18 and 35 °c ) saal golakaar.
Though gyaat for hot summers, tampa 's aadhikarik high rai never pahunche 100 °f ( 38 °c ) – the nagar 's all-time ricard taapmaana is 99 °f ( 37 °C ).
st. petersburg 's all-time ricard unchi is exactly 100 °f ( 38 °c ).
pinellas county lies on a peninsula between tampa Bay or the Gulf of Mexico, or much of the nagar of tampa jhooth on a choti prayadweep jutting out into tampa khadi.
is nikatataa to vishaal laashen of jal dono narampanthiyon temperatures or introduces large amounts of ardrata into the maahaul.
In saamaanya, the local communities farthest isse the coast have larger temperature seemayen, both dauraan a single day or throughout the sizan of the saal.
A aarekh of the electromagnetic varnakram, showing vibhinn gun across the dayera of barambharataa and wavelengths
The electromagnetic varnakram is the dayera of sab sambhavit barambharataa of electromagnetic vikiran.
the `` electromagnetic varnakram '' of an object rai a alag meaning, or is bajaay the characteristic vitaran of electromagnetic vikiran utsarjit or avashoshit by ki particular object.
the electromagnetic varnakram extends isse below the low frequencies used liye aadhunik radio sanchaar to gamma vikiran at the short- wavelength ( high-frequency ) samaapt, thereby covering wavelengths isse hazaron of kilometre bas to a fraction of the aakaar of an atom.
the seemaa liye long wavelengths is the aakaar of the universe itself, jabaki it is vichaar ki the short wavelength seemaa is in the vicinity of the plank lambaai, haalanki in principle the varnakram is anant and continuous.
sabase parts of the electromagnetic varnakram are used in vigyaan for spectroscopic or anya probing interactions, as tareeke to padhai and characterize matter.
In jod, radiation isse various parts of the varnakram rai mila anek other uses liye sanchaar or manufacturing ( dekhie electromagnetic radiation liye adhik anuprayog ).
legend
franklin Delano rujvelt ( or ; janvari 30, 1882 – April 12, 1945 ), bhi gyaat by uske initials, FDR, thi the 32nd President of the sanyukt rajya ( 1933–1945 ) and a central figure in sansar kaarykram dauraan the mid-20th sadi, agrani the United rajya during a samay of vishwavyaapee economic depression or kul yuddh.
A dominant leader of the Democratic party or the only American adhyaksh elected to more than do terms, he nirmit a nai saude gathbandhan ki realigned American politics baad 1932, as his gharelu nitiyon paribhaashit American udaarataavaad liye the madhya teesraa of the 20th sadi.
saath the bouncy popular song `` prasann dinon hai Here again `` as uske abhiyaan theme, FDR parajeet incumbent republican herbert hover in navambar 1932, at the gaharaai of the Great avsaad.
sakriy by uske personal vijay over polio, fdr 's unfailing optimism or activism contributed to a naveekaran of the neshnal spirit.
he worked closely with angrejon pradhan mantri winston churchill and soviet saamaanya Secretary joseph stallin in agrani the allies viruddh germany or Japan in sansar War ii, or restoring samruddhi to the swadesh 's arthvyavastha.
in uske pehla sau dinon in daftar, jisase began kooch 4, 1933, rujvelt pathpradarshan major vidhaan or jari a profusion of karypalika aadesh that instituted the nai saude —a variety of kaarykram designed to upaj raahat ( sarkari jobs liye the berozegaar ), recovery ( aarthik vikaas ), or sudhaar ( through regulation of wal gali, bainko or transportation ).
the economy improved rapidly isse 1933 to 1937, lakin then relapsed into a gahan mandi.
the bipartisan roodhiwaadee gathbandhan that formed in 1937 prevented uske packing the param adaalat or passing koi considerable legislation ; it abolished anek of the raahat kaarykram jab berogari diminished dauraan sansar yuddh ii.
sabase of the regulations on kaarobaar yahood ended parichay 1975–85, magar liye the viniman of wal gali by the Securities or Exchange ayog, which still exists.
Along saath several smaller programs, pramukh surviving programs shaamil the sangheey Deposit Insurance nigam, jisase was nirmit in 1933, and soshal suraksha, jisase Congress passed in 1935.
as sansar War II loomed after 1938, with the japani akraman of china or the aakraamakata of naaji Germany, fdr diya damdaar diplomatic or financial support to China or great Britain, jabaki remaining officially neutral.
His lakshya was to mek america the `` Arsenal of Democracy `` which hota supply munitions to the allies.
in kooch 1941, rujvelt, saath congressional sweekruti, provided lend-lease aid to the deshon lard viruddh naaji germany saath britain.
saath bahut damdaar national support, he bana yuddh on Japan or Germany baad the japani akraman on Pearl harbar on December 7, 1941, calling it a `` tithi jisase will sajiv in infamy ``.
he paryvekshit the mobilization of the u.S. economy to support the alide yuddh praytn.
as an kriyasheel sainya netaa, rujvelt implemented an overall yuddh ranneeti on do fronts ki ended in the defeat of the aksh shaktiyaan and the vikaas of the sansar 's pehla anu bomb.
in 1942 rujvelt ordered the internment of 100,000 japani amareeki nagarikon.
berogari dropped to 2 %, raahat kaarykram largely ended, and the industrial arthvyavastha grew rapidly to new hits as lakho of people moved to nai kaary in yuddh centers, and 16 lakh men or 300,000 women yahood drafted or volunteered for sainya service.
rujvelt varchasv the amareeki rajnatik jhaanki nahin tabhi dauraan the twelve saalo of uske presidency, lakin also for dashakon afterward.
he orchestrated the realignment of matadaata ki created the Fifth Party pranali.
FDR 's New saude gathbandhan united majdoor unions, big nagar machines, shwet ethnics, africa america or gramin white southerners.
he bhi influenced the later sristi of the sanyukt Nations or bretton woods.
rujvelt is consistently rated by vidwaanon as one of the sheersh teen U.S. raashtrapatiyon, saath saath abraham lincoln or george Washington.
a liberal democrate, rujvelt paribhaashit his vaicharik sthiti as `` a choti baayein of center. ''
a Joint cameti is a term in politics ki is prayukt to refer to a cameti made up of sadasyon of dono chambers of a bicameral vidhanmandal.
in anya contexts, it refers to a cameti with members isse adhik than ek sanghathan.
The viniman of veshyavriti in the sanyukt States is nahin among the enumerated shaktiyaan of the sangheey sarkari ; antargat the Tenth amendment to the sanyukt rajya samvidhan, it is therefore exclusively the domen of the rajya to permit, prohibit, or varanaa viniyamit vanijyik sex, magar insofar as Congress may viniyamit it as bhaag of antarraji commers with kanoon like the man Act.
in sabase rajya, prostitution is mana a misdemeanor in the shrenee of public order crime, a aparaadhon that disrupts the anukram of a community.
It thi at ek time considered to be a vagrancy aparaadhon.
philhal, newada is the tabhi rajya to allow brothel prostitution, the terms of jisase hai stipulated in the newada sanshodhit statutes.
tabhi 8 county currently contain kriyasheel brothels.
sab form of veshyavriti hai illegal in clark county ( jisase contains the Las vegas–paradise mahanagar kshetrafal ), washoe county ( jisase contains reno ), carsan City, duglas county, or Lincoln county.
The anya counties theoretically allow veshyalay veshyavriti, lakin kuch of ye county philhal have no active brothels.
gali prostitution, `` pandering, '' or jeena off of the proceeds of a prostitute remain illegal antargat Nevada vidhi, as elsewhere in the country.
as saath anya countries, veshyavriti in the United rajya can be vibhajit into teen vyapak categories : gali veshyavriti, veshyalay veshyavriti, and escort prostitution.
the neshnal dhvaj of the sanyukt States of America, often bas referred to as the American dhvaj, consists of thirteen baraabar aadaa dhaariyaan of red ( sheersh or neeche ) alternating saath shwet, saath a blue ytaakar in the canton ( referred to specifically as the `` sangh '' ) bearing fifty choti, white, five-pointed sitaron arranged in nine offset aadaa pankti of six sitaron ( sheersh or bottom ) prayavarti saath pankti of paanch sitaron.
the 50 sitaron on the dhvaj represent the 50 rajya of the sanyukt rajya of america or the 13 dhaariyaan represent the thirteen angrejon colonies ki declared swatantraaa isse the kingdom of Great Britain and became the first states in the sangh.
Nicknames for the flag shaamil the `` sitaron and dhaariyaan '', `` Old mahima ``, or `` The star-spangled dhvaj. ''
india is a federal sangh of rajya comprising twenty-eight states or saat sangh territories.
the states and territories hai further subdivided into jile or so on.
Congressional districts liye the 113th sanyukt rajya congress
2010 janasankhyikee change:
Change in apportionment of congressional jile, starting in 2013, as a result of the 2010 census.
2000 janasankhyikee change:
badalen in apportionment of congressional jile, from 2003 to 2013, as a parinaam of the 2000 janasankhyikee.
is is a puraa suchi of congressional jile liye representation in the sanyukt rajya house of pratinidhi.
the maatra ( apportionment ) or boundaries ( redistricting ) of jile hai determined after prayek janasankhyikee, although in kuch maamle rajya have badla the seemayen adhik than ekbar prati census.
This suchi includes the 435 vartmaan or over 200 obsolete districts.
For example, chunki the 2000 janasankhyikee, nebraska rai tha three jile, lakin it prayukt to have as anek as chah.
in the pehla dashak of the twenty-first sadi, texas tha 32 jile, but rai since added chaar due to reapportionment as a parinaam of the 2010 janasankhyikee.
Other states have khoyaa jile chunki the number of congressional site rai maharoom niyat at 435 by statute.
bhi included here hai non-voting delegations : six vartmaan or chaar obsolete.
The seemayen of jile praayah shift saath prayek redistricting.
Over samay, the region and demographics represented in a zila can badalen substantially.
Furthermore, districts sometimes retain the same seemayen jabaki badalanaa unke zila numbers.
mariah kairi ( born March 27, 1970 ) is an amareeki singer, songwriter, ricard nirmaataa, abhinetri, and locasevak.
Under the guidance of colombia Records karypalika tommy Mottola, Carey released her self-titled debyue studio album mariah kairi in 1990 ; it went multi-platinum and shakhit four lagaataar number ek singles on the U.S. billboard Hot 100 chart.
Following uske vivaah to Mottola in 1993 and kamyaabi saath hit records bhav ( 1991 ), music baksaa ( 1993 ), or mairi christmas ( 1994 ), Carey was established as colombia 's highest-selling act.
Daydream ( 1995 ) bana music history jab iske duusari single `` One mithi din ``, a duet saath boij II main, kharch a record solah saptaah on sheersh of the billboard Hot 100, and remains the longest-running number-one song in U.S. chart history.
dauraan the recording of the album, kairi began to deviate from uske r & b and pop beginnings or slowly traversed into hip hop.
is musical badalen became evident with the release of titali ( 1997 ), at jisase samay Carey tha separated isse mottola.
kairi baayein colombia in 2000, or hastakshrit a record-breaking $ 100 lakh recording anubandh with Virgin record.
Before the relies of uske pehla feature film glitter ( 2001 ), wo suffered a shaareerik and emotional vishleshan or thi hospitalized liye severe exhaustion.
Following the filmi 's garib resepshan, wo thi kharida out of uske recording contract liye $ 50 million, jisase led to a manaahi in her kariyar.
She hastakshrit a multi-million dollars anubandh saude saath Island record in 2002, or after an unsuccessful kaal, laute to the sheersh of music chart saath the emancipation of mimi ( 2005 ).
iske duusari single `` we belong saath `` became uske sabase successful single of the 2000s, or thi later named `` song of the dashak '' by billboard.
kairi ekbar again ventured into filmi saath a well-received starring bhoomika in ( 2009 ) ; wo was awarded the `` Breakthrough Performance puraskaar '' at the Palm sroton International filmi parv, and blike reel or NAACP Image puraskaar nominations.
in a kariyar spanning over do decades, kairi rai bechi adhik than 200 lakh record worldwide, bananaa her ek of the best-selling music kalakaaron of sab samay.
in 1998, she thi honored as the sansar 's best-selling recording artist of the 1990s at the sansar Music Awards.
kairi thi bhi namit the best-selling maadaa kalakaar of the milinium in 2000.
according to the recording Industry sangh of America, wo is the third best-selling maadaa kalakaar in the sanyukt rajya, with 63.5 lakh certified album.
saath the release of `` tach my Body `` ( 2008 ), Carey gained uske eighteenth number ek single in the sanyukt rajya, adhik than koi other solo kalakaar.
In 2012, kairi thi kramit second on vh1 's suchi of the `` 100 mahanatam mahilaon in music ''.
aside isse her commercial accomplishments, kairi rai jiti paanch grami Awards, 17 World music Awards, 11 amareeki music Awards, and 31 Billboard music puraskaar.
referred to as the `` songbird param '' by the ginis World record, wo is famed liye uske five-octave vocal dayera, power, melismatic style or hastakshar upyog of the siti panjikaran.
stratocumulus stratiformis cumulogenitus
in meteorology, a cloud is a visible dravyaman of drav droplets or frozen crystals bana of water or vibhinn chemicals nilambit in the maahaul upar the sataha of a grahiy deh.
These nilambit anu hai bhi known as aerosols.
badal in dharti 's maahaul hai studied in the cloud bhautikee branch of meteorology.
do processes, sambhawatah acting saath, can lead to air banane santrupt ; kooling the air or adding water vapor to the air.
In saamaanya, precipitation hoga patan to the sataha ; an excepshan is virga, jisase evaporates pehle reaching the surface.
the international cloud classification pranali is aadhaarit on the fact badal in unke sabase moulik form can dikhaaen free-convective upward vikaas jaise kapaasi, appear in non-convective paratdaar sheets aise as strates, or take the form of patala tantumay wisps, as in the case of pakshabh.
prefixes hai used in conection with badal to express variations or complexities in ye basic form or to bataaen madhya or unchi oonchaai ranges.
ye shaamil strato- liye kam clouds saath simit sanvahan ki rup mostly in uneven layers, cumulo- liye jatil highly-convective toofaan badal, nimbo- liye motaa layered badal of some jatilta that can upaj moderet to baari varshan, alto- liye madhya badal, or cirro- liye unchi badal ; the latter two of jisase may be of saral or madhyam jatil dhaancha.
whether or not a cloud is kam, middle, or unchi str depends on kaisaa dur above the maidan its aadhaar forms.
Cloud types saath significant lambavat extent can rup in the kam or madhya oonchaai ranges depending on the nami saamagree of the air.
Clouds in the kshobhamandal have latin names due to the lokapriy anukulan of luk harvard 's cloud categorization pranali, which began to sprad in popularity during disambar 1802.
synoptic sataha mausam observations upyog code sankhyaayein to ricard and rapat the prakaar of tropospheric cloud drishy at prayek anusuchit observation samay aadhaarit on the height or shaareerik rup of the clouds.
jabaki a bahumat of clouds rup in Earth 's troposphere, vahin are avasaron jab badal in the stratosphere or mesosphere can be observed.
ye three main paraton of the maahaul jahaan clouds may be seen hai collectively gyaat as the homosphere.
upar is lies the thermosphere or exosphere, jisase together make up the heterosphere ki marks the transition to bahari space.
badal have maharoom observed on other grah and moons bheetar the saura pranali, lakin, due to unke alag temperature characteristics, ve hai rachit of other substances aise as methane, ammonia, or sulfuric acid.
Galveston County is a county located in the U.S. rajya of texas bheetar the houston–sugar land–baytown mahanagar kshetrafal.
as of the 2010 janasankhyikee, the janasankhyikee thi 291,309.
Its county seat is Galveston.
lig nagar is the largest nagar in Galveston County in sharten of janasankhyikee ; url_http between 2000 or 2005 it surpassed galveston as the county 's largest city.
galveston county thi founded in 1838.
Nassau
Freeport, bahama
is is a suchi of shaharon in the bahama.
the following table suchiyaan the city or kasbaa naam, the geographic nirdeshaank, the janasankhyikee as of the 1990 janasankhyikee, an estimate of the janasankhyikee as of 2009, or the island naam.
the big ten sammelan, formerly Western sammelan or Big nau sammelan, is the oldest Division i college athlettic sammelan in the United rajya.
iske baarah sadsy institutions ( which are primarily flagship shodh vishvavidhyalayon in unke sambandhit rajya, well-regarded academically, or with apekshaakrit large chaatr namakan ) hai stith primarily in the Midwest, stretching from nebraska in the west to penn rajya in the east.
the sammelan competes in the NCAA 's prabhag i ; iske football tiimon compete in the footbaal katori subdivision ( fbs ), formerly gyaat as prabhag I-A, the ucchtam str of ncaa pratiyogita in ki khel.
sadsy schools of the big Ten ( or, in two cases, unke janak vishvavidhyalayon pranaaliyon ) bhi hai sadasyon of the cameti on sansthagat sahyog, a agrani shaikshanik or research consortium.
despite the sammelan 's naam, the big ten darasal consists of 12 skulon, following the jod of the pencilvenia rajya vishvavidhyalayon in 1993 and the vishvavidhyalayon of Nebraska–Lincoln in 2011.
In 2014, the conference will vistaar to 14 sadasyon with the additions of the vishvavidhyalayon of maryland, college park or rutgers, the rajya University of nai jersey.
it is nahin to be uljhan saath the big 12 sammelan, which rai only ten skulon or represents a alag pradesh of the country.
single malt scoch is single malt whisky made in scotland using a pot still distillation prakram at a single distillery, saath malted jau as the tabhi anaaj sanghatak.
as saath koi scoch whisky, a single malt Scotch jarur be asut in scotland and matured in ok casks in Scotland liye at least teen saalo ( sabase single malts hai matured longer ).
`` malt '' indicates that the whisky is asut isse a `` malted '' grain.
Several prakaar of grains can be malted ( for udhaaharan, barley, rye and wheat hai sab dane jisase can be malted ) ; however, in the maamla of single malt Scotch, jau is sadaa the tabhi anaaj used.
`` Single '' indicates ki all the malts in the bottle come isse a single distillery.
Bottlings containing malt whisky from multiple distilleries are pukaara `` blended malt ``.
jabatak the Scotch whisky regulations 2009 ( SWR 2009 ), the word `` blended '' tabhi appeared ( in the context of scoch whisky ) on botalon of whisky ki contained a mixture of dono jau or non-barley anaaj whisky, lakin is is no longer the maamla.
antargat the terminology established by the swr 2009, a `` blended malt scoch whisky '' is a mixture of single malt scoch whiskies, nahin a mishran of malted jau whisky and non-barley whisky ; those hai pukaara `` blended scoch whisky '', bagaiyr the word `` malt ''.
the pad `` blended malt '' replaced `` vatted malt '' prayukt antargat the prior labling prathaon.
the aayu bayaan on a bottle of single malt scoch is the number of years the whisky kharch maturing in cask.
as bahut few whiskies hai bottleband isse a single cask the aayu statement reflects the aayu of the youngest malt in the mixr.
a texture may be arranged so as to, `` closely approach the single-object status of fused-ensemble timbres, liye example, the beautiful 'northern lits ' cord..., in a bahut interesting distribution of pitches, produces a fused sound supported by a suspended cymbal phenken `` ( arikson ( 1975 ), p.166 & 168 ).
in contrast to adhik paramparaagat musical textures, sound dravyaman sangyojan `` minimizes the mahatv of vyaktigat pitches in variyata liye texture, timbre, or dynamiks as praathmik shapers of gesture and prabhaav. ''
viksit from the modernist tone cluster or spread to orchestral likhane by the let 1950s or 1960s, sound-mass `` obscures the boundary between dhwani or noise `` ( edwards 2001, pp. 326–27 ).
takneekon jisase may create or be prayukt saath dhwani dravyaman shaamil vistaarit takneekon aise as muted pital or strings, aatur tonguing, chaudee vibrato, charam seemayen, or glissandos.
composers or works shaamil barbara Kolb, pauline Oliveros ' Sound pattern for chorus ( 1961 ), norma beecroft 's From sapano of pital liye kores ( 1963–1964 ), and nancy vine de vate.
beecroft `` tukdaa vyaktigat pitches in ehsaan of a samuhik timbre through the upyog of gayan or instrumental cluster, choral vaak, narrator, and a dho of dhwani isse an electronic tepe. ''
( ibid )
A very early example is the kholane of jean-féry vidrohi 's baile Les Elémens ( 1737–38 ), jahaan araajaktaa is represented by a dhire cumulating orchestral cluster of all saat notes of the d minor scale ( Henck 2004, pp. 52–54 ).
a baad udhaaharan is the third gati of Ruth Crawford seeger 's string quartet 1931 ( nonesuch h-71280 ) jabaki adhik recently phill Niblock 's anek drone based music serves as an example.
The upyog of `` madari approaching timbres '' begins with Debussy and edgard varèse praayah carefully scored vyaktigat instrumental bhaag so ki they hota fus into ek ensemble timbre or sound dravyaman ( arikson 1975, pp. 18 or 21 ).
anya udhaaharan shaamil European `` textural '' rachanaaen of the fifties or sixties such as Krzysztof Penderecki 's Threnody to the peediton of hiroshima ( 1959 ) and György ligeti 's works featuring micropolyphony in works like Atmosphères ( 1961 ) or uske requiem ( 1963-65 ).
Other composers with works using is takanic include henryk górecki, karel husa, Witold Lutosławski, kazimierz serocki, or Steven stucky.
dhwani dravyaman takneekon bhi appear in the music of george Crumb ( anon. n.d. ).
Students attending a lecture on linear bijganit at the helsinki vishvavidhyalayon of Technology
vidhyaarthiyon in rural sudan, 2002
A student is a learner, or kisi jo attends an shaikshanik sanstha.
in kuch raashtra, the angrezi term ( or iske cognate in another bhashaa ) is surakshit for those jo attend university, jabaki a schoolchild antargat the aayu of atharah is called a pupil in angrezi ( or an samatuly in other bhashaaen ), haalanki in the United rajya a person namankit in grades k–12 is praayah pukaara a chaatr.
in its widest upyog, student is prayukt for anyone who is learning.
Australia is a continent comprising menland australia, tasmania, nai Guinea, seram, sambhawatah timor, or neighbouring islands.
the continent is sometimes gyaat in technical contexts by the names sahul, Australinea or meganesia, to fark it isse the australian mainland.
it is the smallest of the saat paramparaagat mahadwipon in the angrezi dharna.
nai Zealand is nahin part of the mahadweep of australia, lakin of the separate, submerged mahadweep of Zealandia.
zealandia or Australia hai dono part of the wider regions gyaat as australasia or mahasagariya.
The continent of Australia jhooth on a mahadwipiya shelf overlain by uthle seas jisase divide it into several landmasses — the arafura samudr or torace jalsandhi between mainland Australia or New gini, and baas Strait between mainland Australia or Tasmania.
jab samudr str yahood nimnatar dauraan the pleistocene barf age, sahit the pichhlaa glacial adhiktam parichay 18,000 bc, they were connected by shushk jameen.
During the past ten thousand saalo, rising samudr str overflowed the lowlands or alag the mahadweep into aaj 's low-lying arid to semi-arid menland and the two mountainous islands of nai gini or tasmania.
geologically, a mahadweep extends to the kinare of iske mahadwipiya shelf, so the now-separate islands hai considered part of the mahadweep.
due to the sprad of pashu, fungi or plants across the single Pleistocene landmass the pruthak lands have a related biota.
Central park is nearly twice as big as the world 's second-smallest country, monako.
historically its tank yahood mahatvapurn components of the nagar 's jal supply.
Environmental mudde in nai york City are affected by the city 's aakaar, ghanatv, abundant public parivahan infrastructure, or sthaan at the munh of the hadsan River.
New york 's population ghanatv has paryaavarniya phaayde and thag.
It facilitates the ucchtam mass transit upyog in the United rajya, lakin bhi concentrates pradooshan.
Gasoline khapat in the city is at the rate the national average was in the 1920s, or greenhouse gas emissions hai a fraction of the neshnal ausat, at 7.1 metric ton prati vyakti prati saal, neeche san Francisco, at 11.2 metric ton, or the neshnal ausat, at 24.5 metric ton.
nai York City khate liye tabhi 1 % of sanyukt States greenhouse gas emissions while awaas 2.7 % of iske population.
in sitambar 2012, nai York thi namit the # 1 `` America 's Dirtiest nagar, '' by a travel+leisure readership survey ki rated the paryaavarniya visheshta of 35 prominent shaharon in the sanyukt rajya.
atlanta (, stressed, locally ) is the capital of or the sabase populous city in the u.S. state of georgia, with an anumaanit 2011 population of 432,427.
atlanta is the saanskrithik and economic center of the atlanta mahanagar area, ghar to 5,457,831 logon or the ninth largest metropolitan kshetrafal in the sanyukt States.
Atlanta is the county seat of Fulton county, and a choti portion of the nagar extends eastward into dekalb county.
Atlanta was established in 1837 at the intersection of two railroad linon, or the nagar rose isse the raakh of the civil yuddh to become a neshnal center of commers.
in the decades following the civil adhikaron gati, dauraan which the nagar earned a pratishtha as `` too vyast to hate '' liye the pragatisheel views of iske nagarikon or leaders, Atlanta attained antarrashtriya prominence.
atlanta is the praathmik parivahan hub of the Southeastern United States, via rajmarg, railroad, or air, saath Hartsfield–Jackson atlanta International vimaanashetra being the world 's busiest vimaanashetra chunki 1998.
atlanta is considered an `` alpha ( - ) sansar nagar, '' and, saath a sakal gharelu product of us $ 270 arab, Atlanta’s arthvyavastha ranks 15th among sansar shaharon or chathe in the swadesh.
haalanki atlanta’s economy is mana vividh, dominant sectors include logistics, peshewar or kaarobaar sevaayen, media parichaalan, sarkari administration, or higher shiksha.
topographically, atlanta is chihnit by rolling pahadiyaan or ghanaa tree coverage.
punaroddhar of atlanta 's pados, initially spurred by the 1996 olympic, has intensified in the 21st sadi, altering the nagar 's demographics, politics, and samskruti.
A 1947 prachaar comic kitaab prakashit by the catechetical gild shaikshanik samaaj uthaane the specter of a Communist takeover
mccarthyism is the practice of bananaa aaropon of disloyalty, subversion, or treason bagaiyr proper regard liye pramaan.
It bhi means `` the abhyaas of bananaa anyaaypurna doshaaropan or using anyaaypurna investigative takneekon, visheshkar in anukram to simit dissent or rajnatik criticism. ''
the pad rai iske origins in the kaal in the sanyukt States gyaat as the duusari red scare, sthaayee roughly isse 1950 to 1956 or characterized by heightened fears of communist influence on amareeki institutions or espionage by Soviet agenton.
Originally coined to criticize the anti-communist pursuits of republican u.s. seenetter joseph maikaarthi of visconsin, `` mccarthyism '' jald took on a broader arth, describing the excesses of samaan efforts.
The pad is bhi now used adhik generally to describe laaparvaah, unsubstantiated aaropon, as khub as demagogic hamale on the akshar or rashtrabhakti of political adversaries.
During the McCarthy era, hazaron of america yahood abhiyukt of hone samyavaadiyon or communist sympathizers or became the vishay of aakraamak investigations and questioning pehle sarkari or private-industry panels, samitiyon and agenciyon.
the primary lakshya of aise suspicions were government karmchaaree, those in the entertainment industry, shikshak or sangh kaaryakartaaon.
Suspicions yahood praayah die credence despite inconclusive or questionable evidence, or the level of threat posed by a vyakti 's real or supposed vampanthi association or manyataon thi praayah greatly atiranjit.
anek logon suffered ghaataa of employment and/or vinaash of unke kariyar ; some even suffered karawas.
sabase of these punishments aae parichay through vichaaran verdicts later vikal, kanoon ki would be declared asanvaidhanik, dismissals liye kaaran later ghoshit illegal or actionable, or extra-legal prakriyaaon ki hota aaiye into general disrepute.
the sabase prasiddh udhaaharan of mccarthyism include the speeches, investigations, and hearings of seenetter maikaarthi khud ; the hollywood blacklist, sambhddha saath hearings conducted by the house Un-American kriyaayein Committee ( huac ) ; or the various anti-communist kriyaayein of the sangheey beuro of chaanbin ( epabiai ) antargat nideshak J. edgar hover.
McCarthyism was a faili social or cultural ghatana ki prabhavit sab str of samaaj and thi the sorce of a great saude of bahes or conflict in the sanyukt States.
Napoleon is a fictional akshar or the pramukh vipakshi in george orvel 's Animal farm.
While he is at first a aam farm suar, he gets rid of Snowball, another suar jisase saajha the shakti.
he tab takes advantage of the animals ' uprising viruddh unke masters to aakhirkaar become the tyrannical `` President of Animal farm, '' which he turns into a taanaashaahee.
varun logo
the varun canada project is the world’s pehla regional-scale bhaate samandar observatory that plugs directly into the Internet.
Since disambar 2009, it has allowed logon to `` surf '' the seafloor while ocean vaigyanikon run deep-water prayog from labs and vishvavidhyalayon around the world.
saath with iske sistar project, shukr, varun offers a unique approach to ocean vigyaan.
traditionally, samandar scientists have relied on infrequent jalayaan cruge or space-based satellites to carry out their shodh, jabaki the varun project upyog a remotely sanchalit crollar.
the coronet thi a full-size car isse Dodge in the 1950s, initially the prabhag 's highest trim lakeer lakin, starting in 1955, the nunatam trim lakeer.
In the 1960s, the naam thi transferred to Dodge 's mid-size pravishti.
arm9 is an bhujaa architecture 32-bit RISC cpu parivaar.
rashtramandal is a paramparaagat angrezi term for a rajnatik community founded for the aam shubh.
historically, it has sometimes maharoom synonymous with `` ganatantr ``.
adhik recently it has maharoom used liye fraternal association of kuch sovereign nations.
sabase notably, the rashtramandal of raashtra, an association primarily of purv members of the angrejon samrajya, is often referred to as bas `` the rashtramandal ''.
the sitambar 11 attacks ( also referred to as sitambar 11, sitambar 11th, or 9/11 ) yahood a shrenee of chaar coordinated aatankwaadi attacks launched by the Islamic aatankwaadi group al-Qaeda upon the United rajya in nai York nagar or the washington, d.C. kshetrafal on sitambar 11, 2001.
Four yatri airliners yahood hijacked by 19 al-qaeda aatankwaadi so they could be flown into buildings in aatmahatya attacks.
Two of those planes, amareeki Airlines udaan 11 and United airlines Flight 175, yahood krash into the uttar and South towers, respectively, of the sansar vyapaar Center complex in nai york City.
Within two ghanton, dono minaaren collapsed saath malba or the resulting fir causing aanshik or puraa collapse of all anya imaaraten in the wtc complex, as khub as pramukh damage to ten anya large surrounding structures.
a teesraa plane, American Airlines udaan 77, thi krash into the Pentagon ( the headquarters of the sanyukt States vibhaag of raksha ), leading to a aanshik patan in its pashchimi paksh.
the chauthi plane, sanyukt airlines udaan 93, thi targeted at the sanyukt States capital in Washington, d.C., lakin crashed into a field nikat shanksville, pencilvenia, baad iske yatri aajamaaya to overcome the hijackers.
in total, lagbhag 3,000 logon died in the hamale, sahit the 227 nagarikon or 19 hijackers aboard the chaar planes.
suspicion jaldi fell on al-Qaeda.
haalanki the samooh 's netaa, osama bin Laden, initially denied koi bhagidaari, in 2004 he claimed responsibility liye the attacks.
Al-Qaeda or bin laden cited u.S. support of Israel, the upasthiti of U.S. troops in Saudi arab, or pratibandhon viruddh iraqi as motives for the hamale.
The sanyukt States responded to the attacks by shubharambh the yuddh on Terror or akramanakari afghanistan to depose the taliban, jisase had harbored al-Qaeda.
anek deshon strengthened their anti-terrorism vidhaan or expanded vidhi enforcement shaktiyaan.
having evaded capchar liye saalo, bin Laden thi stith or maare by U.S. forces in May 2011.
The vinaash of the judwa minaaren or anya gun caused serious damage to the arthvyavastha of nimnatar manahaton or had a significant prabhaav on global bazaar.
clyaap of the sansar vyapaar bich site thi completed in may 2002, or the prastutikaran thi repaired bheetar a saal.
numerous memorials have been constructed, sahit the neshnal September 11 memorial & sangrahalay in nai York, the Pentagon memorial, and the Flight 93 neshnal memorial in pencilvenia.
After a lengthy vilamb, the ek sansar vyapaar bich is apekshit to be samaapt at maidan Zero in nai york City in 2013.
Crater jhil National park is a sanyukt States neshnal park stith in dakshini oregon.
sthapit in 1902, crater Lake neshnal park is the paanchvaan oldest neshnal park in the sanyukt States and the only ek in the rajya of Oregon.
The park encompasses the caldera of crater jhil, a remnant of a nasht volcano, Mount Mazama, or the surrounding hills or wanon.
The lake is deep at its deepest point, jisase makes it the deepest jhil in the sanyukt States, the duusari deepest in uttar america and the naveen deepest in the world.
Crater jhil is praayah referred to as the saatvaan deepest jhil in the sansar, lakin this purv listing excludes the lagbhag gaharaai of subglacial jhil Vostok in Antarctica, which resides under nearly of barf, or the haal report of a adhiktam gaharaai liye Lake o'higgins /san martin, stith on the kinaaraa of chile or argentina.
however, jab comparing its average gaharaai of to the ausat gaharaai of other gahan jhiilon, crater Lake becomes the deepest in the pashchimi golardh or the third deepest in the sansar.
the prabhaavshaalee ausat depth of is volcanic jhil is due to the nearly samamit gahan caldera formed 7,700 saalo ago dauraan the hinsak climactic eruptions or subsequent collapse of Mount Mazama or the apekshaakrit moist jalwaayu that is theth of the crest of the cascade Range.
The caldera rim ranges in elevation isse.
the sanyukt rajya Geological surveykshan benchmarked elevation of the jhil sataha itself is.
is National park encompasses.
Crater jhil has no stream bahati into or out of it.
sab jal ki enters the jhil is aakhirkaar khoyaa isse vashpikaran or subsurface seepage.
the jhil 's jal commonly rai a striking blue varna, or the jhil is re-filled entirely isse sidhaa precipitation in the rup of him or barsaat.
the Supreme adaalat of the sanyukt rajya is the highest adaalat in the sanyukt rajya.
It rai param ( and largely vivekadhin ) appellate kshetradhikaar over sab sangheey courts and over state adaalat cases involving issues of sangheey vidhi, or original jurisdiction over a choti range of maamle.
The adaalat, jisase meets in the sanyukt States param adaalat Building in washington, d.C., consists of a mukhya insaaf or aath associate justices who hai manonith by the adhyaksh and pushti by the sanyukt rajya seenet.
ekbar niyukt, justices have jivan tenure jabatak ve resign, retire, or are removed baad mahabhiyog.
conroe is the seat of Montgomery county and jalprapaat bheetar the metropolitan area.
It is located about north of huston.
As of july 2011, the nagar population thi 58,973, up isse 36,811 in 2000.
the kitaab of Mormon is a sacred text of the Latter din Saint gati, jisase adherents maananaa contains kritiyaan of pracheen nabiyon jo jiya on the amareeki mahadweep isse lagbhag 2200 bc to ad 421.
it was pehla published in March 1830 by joseph smith as the kitaab of mormon : an Account Written by the haath of mormon upon platon liya isse the platon of nephi.
According to Smith 's account, and bhi according to the kitaab 's katha, the kitaab of mormon thi originally likhaa in varanaa anjaan varna referred to as `` reformed mishra `` engraved on sunahari platon.
Smith claimed ki the pichhlaa nabi to yogadan to the kitaab, a man named moroni, dafn it in a hill in present-day nai york or tab laute to dharti in 1827 as an devdoot, revealing the location of the book to smith or instructing use to translate and disseminate it as evidence of the bahaali of messiah 's sachcha girijaghar in the latter days.
the kitaab of mormon rai a number of original and distinctive doctrinal charchaayen on vishay aise as the fall of aadam or sandhya, the prakruti of the Atonement, eschatology, mochan isse shaareerik and aadhyatmik maut, and the sanghathan of the latter-day girijaghar.
The pivotal event of the book is an rup of yishu messiah to the Americas shortly baad his qayamat.
the kitaab of Mormon is the earliest of the adwitiya kritiyaan of the latter din Saint movement, the denominations of jisase typically lihaaz the text nahin only as scripture lakin bhi as a aitihaasik record of parameshwar 's dealings with the ancient nivaasiyon of the americas.
the kitaab of Mormon is vibhajit into choti books, titled baad the individuals namit as praathmik lekhak and, in sabase versions, vibhajit into adhyay or verses.
it is written in angrezi, very similar to the Early aadhunik angrezi bhashaai style of the king james sanskaran of the bible, and has chunki maharoom fully or partially translated into 108 bhashaaen.
An enlisted rank ( bhi known as an yogic grade or enlisted rate ) is, in sabase militaries, koi rank neeche ki of a commissioned adhikari or warrant adhikari.
the pad can bhi be samaveshi of non-commissioned officers.
in sabase cases, yogic service personnel perform kaary vishisht to their apana occupational specialty, as opposed to the adhik generalized command jimmedaariyon of commissioned officers.
`` kayaa a adbhut World '' is a song written by Bob thiele ( as `` George duglas '' ) and George daud Weiss.
it was pehla recorded by lui armastrang or released as a single in 1967.
thiele and veis yahood dono prominent in the music sansar ( thiele as a nirmaataa or veis as a composer/performer ).
Armstrong 's recording thi inducted in the grami Hall of Fame in 1999.
the prakaashan liye is song is niyantrit by memory len music samooh, carlin Music corp., or Bug Music, Inc.
1908 poster vigyaapan gaumont 's sound films.
the Chronomégaphone, designed liye large halls, employed sampidit air to amplify the recorded dhwani.
a sound film is a gati chitra saath synchronized dhwani, or dhwani technologically coupled to chitra, as opposed to a mook filmi.
the pehla gyaat public pradarshnee of projected dhwani films took place in Paris in 1900, lakin dashakon hota pass before dhwani gati tasviren were bana commercially vyaavhaarik.
vishwasaneey tulykaalan was mushkil to achieve saath the jaldi sound-on-disc pranaaliyon, or pravardhan or recording visheshta were also inadequate.
navapravartanon in sound-on-film led to the pehla vanijyik screening of choti motion pictures using the praudyogiki, jisase took place in 1923.
the praathmik kadam in the commercialization of sound cinema yahood taken in the mid- to let 1920s.
at first, the dhwani films incorporating synchronized dialogue—known as `` talking tasviren '', or `` tokies '' —were exclusively shorts ; the earliest feature-length filmon with recorded sound shaamil tabhi music or prabhaav.
the pehla visheshta filmi originally prastut as a talkie was The jaiz singer, released in aktubar 1927.
A major hit, it thi made saath vitaphone, the leading brands of sound-on-disc praudyogiki.
Sound-on-film, however, hota jald become the maanak liye talking tasviren.
by the early 1930s, the talkies yahood a vaishvik ghatana.
in the United rajya, ve helped secure hollywood 's sthiti as one of the sansar 's sabase shaktishaalee cultural/commercial pranaaliyon ( see cinema of the sanyukt rajya ).
in europea ( or, to a lesser oopaadhi, elsewhere ) the nai vikaas thi treated saath suspicion by anek filmmakers and aalochakon, who chintit ki a fokas on samvaad hota subvert the unique aesthetic virtues of soundless cinema.
In japani, jahaan the popular filmi parampara ekikrut mook movie or sajiv gayan pradarshan, talking pictures yahood slow to take root.
In india, dhwani thi the transformative tatv ki led to the rapid expansion of the swadesh 's filmi industry—the most utpaadak aise udyog in the world chunki the early 1960s.
africa logon hai natives or inhabitants of africa or logon of africa descent.
the Australian Recording udyog Association music puraskaar ( commonly gyaat as aria music puraskaar or ARIA Awards ) is an salanaa shrenee of awards nights celebrating the australian music udyog, put on by the Australian Recording udyog sangh ( ARIA ).
The event has been yojit annually chunki 1987 or encompasses the general genre-specific or lokapriy awards ( these are what is usually hone referred to as `` the ARIA puraskaar '' ) as well as Fine kala puraskaar or Artisan puraskaar ( held separately from 2004 ), Lifetime Achievement puraskaar or ARIA haul of Fame – yojit separately isse 2005 to 2010 but laute to the saamaanya ceremony in 2011.
For 2010, aria introduced public voted awards liye the pehla samay.
Winning, or bhi hone manonith for, an ARIA puraskaar parinaam in a lot of media dhyaan on an kalakaar, or usually increases recording sales several-fold – in 2005, liye udhaaharan, baad ben Lee won teen awards, uske album jaag Is the nai neend kud isse no. 31 to No. 5 in the aria chart, iske highest sthiti.
for-profit shiksha ( bhi known as the education sevaayen industry or malikana shiksha ) refers to shaikshanik institutions sanchalit by private, laabh -seeking vyavsaayon.
vahin hai teen prakaar of for-profit skulon.
ek prakaar is gyaat as an educational prabandhan sanghathan ( EMO ), and ye hai praathmik or dwitiyak shaikshanik institutions.
emos kaary saath skool districts or charter skulon, using public nidhi to finance parichaalan.
the bahumat of for-profit skulon in the k–12 sector in america falan as emos, and have grown in number in the mid-2000s.
the anya pramukh category of for-profit skulon are post-secondary sansthaanon jisase operate as vyavsaayon, receiving shulk from each student they enroll.
A teesraa prakaar of for-profit skulon, jisase is kam prachlit in the sanyukt rajya, hai K–12 skulon jisase operate as vyavsaayon.
EMOs function differently isse charter skulon nirmit in anukram to carry out a particular shikshan pedagogy ; sabase charter schools are mission-oriented, jabaki emos or other for-profit institutions are market-oriented.
jabaki samarthak argue ki the profit motive encourages efficiency, is vyavastha rai bhi drawn vivaad or aalochana.
kevin kairi, director of the education niti program of the nai amareeki Foundation kaha in a 2010 column in The Chronicle of ucchtar shiksha ki `` for-profits exist in large bhaag to fiks shaikshanik market asafalataaon baayein by paramparaagat sansthaanon, or they laabh by serving vidhyaarthee that public and private nonprofit institutions too praayah ignore. ''
he bhi noted ki `` There 's no shaq ki the worst for-profits hai nirmam exploiting the commodified college oopaadhi.
But ve kiya n't commodify it in the first place. ''
amendment xxii in the neshnal abhilekh
the twenty-second Amendment of the sanyukt States Constitution set a pad seemaa liye chunaav to the daftar of adhyaksh of the United rajya.
Congress passed the amendment on March 21, 1947.
it thi ratified by the aavashyak number of rajya on farvari 27, 1951.
is is an episode maargdarshika for the anime shrenee Bobobo-bo Bo-bobo.
is suchi encompasses every episode, shuruuaat saath the original Japanese-language sheershak as they aired on tv asaahi, followed by the sheershak used in the angrezi utaavle sanskaran airing in the United rajya on Cartoon sanjaal.
a short saransh will follow, introducing the apisod or referring to kuch of the dhakosla, lakin nahin giving the puraa summaries to the episodes.
sab names and kuch of the sandarbh will be the ones prayukt from the english-language sanskaran to avoid bhram.
japani names may be prastut baad the dab naam in koshthak.
This aalekh is parichay the public park in nai york nagar.
For anya uses, dekhie central park ( disambiguation ).
Central park is a public park at the center of manahaton in New york nagar.
The park initially kholi in 1857, on of city-owned land ( it is 843 acre aaj ).
In 1858, fredrick vidhi Olmsted or calvert vaux jiti a dizine pratiyogita to improve or vistaar the park saath a plan they hakdaar the Greensward yojana.
nirmaan began the same saal, jari dauraan the American civil yuddh, and thi completed in 1873.
Central park is the most visited urban park in the sanyukt rajya.
designated a neshnal Historic Landmark in 1962, the park is philhal prabandhit by the central Park conservancy antargat contract saath the nagar sarkari.
the conservancy is a non-profit sanghathan that contributes 83.5 % of Central park 's $ 37.5 million annual bajet, or employs 80.7 % of the park 's maintenance staff.
TracFone Wireless, inc. is a preeped betaar service pradaata oparating in the sanyukt rajya sahit purto rico and the us virgin islands or is a subsidiary of mexico 's largest doorsanchaar pradaata, América móvil.
as a Mobile abhaasi sanjaal oparator ( mvno ), tracfone Wireless holds multiple samjhauton saath the us largest betaar telecommunications companiyaan to utilize unke sanjaal to provide seva sahit those of Verizon, AT & t, sprint, or t-mobile.
tracfone Wireless offers iske wireless utpaada antargat anek brands which prayek bhi prastaav distinctive seva plans, the brands include TracFone, net10 betaar, Straight baat, SafeLink betaar, Telcel américa or saral mobile.
A pakaden dredge
dredging is an khudaai kaaryaklap or aaparishan praayah carried out at least partly underwater, in uthle samandar or bhais jal kshetron with the purpose of mehafil up bottom sediments or disposing of unhen at a alag sthaan.
is technique is praayah used to rakhana jalmargon navigable.
it is bhi prayukt as a way to replenish sand on kuch public beaches, jahaan baaluu rai maharoom khoyaa because of tateey apradan.
dredging is bhi prayukt as a technique liye fishing for nishchit prajati of edible clem or crabs, dekhie fishing dredge.
A dredger ( or “dredge” as is the saamaanya upyog in the Americas ) is koi device, yantra, or pot ki is prayukt to excavate or hataayen saamagree isse the neeche of a deh of jal.
liye example, a scoop sanlagn to the samaapt of a rassi or pole by which a man can chithran sediments up isse the neeche of a talab is a dredger.
vikasshil this vichaar further, a motorized crane equipped with a drag baaltee or clamshell ( grabber ) that is prayukt to scoop saamagree isse the neeche of a body of water is bhi a dredger.
The kraine could be located on the bank, or shaayad arohit on a barge.
if the crane is arohit on a barge, the entire vessel is referred to as a dredger.
The prakram of dredging creates spoils ( excess saamagree ), jisase hai carried dur isse the dredged area.
dredging can upaj materials for jameen reclamation or other uddeshy ( usually construction-related ), or rai bhi historically nibhaai a significant bhoomika in sunaharaa khanan.
dredging can create disturbance in jaleey ecosystems, praayah with adverse impacts.
Cleveland Volcano in the aleutian islands of alaska photographed isse the International spes stesan, May 2006.
raakh plumes pahunche a height of 19 km dauraan the climactic eruption at mount pinatubo, philippine in 1991.
a jwalamukhi is an kholane, or rupture, in a grah 's sataha or crust, which allows hot magma, volcanic ash or gaison to escape from the magma kaksh neeche the surface.
jwalamukhi are generally mila jahaan tectonic platon are diverging or converging.
a mid-oceanic lakeeren, liye udhaaharan the mid-atlantic lakeeren, rai examples of jwalamukhi caused by divergent tectonic platon pulling alaava ; the Pacific ring of aag rai udhaaharan of volcanoes caused by abhisari tectonic platon coming saath.
by contrast, jwalamukhi hai usually nahin created where do tectonic platon slide past ek another.
jwalamukhi can bhi rup where vahin is stretching or thinning of the dharti 's crust in the interiars of plates, e.g., in the east africa Rift, the Wells gray-clearwater volcanic field or the rio Grande daraar in North america.
This type of volcanism jalprapaat under the chhatariyaan of `` thali pariklpana '' volcanism.
Volcanism dur isse thali boundaries rai also been samajhaayaa as mantle plumes.
These so-called `` hotspot ``, liye udhaaharan Hawaii, hai postulated to uthta isse upwelling diapirs saath megma from the core–mantle boundary, 3,000 km gahan in the dharti.
erupting jwalamukhi can pose many jokhimon, nahin only in the taatkaalik vicinity of the fatna.
volcanic raakh can be a threat to vayuyan, in particular those with jet ingine jahaan raakh anu can be melted by the unchi operating taapmaana.
vishaal eruptions can affect taapmaana as raakh or droplets of sulfuric acid obscure the surya or kool the dharti 's lower maahaul or kshobhamandal ; however, ve bhi avashoshit ooshmaa radiated up isse the dharti, thereby warming the stratosphere.
historically, so-called volcanic winters have caused catastrophic famines.
benedict Arnold ( June 14, 1801 ) thi a saamaanya during the amareeki krantikari yuddh who originally ladaa liye the amareeki mahadwipiya fouj lakin defected to the British Army.
jabaki a saamaanya on the amareeki paksh, he obtained cmand of the fort at west point, nai york, or planned to aatmasamarpan it to the angrejon shaktiyaan.
baad the yojana was ujagar in sitambar 1780, he was commissioned into the angrejon Army as a brigadier saamaanya.
born in Connecticut, Arnold was a merchant oparating ships on the Atlantic samandar when the yuddh broke out in 1775.
baad joining the growing fouj baahar boston, he vishisht khud through adhiniyamon of pragna or veerta.
His kriyaayein shaamil the Capture of fort ticonderoga in 1775, defensive or delaying tactics despite khone the battle of valcour Island on Lake champlain in 1776, the battle of ridgefield, connectikat ( baad which he was prachaarit to major saamaanya ), parichaalan in raahat of the gheraa of fort Stanwix, and kunjee kriyaayein dauraan the pivotal Battles of saratoga in 1777, in which he suffered leg choton that ended uske combat career liye anek years.
despite arnald 's safaltaaon, he was passed over for promotion by the Continental congress jabaki anya adhikariyon claimed credit liye kuch of uske accomplishments.
Adversaries in military or rajnatik vrutt brought aarope of bhrashtachar or anya malfeasance, lakin sabase often he was acquitted in aupchaarik inquiries.
congress investigated uske khate or mila he thi rini to Congress baad bitaa much of his apana money on the yuddh praytn.
kunthit and kadava, arnald decided to badalen sides in 1779, and kholi rahasy negotiations saath the angrejon.
In july 1780, he thi offered, jari to pursue or thi awarded cmand of west point.
arnald 's yojana to surrender the fort to the angrejon thi ujagar when American shaktiyaan captured angrejon pramukh John André carrying papers that nazil the plot.
Upon siikhnaa of andre 's capchar, Arnold fled bas the hadsan River to the angrejon sloop-of-war giddh, narrowly avoiding capchar by the shaktiyaan of george washington, jo tha maharoom alerted to the plat.
arnald praapt a ayog as a brigadier saamaanya in the British fouj, an salanaa pension of £360, and a lump sum of over £6,000.
he led angrejon shaktiyaan on chaape in virginia, or viruddh nai landan or Groton, connectikat, pehle the yuddh effectively ended saath the amareeki victory at yorktown.
In the winter of 1782, arnald sthanantarit to landan with uske duusari bivi, margaret `` paigi '' shippen arnald.
He thi khub praapt by king george iii and the tories but khiz upon by the whigs.
In 1787, he laute to the merchant kaarobaar with uske sons Richard or Henry in sant jon, New Brunswick.
he laute to landan to settle permanently in 1791, where he died ten saalo later.
Because of the rasta he badla sides, his naam jaldi became a in the sanyukt rajya for deshadroh or betrayal.
uske conflicting viraasat is recalled in the ambiguous nature of kuch of the memorials ki have been lagaai in uske honor.
Curtis Montague schilling ( born navambar 14, 1966 ) is a purv amareeki pramukh League besabaal right-handed pichar or Video khel develper.
He helped lead the philadelphia philis to the World Series in or jiti sansar Series championships in with the erizona dymondbax and in or saath the Boston Red Sox.
schilling ritred saath a career postseason record of 11–2.
uske.846 postseason jeetna percentage is a major-league ricard among pitchers saath at least 10 decisions.
baad retiring, he founded green Monster Games which thi renamed 38 Studios.
the company released kingdoms of amalur : Reckoning in February 2012, but bas teen maheene later, schilling laid band uske entire staff amid kathor vittiya troubles ki resulted in the company laapata payroll the pichhlaa saptaah.
star yudhon is an American apik spes opera matadhikaar centered on a filmi series created by george Lucas.
the filmi shrenee rai spawned a media matadhikaar baahar the filmi shrenee pukaara the Expanded brahmad sahit kitabe, television shrenee, computer and video khel, or comic kitabe.
ye poorak to the film trilogies have resulted in significant vikaas of the shrenee ' fictional brahmad.
ye media rakhaa the matadhikaar kriyasheel in the interim between the filmi trilogies.
the franchise portrays a akashganga ki is described as dur, dur dur in the dur past.
it commonly portrays jedy as a representation of good, in virodh saath the sith, unke evil bantwaaraa.
Their hathiyaar of chunaav, the lightsaber, is commonly pahachaanaa in lokapriy samskruti.
the fictional brahmad also contains many vishaywastu, visheshkar prabhaav of philosophy and dharm.
the pehla filmi in the series thi originally released on May 25, 1977, antargat the sheershak star yudhon, by 20th Century fox, and became a worldwide pop samskruti phenomenon, followed by two sequels, released at three-year intervals.
solah years baad the relies of the trayee 's final filmi, the pehla in a new prequel trayee of films was released.
The teen prequel films were bhi released at three-year intervals, saath the final filmi of the trilogy released on may 19, 2005.
in aktubar 2012, the Walt Disney company acquired lucasfilm for $ 4.05 arab or ghoshit that it hota upaj three nai films, saath the first film, Star yudhon apisod VII, niojit liye relies in 2015.
20th sadi fox still retains the vitaran adhikaron to the pehla do star yudhon trilogies, owning sthai rights for the asli film Episode iv : a nai aashaa, while pakadakar the rights to apisod I–III, V or vi until may 2020.
pratikriyaayein to the asli trayee yahood zyaadaatar positive, saath the last filmi hone mana the weakest, jabaki the prequel trilogy praapt a adhik mishrit reaction, with sabase of the taareef hone liye the final movie, according to most punarvilokan agrigater websiton.
sab chah of the pramukh films in the shrenee yahood bhi manonith liye or jiti academy puraskaar.
All of the pramukh films have maharoom baksaa daftar safaltaaon, saath the overall baksaa daftar aay utpann by the star Wars films ( including the natya Star yudhon : the Clone yudhon ) totalling $ 4.49 arab, bananaa it the third-highest-grossing filmi shrenee.
the success rai bhi led to multiple re-releases in theatre liye the shrenee.
Plateletpheresis ( adhik accurately pukaara thrombocytapheresis or thrombapheresis, haalanki ye names hai rarely used ) is the prakram of collecting thrombocytes, adhik commonly pukaara platelets, a ghatak of rakt shaamil in rakt clotting.
the term specifically refers to the vidhi of collecting the platelets, jisase is performed by a yantra used in rakt daan ki separates the platelets or ritern anya portions of the rakt to the daata.
platelet transfusion can be a life-saving procedure in preventing or treating gambhir jatiltaaon isse bleeding or hemorrhage in patients who have vikaar manifesting as thrombocytopenia ( kam platelet ginati ) or platelet dysfunction.
This prakram may also be prayukt therapeutically to treat vikaar resulting in extraordinarily high platelet rishto aise as anivaary thrombocytosis.
in computer networking, a bandargahon is an application-specific or process-specific tantra construct sevarat as a sanchaar endpoint in a computer 's mejabaan oparating pranali.
A bandargahon is sambhddha saath an ip pataa of the host, as well as the type of protocol used liye communication.
the purpose of port is to uniquely pahachaano alag anuprayog or prakriyaaon kaaryshil on a single computer or thereby enable unhen to share a single shaareerik connection to a packet-switched network like the antarjaal.
the protocols ki primarily upyog port hai the hastantaran parat protocol, such as the hastantaran control protocol ( TCP ) and the upayokta Datagram Protocol ( udipi ) of the antarjaal protocol Suite.
a bandargahon is pahachaanaa for prayek address or protocol by a 16-bit number, commonly gyaat as the bandargahon kramank.
the port kramank, added to a computer 's ip pataa, completes the gantavy address for a sanchaar satr.
ki is, aankada packets hai routed across the sanjaal to a vishisht destination IP pataa, or then, upon reaching the destination computer, hai further routed to the vishisht process bandhi to the gantavy bandargahon number.
note ki it is the combination of ip address or bandargahon number saath ki jarur be globally adwitiya.
Thus, different ip pataa or protocols may upyog the vahi port number for communication ; e.g., on a die host or interfes udipi or TCP may upyog the vahi bandargahon kramank, or on a mejabaan saath two antarfalak, dono addresses may be associated saath a port having the same kramank.
Of the hazaron of enumerated port, about 250 well-known port hai surakshit by convention to identify specific seva types on a mejabaan.
in the client-server model of anuprayog architecture, ports hai prayukt to provide a multiplexing seva on prayek server-side bandargahon number ki sanjaal client connect to for seva initiation, after jisase sanchaar can be reestablished on other connection-specific bandargahon sankhyaayein.
kshetrafal code 479 is the telephone kshetrafal code sevarat teraa counties in uttarpashchim Arkansas, sahit the shaharon of fort smith, fayetteville, springdale, rogers and Bentonville : the duusari, third, chauthi, aathvin or tenth-largest shaharon in the rajya, kramshah.
it was created in 2002 in a split isse kshetrafal code 501.
kshetrafal code 479 serves benton, kairal ( vibhajit saath kshetrafal code 870 ), crockerd, franklin, Johnson, Logan, medisson, polk, Pope, Scott, Sebastian, washington or chillaate county in Arkansas.
arraignment is a formal reading of a dand charging dastauez in the presence of the defendant to inform the prativaadee of the charges against him or uske.
in jawaab to arraignment, the abhiyukt is expected to daalen a plea.
sweekaarya pleas vary among jurisdictions, but ve generally shaamil `` apradhi '', `` nahin apradhi '', or the peremptory pleas ( or pleas in baar ) setting out kaaran kyon a vichaaran can nahin proceed.
pleas of `` nolo contendere `` ( no contest ) or the `` alford plea `` hai allowed in some halaaton.
In england, wales, Northern Ireland or australia, arraignment is the pehla of gyaarah charan in a criminal vichaaran, or involves the clerk of the adaalat padhnaa out the indictment.
the defendant is poocha whether he or she pleads apradhi or nahin guilty to prayek charge.
in federal nyaayalayon of the United States, arraignment takes place in do charan.
the first is pukaara the initial arraignment and jarur lo place bheetar 48 ghanton of an individual 's giraftaar, 72 hours if the vyaktigat was giraftaar on the weekend and nahin samarth to go pehle a nyaayadhish jabatak somvaar.
dauraan this arraignment the prativaadee is suchit of the sthagit legal aarope or is suchit of uske or uske sahi to retain counsel.
The peethasin nyaayadhish bhi decides at kayaa raashi, if koi, to niyat jamaanat.
During the duusari arraignment, a post-indictment arraignment or pia, the prativaadee is allowed to daalen a daleel.
geoffrey chasar ( ; c. 1343 – 25 aktubar 1400 ), gyaat as the Father of angrezi sahitya, is widely mana the greatest English kavi of the Middle aayu and thi the pehla poet to have been dafn in kavi 's kone of Westminster abi.
jabaki he achieved kirti dauraan uske aaajeevan as an author, philosopher, kemiagar and astronomer, composing a scientific treatise on the astrolabe for uske ten year-old bete louis, Chaucer bhi kaayam an kriyasheel kariyar in the civil seva as a bureaucrat, navratnon and rajanyik.
among uske many works, jisase shaamil the Book of the duchess, the house of kirti, the legend of shubh mahilaon or Troilus and Criseyde, he is best known aaj liye the canterbury kisse.
chasar is a crucial figure in vikasshil the legitimacy of the deshi, Middle English, at a time jab the prabal saahitiyik languages in england yahood french and latin.
The Chicago blizzard of 1979 was a pramukh blizzard ki affected northern illinois or uttarpashchim indiana, u.S. on janvari 13 – janvari 14, 1979.
of him giri on janvari 13 alon, setting a nai ricard for him in one calendar day.
by the end of January 14, of him tha gire.
the cold mausam or himpat throughout the baaki of janvari or farvari resulted in frozen tracks throughout the Chicago 'L ' pranali.
commuters bheed onto CTA basen, jaldi overwhelming kshamta, resulting in usual bus commutes of 30-45 minutes taking up to anek ghanton.
to avoid huge snowdrifts in the galiyon, the overcrowded basen yahood obliged to take numerous detours, adding additional time to the bhraman.
Deployment of plows thi significantly vilambit or jab ve aakhirkaar appeared ve struggled to rakhana up saath the himpat.
much of the him remained unremoved throughout the aglaa 2 months, causing ongoing public pargaman deree or significant samasyaayein saath trash sangrahan.
the nagar 's aparyaapt jawaab to the blizzard thi blamed primarily on mayor maaikel bilandic, jo tha assumed the post baad the 1976 maut of richard J. Daley.
samachaarpatr aalekh at the time blasted bilandic ; jine byrne, bilandic 's pramukh rajnatik pratidwandvi in the loktantric praathmik ( jo tha previously worked saath Bilandic in the daale prashasan and maharoom fired by bilandic jab the do could not milengi saath ), capitalized on is and gai on to shikast bilandic in the farvari 27 primary.
the 12-hour clock is a time sammelan in jisase the 24 ghanton of the din are vibhajit into do periods : a.m. ( from the Latin ante meridiem, meaning `` pehle midday '' ) or p.m. ( post meridiem, `` after midday '' ).
Each period consists of 12 ghanton gine : 12 ( acting as shunya ), 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, or 11.
the 12-hour clock was viksit over time isse the mid-second millennium BC to the 16th sadi ad.
Health bitaa prati capita, in $ US ppp-adjusted, with the us or canada compared amongst anya first sansar raashtra.
tulana of the health parvaah systems in canada and the sanyukt rajya hai praayah bana by sarkari, public swasthya or public niti vishleshkon.
the two countries had samaan health parvaah pranaaliyon pehle canada reformed its pranali in the 1960s and 1970s.
The sanyukt States spends much adhik dhan on swasthya care than Canada, on dono a per-capita aadhaar and as a percentage of jidipi.
In 2006, per-capita bitaa liye health parvaah in Canada thi us $ 3,678 ; in the U.S., us $ 6,714.
the U.S. kharch 15.3 % of jidipi on swasthya parvaah in that year ; canada spent 10.0 %.
in 2006, 70 % of health care bitaa in Canada thi financed by government, banaam 46 % in the United States.
kul sarkari bitaa prati capita in the u.S. on health parvaah thi 23 % higher than Canadian sarkari spending, or u.S. government vyay on swasthya care thi bas under 83 % of total canadai bitaa ( public and nijee ) haalanki ye aankde do n't lo into khaataa janasankhyikee differences.
adhyayan have aaiye to alag conclusions parichay the result of is disparity in spending.
A 2007 punarvilokan of sab adhyayan comparing swasthya outcomes in Canada or the US in a canadai peer-reviewed chikitsa journal mila ki `` swasthya outcomes may be shreshth in marijon cared liye in canada banaam the sanyukt States, lakin matbhed are nahin satat. ''
jivan pratyaasha is longer in canada, or iske shishu mortality rate is nimnatar than that of the U.S., lakin vahin is bahes parichay the underlying kalyankari of ye matbhed.
ek commonly cited tulana, the 2000 sansar swasthya Organization 's ratings of `` overall swasthya seva performance '', which used a `` compojit maap of uplabdhi in the str of health, the distribution of swasthya, the str of responsiveness and nishpakshta of financial yogadan '', kramit Canada 30th or the us 37th among 191 member raashtra.
This padhai rated the US `` responsiveness '', or quality of seva liye individuals receiving treatment, as 1st, compared with 7th liye Canada.
While the ausat jivan pratyaasha liye canadians was 80.34 years compared saath 78.6 years for nivaasiyon of the US, simply comparing the life expectancy of do groups saath alag jatigat mechap and alag obesity daron is likely nahin an prabhavi way of determining jisase healthcare pranali is superior.
The WHO 's padhai methods were criticized by kuch analyses.
haalanki there is a maap of sarvasammati ki life-expectancy or shishu mortality chihnit the sabase vishwasaneey ways to compare nation-wide health parvaah, assuming the janasankhyikee mechap is similar, a haal rapat by the Congressional shodh seva carefully summarizes kuch haal aankada and tip the `` difficult shodh mudde '' facing antarrashtriya comparisons.
tarantulas comprise a samooh of often baldaar and bahut vishaal arachnids belonging to the theraphosidae parivaar of makadiyon, of which lagbhag 900 prajati have maharoom pahachaanaa.
is aalekh tabhi describes sadasyon of theraphosidae, haalanki some other sadasyon of the vahi suborder hai commonly referred to as `` tarantulas ''.
Most prajati of tarantulas hai not khatarnaak to insaano, or some prajati have become lokapriy in the exotic pet trade.
the ton is a unit of maap.
it rai a long history or rai acquired a kramank of meanings and upyog over the saalo.
it is prayukt pradhanthya as a unit of weight, and as a unit of awaz.
it can bhi be prayukt as a measure of energy, liye trek vargeekaran, or as a colloquial pad.
it is derived from the tun, the pad applied to a bairal of the largest size.
is could contain a awaz between 210 and 256 gallons ( 800 to 1000 l ), which could taul around 2,000 pound ( 900 kg ) and occupy some of spes.
In the sanyukt kingdom the ton is paribhaashit as ( avoirdupois pounds ).
isse 1965 the UK embarked upon a programme of metrication or dhire introduced metric ikai, sahit the tonne ( metric ton ), a non-si metric unit defined as 1000 kg.
the uk weights and upayon adhinium 1985 explicitly excluded isse use for trade anek ikai and sharten, sahit the ton and the pad `` metric ton '' liye `` ton ''
in the sanyukt rajya or formerly Canada a ton is paribhaashit to be.
jahaan bhram is possible, the 2240 lb ton is called `` long ton `` or the 2000 lb ton `` short ton `` ; the tonne is distinguished by iske ssailing, but praayah pronounced the vahi as ton, hence the us term `` metric ton ''.
in the uk the final `` e '' of `` ton '' can bhi be pronounced ( /ˈtʌnɪ/ ), or `` metric ton '' jab it is jaruri to mek the bhed.
jahaan sateekta is jaruri the correct pad jarur be prayukt, but liye anek uddeshy this is nahin necessary : the metric and long ton differ by tabhi 1.6 %, or the choti ton is within 11 % of dono.
the ton is the adhiktam ikai of vazan referred to in colloquial speech.
The pad `` ton '' is bhi prayukt to refer to a number of ikai of awaz, ranging isse in kshamta.
It can bhi be prayukt as a ikai of energy, expressed as an samatuly of koyale jaale, tianti detonated, or in prashithan, ice melted.
In Britain, ton is prayukt in kathboli in anek contexts to ausat `` 100 ''.
as a cost or a gati, a ton is widely samajha to be £100 or 100 mph.
the stanley cap ( ) is the championships trophy awarded annually to the National hockey lig ( enechael ) playoff vijeta after the nishkarsh of the stanley cap Finals.
Originally commissioned in 1892 as the dominian hockey chunauti cap, the trophy is named for Lord Stanley of preston, then- rajyapal saamaanya of canada, who awarded it to canada 's top-ranking amateur ice hockey klbon, which the sampurna stanley parivaar samarthit, saath the sons or betiyaan playing or promoting the khel.
The pehla Cup thi awarded in 1893 to montrial hc.
in 1915, the do peshewar ice hockey organizations, the National hockey Association ( nah ) or the Pacific coast hockey sangh ( pcha ), pahunche a sajjanon 's anubandh in which their sambandhit champions hota face prayek anya liye the stanley cap.
baad a shrenee of league mergers and fold, the stanley `` prastutikaran cap '' was sthapit as the de facto championship trophy of the NHL in 1926 or tab the de jure NHL championships prize in 1947.
There are actually three Stanley Cups : the asli katori of the `` dominian hockey Challenge cap '', the satyapit `` Presentation Cup '', or the `` praturup Cup '' at the haul of kirti.
the enechael has maintained prabhavi control over dono the trophy itself or iske sambhddha trademarks.
nevertheless, the enechael karata nahin actually apana the trophy, lakin bajaay upyog it by agreement saath the do trustees of the Cup.
The enechael has registered trademarks sambhddha with the naam or likeness of the stanley Cup, haalanki the lig 's sahi to outright apana trademarks sambhddha with a trophy it does nahin apana rai maharoom vivaadit by kuch vidhik experts.
Unlike the traphiyaan awarded by the other teen pramukh professional sports lig of uttar America, a nai stanley Cup is nahin bana prayek saal ; winners keep it jabatak a nai champion is pahanaaya.
It is unusual among traphiyaan, in ki it rai the names of sab of the jeetna khilaadi, coach, prabandhan, or klbon staff engraved on iske chalice.
initially, a nai band added each saal caused the trophy to grow in size, kamai the upnaam `` stovepipe cap ''.
in 1958 the aadhunik one-piece cap thi designed saath a five-band bairal jisase could contain 13 winning tiimon per band.
to avoid the Stanley cap from growing, jab the bottom band is puraa, the oldest band is removed or preserved in the hockey haul of kirti, or a nai rikt band added to the bottom.
it rai maharoom referred to as the cap, rab stanley 's cap, the Holy grail, or facetiously ( chiefly by sportswriters ) as rab Stanley 's Mug.
the stanley cap is ghiri by numerous legends or paramparaon, the oldest of jisase is the celebratory pine of champagne out of the cap by the jeetna toli.
the original katori thi bana of chaandi or is 18.5 centimetre ( 7.28 inch ) in oonchaai and 29 centimetre ( 11.42 inch ) in vyas.
the vartmaan stanley cap, topped saath a nakal of the asli bowl, is bana of a chaandi or nikal alloy ; it rai a height of 89.54 centimetre ( 35.25 inch ) or weighs 15.5 gamma ( 34.5 lb / 2 st 61⁄2 lb ).
chunki the 1914–15 ritu, the Cup rai maharoom jiti a sanyukt 94 times by 18 kriyasheel enechael tiimon or paanch defunct teams.
Prior to ki, the challenge cap was yojit by nau different tiimon.
The montrial canadiens have jiti the Cup a ricard 24 times or hai philhal the pichhlaa canadian-based toli in the enechael to jeet the cap after jeetna it in 1993.
the stanley Cup was nahin awarded in 1919 kuki of a Spanish flu epidemic, or in 2005, as a consequence of the enechael lockout.
the ananas ( ananas comosus ) is a teevr sanyantr saath khaadya anek fal consisting of coalesced jamun, or the sabase economically significant plant in the bromeliaceae parivaar.
pineapples may be cultivated from a crown cutting of the fal, sambhawatah flowering in 20–24 months and fruiting in the following six maheene.
Pineapple does nahin ripen significantly post-harvest.
pineapples hai consumed bhais, pakaaya, juiced, or preserved, and hai mila in a wide sarani of vyanjan.
in jod to khapat, in the philippine the pineapple 's pattey are used to upaj the vastra resha piña - employed as a component of wall paper or furnishings, amongst other upyog.
in computer vigyaan, an purnank is a datum of abhinn aankada type, a aankada prakaar which represents kuch parimit upasamucchy of the mathematical integers.
abhinn aankada prakaar may be of alag aakaar and may or may nahin be anumat to contain negative maan.
Integers hai commonly represented in a computer as a samooh of binary ank.
the aakaar of the samoohikaran varies so the set of purnank sizes uplabdhiyaan varies between alag prakaar of computer.
computer hardware nearly always provides a rasta to represent a procesar panjikaran or memory address as an purnank.
the gordon Dam in Tasmania is a vishaal hydro suvidha, saath an installed capacity of.
hydroelectricity is the pad referring to vidyut utpann by hydropower ; the production of vidyut shakti through the use of the gravitational force of girnaa or bahati water.
it is the sabase widely used rup of bedardi urja, hisaab liye 16 pratishat of vaishvik vidyut peedhee – 3,427 terawatt-hours of electricity production in 2010, or is apekshit to badhayen about 3.1 % prayek year liye the next 25 saalo.
Hydropower is utpaadit in 150 deshon, saath the asia-pacific pradesh generating 32 pratishat of vaishvik hydropower in 2010.
china is the largest hydroelectricity nirmaataa, saath 721 terawatt-hours of utpaadan in 2010, representing around 17 pratishat of gharelu vidyut use.
There are abhi teen hydroelectricity paudhe larger than 10 GW : the teen gorges baandh in china, itaipu baandh aarpaar the Brazil/Paraguay kinaaraa, and guri baandh in venezuela.
The cost of hydroelectricity is apekshaakrit kam, making it a pratispardhi sorce of renewable electricity.
the ausat laagat of vidyut from a hydro plant larger than 10 megawatts is 3 to 5 U.S. cents prati kilowatt-hour.
Hydro is also a flexible sorce of vidyut chunki plants can be ramped up and bas bahut jaldi to adapt to badalanaa urja demands.
However, damming interrupts the flow of rivers and can nuqasaan local ecosystems, or bhawan vishaal dams and tank often involves displacing people and vanyajeev.
ekbar a hydroelectric jatil is constructed, the project produces no sidhaa barbaad, or rai a considerably nimnatar output level of the greenhouse gas carbon dioxide ( ) than chattan eendhan sanchalit urja paudhe.
Wine ladke at a unani symposium
The itihaas of wine spans hazaron of years and is closely intertwined saath the itihaas of krishi, bhojan, sabhyataa or maanavtaa itself.
puraatatv pramaan suggests ki the earliest gyaat wine utpaadan occurred in kayaa is abhi the country of georgia around 7000 BCE, with other notable site in vrihad iraan dated 4500 BCE and Armenia 4100 BCE, respectively.
the sansar 's oldest gyaat winery ( dinaak to 3000 BCE ) thi khoja in areni-1 gupha in a mountainous area of armenia.
url_http.
increasingly saaf puraatatv pramaan indicates ki domestication of the grapevine took place dauraan the Early kaansya aayu in the Near east, Sumer or mishra isse around the third milinium bce.
pramaan of the earliest wine utpaadan in balkans rai maharoom uncovered at archaeological site in northern Greece ( macedoniya ), dated to 4500 bc.
ye same sites bhi contain remnants of the world 's earliest evidence of kuchal angoor.
In mishra, wine became a bhaag of ankit itihaas, playing an mahatvapurn bhoomika in pracheen ceremonial life.
Traces of junglee wine dating isse the duusari or pehla millennia bce have bhi maharoom mila in china.
moraccan wine kasher label 1930
the yahudee parampara or upyog of kosher wine is dating back to biblical times.
the long itihaas of the use or production of wine throughout pracheen Israel is samarthit up by puraatatva pramaan.
bheetar the yahudee diaspora samudaayon all around the globe, the paramparaagat or dharmik use of kosher wine continued to is din.
Wine, linked in myth to dionysus / bacchus, thi common in ancient unaniyon and rome, or anek of aaj 's major wine-producing regions of Western europea yahood sthapit saath Phoenician or, later, Roman baganon.
winemaking technology improved considerably dauraan the samay of the roman samrajya : many grape kismein and cultivation takneekon yahood known ; the dizine of the wine press unnat ; or barrels were viksit liye storing and shipping wine.
rashi, a madhyakaalin french rabbi and pukaara the `` pita '' of all tikaa that followed on the Talmud or the tanakh, arjeet uske jeena as a vintner.
following the manaahi of Rome or iske industrial-scale wine production liye niryaat, the Christian Church in medieval europea bhi became a kad supporter of wine, necessary liye jashn of the catholic dravyaman. Whereas wine thi haraam in madhyakaalin islamic samskritiyon, its use in isai libation thi widely tolerated.
Geber and other muslim chemists pioneered the aswan of wine liye islamic aushadhiy or industrial purposes aise as parafum.
wine production dhire increased, with khapat burgeoning from the 15th sadi onwards.
Wine utpaadan batch the vinaashkari Phylloxera jun of 1887 or aakhirkaar sprad to numerous regions throughout the world.
jile of West bengal
the bhartiya state of west bengal simaayen with nepal, Bhutan, bangladesh or the bhartiya rajya of Bihar, Jharkhand, odisha, assam or sikkim.
The himalay lies in the uttar of the rajya or the Bay of bengal is at the dakshin.
in between them, the river ganga bahati eastwards or iske main distributary, the hughali nadi, flows dakshin to pahunchein the khadi of bengal.
the silligudi corridor, jisase connects north-east india with baaki of the india, lies in the uttar Bengal pradesh of the rajya.
geographically, west bengal is vibhajit into a kismein of regions— darjeeling Himalayan hill pradesh, terai or dwaar region, uttar bengal maidan, Rarh pradesh, pashchimi plateau or high lands, tateey maidan, sunderbans or the ganga Delta.
In 1947, when India gained swatantraaa, the state of west Bengal thi formed saath 14 jile, as per partition yojana of the tab bengal province of angrejon India.
The purv princely rajya koch bihar joined as a zila in 1950, and the purv French anchlev chandannagore joined as bhaag of the hughali district in 1954.
the rajya Reorganisation adhinium of 1956 led to addition of purulia district to the rajya and to enlargement of west Dinajpur zila.
baad, larger districts aise as west dinajpur, 24 Parganas or midanapur yahood bifurcated.
West bengal is abhi vibhajit into unniis jile antargat three vibhaajan.
Districts hai administered by District Magistrates, and divisions are administered by diviginal commissioners.
kolkata, the puunji of the rajya, constitutes the kolkata zila.
anya jile hai further vibhajit into prashasnic ikai such as subdivisions or block, administered by sdo and BDO, kramshah.
The Panchayati Raj rai a three-tier dhaancha in the rajya.
The parmaanu unit is called a gram panchayat, which is the panchayat organization for a collection of gaanvon.
the block-level sanghathan hai pukaara Panchayat Samiti, and the district-level sanghathan hai named zilla Parishad.
the caribbean ( or ; ; ; or adhik commonly antilles ) is a region that consists of the caribbean Sea, iske islands ( kuch ghiri by the Caribbean Sea or kuch bordering dono the caribbean samudr or the uttar Atlantic samandar ), or the surrounding coasts.
the pradesh is southeast of the Gulf of Mexico or the uttar amareeki mainland, east of Central america, or uttar of South america.
situated largely on the Caribbean thali, the pradesh comprises adhik than 700 islands, ilet, reefs, or cays.
( See the suchi. )
These islands generally rup island arcs ki delineate the eastern or uttari kinare of the caribbean samudr.
the caribbean islands, consisting of the vrihad antilles on the uttar or the lesser antilles on the south or east ( sahit the Leeward antilles ), hai bhaag of the somewhat larger West Indies grouping, jisase bhi shaamil the lucayan Archipelago ( comprising the bahama or turks and caicos islands ) uttar of the vrihad antilles or caribbean samudr.
in a wider sense, the mainland deshon of beliz and Guyana – historically or culturally bhaag of the British west indies – may be shaamil.
Geopolitically, the caribbean islands are usually regarded as a subregion of North america or hai organized into 30 territories sahit sovereign states, overseas departments, or dependencies.
From January 3, 1958, to may 31, 1962, there thi a short-lived desh pukaara the Federation of the West Indies rachit of ten English-speaking caribbean territories, sab of which were tab uk dependencies.
The West indies cricket toli continues to represent anek of those raashtra.
is is a suchi of the 221 kasbon or 13 cities in the U.S. state of nai hampshire.
For prayek town/city, the talika lists the county to jisase it belongs, its tithi of incorporation, iske janasankhyikee according to the 2010 janasankhyikee, its rup of sarkari, or iske principal gaanvon.
shaharon hai indicated in boldface.
shaharon and kasbon hai treated identically antargat state vidhi.
shaharon are bas kasbon jinaki rup of sarkari was changed by a khaas adhinium of the nai hampshire vidhanmandal.
however, kasbon currently are samarth to change unke rup of sarkari by saral voter approval of a nai municipal charter, saath anek of the more populous towns having already kiya so.
the pramukh slave root in medieval africa.
This aalekh discusses pranaaliyon, history, and prabhaav of gulaami within africa.
dekhie arab slave vyapaar, atlantic slave vyapaar, Maafa, and gulaami in samakaleen africa for anya charchaayen.
`` slave hastantaran in africa ''.
europeans praayah kiya nahin daalen the aantarik regions.
Slavery in africa has existed throughout the mahadweep for many centuries, or continues in the vartmaan day.
Systems of servitude and slavery yahood aam in anek bhaag of the mahadweep, as ve yahood in much of the pracheen sansar.
In most African samaajon where slavery thi prachlit, the enslaved people were largely treated as indentured bandon or nahin treated as chattel slave.
jab the arab slave vyapaar or Atlantic slave vyapaar began, many of the local slave systems badla or began supplying captives liye slave markets baahar of africa.
gulaami in aitihaasik africa thi practiced in anek alag form and some of ye do not clearly anuroop the paribhaashaayen of gulaami elsewhere in the sansar.
karz gulaami, enslavement of yuddh captives, military gulaami, or dand gulaami yahood sab practiced in vibhinn bhaag of Africa.
haalanki vahin tha maharoom kuch trans-saharan vyapaar from the aantarik of Sub-Saharan africa to anya regions, gulaami thi a choti part of the economic jivan of anek samaajon in africa jabatak the parichay of transcontinental slave trade ( arab or atlantic ).
slave practices were again roopantarit with europea colonization of africa or the formal abolition of slavery in the jaldi 1900s.
Brett lorenzo Favre ( born aktubar 10, 1969 ) is a former amareeki footbaal quarterback jo spent the bahumat of uske career saath the green khadi pakars of the neshnal Football lig ( enegel ).
he thi a 20-year diggaj of the NFL, having nibhaai quarterbaque liye the atlanta falcons ( 1991 ), green khadi pakars ( 1992 – 2007 ), nai york jets ( 2008 ) or minesota vikings ( 2009 – 2010 ).
Favre is the tabhi quarterbaque in enegel history to throw for over 70,000 yards, over 500 touchdowns, over 300 interceptions, over 6,000 completions, or over 10,000 pass koshishen.
favre prarambh at the quarterback position liye the vishvavidhyalayon of dakshini mississippi liye chaar years pehle hone selected in the duusari golakaar of the 1991 enegel draft by atlanta ( 33rd overall ).
he thi traded to green Bay on farvari 10, 1992, liye the 19th chune in the 1992 enegel draft.
favre became the Packers ' starting quarterbaque in the chauthi khel of the 1992 ritu, stepping in liye ghayal quarterback don majkowski, or prarambh prayek khel through the 2007 season.
He thi traded to the nai york Jets and started at quarterback for the 2008 ritu pehle signing with the vikings on August 18, 2009 as their starting quarterbaque.
He made an enegel ricard 297 lagaataar starts ( 321 sahit playoffs ).
He is the tabhi khilaadi to jeet the AP sabase Valuable Player teen consecutive times ( 1995–97 ).
He rai led teams to aath prabhag championships ( 1995, 1996, 1997, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2007, 2009 ), five nfc championships Games ( 1995, 1996, 1997, 2007, 2009 ), or do Super katori dikhaave ( Super katori xxxi, Super Bowl xxxii ), winning ek ( super Bowl XXXI ).
he holds anek NFL record, sahit sabase kariyar touchdown gujarata, sabase career guzar gaj, sabase kariyar pass completions, most kariyar pass koshishen, sabase kariyar interceptions thrown, most consecutive starts by a khilaadi, sabase consecutive starts by a quarterbaque, sabase kariyar victories as a starting quarterback, most barkhaast, or sabase fumbles.
he is also referred to by uske upnaam `` The gunslinger ''.
salesforce.com inc. is a global enterprise software company headquartered in san francisco, california.
haalanki behtareen gyaat liye its customer sambandh prabandhan ( crm ) product, Salesforce rai also vistaarit into the `` soshal enterprize arina '' through acquisitions.
It is philhal kramit the sabase innovative company in america by forbs patrika, as khub as kramank 27 in Fortunes patrika 's 100 Best companiyaan to Work liye in 2012.
As of april 2013, the company is kramit chathe in providing sevaayen in vipanan or customer seva automation.
It is listed on the nai york bhandar exange and is a constituent of the s & p 500 anukramanika.
seahorse is the title die to 54 prajati of samudri machhlee in the genus hippocampus.
`` hippocampus '' aata isse the pracheen unani hippos meaning `` horse '' and kampos arth `` samudr daanav ''.
dharti is the teesraa grah isse the Sun, and the densest and fifth-largest of the aath grah in the saura pranali.
it is also the largest of the Solar System 's chaar terrestrial grah.
it is sometimes referred to as the sansar or the Blue grah.
dharti formed lagbhag 4.54 arab saalo pehle, or life appeared on iske sataha bheetar iske pehla billion saalo.
dharti 's jeevamandal tab significantly altered the vayumandaleey and other basic physical sharten, jisase enabled the aprasar of organisms as well as the gathan of the ozone parat, jisase saath with dharti 's chumbakeey field avarodhit harmful saura radiation, and permitted formerly ocean-confined jivan to move sakushal to land.
the shaareerik gun of the dharti, as khub as its geological history or kaksha, have allowed life to persist.
estimates on kaisaa much longer the grah hoga be samarth to continue to support jivan dayera isse, to as long as.
dharti 's sthalmandal is divided into anek rigid khand, or tectonic platon, ki migrate aarpaar the sataha over periods of anek lakho of years.
parichay 71 % of the sataha is covered by namak jal mahaasaagar, with the shesh consisting of mahadwipon and islands jisase saath have many jhiilon or anya strot of jal that contribute to the hydrosphere.
dharti 's danda hai zyaadaatar covered saath barf ki is the thos barf of the antarctic barf sheet and the sea barf that is the dhruviya barf packs.
the grah 's interior remains kriyasheel, saath a thos aayran bhitari core, a drav outer kor that generates the chumbakeey field, and a motaa parat of relatively thos mantle.
Earth gravitationally interacts saath other objects in spes, visheshkar the surya and the chandramaa.
During ek orbit around the surya, the dharti ghumata about iske apana axis 366.26 times, bananaa 365.26 solar dinon, or one sidereal saal.
the dharti 's aksh of roteshan is tilted 23.4° away isse the perpendicular of iske orbital plane, producing mausami visangatiyaan on the grah 's sataha saath a period of one teevr saal ( 365.24 saura dinon ).
the chandramaa is dharti 's tabhi natural satellite.
It began orbiting the Earth parichay.
the chandramaa 's gurutvkarshak baatcheet saath dharti stimulates samandar tides, stabilizes the aksheeya jhukaav, or dhire slows the grah 's rotation.
the planet is ghar to millions of prajati of jivan, sahit insaano.
Both the khanij resources of the grah or the utpaada of the jeevamandal yogadan resources that hai prayukt to support a global insaan janasankhyikee.
These inhabitants are grouped into about 200 swatantra sovereign rajya, which interact through kootneeti, travel, vyapaar, or sainya karrwai.
Human samskritiyon have developed many drishy of the grah, sahit iske personification as a grahiy devtaa, iske shape as chapata, its position as the center of the universe, and in the aadhunik gaia principle, as a single, self-regulating sajiv in iske apana sahi.
the jaadugar from the Waite-Smith tero, who is chitrit using the same tuls ki aadhunik wiccans use.
in the neopagan dharm of wicca, a range of jaadui tools hai prayukt in anushthan practice.
Each of ye tuls rai different uses and association, or are used primarily to sidhaa jaadui energies.
ve hai prayukt at an altar, inside a magic vrutt.
in paramparaagat gardnerian wicca, the tuls hai praayah vibhajit into personal tuls, which are for use by, and swaamitv by, an vyaktigat wiccan, or coven tuls, used collectively by the outtek.
is abhyaas may derive partly from masonic traditions ( such as the upyog of the Square or compasses ), from jisase wicca draws kuch saamagree, or partly from the sanskaar of the Hermetic Order of the Golden Dawn.
the latter bana much upyog of material from madhyakaalin grimoires aise as the kunjee of suleman, jisase has anek illustrations of jaadui tuls or instructions liye unke preparation.
theth eukaryotic cell.
cellular shwasan is the niyat of the metabolic pratikriyaayein and processes ki lo place in the koshikaayen of jeevon to convert biochemical energy isse nutrients into adenosine triphosphate ( ATP ), or then relies barbaad utpaada.
The reactions shaamil in shwasan hai catabolic pratikriyaayein, jisase brake vishaal molecules into smaller ones, releasing urja in the prakram as weak so-called `` high-energy '' bonds are replaced by stronger bonds in the utpaada.
Respiration is ek of the kunjee ways a koshika gains upyogi urja to fuel cellular kaaryaklap.
cellular shwasan is mana an exothermic redox pratikriya.
the overall reaction is tutaa into many choti ones jab it occurs in the deh, most of jisase hai radox pratikriyaayein themselves.
haalanki technically, cellular shwasan is a dahan pratikriya, it clearly karata nahin resemble one jab it occurs in a living koshika.
is antar is kuki it occurs in anek separate steps.
jabaki the overall pratikriya is a dahan pratikriya, no single pratikriya ki comprises it is a dahan pratikriya.
nutrients ki are commonly used by animal or plant cells in shwasan include sugar, amino acids and vasiy acids, and a aam oxidizing agent ( electron acceptor ) is aanvik oxigen ( o2 ).
The urja bhandaarit in atipi ( iske teesraa phosphate samooh is weakly bandhua to the baaki of the molecule or is cheaply tutaa allowing stronger bonds to form, thereby transferring urja liye use by the koshika ) can then be used to drive prakriyaaon requiring urja, sahit jaivasanshleshan, locomotion or parivahan of molecules across cell jhilliyon.
A stored-pressure fire extinguisher bana by Amerex
a angrejon aag extinguisher saath ID chihn, call point and aag karrwai sign
a fire extinguisher, flame extinguisher, or bas an extinguisher, is an kriyasheel fire suraksha yantra prayukt to buja or control small fires, praayah in apaat paristhitiyon.
it is nahin intended for upyog on an out-of-control aag, aise as one which rai pahunche the chat, endangers the upayokta ( i.e., no escape root, dhunaa, visphot jokhim, ityadi. ), or varanaa requires the expertise of a aag department.
Typically, a aag extinguisher consists of a hand-held belanaakaar dabaav vessel containing an agent which can be discharged to buja a fire.
in the sanyukt rajya, aag extinguishers, in sab imaaraten other than gharon, hai generally required to be serviced and inspected by a Fire suraksha seva company at least annually.
kuch jurisdictions require adhik frequent seva for fire extinguishers.
The servicer places a tag on the extinguisher to indicate the prakaar of seva performed ( salanaa nirikshan, richarge, new aag extinguisher ) or when.
vahin hai two pramukh prakaar of aag extinguishers : stored dabaav and cartridge-operated.
in bhandaarit pressure units, the expellant is bhandaarit in the vahi kaksh as the firefighting agent itself.
Depending on the agent prayukt, alag propellants hai prayukt.
saath shushk rasinic extinguishers, nitrogen is typically prayukt ; jal or jhaag extinguishers typically use air.
Stored pressure fire extinguishers hai the sabase aam prakaar.
cartridge-operated extinguishers contain the expellant gas in a pruthak cartrij ki is punctured prior to nirvahan, exposing the propellant to the extinguishing agent.
is type is nahin as aam, used primarily in kshetron such as audyogic suvidhaayen, jahaan they praapt higher-than-average upyog.
ve have the laabh of saral and prompt richarge, allowing an oparator to discharge the extinguisher, richarge it, or vaapasi to the fire in a uchit amount of samay.
naapsand stored dabaav prakaar, these extinguishers upyog sampidit carbon dioxide bajaay of nitrogen, although nitrogen cartridges hai used on kam temperature ( -60 rated ) model.
cartrij sanchalit extinguishers hai uplabdhiyaan in shushk rasinic or dry churna prakaar in the u.S. and in jal, wetting agent, foam, shushk chemical ( varg ABC or B.C. ), and dry churna ( class d ) prakaar in the baaki of the world.
Fire extinguishers are further vibhajit into handeld or cart-mounted, also pukaara wheeled extinguishers.
Handheld extinguishers weigh isse 0.5 to 14 gamma ( 1 to 30 pound ), or hai hence, easily portable by haath.
cart-mounted ikai typically weigh 23+ gamma ( 50+ pounds ).
ye wheeled model hai most commonly found at nirmaan site, vimaanashetra runways, heliports, as khub as docks or marinas.
Native Americans in the sanyukt rajya hai the swadeshi peoples in uttar america bheetar the seemayen of the present-day mahadwipiya sanyukt States, Alaska, or the dweep rajya of hawaii.
ve hai rachit of numerous, pruthak deshi American tribes and jaateey samooh, anek of jisase survive as barkaraar rajnatik samudaayon.
the sharten prayukt to refer to Native america have maharoom vivaadaaspad.
according to a 1995 U.S. Census census_bureau Bureau Census_Bureau niyat of home interviews, sabase of the uttardaataaon saath an expressed variyata refer to themselves as amareeki indiens ( or simply indiens ), or is term rai maharoom apanaaya by major akhabaaron or kuch academik samooh ; however, this pad does nahin typically include Native Hawaiians or nishchit Alaskan Natives, aise as aleut, Yup'ik, or inuit peoples.
Since the end of the 15th sadi, the migration of Europeans to the americas, or unke importation of africans as slave, rai led to sadiyaan of virodh and samaayojan between boodha and nai World samaajon.
Europeans nirmit sabase of the jaldi likhaa aitihaasik record parichay deshi Americans baad the colonists ' avrajan to the americas.
anek deshi america lived as hunter-gatherer samaajon and told unke histories by oral paramparaon.
in anek samooh, mahilaon carried out sophisticated cultivation of numerous kismein of stepal fasalon : makka, beans or squash.
the indigenous samskritiyon yahood kaaphi alag isse those of the agrarian, proto-industrial, mostly isai apravasiyon from pashchimi uresia.
anek Native samskritiyon yahood matrilineal ; the logon occupied lands liye upyog of the entire jatiyaan, liye hunting or krishi.
europeans at ki samay tha patriarchal samskritiyon or tha viksit avadharanaon of vyaktigat property rights saath aadar to jameen ki yahood extremely different.
the matbhed in samskritiyon between the established Native america and immigrant europeans, as khub as shifting alliances among alag raashtra of prayek samskruti through the sadiyaan, caused extensive rajnatik tension, jaateey hinsa or soshal disruption.
the deshi Americans suffered unchi fatalities from the sampark saath sankramak ureshian rogon, to jisase ve tha no acquired pratirakshan.
mahamari after European sampark caused the mahanatam ghaataa of jivan liye indigenous populations.
estimates of the pre-columbian janasankhyikee of kayaa aaj constitutes the u.S. vary significantly, ranging from 1 lakh to 18 lakh.
baad the colonies revolted viruddh Great Britain and sthapit the United States of america, President george washington and henry nox conceived of the vichaar of `` civilizing '' deshi america in preparation liye sammilan as u.S. citizens.
Assimilation ( whether voluntary as saath the Choctaw, or majaboor ) became a satat policy through amareeki administrations.
dauraan the 19th sadi, the vichaardhaara of manifest niyati became abhinn to the amareeki nationalist gati.
vistaar of european-american populations to the west after the amareeki kranti resulted in increasing pressure on deshi American lands, warfare between the samooh, and uthati tanaav.
In 1830, the u.S. Congress passed the bhartiya Removal adhinium, authorizing the government to relocate deshi america from their homelands bheetar sthapit states to lands west of the mississippi nadi, accommodating European-American expansion.
the pehla europea Americans to encounter the western interior tribes yahood generally fur vyapaariyon or trappers.
vahin yahood bhi jesuit missionaries kriyasheel in the uttari tear.
as sanyukt rajya expansion pahunche into the American west, settler or miner pravaasiyon aae into increasing virodh with the Great Basin, great maidan, or other pashchimi tribes.
These were complex nomadic samskritiyon aadhaarit on ghoda culture or mausami bison shikaar.
ve carried out strong pratirodh to sanyukt rajya incursions in the dashakon baad the amareeki civil yuddh, in a shrenee of bhartiya yudhon, jisase yahood frequent up until the 1890s, lakin continued into the 20th sadi.
The transcontinental railroad brought more non-Natives into janajaatiy jameen in the west.
over time, the U.S. majaboor a shrenee of treaties or jameen cessions by the janajatiyon, or sthapit reservations liye unhen in many western rajya.
u.S. agents encouraged deshi Americans to apnaanaa european-style kheti and similar pursuits, lakin european-american agricultural praudyogiki of the time thi aparyaapt for praayah dry reserveshan lands.
in 1924, deshi america jo were nahin already u.S. citizens were granted naagarikta by Congress.
samakaleen deshi Americans have a adwitiya sambandh saath the sanyukt rajya because ve may be sadasyon of raashtra, janajatiyon, or bands with prabhutaa or sandhi adhikaron.
Central America ( ) is the central bhugolic pradesh of the americas.
it is the southernmost, isthmian portion of the North amareeki mahadweep, jisase connects saath dakshin America on the southeast.
When mana bhaag of the ekikrut mahadwipiya model, it is considered a upmahadweep.
central America consists of saat countries : beliz, Costa rika, el salvador, guatemala, honduras, nikaragua, or panama.
central america is part of the mesoamerican biodiversity hotspot, jisase extends isse uttari guatemala through central Panama.
It is bordered by mexico to the uttar, the caribbean samudr to the east, the uttar prashanth samandar to the west, or Colombia to the south-east.
central america is an kshetrafal of, or lagbhag 0.1 % of the dharti 's sataha.
as of 2009, iske janasankhyikee was estimated at 41,739,000.
It rai a ghanatv of 77 people per vargakar kilometer.
scrubs is an American chikitsa comedy-drama television shrenee nirmit by vidheyak laurence that aired isse aktubar 2, 2001 to kooch 17, 2010 on NBC or later abisi.
the shrenee folo the jeevandaan of karmchaaree at the fictional pavitra dil shikshan hospital.
the title is a khel on sargical scrubs or a pad for a low-ranking vyakti because at the shuruuaat of the shrenee, sabase of the pramukh varna were chikitsa interns.
The shrenee features fast-paced patakatha, slapstick, or surreal vignettes prastut mostly as the daydreams of the central akshar, dr. John `` j.d. ''
dorian, who is nibhaai by zach Braff.
abhinaytaon abhinit alongside Braff in the pehla aath sizan shaamil Sarah chalke, donald faison, Neil flynn, Ken janakins, jon C. McGinley or judy reyes.
the shrenee rai bhi pradarshit anek guest dikhaave by filmi abhinaytaon, aise as Brendan freizer, hethar Graham, and Colin farrell.
in the ninth ritu, anek nai cast sadasyon yahood introduced or the show setting sthanantarit isse a hospital to a medical skool.
out of the original cast, tabhi Braff, faison or mcginley became niyamit cast sadasyon, jabaki the anya saath the exception of Reyes, bana guest appearances.
Braff appeared in chah apisod of the naveen ritu before don.
Kerry bishé, eliza Coupe, dev franco or maaikel mosley became shrenee regulars with bishé becoming the show 's nai narrator.
scrubs premiered on aktubar 2, 2001 on enbisi.
the shrenee praapt a pibody puraskaar in 2006.
dauraan the saatvaan ritu, enbisi ghoshit ki it would nahin navinikrut the dikhaaen.
Shortly after the seventh ritu finale, abisi ghoshit it tha uthaai up the aathvin season of the shrenee, jisase began janvari 6, 2009.
the naveen season premiered on December 1, 2009.
on may 14, 2010, ABC ghoshit it tha officially radd scrubs.
an 1817 boulton & wat beam jhonke ingine, prayukt in Netherton at the ironworks of M W grazebrook.
re-erected on the A38 ( m ) in birmingham, uk
a bhaap ingine is a ooshmaa ingine that performs mechanical kaary using bhaap as iske working fluid.
using khaulate jal to produce mechanical gati goes waapas about 2,000 years, lakin jaldi divaais were nahin vyaavhaarik.
chunki the late 1700s bhaap ingine have become a major sorce of mechanical shakti.
the first applications were nikaalnaa jal from khaanon.
In 1781 James wat patented a bhaap ingine ki utpaadit nirantar rotative gati.
ye 10 hp engines sakriy a chaudee dayera of nirmaan mashinari to be sanchalit.
the ingine could be sited anywhere that jal or coal or wood fuel could be praapt.
by 1883, engines that could provide 10,000 hp tha become feasible.
bhaap ingine could bhi be applied to vaahanon aise as traction engines or the rail locomotives which are commonly bas pukaara bhaap ingine baahar america.
the stationary bhaap ingine thi a key ghatak of the audyogic kranti, allowing kaarkaanon to locate jahaan water power thi anuplabdh.
aaj steam turbines generate about 90 % of the electric power in the sanyukt rajya using a kismein of ooshmaa strot.
Steam ingine hai bahya combustion engines, jahaan the working fluid is pruthak isse the dahan products.
non-combustion ooshmaa strot such as saura shakti, nuclear power or geothermal urja may be prayukt.
the adarsh ooshmaagthik saikil prayukt to analyze this process is pukaara the rankine saikil.
in the saikil, jal is heated into bhaap in a boiler jabatak it pahunch a high pressure.
jab expanded through pistons or turbines, mechanical kaary is done.
the reduced-pressure bhaap is then condensed or uttejit waapas into the boyler.
in general upyog, the pad bhaap ingine can refer to either the ekikrut steam paudhe ( including byleron ityadi. ) aise as rail steam injanon and portable ingine, or may refer to the piston or turbine machinery alon, as in the beam ingine and stationary bhaap ingine.
Specialized divaais such as steam hammers and bhaap pile driver hai dependent on bhaap supplied isse a pruthak boiler.
a mil ingine isse stott park Bobbin mil, cumbria, england
a steam locomotive in germany.This class of ingine thi nirmit in 1942 – 1950 or sanchalit commercially jabatak 1988.
`` move kutiya '' ( sampadit version titled `` move B***h '' or bas `` move '' ) is the third aadhikarik single isse rapper ludacris ' album shabd of mouf.
the single suvidhaayen mystikal or i-20.
the single pahunche # 10 on the billboard hot 100 bananaa it ludacris 's pehla top ten hit on the chart, it bhi pahunche # 3 on Hot Rap treks and # 3 on hot r & b/hip-hop singles & treks.
Puerto rican reggaeton duo maicol & manuel sampled the song on `` hoy me levanté '' on unke 2002 release yakaleo.
the song is also pradarshit in apisod 2, Series ek of angrejon tin comedy/drama khaalen.
the song was bhi prayukt by sansar Wrestling entertainment superstar montel Vontavious Porter dauraan uske choti karyavadhi in ring of Honor.
it thi also used liye april Hunter in vibhinn Independent circuits.
It thi pradarshit in the movie atl abhinit t.i., and ' Hancock, ' although in the latter, the clean version thi prayukt.
a snippet of the song is nibhaai dauraan trekkic reports on many radio stesan, praayah carrying an urban/hip-hop swaroop.
Retired NBA star or abhi iespien vishleshak jalen rose is featured in the music video.
the song rai maharoom covered by chattan band Start trubal, on unke album prayek samaadhaan Has iske Problem.
it was featured on British sitcom the inbetweeners when the varna Jay or neil took hoga on a 'pussy patrol ' in jay 's red nisaan micra.
it thi sampled by ladki Talk on the pehla track of his album sab din, `` oh No ''.
Elizabeth ii ( elizabeth elexandra mariyam ; born 21 april 1926 ) is the sanvaidhanik monarch of 16 sovereign states, gyaat as the rashtramandal realms, or unke territories or dependencies, or sir of the 54-member rashtramandal of raashtra.
wo is param rajyapal of the girijaghar of england or, in some of her realms, carries the title of defender of the Faith as bhaag of uske puraa sheershak.
On uske accession on 6 farvari 1952, Elizabeth became sir of the rashtramandal or queen regnant of seven independent rashtramandal countries : the United kingdom, canada, australia, nai Zealand, dakshin Africa, pakistani or ceylon.
isse 1956 to 1992, the number of uske realms varied as territories gained independence and some realms became republics.
at upasthit, in addition to the pehla chaar aforementioned countries, elizabeth is maharani of jamaica, barbados, the bahama, haraa, Papua nai gini, the suleman islands, Tuvalu, Saint loosia, Saint Vincent or the grenadines, Belize, antigua or barbuda or Saint Kitts and Nevis.
Her shasankaal of saalo is philhal the duusari longest for a British monarch ; only maharani victoria has reigned longer at over 63 saalo.
elizabeth was born in landan or educated privately at ghar.
Her father acceded to the throne as George vi in 1936 on the abdication of uske bhai edward VIII, isse which time she thi the vaaris presumptive.
wo began to undertake public kartavya dauraan the duusari sansar yuddh, in jisase wo served in the auxiliary territorial Service.
in 1947, she shaadishuda prince philip, Duke of edinburgh, saath jisko wo has chaar children : charles, eni, Andrew, or Edward.
uske rajtilak seva took place in 1953 and was the pehla to be televised.
The maharani 's anek aitihaasik vizit and baithak shaamil a rajya vizit to the ganatantr of ireland or reciprocal vizit to or isse the pope.
The maharani rai dekhi pramukh constitutional changes in uske realms, aise as devolution in the sanyukt Kingdom or the patriation of the canadai samvidhan.
times of nijee significance have shaamil the births or vivaah of uske children, the births of uske grandchildren, the pratishthapan of the Prince of wales, or the jashn of milestones aise as her chaandi, sunahari, or Diamond jubilees in 1977, 2002, or 2012, respectively.
Major kaarykram in the maharani 's shasankaal have included the pareshaaniyon in Northern ireland, the falklands War, wars saath Iraq or the yuddh in Afghanistan.
vahin have maharoom times of nijee sorrow liye uske jisase include the maut of her pita at 56, the hatya of prince Philip 's taaoo, rab mountbeton, the vishleshan of uske children 's marriages in 1992 ( a saal deemed uske annus horribilis ), the maut in 1997 of uske former daughter-in-law, dyna, rajkumaari of wales, and the deaths of her maan and sistar in 2002.
the Queen rai occasionally faced kathor press criticism of the royal parivaar and republican sentiments, lakin support liye the samrajya and uske nijee popularity remain high.
christianity is the largest dharm listed by Australians in the national census.
in the 2011 Census, 61.1 % of australians yahood soochibaddh as isai.
Australia rai no official rajya religion and the australian samvidhan protects freedom of religion.
the upasthiti of Christianity in australia began saath the arrival of the First bede of British convicts in 1788.
the religion grew to account liye 96.1 % of the neshnal janasankhyikee at the samay of the sangh of Australia in 1901.
The anglican girijaghar of australia ( formerly gyaat as the girijaghar of england in Australia ) remained the largest denomination jabatak 1986, when it thi surpassed by the Roman catholic Church in australia.
post-war multiculturalism or a decline in dharmik observance among kuch sections of the janasankhyikee have diversified the janasankhyikee of religion in australia.
of the roughly 61 % identifying as Christian in 2011, the largest denominations yahood either roman catholic ( 25 % ) or anglican ( 17 % ), saath the third largest denomination being the 5 % sambhddha saath the uniting girijaghar in australia.
Post-war avrajan rai grown the sankhyaayein belonging to carch like the unani paramparaagat archdiocese of australia and vahin hai vishaal or growing paintecostal samooh, aise as sidney 's Hillsong Church.
The tyohaar of easter and christmas hai public chhuttiyaan in australia.
around a quarter of vidhyaarthee attend church skulon or isai sanghathanon hai agrani non-government pradaataaon of swasthya or welfare services through sanghathanon jaise Catholic Health australia, anglicare, UnitingCare australia, the moksh fouj and St Vincent de paul samaaj.
historically significant Australian Christians have included Rev dr jon dunmore laing, sant mariyam MacKillop, catherine hellen spence, padri daud Unaipon, the Reverend John flynn or padri sar dag nicholls.
unchi profile samakaleen Australian isaayiyon shaamil : tim Costello baptist minister and vartmaan siio of World drushti Australia, Frank briken, jesuit insaan adhikaron vakil, cardinal george Pell, Catholic archbishop of sidney, philip aspinall the vartmaan anglican primate or archbishop of Brisbane, Kevin Rudd, purv majdoor pradhan mantri, and tony abot, netaa liye the sangheey vipaksh Liberal party.
Charter bananaa colejiet School, jisase became yale college, aktubar 9, 1701
yale vishvavidhyalayon is a private ivi lig research university located in New hewan, Connecticut.
Founded in 1701 in the Colony of connectikat, the vishvavidhyalayon is the third-oldest sanstha of ucchtar shiksha in the United States.
originally chartered as the `` Collegiate skool '', the sanstha traces its jaden to 17th-century clergymen jo sought to establish a college to tren padri and political netao liye the colony.
In 1718, the College thi renamed `` Yale college '' to sammaan a tohfa isse elihu yale, a rajyapal of the angrejon east india company.
in 1861, the Graduate skool of Arts or sciences became the first u.S. institution to puraskaar the phd. Yale became a founding member of the sangh of American Universities in 1900.
yale College was transformed, beginning in the 1930s, through the sthapana of awasaiya collejon : 12 abhi maujuud or do adhik are niojit.
yale employs over 1,100 sankaay to sikhaa or salaah about 5,300 undergraduate and 6,100 graduate and peshewar vidhyaarthee.
lagbhag sab tenured professors teach undergraduate paathyakram, adhik than 2,000 of jisase are offered annually.
The University 's asset shaamil an endowment valued at $ 19.4 arab, the second-largest of koi academik sanstha in the sansar.
Yale 's pranali of adhik than do dozen libraries holds 12.5 lakh aaytan.
49 nobel laureates have maharoom sambhddha saath the University as vidhyaarthee, faculty, or staff.
Yale rai utpaadit anek notable alumni, sahit paanch u.S. Presidents, 19 U.S. param Court Justices, or anek foreign heads of rajya.
at the graduate level, yale vidhi School, yale skool of art, and yale skool of naatak are consistently kramit the top programs in unke field.
yale Law skool is the sabase selective vidhi skool in the United States.
Yale vidhyaarthee compete intercollegiately as the yale bulldogs in the NCAA prabhag I ivi League.
the oldest intercollegiate athlettic event in the United rajya is the Yale-Harvard regatta.
artemisia tridentata ( `` big sagebrush '' or `` sagebrush '' ) is an khushboodaar jhaadi isse the parivaar Asteraceae, jisase grows in arid or semi-arid conditions, throughout a dayera of thanda desert, stan, or pahaad habitats in the intermountain West of North america.
The deshi naam `` sagebrush '' is bhi prayukt liye anek related members of the genus artemisia, such as california Sagebrush ( artemisia californica ).
Big Sagebrush or anya artemisia prajati are the prabal plants across vishaal portions of the great jalashay, covering kuch 422,000 vargakar miles in 11 pashchimi u.S. & canadai rajya.
it is the rajya pushp of Nevada.
Sagebrush provides khaanaa or awaas liye a kismein of prajati, aise as rishi grouse, pronghorn antelope, gray vireo, saano khargosh, or mule deer.
Big sagebrush thi prayukt as an herbal ayurvigyaan by Native Americans throughout the Intermountain west of uttar america—especially for preventing infection in wounds, stopping internal bleeding, and treating headaches and zukam.
Chemically, the kriyasheel medicinal constituents shaamil camphor, terpenoids, and tannins.
anek pramukh khatre maujuud to rishi brush ecosystems, sahit insaan settlements, conversion to agricultural jameen, livestock charne, hridayrog sanyantr species, wildfires, and jalwaayu change.
yahuu ! mail is a free email service offered by the amareeki dhundhen ingine company yahuu !
It was shubharambh in 1997, or, according to comScore, yahuu ! mail is the third-largest web-based email seva with 281 million upayokta as of disambar 2012.
philhal, Yahoo ! offers three sanskaran of Yahoo ! Mail.
the paramparaagat `` yahuu ! mail Classic '' continues the uplabdhta of the original interfes introduced in 1997.
a sanskaran introduced in 2005 shaamil a new ajaks interfes, drag-and-drop suvidhaayen, improved dhundhen kaaryakshmata, kunjeepatal shortcuts, pataa auto-complete, tabs, or anya adhyatanikrut suvidhaayen.
in aktubar 2010, yahuu ! released a beta sanskaran of Yahoo ! mail, which shaamil sudhaar to the design, pradarshan, dhundhen kaaryakshmata, or fasebuk sangyojan.
in may 2011, beta pareekshan liye the nai sanskaran roka, or it became the default interface liye yahuu ! mail.
in jaldi 2008, Yahoo ! began offering aseemit mail storage to iske users in response to heated pratiyogita in the free web-mail market khand.
on june 27, 2009, Yahoo ! messanger was integrated with yahuu ! mail.
tacoma (, ) is a mid-sized urban bandargahon nagar or the county seat of piers county, washington, sanyukt rajya.
The city is on Washington 's Puget Sound, southwest of sietal, northeast of the state capital, olympia, or northwest of mount rainier neshnal park.
the janasankhyikee thi 198,397, according to the 2010 janasankhyikee.
tacoma is the second-largest nagar in the puget Sound kshetrafal or the teesraa largest in the rajya.
Tacoma also serves as the center of kaarobaar kaaryaklap for the dakshin dhwani pradesh, jisase has a population of around 1 million logon.
tacoma adopted its naam baad the nearby Mount Rainier, originally called mount tahoma.
it is gyaat as the `` nagar of niyati '' kuki the area was chosen to be the pashchimi terminus of the uttari prashanth Railroad in the let 19th sadi.
the nirnay of the railroad thi bahekaave by tacoma 's neighboring deep-water harbar, shuruyaat khadi.
By connecting the khadi with the railroad Tacoma 's motto became `` jab rails milen sails. ''
aaj Commencement khadi serves the bandargahon of tacoma, a center of antarrashtriya trade on the prashanth Coast or Washington rajya 's largest port.
jaise most central shaharon, tacoma suffered a prolonged decline in the mid-20th sadi as a result of suburbanization or divestment.
chunki the 1990s, developments in the shahar kor shaamil the vishvavidhyalayon of washington Tacoma ; tacoma Link, the pehla modern electric light rail seva in the state ; the rajya 's highest ghanatv of art or itihaas sangrahalay ; or a lauti shahari waterfront, the thea Foss Waterway.
saath a long itihaas of blue-collar labor raajnneeti — isse the railroad workers of the 19th century, to the longshoremen of the 20th sadi, to the Labor taiyaar workers of aaj — tacoma rai long maharoom known liye iske rough, kirakiri image.
A song parichay tacoma, `` Thrice sab amareeki '', by amareeki singer-songwriter or purv nivasee neko Case, describes it as `` a dusty boodha jewel in the dakshin puget Sound / jahaan the kaarkaanon churn / or the timber 's sab kaaten bas ''.
tacoma-pierce county rai maharoom named one of the sabase livable kshetron in the desh.
tacoma thi also recently soochibaddh as the 19th sabase walkable city in the country.
in contrast, the nagar is bhi kramit as the sabase stressed-out city in the desh in a 2004 surveykshan.
in 2006, mahilaon 's patrika swah namit tacoma the `` sabase sexually swasth City '' in the sanyukt rajya.
in 2012, the Advocate diya tacoma the sheershak of `` gayest City in america '', in bhaag because of the vishaal vividhta of public karyaalayon yojit, and washington State guzar a vidheyak in 2012 allowing lgbt yugal to nikaah.
Tacoma is famous liye the 1940 collapse of the tacoma narrows sethu.
Chula Vista ( ; ) is the duusari largest nagar in the San diego mahanagar kshetrafal, the seventh largest city in Southern California, the fourteenth largest nagar in the State of california, or the 77th-largest city in the United States.
The janasankhyikee was 243,916 as of the 2010 census.
Located just from shahar san diego and isse the mexican kinaaraa in the dakshin khadi pradesh of the metropolitan kshetrafal, the city is at the bich of ek of the richest economic or culturally vividh zones in the sanyukt rajya.
Chula vista is so namit kuki of iske darshneey sthaan between the san diego khadi or tateey pahaad foothills.
Founded in the jaldi 19th sadi, tej population vikaas has recently maharoom observed in the city.
as the duusari largest nagar in san diego County, chula vista rai jaldi become a gantavy lokapriy to many tourists.
stith in the nagar is ek of America 's few year-round United rajya olympic prashikshan centers or lokapriy paryatak destinations shaamil cricket betaar amphitheater, the chula Vista marina, and the chula Vista prakruti bich.
metes or bounds is a pranali or vidhi of describing jameen, real property ( in contrast to nijee property ) or real estate.
the system rai been prayukt in england for anek centuries, and is still prayukt there in the paribhaasha of saamaanya seemayen.
by custom, it thi lagu in the asli Thirteen colonies that became the sanyukt rajya, or in anek anya jameen jurisdictions aadhaarit on English aam vidhi.
typically the system upyog shaareerik features of the local geography, along with dishanirdesh or dooriyaan, to define and describe the seemayen of a parcel of jameen.
The seemayen are described in a kaaryshil gadhy style, working around the parcel in sequence, isse a point of shuruuaat, returning waapas to the vahi point ; compare saath the maukhik anushthan of dhadkan the bounds.
it may shaamil sandarbh to other adjoining parcels ( or unke swami ), or it, in turn, could bhi be referred to in later surveykshan.
At the samay the varnan is compiled, it may have maharoom chihnit on the maidan saath sthai monuments lagaai jahaan vahin yahood no upyukt natural smarak.
the pad `` metes '' refers to a boundary paribhaashit by the measurement of prayek sidhaa run, specified by a alahada between the terminal ank, or an orientation or disha.
a direction may be a simple compass bearing, or a precise abhivinyas determined by sateek surveykshan vidhi.
The pad `` bounds '' refers to a adhik general boundary varnan, aise as along a nishchit watercourse, a stone wal, an adjoining public sadak rasta, or an maujuuda building.
the system is praayah prayukt to define larger pieces of property ( e.g. kheto ), or rajnatik subdivisions ( e.g. kasbaa seemayen ) where precise paribhaasha is nahin jaruri or hota be dur too mahangi, or previously designated seemayen can be incorporated into the varnan.
sar ishaq newton ( 25 disambar 164220 kooch 1727 ) was an angrezi physicist or ganitagya jo is widely regarded as ek of the sabase influential vaigyanikon of all time or as a key figure in the vaigyanik kranti.
uske book philosophiæ Naturalis Principia mathematica ( `` ganitiya Principles of prakritik darshanashastra '' ), first published in 1687, laid the muladhar liye sabase of shastreey mechanics.
newton bhi bana seminal yogadan to prakaashiki or saajha credit saath gotfrid Leibniz liye the avishkaar of the infinitesimal kalan.
newton 's princepia pratipaadit the kanoon of motion and universal gravitation ki varchasv vaigyanikon ' drishy of the physical brahmad liye the next teen sadiyaan.
It bhi demonstrated that the gati of vastuen on the dharti or ki of celestial laashen could be varnit by the same principles.
by deriving Kepler 's kanoon of grahiy motion from his ganitiya varnan of gravity, newton removed the pichhlaa doubts parichay the vaid of the heliocentric model of the cosmos.
newton built the pehla practical reflecting doordarshee and viksit a theory of rang aadhaarit on the avlokan ki a prism decomposes white lite into the many rang of the drishy spectrum.
he also formulated an empirical law of kooling or padhai the gati of dhwani.
in addition to his kaary on the kalan, as a mathematician newton contributed to the padhai of shakti shrenee, generalised the dwipad prameya to non-integer exponents, or developed Newton 's vidhi for approximating the jaden of a function.
newton was a fellow of Trinity college or the duusari Lucasian Professor of Mathematics at the vishvavidhyalayon of cambridge.
he was a devout lakin aparamparaagat isai or, unusually liye a member of the Cambridge sankaay, he refused to lo holy orders in the girijaghar of england, shaayad kuki he privately asweekrut the doctrine of trinitarianism.
in addition to his work on the ganitiya sciences, newton bhi samarpit much of uske samay to the study of alchemy or biblical kalkram, lakin sabase of his kaary in those areas remained unpublished until long after uske death.
in his baad jivan, newton became adhyaksh of the royal samaaj.
He also parosa the angrejon government as warden or nipun of the Royal mint.
Prof. walter Lewin explains newton 's vidhi of gravitation in emiti course 8.01
Satellites or projectiles all obey Newton 's vidhi of gravitation
newton 's law of saarvbhaumik gravitation rajya ki prayek point dravyaman in the universe attracts prayek other point dravyaman with a force ki is sidhe proportional to the utpaada of their masses or inversely aanshik to the vargakar of the distance between unhen.
( Separately it was dikhaaya ki vishaal spherically samamit masses attract or hai attracted as if sab unke dravyaman were concentrated at unke centers. )
is is a saamaanya shaareerik vidhi niklaa isse anubhavjanya observations by kayaa newton called preran.
It is a part of classical yantriki and thi pratipaadit in newton 's kaary philosophiæ Naturalis princepia mathematica ( `` the princepia '' ), first published on 5 july 1687.
( jab newton 's kitaab was prastut in 1686 to the royal Society, robert hooke bana a arji that newton had obtained the vilom vargakar law isse use – dekhie History section neeche. )
in aadhunik bhashaa, the law rajya the following:
Assuming si ikai, f is measured in newtons ( n ), m1 or m2 in gamma ( kg ), r in meter ( m ), or the constant g is approximately baraabar to.
the maan of the nirantar G thi pehla accurately sankalpit isse the parinaam of the cavendish prayog conducted by the British vaigyanik Henry cavendish in 1798, haalanki cavendish kiya nahin khud gananaa a numerical maan liye G.
is prayog thi bhi the first pareekshan of newton 's siddhanth of gravitation between masses in the prayogshaala.
it took place 111 saalo after the prakaashan of newton 's Principia or 71 years after Newton 's maut, so none of newton 's calculations could upyog the maan of g ; instead he could only calculate a force relative to another force.
Newton 's law of gravitation resembles culumb 's law of electrical shaktiyaan, jisase is prayukt to gananaa the pariman of vidyut force between do charge laashen.
dono hai inverse-square kanoon, in which force is inversely aanshik to the vargakar of the alahada between the laashen.
Coulomb 's vidhi rai the utpaada of do aarope in place of the utpaada of the masses, and the electrostatic constant in place of the gurutvkarshak nirantar.
Newton 's vidhi rai chunki been superseded by oinstin 's siddhanth of saamaanya aapekshikta, but it continues to be prayukt as an behtareen sanniktan of the prabhaav of gravity.
aapekshikta is jaruri tabhi jab there is a need liye charam parishuddhta, or jab dealing saath gravitation liye extremely vishaal and dense vastuen.
White and red dhvaj, representing Iraqi and American deaths, baithna in the grass chatushkon of the ghati pustakaalayon on the corvallis, oregon, campus of oregon rajya vishvavidhyalayon.
as bhaag of the traveling Iraq deh ginati exhibit from 2008 to 2009 ( nahin sambandhit to iraqi deh ginati project ), the dhvaj uddeshy to `` raise jaagrukta of the insaan cost of the iraqi yuddh. ''
( may 2008 )
hataahat of the conflict in Iraq since 2003 ( shuruuaat with the 2003 invasion of iraqi, or continuing saath the ensuing occupation of Iraq, as khub as the kriyaayein of the vibhinn hathiyaarband samooh oparating in the country ) have aaiye in many form, and the sateekta of the soochna uplabdhiyaan on different prakaar of iraqi yuddh casualties varies greatly.
the talika neeche summarizes various estimates of the iraqi casualty figures.
For sainikon in the u.s.-led multinational gathbandhan, the maut toll is carefully tracked or adhyatanikrut rose, and the names and photographs of those maare in karrwai as khub as in durghatnaon have maharoom prakashit widely.
a kul of 4,486 u.S. sainiko yahood maare in iraqi between 2003 or 2012.
regarding the Iraqis, however, soochna on dono military or civilian hataahat is both kam precise or kam satat.
Estimates of casualty levels hai uplabdhiyaan from patrakaron on the scene, isse officials of shaamil sanghathan, or from samooh ki summarize information on incidents reported in the news media.
the shabd `` hataahat `` in iske most saamaanya sense shaamil the injured as khub as the murde.
khate of the kramank of gathbandhan wounded vary widely, partly kuki it is nahin spasht kayaa chahie be gine : chahie only those choton gambhir enough to put a sipaahi out of ayog be shaamil ?
do illnesses or choton caused by durghatnaon ginati, or chahie the fokas be restricted to wounds caused by shatru sagaai ?
strot using different paribhaashaayen may arrive at bahut alag sankhyaayein, or sometimes the precise paribhaasha is nahin clearly specified.
asalto al coche ( dakaiti of the coach ), by Francisco de goyaa
a highwayman thi a chor or brigand who preyed on travellers.
This type of gaiyrkanoonee praayah travelled or robbed by horse, as compared to a footpad jo travelled and robbed on pair.
arohit luteron yahood widely mana to be socially shreshth to footpads.
aise luteron sanchalit in great Britain or Ireland isse the elizabethan era jabatak the jaldi 19th sadi.
The shabd highwayman is pehla gyaat to be prayukt in the year 1617 ; anya euphemisms shaamil `` shoorveeron of the sadak '' and `` gentlemen of the sadak. ''
Two sharten lagu to 19th-century North American highwaymen yahood sadak agenton in kuch instances liye mountain daakuon jabaki in anya maamle the term is rlallaala liye mountain-based ruffians.
In the vahi samay period in Australia, ve yahood gyaat as bushrangers.
earvin `` jaadu '' johnson, jr. ( born August 14, 1959 ) is a retired amareeki peshewar basket khilaadi jo nibhaai point guard liye the los angeles lekars of the neshnal basket sangh ( NBA ).
After jeetna championships in high skool or college, johnson thi selected pehla overall in the 1979 enbie draft by the Lakers.
he jiti a championship or an enbie final sabase moolyawaan Player puraskaar in uske rukii ritu, or won four adhik championships saath the lekars dauraan the 1980s.
johnson ritred abruptly in 1991 baad announcing that he tha contracted hiv, lakin laute to khel in the 1992 all-star khel, jeetna the all-star mvp puraskaar.
baad protests isse his fellow khilaadi, he retired again liye chaar saalo, lakin laute in 1996, at aayu 36, to khel 32 khel for the Lakers pehle retiring liye the teesraa or final samay.
Johnson 's kariyar uplabdhiyaan include three NBA mvp puraskaar, nau enbie final dikhaave, baarah All-Star khel, and ten All-NBA First and duusari toli nominations.
He led the lig in regular-season assists chaar times, or is the enbie 's all-time netaa in ausat assists prati game, at 11.2.
johnson was a member of the `` sapana Team ``, the U.S. basket toli ki won the olympic sunaharaa padak in 1992.
baad leaving the enbie in 1992, johnson formed the Magic johnson all-stars, a barnstorming team ki travelled around the world playing pradarshnee games.
johnson thi sammanit as one of the 50 mahanatam khilaadi in enbie itihaas in 1996, or enshrined in the basket haul of Fame in 2002.
he thi rated the greatest enbie point guard of sab samay by iespien in 2007.
uske dosti or funsane saath boston celtics star laire bird, jisko he faced in the 1979 NCAA final and three enbie championship series, yahood khub pralekhith.
chunki uske ritairement, Johnson rai maharoom an advocate liye hiV/ aids rokthaam or safe sex, as khub as an udyogon, locasevak, prasarankarta or motivational speaker.
Johnson thi a part-owner of the lekars liye anek saalo, or was bhaag of a group ki kharida the Los Angeles Dodgers in 2012.
allium cells in alag phases of the koshika saikil
the koshikaayen of eukaryotes ( baayein ) and prokaryotes ( sahi )
The cell is the moulik structural, functional and biological ikai of all known living jeevon.
it is the smallest ikai of jivan ki is vargeekrut as a jeena thing ( magar virus, jisase consists tabhi isse DNA/RNA covered by protein or lipids ), and is praayah pukaara the bhawan blaak of jivan.
It consists of a protoplasm enclosed bheetar a jhilli, which contains anek biomolecules aise as protein or nucleic acids.
jeevon can be vargeekrut as eckoshikeey ( consisting of a single koshika ; sahit sabase jeevanu ) or bahukoshikeey ( including paudhe and animals ).
jabaki the kramank of koshikaayen in paudhe and pashu varies isse species to prajati, insaano contain parichay 100 kharab ( 1014 ) cells.
sabase sanyantr and animal koshikaayen are between 1 or 100 micrometres and isliye are drishy tabhi antargat the sookshmdarshi.
the koshika thi discovered by robert hooke in 1665.
the koshika siddhanth, pehla viksit in 1839 by matthias jakob schleiden or theodor Schwann, rajya ki all jeevon hai rachit of ek or adhik koshikaayen, that sab koshikaayen aaiye isse preexisting koshikaayen, ki vital krityon of an sajiv occur bheetar cells, and ki all koshikaayen contain the khandaani soochna jaruri liye regulating koshika krityon and for transmitting information to the aglaa peedhee of koshikaayen.
koshikaayen emerged on grah dharti at tanik 4.0–4.3 arab saalo ago.
the shabd koshika comes isse the latin garbhagrih, arth `` choti room ''.
the varnanaatmak term liye the smallest jeena biological dhaancha was coined by robert hooke in a kitaab he prakashit in 1665 when he compared the cork cells he saw through his sookshmdarshi to the choti kaksh bhikshuon jiya in.
grecian Formula is a main 's bal coloring utpaada in the sanyukt rajya.
Canada or europea previously banned the utpaada kuki of iske upyog of sise acitate.
A motor scooter 's saamne with an avyavhaarik number or kismein of headlamps, added liye decorative purposes
a headlamp is a balb sanlagn to the saamne of a gadee to lite the sadak ahead.
headlamp performance rai steadily improved throughout the automobile aayu, spurred by the great disparity between daytime or nighttime traffic fatalities : the U.S. neshnal rajmarg trekkic suraksha prashasan rajya ki nearly half of all traffic-related fatalities occur in the andhera, despite only 25 % of trekkic yatraaen dauraan darkness.
jabaki it is aam liye the term hedlite to be prayukt interchangeably in anaupchaarik charchaa, headlamp is the term for the yantra itself, while hedlite properly refers to the beam of light utpaadit or vitarit by the yantra.
Other vehicles, such as rail and vayuyan, hai jaruri to have headlamps.
Bicycle headlamps hai praayah prayukt on cycle, or hai jaruri in some jurisdictions.
They can be sanchalit by a bydaree or a choti vidyut srujankarta on the wheel.
additionally automotive night vision pranaaliyon work to sampoorak headlamps.
mahilaon 's adhikaron are the rights or entitlements claimed liye women or ladakiyon of anek societies vishwavyaapee.
in some sthaan ye adhikaron are institutionalized or supported by vidhi, local custom, or aacharan, whereas in anya ve may be upekshit or suppressed.
ve differ isse broader dharanaen of insaan adhikaron through daawa of an antarnihit historical or traditional purvaagrah against the kasarat of adhikaron by mahilaon or girls in favour of main and boys.
Issues commonly sambhddha saath dharanaen of mahilaon 's adhikaron shaamil, though are nahin limited to, the sahi : to bodily akhandta or swaittata ; to vote ( suffrage ) ; to tham public office ; to work ; to fair wages or baraabar adaa ; to apana property ; to shiksha ; to serve in the sainya or be conscripted ; to daalen into vidhik anubandh ; or to have vaivaahik, parental and dharmik rights.
caryn Elaine johnson, behtareen gyaat as whoopi Goldberg (, ( born November 13, 1955 ) is an American comedienne, abhinetri, singer-songwriter, rajnatik activist, lekhak and talk dikhaaen mejabaan.
goldberg bana uske film debyue in the rang jamuni ( 1985 ), playing celie, a mistreated black stri in the Deep South.
wo received a nomination liye the Academy Award liye behtareen abhinetri and jiti uske pehla sunahari globe puraskaar liye uske bhoomika in the filmi.
in 1990, wo played oda mae bhura, a wacky maansik helping a slain man ( patric swayze ) save uske lover ( demi moore ) in the blockbster bhut.
is pradarshan won uske a second Golden globe or an academy puraskaar liye behtareen Supporting abhinetri ; this made goldberg tabhi the duusari blike woman in the history of the academy puraskaar to win an acting Oscar—the first hone haiti McDaniel jo jiti liye gaye saath the Wind in 1939.
notable later films shaamil sistar adhinium or sistar Act 2, the khilaadi, bana in America, kaisaa Stella mila uske naalee Back, ladki, baadhit or chuha res.
wo is bhi acclaimed liye uske bhoomikaaye as the bartender guinan in star treks : the aglaa Generation, as terry Doolittle in jumpin ' Jack flash, or as Carmen tibideaux in gli, as khub as the awaz of Shenzi the hyena in the sher king.
Goldberg rai maharoom manonith liye 13 Emmy Awards for uske work in television.
wo thi co-producer of the popular khel dikhaaen Hollywood virgon isse 1998 to 2004.
She has maharoom the moderator of the daytime baat dikhaaen the drishy since 2007.
goldberg rai a grami, do din emmys, two sunahari globs, a Tony ( for utpaadan, nahin acting ), or an auskar.
In addition, goldberg rai a angrejon Academy Film Award, chaar logon 's Choice Awards, or rai been sammanit with a star on the hollywood Walk of Fame.
She is ek of the few entertainers jo have won an Emmy, Grammy, Oscar, and tony Award.
the National hockey lig ( enechael ; ) is an `` unincorporated not-for-profit association '' jisase operates a pramukh peshewar barf hockey league of 30 franchised sadsy club, of jisase saat are philhal stith in canada or 23 in the United rajya.
headquartered in nai York City, the enechael is widely mana to be the premier peshewar barf hockey lig in the sansar, or one of the pramukh peshewar khel lig in the United States or canada.
the stanley Cup, the oldest peshewar sports trophy in uttar America, is awarded annually to the lig playoff champion at the samaapt of prayek ritu.
the league thi organized on November 26, 1917, in montrial, quebec, canada, baad the suspension of parichaalan of iske purvavarti sanghathan, the National hockey sangh ( nah ), jisase tha maharoom santhaapit in 1909.
it prarambh with four tiimon or, through a shrenee of expansions, contractions, or relocations, the league is abhi rachit of 30 kriyasheel franchises.
the swadesh to which the naam of the lig originally referred was canada, haalanki the lig rai now been binational chunki 1924 jab it vistaarit into the sanyukt rajya.
baad a shramik dispute ki led to the raddikaran of the entire 2004–05 ritu, the lig resumed play antargat a nai samuhik bargaining anubandh ki shaamil a selary cap.
in 2009, the enechael enjoyed ricard highs in sharten of sponsorships, upasthiti, or television audiences.
The NHL draws anek atyadhik skilled khilaadi from sab over the sansar or philhal has players isse parichay 20 different deshon.
haalanki canadians have historically constituted the bahumat of the khilaadi in the enechael, over the past chaar plus dashakon the percentages of US and europea players have increased dono kuki of the enechael 's jari expansion from chah to tees club since 1967, or the increased uplabdhta of atyadhik skilled europea khilaadi.
maggots feeding on carrion.
a maggot is the larva of a makkhi ( order diptera ) ; it is lagu in particular to the larve of brachyceran udata, such as houseflies, cheez flies, or blowflies, balki than larve of the Nematocera, aise as machharon or Crane udata.
`` maggot '' is not a takneekee pad and should nahin be liya as such ; in anek standard pathyapustakon of entomology it karata nahin appear in the anukramanika at sab.
In anek non-technical granth the pad is prayukt liye insect larve in general.
anya sources have coined unke apana paribhaashaayen ; liye udhaaharan : ``...
The pad applies to a grab when all tres of limbs has disappeared... '' or ``... Applied to the footless larve of dipters. ''
Maggot-like fly larvae hai of chaudee mahatv in paristhitiki and ayurvigyaan ; among anya bhoomikaaye, vibhinn species are prominent in recycling carrion and garbage, attacking crops or foodstuffs, spreading sookshmjaivik infections, or causing myiasis.
herodes (, Hordos, unani :, hērōdēs ), bhi gyaat as herodes the great ( 73/74 bce – 4 bce in jerrico ), thi a roman claayent king of judea.
His epithet of `` the Great '' is widely disputed as he is varnit as `` a madman who murdered uske apana parivaar or a great anek rabbis ``.
he is also known liye his colossal bhawan projects in Jerusalem and elsewhere, including uske vistaar of the Second Temple in jerusalem ( sometimes referred to as herodes 's temple ) and the nirmaan of the bandargahon at Caesarea Maritima.
mahatvapurn details of uske biography are gleaned isse the works of the 1st century ce Roman–Jewish historian josephus flavius.
the romans bana herodes 's bete, herodes archelaus, ethnarch of judea, samaria, and idumea ( biblical edom ) isse 4 bce to 6 ce, referred to as the tetrarchy of judea.
archelaus thi judged incompetent by the roman samraat augustus jo then sanyukt samaria, judea uchit or idumea into iudaea province under niyam of a prefect jabatak aayu 41.
herodes 's other bete herodes Antipas thi tetrarch of galilee from 4 BCE–39 CE.
abo rakt samooh antigens present on red rakt cells and IgM antibodies present in the serum
the ABO blood samooh system is the sabase mahatvapurn rakt prakaar system ( or rakt samooh pranali ) in human blood transfusion.
the sambhddha anti-A or anti-B antibodies hai praayah igm antibodies, which hai praayah produced in the pehla saalo of life by sensitization to paryaavarniya substances aise as khaanaa, jeevanu, or virus.
ABO rakt types are also upasthit in kuch anya pashu, for example apes aise as chimpanzees, bonobos, or gorillas.
Year 1907 ( mcmvii ) thi a aam year starting on mangalvaar ( kadi hoga pradarshak the puraa panchang ) of the gregorian panchang or a aam saal starting on somvaar of the 13-day-slower julian panchang.
northville is an affluent nagar stith in or vibhajit by ockland or wain county in the u.S. rajya of Michigan.
the kshetrafal is a upnagareey of mahanagar detroit.
the janasankhyikee thi 5,970 at the 2010 janasankhyikee.
sabase of the nagar is in ockland county, and is surrounded by the nagar of Novi.
the wain county portion is surrounded by northville township.
northville is parosa by northville public skulon.
the city is stith purvottar of ain Arbor or uttarpashchim of detroit.
Elaine stritch ( born farvari 2, 1925 ) is an amareeki abhinetri and vocalist.
wo rai appeared in numerous stage plays or musicals, visheshta films, or anek television kaarykram.
She is gyaat liye uske performance of `` the mahilaon Who lunch '' in stephen sondheim 's 1970 musical company, uske 2001 one-woman show, ailen Stritch at swatantraaa, or recently for uske bhoomika as Jack Donaghy 's maan Colleen on enbisi 's 30 chattan.
wo rai maharoom nominated liye the tony puraskaar paanch times in vibhinn categories.
stritch is also a three-time emi puraskaar winner.
misfits is a angrejon vigyaan fiction comedy-drama television show parichay a samooh of young aparaadhiyon sentenced to kaary in a jatiyaan service programme, where ve obtain alokik shaktiyaan baad a ajeeb vidyut toofaan.
the shrenee kholi in 2009 or is currently ongoing.
antonia Thomas, ewan Rheon, Lauren Socha, nathan stewart-jarrett, or robert sheehan hai introduced as Alisha dainiels, Simon bellamy, keli beli, curtis donoven, and nathan yang kramshah.
sheehan baayein baad the second shrenee, replaced in the teesraa by Joseph gilgun as Rudy vade.
baad the fourth shrenee thi ghoshit Rheon, Thomas or Socha had baayein their bhoomikaaye or hota be replaced by new varna karla crome, Nathan McMullen and mat stokoe, as Jess, fin or elex kramshah.
midway through the chauthi shrenee, stewart-jarrett left jabaki natasha o'keeffe joined the daal as Abbey smith.
On 19 March 2013, channel 4 ghoshit at a press event ki ve have renewed Misfits for a fifth or final shrenee containing 8 apisod.
brett lorenzo favre ( born aktubar 10, 1969 ) is a former amareeki footbaal quarterbaque who kharch the bahumat of uske kariyar saath the green khadi pakars of the National footbaal League ( enegel ).
He thi a 20-year diggaj of the enegel, having nibhaai quarterbaque liye the atlanta falcons ( 1991 ), green khadi pakars ( 1992 – 2007 ), nai york jets ( 2008 ) and minesota vikings ( 2009 – 2010 ).
Favre is the only quarterbaque in enegel itihaas to throw liye over 70,000 gaj, over 500 touchdowns, over 300 interceptions, over 6,000 completions, or over 10,000 pass attempts.
Favre prarambh at the quarterbaque sthiti liye the vishvavidhyalayon of dakshini mississippi for chaar saalo before hone chaynit in the duusari golakaar of the 1991 enegel draft by atlanta ( 33rd overall ).
He thi traded to green khadi on February 10, 1992, liye the 19th pick in the 1992 enegel Draft.
favre became the Packers ' starting quarterbaque in the chauthi khel of the 1992 season, stepping in for injured quarterbaque don majkowski, or prarambh prayek khel through the 2007 ritu.
he thi traded to the nai York jets or prarambh at quarterbaque liye the 2008 ritu pehle hastakshar with the vikings on agast 18, 2009 as their starting quarterbaque.
He bana an NFL record 297 lagaataar starts ( 321 sahit playoffs ).
he is the tabhi khilaadi to win the ap sabase moolyawaan khilaadi teen lagaataar times ( 1995–97 ).
he rai led tiimon to aath prabhag championships ( 1995, 1996, 1997, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2007, 2009 ), paanch NFC championships khel ( 1995, 1996, 1997, 2007, 2009 ), and two super Bowl dikhaave ( Super katori XXXI, super katori XXXII ), winning ek ( super Bowl xxxi ).
he holds anek enegel record, sahit sabase kariyar touchdown gujarata, sabase career guzar gaj, sabase kariyar pass completions, most kariyar pass koshishen, most kariyar interceptions thrown, sabase consecutive starts by a player, sabase lagaataar starts by a quarterback, sabase kariyar victories as a starting quarterbaque, most sacked, and most fumbles.
he is bhi referred to by his upnaam `` the gunslinger ''.
the following is a list of notable aircraft hijackings around the world.
The sansar Wide web ( abbreviated as www or w3, commonly gyaat as the web ), is a pranali of interlinked hypertext documents pahunchaa via the antarjaal.
saath a web broujar, one can drishy web pages ki may contain text, bimb, videos, or anya multimedia, or navigate between unhen via hyperlinks.
Using avadharanaon isse uske pehle hypertext pranaaliyon jaise enquire, angrejon engineer, computer scientist or at that time karmchaaree of the CERN, sar Tim Berners-Lee, abhi nideshak of the World chaudee web consortium ( w3c ), likhaa a prastaav in kooch 1989 liye kayaa hota eventually become the sansar chaudee web.
at cern, a European shodh sanghathan nikat geneva straddling the border between France or switzaraland, berners-lee or belgian computer vaigyanik robert cailliau proposed in 1990 to upyog hypertext `` to link and abhigam information of vibhinn kinds as a web of node in which the user can browz at will '', and they saream introduced the project in disambar of the vahi saal.
Wayne lyman morse ( aktubar 20, 1900July 22, 1974 ) thi a rajaneta and attorney isse oregon, sanyukt rajya, gyaat liye uske proclivity liye opposing uske partiyon ' netritv, and specifically liye uske vipaksh to the vietnam War on sanvaidhanik grounds.
born in medisson, Wisconsin, or educated at the vishvavidhyalayon of wisconsin-madison or the vishvavidhyalayon of minesota Law skool, morse sthanantarit to Oregon in 1930 or began shikshan at the vishvavidhyalayon of oregon School of vidhi.
dauraan sansar yuddh II he thi nirvaachit to the sanyukt States seenet as a republican ; he became an swatantra after dwite D. Eisenhower 's chunaav to the presidency in 1952.
While an swatantra, he niyat a record liye performing the second longest one-person filibuster in the itihaas of the seenet.
morse joined the loktantric Party in 1955, or thi reelected twice jabaki a sadsy of that party.
morse made a brief run liye the Democratic party 's adhyakshiya nomination in 1960.
a few saalo later, morse thi ek of tabhi do Senators jo opposed the gulf of tonkin rezolution, jisase praadhikrut the adhyaksh to take sainya karrwai in vietnam bagaiyr a ghoshnaa of war.
he continued to bolo out viruddh the war in the ensuing saalo, and khoyaa uske 1968 boli liye reelection to bob packwood, jo criticized his damdaar opposition to the yuddh.
morse bana two adhik bids liye reelection to the Senate pehle uske death in 1974.
in parliamentary kaarividhi, a motion to talika rai do different and contradictory arthus:
in the sanyukt rajya, to talika praayah arthath the to lay [ the topic ] on the table or to move liye postponement of vichaar ; a proposal to barkhaastagi vichaar of a pending gati.
Much kam praayah, it arthath a gati to `` put on the talika '' : a prastaav to shuru consideration ( or reconsideration ), a upyog satat saath the baaki of the english-speaking sansar.
in the rest of the English-speaking sansar aise as the sanyukt kingdom, to talika arthath to move to place [ the topic ] upon the talika ( or to move to place on the talika ) : a proposal to shuru vichaar ( or reconsideration ) of a proposal.
dono the amareeki or the angrejon dialects have the sense of `` to table '' as to lay [ the topic ] on the talika or to cause [ the topic ] to lie on the talika.
the antar is the vichaar of kayaa the table is for, ki of a shelf off to the side, or an kriyasheel kaary bench.
the British meaning rai the sense of the talika as hone an kriyasheel work bench, with the topic being the bich of attention, mana or discussed by sab jabatak it can be resolved, at jisase point it is liya off the 'table '.
the American sense is that the talika is jaise ki of a shelf, abhilekh, or long-term storage device, jahaan the topic rai been disposed of by sending it to the 'table ' or leaving it vahin.
Toy Story 3 is a 2010 amareeki 3d computer animated comedy-drama prison film, and the teesraa installment in the Toy story series.
it thi utpaadit by pikchars anemation Studios and vitarit by Walt dijani tasviren.
nirdeshit by lee Unkrich, the film was released worldwide isse june through aktubar in dijani digital 3-d, reald, and imax 3d.
Toy story 3 thi bhi the pehla filmi to be released theatrically saath dolby gher 7.1 dhwani.
The screenplay thi likhaa by maaikel arndt, while unkrich likhaa the story saath saath jon lasseter or andrew Stanton, respectively director and co-writer of the do pehla films.
the plat focuses on the khilone woodi, baz lightyear, or their mitron dealing with an uncertain bhavishya as unke maalik, endi, prepares to chhod for college.
abhinaytaon tom hanks, Tim alan, jone cusack, don rickles, estelle haris, John ratzenberger, Wallace shawn, jeff pidgeon, jodi benson, R. Lee ermey, jon morris, or Laurie metcalf reprised unke voice-over bhoomikaaye isse the previous films.
gym Varney, jo played Slinky shwaan in the pehla two films, or Joe Ranft, jo portrayed lenny or wheezy, both died pehle utpaadan began on khilonaa story 3.
The bhoomika of slinky shwaan thi liya over by blake clark ( a friend of varney ), jabaki ranft 's varna and vibhinn anya yahood likhaa out of the story.
nai characters shaamil performances by ned beatty, Timothy dalton, cristan Schaal, bonnie Hunt, whoopi Goldberg, jeff Garlin, richard dayaalu, and Michael kiton.
the visheshta broke shrek the Thirds ricard as the biggest opening din uttar amareeki gross for an anemated filmi unadjusted for inflation, or a big opening saath an unadjusted gross of $ 110,307,189.
it is bhi the highest-grossing kholane weekend liye a pikchars filmi, as khub as the highest-grossing kholane weekend liye a film to have kholi in the maah of june.
This is the highest-grossing filmi of 2010, dono in the sanyukt rajya and canada, or vishwavyaapee.
in jaldi agast, it became Pixar 's highest-grossing filmi at the North amareeki baksaa daftar ( surpassing Finding nemo ), or the highest-grossing animated filmi of sab time vishwavyaapee ( surpassing shrek 2 ) ; baad ki maah, khilonaa story 3 became the pehla kabhi anemated filmi in itihaas to mek over $ 1 billion vishwavyaapee.
it is philhal the 10th-highest-grossing film of all time.
khilonaa Story 3 was manonith liye five academy puraskaar, sahit behtareen chitra, behtareen adapted patakatha, or behtareen Sound sampadan.
it thi the teesraa anemated film ( baad Beauty or the jaanavar or Up ) to be manonith liye academy puraskaar liye Best chitra.
it jiti the puraskaar liye behtareen anemated visheshta or Best asli Song.
jon levell starks ( born agast 10, 1965 ) is an American ritred peshewar basket shooting guard.
Starks was listed at 6'5 '' and 190 pound dauraan uske enbie playing kariyar.
Although he thi nahin drafted in the 1988 enbie draft after upasthit chaar colleges in his deshi oklahoma, sahit oklahoma rajya University, he gained kirti jabaki playing liye the nai York knicks of the neshnal Basketball Association in the 1990s.
Secure digital or ( sd ) is a non-volatile memory card swaroop for use in portable divaais, aise as mobile phone, digital camere, GPS nevigation devices, and tablett computer.
the surakshit Digital maanak is kaayam by the sd Card Association ( SDA ).
sd technologies have been implemented in adhik than 400 brands aarpaar dozens of utpaada shrenee and more than 8,000 model.
the Secure Digital swaroop includes chaar card pariwaron available in teen different form karkon.
the chaar families are the asli standard-capacity ( sdsc ), the high-capacity ( sdhc ), the eXtended-Capacity ( sdxc ), and the sdio, which combines input/output krityon saath aankada bhandar.
the teen rup factors hai the asli aakaar, the `` mini '' aakaar, or the `` micro '' aakaar ( see illustration ).
vahin are many combinations of rup factors or device families.
electrically passive adapters allow the use of a choti card in a host yantra nirmit to hold a larger card.
mejabaan divaais ki comply saath nae versions of the specification provide backward compatibility or accept puraani SD taash, lakin this aalekh explains several karkon ki can prevent the upyog of a newer sd card:
A nae card may prastaav vrihad capacity than the mejabaan device can handle.
a nae card may use a file system the mejabaan yantra can nahin navigate.
upyog of an SDIO card requires the mejabaan yantra be designed liye the input/output krityon the card provides.
the organization of the card thi badla starting saath the SDHC parivaar.
kuch vikreta produced SDSC taash upar 1 gb before the sda tha manakikrut a vidhi of doing so.
the SDA upyog anek trademarked logos to enforce compliance with its specifications or assure users of sangatta.
Hugh John mungo grant ( born 9 September 1960 ) is a British karta and filmi nirmaataa.
he rai praapt a sunahari globe, a BAFTA, or an maanad césar.
uske films have arjeet adhik than US $ 2.4 arab isse 25 natya relies worldwide.
grant achieved international stardom after appearing in Richard Curtis 's kaamyaab chaar vivaah or a Funeral ( 1994 ).
he used is breakthrough bhoomika as a barambar cinematic persona dauraan the 1990s, delivering comic pradarshan in mainstream films like miki blue ankhen ( 1999 ) or Notting Hill ( 1999 ).
By the phere of the 21st century, he tha established khud as a agrani man skilled saath a satirical comic talent.
grant rai vistaarit his oeuvre with critically acclaimed turns as a cad in Bridget jones 's Diary ( 2001 ), About a ladke ( 2002 ), Love darasal ( 2003 ), or amareeki Dreamz ( 2006 ).
he later nibhaai viruddh type saath anek cameo bhoomikaaye in the apik drama filmi Cloud atlas ( 2012 ).
bheetar the filmi udyog, grant is cited as an anti-film star jo approaches his bhoomikaaye jaise a akshar karta, or koshishen to mek uske acting appear spontaneous.
Hallmarks of uske comic skills shaamil a nonchalant tach of irony / sarcasm or studied shaareerik mannerisms as well as uske precisely-timed dialogue delivery or facial expressions.
the entertainment media 's kawarej of grant 's jivan band the big screen rai praayah nishprabh his kaary as a thespian.
he has maharoom gayan parichay his disrespect liye the profession of acting, or in uske tiraskaar towards the samskruti of celebrity and dushmani towards the media.
in a kariyar spanning 30 saalo, Grant rai repeatedly claimed ki acting is not a true calling but just a job he giri into.
the haan rajvansh ( ; ) ( 206 bc – 220 ad ) thi an imperial dynasty of china, preceded by the Qin rajvansh ( 221–207 bc ) or succeeded by the teen Kingdoms ( 220–280 ad ).
it thi santhaapit by the vidrohi netaa liyu bang, known maranoparant as samraat Gaozu of Han.
it thi briefly baadhit by the Xin rajvansh ( 9–23 AD ) of the purv regent Wang mang.
is interregnum separates the haan into two avadhi : the pashchimi Han ( 206 BC – 9 AD ) or purvi Han ( 25–220 ad ).
spanning over four centuries, the kaal of the haan Dynasty is mana a sunahari aayu in chinis itihaas.
To this day, China 's bahumat jaateey samooh refers to itself as the `` haan people '' or the Chinese script is referred to as `` haan characters ``.
The Han Empire thi vibhajit into kshetron sidhe niyantrit by the central sarkari, gyaat as commanderies, or a kramank of semi-autonomous kingdoms.
ye kingdoms dhire khoyaa sab vestiges of their independence, visheshkar following the vidroh of the saat rajya.
the xiongnu, a nomadic canfederation jisase varchasv the eastern Eurasian stan, parajeet the haan fouj in battle in 200 bc.
Following the shikast, a rajnatik vivaah gathbandhan thi negotiated in which the haan became the de facto avar sangi.
jab, despite the sandhi, the xiongnu jari to red Han borders, samraat wu of haan ( r. 141–87 bc ) shubharambh several sainya campaigns viruddh unhen.
the ultimate haan victory in ye wars eventually majaboor the xiongnu to accept vassal aukaat as Han tributaries.
ye campaigns vistaarit haan prabhutaa into the Tarim jalashay of central asia or helped sthapit the vishaal vyapaar network gyaat as the resha sadak, which pahunche as dur as the bumadhyasagariya sansar.
haan shaktiyaan prabandhit to divide the Xiongnu into do competing nations, the dakshini and uttari xiongnu, and majaboor the uttari xiongnu aarpaar the ili River.
Despite ye victories, the territories uttar of Han 's simaayen yahood jaldi overrun by the nomadic Xianbei Confederation.
baad 92 ad, the rajmahal hijde increasingly shaamil themselves in adaalat raajnneeti, engaging in hinsak shakti struggles between the vibhinn consort clans of the empresses and samraji dowagers, causing the Han 's param downfall.
imperial praadhikaar was bhi seriously challenged by vishaal daoist dharmik samaajon jisase instigated the Yellow pagadi Rebellion or the paanch pecks of rice Rebellion.
Following the death of samraat ling ( r. 168–189 ad ), the rajmahal hijde suffered wholesale narsanhaar by military adhikariyon, allowing sadasyon of the aristocracy or military rajyapalon to become warlords or divide the samrajya.
jab saao Pi, king of vei, usurped the singhaasana isse samraat xian, the haan rajvansh ceased to exist.
The Han Dynasty thi an age of aarthik samruddhi or dekhi a significant vikaas of the money arthvyavastha pehla sthapit during the jhou Dynasty ( c. 1050–256 bc ).
the coinage issued by the central sarkari mint in 119 bc remained the maanak coinage of China until the tang Dynasty ( 618–907 ad ).
to adaa liye iske sainya abhiyaan or the upnivesh of newly conquered frontier territories, the government rashtriyakrut the nijee namak or iron udyog in 117 bc.
ye government monopolies yahood repealed during the Eastern haan period, or the lost aay thi recouped through heavily taxing nijee udhyamiyon.
the samraat was at the pinnacle of Han society.
he presided over the haan sarkari lakin shared shakti saath both the nobility or appointed mantriyon who aae largely isse the scholarly gentry class.
From the shasankaal of samraat wu onward, the chinis adaalat officially pryojit confucianism in education or court raajnneeti, synthesized saath the cosmology of baad vidwaanon aise as Dong zhongshu.
This niti endured jabatak the patan of the Qing rajvansh in 1911 ad.
Science or praudyogiki dauraan the haan kaal dekhi significant agrim, sahit papermaking, the nautical parichaalan aritra, the upyog of rinatmak sankhyaayein in ganit, the raised-relief map, the hydrolic -powered armillary sphere liye khagolashastra, or a bhukampamapi employing an inverted lolak.
tourette syndrome ( bhi pukaara Tourette 's syndrome, tourette 's vikaar, gailes de la tourette syndrome, gts or, adhik commonly, simply Tourette 's or ts ) is an inherited neuropsychiatric vikaar saath onset in childhood, characterized by anek shaareerik ( motor ) tics and at least ek vocal ( phonic ) tik.
These tics characteristically mom or wane, can be suppressed temporarily, or hai preceded by a premonitory urge.
tourette 's is defined as bhaag of a varnakram of tik disorders, which shaamil kshanik or dirghakaalik tics.
tourette 's thi ekbar mana a viral or vicitra syndrome, sabase praayah sambhddha with the munh of obscene words or socially anuchit or apmanjanak remarks ( coprolalia ), lakin is lakshan is upasthit in only a choti alpsankhyak of logon saath tourette 's.
tourette 's is no longer considered a viral condishan, lakin it is not always correctly pahachaanaa kuki most cases hai mild or the gambhirtha of tics decreases liye most children as they pass through kishoravastha.
between 0.4 % or 3.8 % of children ages 5 to 18 may have tourette 's ; the vyapaktaa of kshanik or dirghakaalik tics in school-age children is ucchtar, with the adhik aam tics of najar blinking, khaansi, throat clearing, sniffing, and facial andolanon.
Extreme Tourette 's in adulthood is a rarity, or Tourette 's karata nahin adversely affect pragna or life pratyaasha.
genetic or paryaavarniya karkon khel a bhoomika in the etiology of tourette 's, lakin the sateek kalyankari hai anjaan.
in most maamle, dawa is unnecessary.
vahin is no prabhavi upachaar liye prayek maamla of tics, lakin nishchit medications and therapies can sahaayta jab unke upyog is warranted.
Education is an important bhaag of koi upachaar yojana, and spashtikaran or reassurance alon hai often sufficient upachaar.
comorbid conditions ( co-occurring diagnoses anya than Tourette 's ) aise as attention-deficit atisakriyata vikaar ( adhd ) or obsessive–compulsive vikaar ( osidi ) hai present in anek patients dekhi in tertiary specialty clinics.
These other sharten praayah cause adhik kaaryaatmak putliyon to the vyaktigat than the tics ki hai the hallmark of tourette 's, hence it is mahatvapurn to correctly identify comorbid sharten and daavat unhen.
The eponym thi bestowed by Jean-Martin Charcot ( 1825–1893 ) on nimitt of uske resident, georges Albert édouard brookes gailes de la tourette ( 1859–1904 ), a French chikitsak or neurologist, jo published an khaataa of nine marijon with Tourette 's in 1885.
sanbeam baij.
Sunbeam was a marque registered by jon marston co. ltd of Wolverhampton, england, in 1888.
The company pehla bana cycle, tab motorcycle or gaadiyaan from the let 19th sadi until parichay 1936, or applied the marque to sab teen form of parivahan.
The company bhi manufactured airo ingine in the pehla sansar yuddh or 647 aircraft dauraan the Second sansar War.
a sanbeam was the pehla angrejon car to win a Grand pricks res, or niyat a kramank of jameen gati record.
The company gai into receivership in 1935 or was kharida by the rootes Group, which jari to use the Sunbeam marque.
fox News channel ( fnc ), bhi gyaat as fox news, is a cabel news channel owned by the fox Entertainment samooh, a subsidiary of News nigam.
as of april 2009, the channel thi uplabdhiyaan to 102 million households in the sanyukt rajya or to viewers internationally, prasaaran primarily isse its nai York studios.
The channel thi nirmit by australian-american media mogul ruport murdoch, jo niyukt purv NBC karypalika roger ailes as its founding CEO.
It shubharambh on aktubar 7, 1996 to 17 lakh cabel sadsy.
It grew dauraan the let 1990s or 2000s to become the dominant cabel news sanjaal in the United rajya.
Critics have stated that fox News channel promotes roodhiwaadee rajnatik sthitiyaan or pakshpatpurna reporting.
tikaakaron, news anchors, or reporters at fox news channel have responded that news reporting and rajnatik commentary operate independently of prayek anya, or have asweekrut any purvaagrah in news reporting.
the mandibular first molar or six-year molar is the daant stith distally ( dur isse the midline of the phase ) isse dono the mandibular duusari premolars of the munh but mesial ( toward the midline of the phase ) isse dono mandibular duusari molars.
it is stith on the mandibular ( nimnatar ) arch of the mouth, or generally opposes the maxillary ( apper ) pehla molars or the urdhvahanu 2nd premolar in saamaanya class i occlusion.
the falan of this molar is samaan to ki of sab molars in lihaaz to pis being the principal karrwai dauraan mastication, commonly gyaat as chewing.
vahin are praayah paanch well-developed cusps on mandibular pehla molars : two on the buccal ( side nearest the cheek ), do lingual ( paksh nikatatam the jeebh ), and one distal.
vahin hai great differences between the deciduous ( baby ) mandibular molars or those of the permanent mandibular molars, even though unke falan are samaan.
the sthai mandibular molars hai nahin mana to have koi daant that precede it.
despite hone namit molars, the patjhadi molars hai followed by sthai premolars.
in the saarvbhaumik pranali of notation, the patjhadi mandibular pehla molars hai designated by a akshar likhaa in aprkes.
the sahi patjhadi mandibular pehla molar is gyaat as `` s '', and the left ek is gyaat as `` l ''.
the antarrashtriya notation rai a alag pranali of notation.
Thus, the sahi patjhadi mandibular first molar is gyaat as `` 84 '', or the baayein one is known as `` 74 ''.
in the saarvbhaumik pranali of notation, the permanent mandibular pehla molars are designated by a kramank.
the sahi sthai mandibular pehla molar is gyaat as `` 30 '', or the baayein ek is gyaat as `` 19 ''.
the Palmer sanketan upyog a kramank in sangyojan with a symbol designating in which quadrant the tooth is mila.
For is daant, the baayein and sahi pehla molars hota have the vahi kramank, `` 6 '', lakin the sahi one hota have the pratik, `` ┐ '', over it, jabaki the left one hota have, `` ┌ ''.
the international notation rai a different kramakan pranali than the previous do, and the right sthai mandibular first molar is gyaat as `` 46 '', or the baayein ek is known as `` 36 ''.
mandibular primary pehla molars usually have chaar pulp horns.
the pehla molar is praayah the first sthai daant to erupt or rai vayask undertones.
anatomy : The mandibular pehla molar has paanch pulin : the mesiobuccal ( mb, toward midline or gaal ), mesiolingual ( ML, toward midline or jeebh ), distolingual ( DL, dur isse midline and towards jeebh ), distobuccal ( db, dur isse midline or toward gaal ), or distal ( d, away isse midline ), soochibaddh in anukram of decreasing aakaar.
Listed in anukram of decreasing oonchaai they hai : ml, dl, DF, MF, and D. An aathvin cusp thi mila in a praathmik duusari nimnatar molar in an Argentinean child.
viewed isse the sheersh of the daant ( occlusal drishy ), the mandibular first molar is pentagonal ( paanch tarafa ) in aakaar or tapers toward the lingual, saath the pahalu hone the buccal surface, the mesial surface, the lingual sataha, distal sataha, or the distobuccal surface.
the occlusal surface rai chaar dole.
the central groove is not sidhaa lakin runs bas the center of the daant mesially to distally and contains chaar pits ( mesial, central, central, or distal ).
The distobuccal naalee ranon isse the distal pit in the central naalee distobuccally separating the distal or distobuccal cusps.
the lingual naalee ranon from the more distal of the central pits in the central naalee toward the lingual sataha between the mesiolingual or distolingual pulin.
the buccal naalee runs isse the adhik mesial of the central pits in the central groove toward the buccal sataha between the mesiobuccal or distobuccal pulin ending in the buccal gadde.
The portion of the central naalee between the central gaddhon is termed the louis ofaset or is anivaary to khaataa liye the sthitiyaan of the buccal or lingual grooves ( buccal naalee hone adhik mesial than the lingual naalee while ve hai samanaantar ).
From the buccal ( buccal drishy ), two jaden hai upasthit.
the distal root is generally straighter, although both praayah have a patala distal golai.
the hits of ruparekha on the mesial and distal sampark the sata daant or are stith at the jankshan of the occlusal or madhya tihaai of the crown.
the Florida vidhanmandal is the two gharon that act as the rajya vidhanmandal of the u.S. rajya of florida.
The florida Constitution rajya ki `` The legislative power of the rajya shall be vested in a vidhanmandal of the rajya of florida, '' rachit of a seenet or house of pratinidhi.
the vidhanmandal is seated at the florida rajya capital in tallahassee.
stained glass depiction of danniel interceding with arioch, the king 's guard.
arioch tha been charge saath hatya all the hikmat main after they yahood not samarth to interpret nebuchadnezzar 's sapana.
danniel 2 is the second adhyay of the kitaab of danniel in the Hebrew Bible.
the chapter 's sorce text is predominantly likhaa in aramaic.
according to the text, Nebuchadnezzar is the king of babul jo is troubled by uske sapano.
he maange an nirvachan for uske dreams or hoga have uske mystic interpreters executed.
danniel seeks Divine Wisdom to interpret the king 's sapano and praises parameshwar saath a choti psalm.
parameshwar detaa Daniel a drushti in the raatri to khulaasa the king 's dream.
samarth to satisfy the king, danniel is prachaarit over the whole province of babul.
ek comcast bich, the headquarters of comcast in philadelphia, pa.
the old Comcast logo isse 1969 to 1999, when it thi replaced saath the crescent logo.
The comcast nigam is an American provider of entertainment, soochna and communications utpaada or sevaayen.
it is the largest cabel operator, ek of the biggest dravyaman media, home antarjaal seva pradaata, and teesraa largest ghar telephone seva pradaata in the sanyukt rajya, providing cabel television, broadband Internet, telephone service or in kuch areas ghar suraksha ( sahit burglar sachetak, nigaraanee cameras, aag sachetak pranaaliyon and ghar swachaalan ) to dono awasaiya or vanijyik graahak in 40 rajya or the zila of colombia.
the company is headquartered in Philadelphia, pencilvenia.
In 2011, comcast acquired a 51 % majority stake in media sangutica NBCUniversal from ge in janvari 2011, or began the prakram of khareednaa the baaki 49 % on February 12, 2013, at a cost of $ 16.7 arab.
it completed the khariden on March 19, 2013.
comcast bhi rai significant holding in anek cabel networks ( sahit E !
Entertainment television, style sanjaal, G4, the golf Channel or NBC Sports Network ), vitaran ( theplatform ), or sambandhit businesses.
Comcast rai maharoom the subject of aalochana for kriyaayein sahit iske stance on jaal neutrality, as khub as garib parinaam on graahak satisfaction surveys.
porcupines are rodents saath a coat of sharp spines, or quills, ki bachaav and camouflage unhen isse predators.
ve hai indigenous to the americas, dakshini asia, or Africa.
porcupines hai the third largest of the rodents, peeche the capybara or the biver.
Most porcupines hai parichay long, with an long tail.
weighing, they hai rounded, large and slow.
Porcupines aaiye in vibhinn shades of brown, dhoosar, and the unusual shwet.
porcupines ' spiny suraksha resembles ki of the unrelated erinaceomorph hedgehogs or monotreme echidnas.
the common saahi is a herbivore.
it eats pattey, herbs, tahaniyon or green plants like skunk gobhi or chlovar or in the winter it may eat chaal.
the uttar American saahi often climbs trees to dhundhen khaanaa.
The africa saahi is not a climber and forages on the ground.
It is zyaadaatar nocturnal, but hoga sometimes forage for food in the din.
Porcupines have become a pest in kenya or are khaaya as a komalta.
the naam porcupine aata isse madhya French porc espin ( spined suar ).
a kshetreey American naam liye the animal is quill suar.
pehla pej of us patent 129,843 liye sudhaar in Lubricators liye steam-engines
eliyas J. mccoy ( may 2, 1844 – October 10, 1929 ) thi a black canadian-american avishkaarak and ejeeniyar, who thi notable liye uske 57 u.S. patents, most to do with lubrication of bhaap ingine.
born free in canada, he returned as a five-year-old child with uske parivaar to the sanyukt rajya in 1847, jahaan he lived for the baaki of uske jivan or became a us naagarik.
Honda FCX spashtataa, a hydrogen eendhan cell demonstration gadee introduced in 2008
A hydrogen gadee is a vehicle that upyog hydrogen as iske onboard eendhan liye motive shakti.
hydrogen vaahanon shaamil hydrogen fueled space rockets, as khub as automobiles or anya parivahan vaahanon.
the shakti plants of aise vehicles badalen the chemical urja of hydrogen to mechanical urja either by burning hydrogen in an aatanrik dahan ingine, or by reacting hydrogen with oxigen in a fuel koshika to chalaaen electric motors.
Widespread use of hydrogen liye fueling parivahan is a kunjee tatv of a prastaavit hydrogen arthvyavastha.
hydrogen fuel karata nahin occur naturally on Earth or thus is not an urja sorce ; rather it is an urja carrier.
it is most aksar bana isse mithen or anya fossil fuels, lakin it can be utpaadit using strot ( aise as wind, saura, or nuclear ) ki are intermittent, too diffuse or too cumbersome to sidhe propel vaahanon.
ekikrut wind-to-hydrogen paudhe, using electrolysis of jal, hai exploring technologies to deliver laagat low enough, or quantities great paryaapt, to compete with traditional urja strot.
anek companiyaan are working to develop technologies ki might efficiently exploit the sambhavit of hydrogen energy for mobile upyog.
the aakarshan of using hydrogen as an urja karency is ki, if hydrogen is prepared bagaiyr using chattan fuel inputs, vehicle propulsion hota nahin yogadan to carbon dioxide emissions.
the kamiyaan of hydrogen upyog hai unchi puunji laagat, low energy saamagree prati ikai awaz, unchi tankage weights, bahut unchi storage pot pressures, the bhandar, transportation and filling of gasiy or drav hydrogen in vaahanon, the large nivesh in avasanrachana ki would be required to eendhan vaahanon, or the inefficiency of utpaadan prakriyaaon.
Sacramento is the puunji nagar of the u.S. state of California or the seat of sarkari of sacramento county.
it is located at the sangam of the Sacramento nadi or the amareeki River in the uttari portion of california 's expansive central Valley.
With an anumaanit 2011 population of 477,891, it is the sixth-largest city in California or the 35th largest city in the sanyukt States.
Sacramento is the kor cultural and aarthik bich of the sacramento metropolitan kshetrafal jisase shaamil saat counties saath an estimated 2009 janasankhyikee of 2,527,123.
iske mahanagar area is the chauthi largest in California after the vrihad los angeles Area, san francisco khadi Area, or the san diego mahanagar area, as khub as the 25th largest in the United rajya.
sacramento thi cited by Time magazine as america 's sabase ethnically or racially integrated nagar in 2002.
sacramento became a nagar through the efforts of the swiss apravasi jon sutter, sr., uske bete jon sutter, jr., or James W. Marshall.
sacramento grew jaldi dhanyavad to the protection of sutter 's Fort, jisase thi sthapit by sutter in 1839.
During the California Gold fatafat, sacramento thi a pramukh vitaran point, a vanijyik or agricultural bich, or a terminus for wagon rail, stagecoaches, riverboats, the telegraph, the tattu express, or the pehla Transcontinental railroad.
california rajya University, Sacramento, adhik commonly gyaat as sacramento rajya or Sac rajya, is the largest local university.
It is ek of the twenty-three campuses of the California rajya University pranali.
drexel vishvavidhyalayon sacramento is stith in shahar, sacramento.
vishvavidhyalayon of the prashanth 's mcgeorge skool of Law is stith in the ok park pados.
In jod, the vishvavidhyalayon of california, davis is located in nearby davis, west of the capital.
the UC davis Medical bich, a world-renowned research hospital, is stith in the nagar of sacramento.
the tehraana store is a kadi of khudara stores swaamitv or operated by Apple inc., dealing in computer or consumer electronics.
the stores bechein Macintosh nijee computer, software, iPods, ipads, aiphone, third-party accessories, or anya upabhokta electronics aise as tehraana tv.
kuch high profil stores visheshta a Theatre for prastutiyon and workshop or a Studio for prashikshan saath tehraana utpaada ; sab stores prastaav a Genius baar liye takneekee support and marammat, as khub as free workshop available to the public.
Under the leadership of Ron johnson, the purv varisht Vice adhyaksh of khudara Operations, the Apple stores have, according to an aalekh in the New York times, maharoom jimmedaar liye `` [ turning ] the ubaau computer bikri manzil into a sleek playroom bhar saath gajet ''.
, tehraana rai 405 stores vishwavyaapee, saath global bikri of arab in merchandise in 2011, or they sise the sanyukt States retail market in terms of bikri prati ikai kshetrafal.
steven paul `` steve '' kaary ( ; farvari 24, 1955 – October 5, 2011 ) was an amareeki udyogon or inventor, behtareen gyaat as the co-founder, adhyaksh, or siio of Apple inc.
through tehraana, he was widely pahachaanaa as a charismatic pioneer of the nijee computer revolution and liye uske influential kariyar in the computer and upabhokta electronics field, transforming `` ek udyog baad another, from computer or smartphones to music or filmon... ''
kaary bhi co-founded or parosa as chief karypalika of pikchars anemation Studios ; he became a sadsy of the falak of nirdeshkon of the walt dijani company in 2006, jab Disney acquired Pixar.
kaary thi among the first to dekhie the vanijyik sambhavit of xerox PARC 's chuha -driven aalekhiy user interfes, jisase led to the creation of the Apple lisa or, ek saal baad, the Macintosh.
He also played a bhoomika in introducing the LaserWriter, ek of the pehla widely uplabdhiyaan leisure printers, to the market.
After a shakti struggle saath the falak of directors in 1985, kaary left Apple and founded aglaa, a computer manch vikaas company specializing in the higher-education or kaarobaar markets.
in 1986, he acquired the computer graphics prabhag of lucasfilm, jisase was spun off as pikchars.
he thi credited in Toy Story ( 1995 ) as an karypalika nirmaataa.
he served as siio or majority shareholder jabatak Disney 's khariden of pikchars in 2006.
in 1996, baad tehraana tha vifal to deliver iske oparating pranali, copland, gil amelio turned to aglaa computer, or the NeXTSTEP platform became the nyaas liye the Mac os x.
kaary returned to Apple as an salaahkaar, and took control of the company as an antarim CEO.
Jobs brought tehraana isse near bankruptcy to profitability by 1998.
as the nai siio of the company, kaary oversaw the vikaas of the iMac, itunes, ipod, iphone, or iPad, and on the sevaayen side, the company 's Apple khudara Stores, iTunes Store and the app store.
The success of these products and services provided anek years of stable vittiya ritern, or propelled tehraana to become the sansar 's sabase moolyawaan publicly traded company in 2011.
the reinvigoration of the company is regarded by anek commentators as one of the mahanatam turnarounds in kaarobaar itihaas.
in 2003, kaary was diagnosed saath a agnyashay neuroendocrine tumor.
Though it thi initially treated, he reported a hormone asantulan, underwent a jigar transplant in 2009, or appeared progressively thinner as uske swasthya asweekrut.
on chikitsa chhod liye sabase of 2011, Jobs resigned in agast that saal, or thi nirvaachit adhyaksh of the falak.
He died of respiratory giraftaar sambandhit to uske metastatic tumor on October 5, 2011.
kaary received a kramank of honors or public manyata liye uske influence in the technology or music industries.
He rai been referred to as `` legendary '', a `` futurist '' or bas `` doordarshee '', or has been described as the `` Father of the Digital kranti '', a `` nipun of innovation '', or a `` dizine perfectionist ''.
pravesh to khand ( 52 ) of the colocium, with numerals still visible
roman numerals, the newmeric pranali in ancient Rome, uses combinations of letters isse the latin alphabet to signify values.
the sankhyaayein 1 to 10 can be expressed in roman numerals as follows:
or.
the Roman numeral pranali is a cousin of etruscan numerals.
Use of Roman numerals jari baad the manaahi of the roman Empire.
From the 14th sadi on, roman numerals began to be replaced in sabase contexts by adhik suvidhajanak Hindu-Arabic numerals ; however is prakram was gradual, or the use of Roman numerals in some naaballig anuprayog continues to is din.
prabhavi Nuclear Charge aarekh
the effective nabhikeey charge ( praayah symbolize as or Z* ) is the jaal positive charge anbhavi by an electron in a multi-electron atom.
The pad `` prabhavi '' is prayukt kuki the shielding prabhaav of negatively charged electrons roktaa higher kakshiya electrons isse experiencing the full nuclear charge by the repelling prabhaav of inner-layer electrons.
the prabhavi nabhikeey charge anbhavi by the outer shell electron is also pukaara the kor charge.
It is sambhavit to determine the shakti of the nabhikeey charge by looking at the oxikaran kramank of the anu.
is is a list of apisod isse the discovery channel series, toofaan chasers.
a gramin khinchen of i-5, saath two galiyon in prayek disha alag by a vishaal grassy madhya, or with cross-traffic simit to overpasses or underpasses
the dwite D. ijanhavar National pranali of antarraji or raksha Highways ( commonly known as the Interstate rajmarg pranali, antarraji frive pranali, antarraji System, or bas the antarraji ) is a sanjaal of freeways ki form a bhaag of the neshnal rajmarg pranali of the sanyukt rajya.
the pranali is namit liye adhyaksh dwite D. Eisenhower, jo championed its formation.
nirmaan thi praadhikrut by the sangheey sahaayta rajmarg adhinium of 1956, and the asli portion thi samaapt 35 saalo baad.
the sanjaal has since maharoom vistaarit, and, it tha a total length of, making it the sansar 's duusari longest baad China 's., parichay one-quarter of sab gadee mile chalit in the country upyog the antarraji system.
The laagat of nirmaan has maharoom anumaanit at $ 425 arab ( in 2006 dollars ), bananaa it the `` largest public works program since the Pyramids ``.
the pranali rai contributed in shaping the United States into a sansar aarthik mahashakti and a atyadhik industrialized nation.
.eu is the desh code top-level domen ( cctld ) liye the europea sangh ( eu ).
Launched on 7 December 2005, the domen is uplabdhiyaan for sanghathanon in and residents of eu sadsy states.
The TLD is administered by eurid, a consortium originally consisting of the neshnal cctld registry oparator of belgium, Sweden, or italy, joined baad by the neshnal registry oparator of the check ganatantr.
trademark swami yahood samarth to submit panjikaran through a suryoday period, in an praytn to prevent cybersquatting.
puraa panjikaran started on 7 april 2006.
meister arthath nipun in germany ( as in nipun craftsman, or as an honorific sheershak aise as meister eckhart ).
The word is akin to maestro.
in khel, meister is used for the vartmaan neshnal, europea or sansar champion ( Deutscher meister, *Europameister, weltmeister ).
Many modern din germany police shaktiyaan upyog the sheershak Meister.
dauraan the duusari sansar yuddh, Meister thi the ucchtam enlisted rank of the ordnungspolizei.
Meister has been udhaar into English kathboli, where it is prayukt in yogic nouns.
a person referred to as “Meister” is ek jo rai extensive saidhantik knowledge or vyaavhaarik kaushal in his vyavsaayik, business, or kuch anya kind of work or activity.
liye udhaaharan, a “puzzle-meister” hota be someone highly skilled at solving paheliyaan.
These neologisms sometimes have a vyangyatmak intent ( liye udhaaharan, “stubble-meister” for someone saath a choti, neat dadhi or “crier-meister” liye kisi jo praayah cries ).
Mighty Morphin Power rangeron is an amareeki live-action children 's television series about teenagers saath super-powers, based on the 16th kisht of the japani super sentai matadhikaar, kyōryū sentai zyuranger.
Both the dikhaaen and iske sambandhit merchandise saw unbridled overnight kamyaabi, becoming a staple of 1990s pop samskruti in mere maheene.
antargat the asli naam, `` mighty Morphin Power Rangers '' the shrenee bhaaga isse 1993 to 1995 and shakhit the feature film mighty Morphin shakti Rangers : the Movie.
the second or teesraa sizan of the show khinchaa on footage or elements isse the Super sentai series gosei sentai dairanger or Ninja Sentai Kakuranger respectively, haalanki the Zyuranger veshbhusha yahood still used liye the paanch main Rangers and anek regular villains.
tabhi the mecha and the kiba ranger costume ( worn by the shwet ranger ) were retained isse dairanger liye the duusari ritu, jabaki tabhi the mecha isse Kakuranger yahood pradarshit in the teesraa ritu.
However the kakuranger veshbhusha yahood baad prayukt liye the sheershak characters of the mini-series, Mighty morphin alian Rangers.
the shrenee was produced by mmpr productions, distributed by saban entertainment, or aired on fox bachche.
the dikhaaen 's merchandise was produced and distributed by bandai Entertainment.
in 1996, the shrenee thi rebranded as the Power rangeron franchise ; renaming the shrenee prayek saal baad, or using veshbhusha, props, or footage isse subsequent super Sentai shrenee, as khub as badalanaa the daal or kathanak.
jabaki an overarching kathanak hota continue until shakti Rangers khoyaa Galaxy, subsequent shrenee baad mmpr hai not sequels or spin-offs in the traditional bhav.
in 2010, a re-version of mighty morphin Power rangeron, saath a nai logo, comic book-referenced graphics, or atirikt alternative special effects, was broadcast on abisi bachche, or bandai utpaadit brands new khilone to coincide saath the shrenee.
edgar allan po ( born edgar po ; January 19, 1809 – aktubar 7, 1849 ) was an amareeki lekhak, kavi, editor or literary aalochak, mana bhaag of the American romantic Movement.
Best gyaat liye uske tales of mystery and the macabre, po thi ek of the earliest amareeki practitioners of the choti story and is generally considered the avishkaarak of the jasoos fiction vidha.
he is further credited with contributing to the emerging vidha of vigyaan fiction.
he thi the pehla well-known amareeki lekhak to try to earn a jeena through writing alon, resulting in a financially difficult jivan or career.
He thi born as Edgar po in Boston, masachusets ; he thi orphaned yang jab his maan died shortly baad uske pita abandoned the family.
po thi liya in by jon or frances allan, of richmond, Virginia, but ve never formally apanaaya use.
he attended the vishvavidhyalayon of virginia liye one semester but left due to kami of money.
baad enlisting in the fouj or later failing as an adhikari 's cadet at West point, Poe parted ways saath the allans.
uske prakaashan career began vinamratapurvak, with an anonymous collection of kavitaayen, tamerlane or anya Poems ( 1827 ), credited tabhi to `` a bostonian ''.
po switched his focus to gadhy and spent the aglaa anek years working liye saahitiyik journals and periodicals, becoming known liye his apana style of saahitiyik aalochana.
uske kaary majaboor use to move among anek shaharon, sahit Baltimore, philadelphia, and nai York City.
in balteemor in 1835, he shaadishuda virginia clemm, uske 13-year-old cousin.
in janvari 1845 po prakashit his kavita, `` The Raven ``, to instant kamyaabi.
uske bivi died of tuberculosis do years baad iske prakaashan.
He began niyojan to upaj uske apana journal, the penn ( later renamed the stilas ), haalanki he died pehle it could be utpaadit.
on aktubar 7, 1849, at aayu 40, Poe died in balteemor ; the kaaran of uske maut is anjaan and has maharoom variously attributed to daaru, dimag jamghat, haija, drugs, heart disease, rabies, aatmahatya, tapedic, or anya agents.
Poe and his works bahekaave sahitya in the sanyukt States or around the sansar, as khub as in specialized field, aise as cosmology and kryptography.
po or his kaary appear throughout lokapriy samskruti in sahitya, music, films, or television.
a kramank of uske homes are samarpit sangrahalay aaj.
The rahasy lekhak of america upasthit an salanaa award gyaat as the edgar Award for distinguished kaary in the rahasy vidha.
sher are obligate carnivores ; ve require up to seven kilograms ( 15 pound ) of maance prati din.
a pramukh ghatak of unke aahaar is the flesh of large mammals, jaise is African bhens.
a carnivore ( ) arth 'meat eater ' ( Latin, caro meaning 'meat ' or 'flesh ' and vorare arth 'to devour ' ) is an sajiv ki garbhashayi its urja and nutrient aavashyaktaayen isse a aahaar consisting mukhyatah or exclusively of animal utak, whether through predation or scavenging.
pashu ki depend solely on animal flesh liye their nutrient requirements hai mana carnivores while those that bhi consume non-animal khaanaa hai mana carnivores.
omnivores bhi consume both animal and non-animal khaanaa, and apart isse the more general definition, vahin is no clearly paribhaashit anupaat of sanyantr to animal saamagree that hota distinguish a facultative carnivore from an sarvahari.
a carnivore ki sits at the sheersh of the foodchain is an apex parabhakshi.
paudhe that capchar or digest keet are pukaara maansaahaari paudhe.
similarly, fungi that capchar microscopic animals hai praayah called maansaahaari fungi.
the fifa sansar cap, often bas the World cap, is an antarrashtriya sangh football pratiyogita contested by the varisht main 's neshnal tiimon of the members of fédération Internationale de footbaal sangh ( fifa ), the sport 's vaishvik shaasi deh.
the championships rai been awarded every chaar years since the inaugural toornament in 1930, magar in 1942 and 1946 jab it thi nahin held kuki of the duusari World War.
The current champions hai spain, jo jiti the 2010 tournament.
The current format of the toornament involves 32 teams spardhaa for the sheershak at venues bheetar the host swadesh ( s ) over a kaal of parichay a maah ; is phase is praayah pukaara the World cap final.
a qualification phase, which philhal takes place over the preceding teen years, is prayukt to determine which teams qualify for the toornament saath saath the mejabaan nation ( s ).
the 19 sansar cap tournaments have maharoom jiti by aath alag neshnal tiimon.
Brazil have won five times, or ve hai the tabhi team to have nibhaai in prayek tournament.
the other sansar cap vijeta hai italy, with chaar sheershak ; germany, with teen titles ; Argentina or inaugural winners urugve, with do sheershak each ; or england, frans, and spain, with one sheershak prayek.
The sansar cap is the sansar 's sabase widely viewed sporting event ; an anumaanit 715.1 lakh people watched the final match of the 2006 FIFA World cap held in germany.
the aglaa teen World cups hoga be hosted by Brazil in 2014, Russia in 2018, and qatar in 2022.
nayak is an amareeki science fiction television naatak shrenee created by Tim kring that appeared on enbisi liye chaar sizan isse sitambar 25, 2006 through farvari 8, 2010.
The series tells the kahaniyaan of ordinary people jo discover superhuman abilities, or kaisaa ye abilities lo effect in the characters ' jeevandaan.
The shrenee emulates the aesthetic style or storytelling of amareeki comic kitabe, using multi-episode story arcs ki nirmaan upon a larger, adhik encompassing chaap.
the shrenee thi utpaadit by tailwind productions in association saath saarvbhaumik Media studios.
it thi filmaaya primarily in los angeles, california.
chaar puraa sizan aired, samaapti on farvari 8, 2010.
the critically acclaimed pehla season tha a chalaaen of 23 apisod or garnered an ausat of 14.3 lakh darshak in the United States, receiving the highest darja liye an enbisi drama premier in five saalo.
the duusari ritu of nayak aakarshith an ausat of 13.1 lakh darshak in the u.S., or chihnit enbisi 's sole shrenee among the sheersh 20 kramit kaarykram in kul viewership liye the 2007–2008 ritu.
Heroes has arjeet a kramank of awards or nominations, sahit primetime emi puraskaar, sunahari globs, logon 's Choice puraskaar or British academy television puraskaar.
an online ekstansion of the series, nayak 360 anubhav, baad rebranded as nayak Evolutions, thi nirmit to explore the Heroes brahmad and provides insite into the show 's mythology.
anya official nayak media shaamil magazine, karrwai aankade, tie-in or interactive websiton, a mobile khel, a anokhaa, kapadey or other merchandise.
in the patan of 2008, NBC Digital entertainment released a series of online saamagree for the garmiyaan, sahit adhik original web saamagree, betaar itivi interactivity, graphic novels uplabdhiyaan liye mobile dekhne or webisodes.
enbisi ghoshit nayak raddikaran on may 14, 2010.
afterward, the network mana bananaa a television special event to conclude the shrenee ; however, on sitambar 9, 2010, enbisi ghoshit the nirnay to roke koi further vikaas of the nayak matadhikaar.
Tim kring then sujhaayaa ki the vyapak aadhaar of nayak storylines allowed liye the franchise to vaapasi liye prashansak, lakin he kiya nahin bataaen jab or in kayaa media format.
on april 17, 2013, tv Line reported ki emesain thi in bate to revive the shrenee saath a new daal.
jon pierpont `` J. p. ''
morgan ( april 17, 1837 – kooch 31, 1913 ) thi an amareeki financier, banker, philanthropist and art colector who varchasv corporate vitt or industrial consolidation during uske samay.
in 1892 morgan arranged the vilay of Edison saamaanya electric and thomson-houston electric Company to rup General electric.
baad financing the sristi of the sangheey Steel company, he merged in 1901 saath the carnegi steel company or anek anya steel or iron businesses, sahit Consolidated steel or taar company swaamitv by wiliam edenborn, to rup the sanyukt rajya Steel Corporation.
morgan died in rome, italy, in his sleep in 1913 at the age of 75, leaving his saubhaahgya or kaarobaar to uske bete, jon pierpont `` Jack '' morgan, jr., and bequeathing uske mansion and vishaal kitaab sangrahan to the morgan pustakaalayon & Museum in nai york.
at the oonchaai of morgan 's career dauraan the early 1900s, he and uske saajhedaar tha financial nivesh in anek vishaal corporations and were abhiyukt by critics of controlling the swadesh 's unchi vitt.
he directed the banking gathbandhan that roka the dehshat of 1907.
he was the agrani financer of the pragatisheel Era, or uske dedication to dakshata or modernization helped transform amareeki kaarobaar.
is is a list of apisod of the television shrenee.
the episodes were nirdeshit by shigeru ueda and utpaadit by the Yggdrasil karypalika cameti jisase shaamil Xebec or Genco.
the plat of the apisod is niyat in tokio or gumti around Rin asōgi, an amar nijee anveshak, as she explores the rahasy of aadhunik and near-future sansar or the alokik events ki surround the fictional society of immortals like herself.
vahin hai vishaal samay gap in the aatanrik kalkram between the pehla paanch apisod, ranging isse ek to tees saalo.
the chah apisod yahood broadcast masik on at-x channel in japani, between February 3 or July 6, 2008.
prayek episode is 45 minutes long.
do pieces of theme music are prayukt liye the apisod : the kholane theme `` alsatia '' and the samaapti theme `` kaaran astavyastata ''.
Both yahood rachit or performed by the japani metal band galneryus.
The shrenee thi utpaadit to commemorate the tenth varshganth of the AT-X sanjaal it originally aired on.
aerial photo of fletc, where us digital forensics maanakon yahood developed in the 1980s or '90s
digital forensics ( sometimes gyaat as digital forensic science ) is a branch of forensic vigyaan encompassing the recovery and investigation of saamagree mila in digital divaais, often in sambandh to computer aparaadhon.
the pad digital forensics thi originally used as a synonym liye computer forensics but has expanded to cover investigation of sab divaais sakasham of storing digital aankada.
saath roots in the personal computing revolution of the let 1970s or jaldi '80s, the anushaasan viksit in a haphazard manner dauraan the 1990s, or it thi nahin jabatak the jaldi 21st sadi ki national nitiyon emerged.
Digital forensics investigations have a kismein of anuprayog.
the sabase aam is to support or refute a pariklpana pehle dand or civil ( as bhaag of the electronic discovery process ) nyaayalayon.
forensics may bhi visheshta in the nijee sector ; such as dauraan aatanrik corporate investigations or intrusion chaanbin ( a visheshgy probe into the prakruti or extent of an unauthorized sanjaal intrusion ).
The takneekee pahalu of an investigation is vibhajit into several sub-branches, relating to the prakaar of digital divaais shaamil ; computer forensics, sanjaal forensics, forensic aankada analysis and mobile yantra forensics.
the theth forensic process encompasses the seizure, forensic imaging ( acquisition ) or analysis of digital media or the utpaadan of a rapat into ekatrit evidence.
as khub as identifying direct evidence of a aparaadhon, digital forensics can be used to visheshta pramaan to vishisht suspects, confirm alibis or statements, determine intent, pahachaano sources ( liye udhaaharan, in copyright maamle ), or authenticate dastauez.
investigations hai much broader in paimaana than other kshetron of forensic vishleshan ( where the usual uddeshy is to provide answers to a shrenee of simpler sawaal ) often involving complex time-lines or hypotheses.
a tulana of the chromaticities enclosed by kuch rang spaces.
a color model is an amoort mathematical model describing the way rangon can be represented as tuples of numbers, typically as teen or chaar maan or rang components ( e.g. arjibi or cmyk are rang models ).
however, a color model saath no associated maanchitran falan to an nirpeksh rang spes is a adhik or kam manamaani rang system saath no connection to any globally understood system of color nirvachan.
adding a nishchit maanchitran function between the rang model or a certain reference color spes parinaam in a definite `` padchihn '' bheetar the sandarbh rang spes.
is `` padchihn '' is gyaat as a gamut, and, in sangyojan saath the color model, defines a nai color spes.
For example, adobe RGB or sRGB are do different absolute rang spaces, dono based on the RGB model.
in the sabase generik sense of the paribhaasha upar, color spaces can be paribhaashit bagaiyr the use of a color model.
ye spaces, aise as Pantone, hai in prabhaav a given niyat of names or numbers which are paribhaashit by the astitv of a sambandhit niyat of shaareerik rang swatches.
This aalekh focuses on the mathematical model avadharana.
Labor din is an amareeki sangheey avkaash observed on the pehla Monday in sitambar, ki manaata the aarthik and social yogadan of majdoor.
jivan insurance is a anubandh between an insured ( insurance niti holder ) or an insurer, where the insurer promises to pay a designated labhaarthi a yoga of dhan ( the `` benefits '' ) upon the maut of the insured vyakti.
depending on the anubandh, anya events aise as terminal illness or najuk beemaari may also trigger payment.
the niti holder typically pays a premium, either regularly or as a lump yoga.
anya kharch ( aise as funeral kharch ) hai bhi sometimes shaamil in the laabh.
Life nitiyon hai legal anubandh or the sharten of the anubandh describe the limitations of the insured kaarykram.
Specific exclusions hai praayah likhaa into the anubandh to seemaa the deyta of the insurer ; aam examples hai daawa relating to aatmahatya, dhokhadhadi, war, riot or civil commotion.
life-based contracts tend to patan into do pramukh categories:
suraksha nitiyon – designed to provide a benefit in the event of nirdisht event, typically a lump yoga bhugtan.
a aam rup of is design is term bime.
nivesh policies – jahaan the main uddeshy is to sukar the vikaas of capital by niyamit or single premiums.
aam form ( in the US ) hai puure jivan, universal life or variable jivan nitiyon.
{ { infobox Holiday
chinis nai saal
9 – 12 farvari ( vietnam )
mitzi Gaynor Donahue ( born may 2, 1962 in yorba linda, Orange county, california ) is an American abhinetri, also credited or adhik popularly gyaat as mitzi kapture.
kapture began uske career in films, sabase of jisase were nahin vishaal commercial safaltaaon.
wo gai on to mek a few television guest dikhaave ( MacGyver, 1st & ten, or as a pratiyogi on The $ 100,000 Pyramid ) pehle she gained antarrashtriya exposure saath her pehla pramukh television bhoomika as sargent Rita lee talwaar in the television shrenee Silk stalkings.
kapture 's bhoomika as reeta, the anya half of the do `` Sams '' for almost 5 saalo, cemented her popularity.
yugma saath rob Estes jo played sargent kris lorenzo, kapture gained vaishvik manyata saath saath her costar chunki the show thi broadcast in anek deshon.
sargent talwaar aakhirkaar became leftinent talwaar by the samay kapture baayein the shrenee in 1995 to have her pehla child medisson.
During her time with the series, Kapture briefly sat in the nideshak 's kursi, for do apisod.
wo thi interviewed liye the resha stalkings ritu 1 DVD jisase was vitarit by lungar khadi entertainment or released in sitambar 2004.
baad a choti antaraal from the screen following uske nikaas from resha stalkings, Kapture laute in 1997 to the choti screen and uese sanjaal.
She nibhaai sise roles in do uese Pictures Originals telemovies, Perfect aparaadhon ( based on a true story, bhi pukaara chupa or talash : The joan jensen Story ), which also strecchar Jasmine guy and uske angrakshak.
She baad strecchar in a few anya independent filmi projects and theatre productions or tha several television guest appearances.
kapture also tha a punaravarti bhoomika on Baywatch as Alexis Ryker.
wo nibhaai Anita hojes on the yang or the Restless isse 2002 through 2004, jahaan she was credited as mitzi Kapture donahue, or starred in the made-for-TV film Night of Terror jisase premiered kooch 26, 2006 on Lifetime sanjaal.
uske naveenatam is a supporting bhoomika in parameshwar 's Ears, released in 2007.
kapture is the official hasti spokesperson for the xeroderma pigmentosum Society.
the exbox 360 is the duusari video khel console viksit by or utpaadit liye microsoft or the successor to the exbox.
the Xbox 360 competes saath soni 's PlayStation 3 or Nintendo 's ve as bhaag of the saatvaan peedhee of video khel consoles.
As of September 30, 2012, 70 lakh exbox 360 consoles have been bechi worldwide.
the exbox 360 thi officially anaavaran on amtivi on may 12, 2005, saath detailed launch or khel soochna divulged later ki month at the Electronic entertainment expo ( E3 ).
the console bechi out completely upon relies in all regions except in japani.
anek major suvidhaayen of the exbox 360 are iske ekikrut exbox Live seva ki allows khilaadi to compete online ; downlod arcade khel, khel demos, trailers, tv shows, music and movies ; and iske Windows media Center multimedia capabilities.
The Xbox sajiv bhi offers access to vibhinn ( praayah region-specific ) third-party media strimming anuprayog.
At unke e3 prastutikaran on june 14, 2010, microsoft ghoshit a redesigned exbox 360 ki hota jalayaan on the vahi din.
The redesigned console is slimmer than the previous exbox 360 model or suvidhaayen integrated 802.11 b/g/n Wi-Fi, toslink s/pdif optical audio output, paanch usb 2.0 port ( compared to the teen from puraani versions ) or a khaas AUX bandargahon.
Older model of the exbox 360 have chunki maharoom discontinued.
the pehla nai consol to be released suvidhaayen a 250 gb hard drive, jabaki a baad, less mahangi SKU suvidhaayen 4 gb internal storage.
backpack may bhi refer to a 2001 anokhaa by emily Barr
a modern backpack
swiss army backpack ca. 1960
ekikrut bearer frem.
a backpack ( also pukaara ruksaa, knapsack, packsack, pack ) is, in iske simplest rup, a cloth sack carried on one 's waapas and secured saath do straps that go over the kandhon, lakin vahin can be exceptions.
lightweight types of backpacks are sometimes worn on tabhi one kandhe strap.
Backpacks hai often pasandida to handbag liye carrying baari loads or carrying koi sort of equipment, kuki of the simit capacity to carry baari weights for long periods of time in the hands.
vishaal backpacks, prayukt to carry loads over 10 kg ( 22 pound ), praayah offload the largest bhaag ( up to about 90 % ) of their vazan onto padded hip belt, leaving the kandhe straps mainly liye stabilising the lod.
is improves the potential to carry baari loads, as the kulhon hai stronger than the kandhon, or bhi increases chapaltaa or santulan, since the lod yatraayen nearer the wearer 's apana bich of dravyaman.
in ancient times, the backpack thi prayukt as a means to carry the shikari 's larger game or other prakaar of prey and as a way of easier hastantaran for anya saamagree.
in the maamle of larger hunts, the hunters would dismember their shikaar or vitarit the tukade of the animal around, each one packing the meat into anek wrappings or then into bag which ve lagaai on to their backs.
the thilaa itself thi bana up of different animal chupa or skin ( depending on kayaa sorts of animals yahood in the area ) and sewn together by the aanton of kaha pashu, jisase yahood woven saath tightly to mek a sturdy thread-like saamagree.
Mexico ( ; ; ), officially the sanyukt mexican rajya ( ), is a sangheey constitutional ganatantr in uttar America.
It is bordered on the uttar by the sanyukt rajya ; on the dakshin and west by the prashanth samandar ; on the southeast by guatemala, beliz, or the caribbean Sea ; or on the east by the gulf of mexico.
Covering almost do lakh vargakar kilometre ( over 760,000 sq mi ), mexico is the paanchvaan largest desh in the americas by kul area or the 13th largest independent nation in the sansar.
saath an anumaanit janasankhyikee of over 113 million, it is the sansar 's eleventh sabase populous desh or the sabase populous spanish-speaking country.
mexico is a sangh comprising thirty-one rajya or a sangheey zila, the capital nagar.
In pre-columbian mexico anek samskritiyon matured into unnat sabhyataaon such as the olmec, the toltec, the teotihuacan, the Zapotec, the maaya or the azetek pehle first sampark saath Europeans.
in 1521, spain conquered or colonized the territory isse iske aadhaar in méxico-tenochtitlan, which thi administered as the viceroyalty of New spain.
is territory hota aakhirkaar become mexico following manyata of the colony 's independence in 1821.
the post-independence period thi characterized by economic instability, the mexican-american yuddh and territorial cession to the sanyukt States, a civil yuddh, two empires or a gharelu dictatorship.
the latter led to the mexican kranti in 1910, jisase culminated saath the promulgation of the 1917 samvidhan or the emergence of the country 's vartmaan rajnatik pranali.
Elections held in July 2000 marked the first samay ki an vipaksh party won the presidency isse the Institutional krantikari party.
chunki 2006 the desh rai maharoom in the midst of a drug yuddh jisase rai caused 60,000 mauton.
mexico rai ek of the world 's largest economies, and is mana dono a kshetreey shakti and middle shakti.
In jod, Mexico thi the pehla latin amareeki sadsy of the Organisation liye Economic co-operation and Development oecd ( since 1994 ), or mana an upper-middle aay desh by the sansar Bank.
Mexico is mana a newly industrialized country and an ubharate power.
it rai the fourteenth largest nominal GDP and the eleventh largest jidipi by khareednaa shakti parity.
the economy is strongly linked to those of its North amareeki free vyapaar anubandh ( nafta ) saajhedaar, especially the United rajya of america.
mexico baandhane sixth in the world or pehla in the americas by kramank of unesco sansar viraasat Sites saath 31, or in 2007 thi the tenth sabase visited country in the world saath 21.4 lakh antarrashtriya arrivals prati saal.
Babe ruth holds the emelbi kariyar slugging percentage ricard (.690 ).
in besabaal aankde, slugging percentage ( abbreviated slg ) is a lokapriy maap of the power of a hitter.
It is gananaa as kul bases vibhajit by at bats :
jahaan AB is the kramank of at-bats liye a die player, and 1B, 2b, 3B, and hr hai the kramank of singles, yugal, tiguna, and home ranon, respectively.
Walks hai specifically excluded isse is calculation.
liye example, in 1920, Babe ruth played his pehla ritu liye the nai York Yankees.
in 458 at bats, Ruth had 172 hits, comprising 73 singles, 36 yugal, 9 triples, and 54 ghar ranon, jisase brings the kul aadhaar ginati to ( 73 × 1 ) + ( 36 × 2 ) + ( 9 × 3 ) + ( 54 × 4 ) = 388.
His kul kramank of bases ( 388 ) vibhajit by uske total at-bats ( 458 ) is.847, uske slugging percentage for the ritu.
the aglaa saal he slugged.846, or ye records gai unbroken jabatak 2001, when bairi bonds achieved 411 bases in 476 at-bats, bringing uske slugging pratishat to.863, unmatched chunki.
is a role-playing video game developed or prakashit by vargakar ( abhi vargakar anics ) for the super nintendo entertainment pranali in 1995.
chrono Trigger 's vikaas toli shaamil three designers ki Square dubbed the `` sapana Team '' : hironobu Sakaguchi, the nirmaataa of Square 's final kaalpanik series ; yuji Horii, a freelance panktiyaan or nirmaataa of Enix 's lokapriy Dragon Quest series ; and akira toriyama, a freelance manga kalakaar famed liye uske kaary with dragon Quest and Dragon ball.
Kazuhiko aoki produced the khel, masato kaato likhaa sabase of the plat, jabaki composer yasunori mitsuda scored sabase of the khel pehle girnaa ill or deferring remaining tracks to final kaalpanik composer nobuo uematsu.
the khel 's story folo a samooh of adventurers who safar through time to prevent a vaishvik pralay.
vargakar re-released a ported version by tose in japani liye soni 's plastesan in 1999, baad repackaged saath a Final kaalpanik iv bandargahon as Final kaalpanik chronicals in 2001 liye the uttar amareeki market.
A thodaa unnat chrono trigar thi released liye the Nintendo ds on navambar 25, 2008, in North America and Japan, or gai on bikri in australia on farvari 3, 2009 or in europea on farvari 6, 2009.
The game was never released in pal territories pehle the nintendo ds sanskaran.
Chrono trigar thi a najuk and commercial kamyaabi upon relies and is considered today to be ek of the mahanatam video games of sab samay.
Nintendo shakti patrika varnit pahaluon of chrono Trigger as krantikari, including iske anek endings, plot-related sidequests focusing on character vikaas, adwitiya battle pranali, or vistrut graphics.
Chrono trigar thi the teesraa best-selling khel of 1995, or the khel 's SNES or plastesan iterations have shipped 2.65 lakh copies as of kooch 2003.
The sanskaran liye the nintendo ds bechi 790,000 nakal as of kooch 2009.
chrono Trigger thi bhi ported to mobile phone, abhaasi consol, the plastesan Network ( tabhi in the uese ), ioes divaais, and android divaais.
bakrii cheese
Goat cheese, or chèvre ( isse the french shabd liye bakrii ), is cheez made out of the milk of bakriyon.
Hyperthermia is elevated deh taapmaana due to vifal thermoregulation ki occurs jab a deh produces or absorbs adhik ooshmaa than it dissipates.
Extreme taapmaana elevation then becomes a medical apaat requiring taatkaalik upachaar to prevent viklaangata or maut.
The sabase aam kalyankari include ooshmaa stroke or adverse pratikriyaayein to drugs.
the purv is an acute taapmaana elevation caused by expozar to excessive ooshmaa, or sangyojan of heat and ardrata, ki overwhelms the heat-regulating mechanisms.
the latter is a relatively viral paksh prabhaav of anek davaayen, visheshkar those ki affect the central nervous pranali.
malignant atitaap is a viral complication of some prakaar of saamaanya anesthesia.
Hyperthermia can bhi be deliberately induced using davaayen or chikitsa divaais or may be used in the upachaar of kuch kinds of karkat or anya conditions, sabase commonly in sangyojan saath radiotherapy.
Hyperthermia differs isse fever in that the deh 's temperature set point remains aparivartit.
The vipareet is hypothermia, jisase occurs when the taapmaana boonden neeche that required to maintain saamaanya chayapachay.
beliz, is a desh located on the northeastern coast of central america.
It is the tabhi country in the kshetrafal where angrezi is the aadhikarik bhashaa, haalanki kriol or spani hai more commonly bolaa.
beliz is bordered on the north by mexico, to the south or west by guatemala or to the east by the caribbean Sea.
iske mainland is about long or chaudee.
saath of jameen or a janasankhyikee of tabhi 312,698 nivaasiyon ( 2010 janasankhyikee ), Belize possesses the lowest janasankhyikee ghanatv in Central america.
the country 's janasankhyikee vikaas rate of 3.15 % ( 2012 est. ) is the duusari ucchtam in the pradesh and one of the ucchtam in the pashchimi golardh.
beliz 's prachurtaa of sthaliy or samudri prajati, or iske vividhta of ecosystems de it a kunjee place bheetar the globally significant mesoamerican biological Corridor.
beliz has a vividh samaaj, comprising many samskritiyon or bhashaaen.
it is the tabhi nation in the pradesh saath a angrejon aupniveshik viraasat, lakin as a bhaag of the Western caribbean mandal, it bhi saajha a common heritage with the fellow anglophone caribbean countries.
In saamaanya, beliz is mana to be a central amareeki and caribbean swadesh with damdaar ties to both the caribbean or Latin america.
beliz is a member of the Caribbean jatiyaan ( caricom ), the jatiyaan of Latin amareeki or caribbean rajya ( CELAC ), and central American Integration pranali ( sika ).
beliz is gyaat liye iske sitambar jashn, and is the janmasthan of chabane gum or punta chattan.
the `` betsi ross '' dhvaj
a `` betsi ross '' dhvaj udati baahar san francisco nagar Hall
the betsi ross flag is an early design of the dhvaj of the sanyukt rajya, popularly attributed to betsi ross, using the common motifs of prayavarti red-and-white dharidaar field saath five-pointed stars in a blue canton.
the dhvaj thi designed dauraan the American Revolution and suvidhaayen 13 sitaron to represent the original 13 colonies.
the distinctive feature of the ross dhvaj is the arrangement of the sitaron in a vrutt.
haalanki the Betsy Ross story is sweekrut by sabase Americans, kuch flag itihaaskaaron or revisionists do not accept the betsi ross dizine as the pehla American flag.
According to the paramparaagat khaataa, the asli dhvaj thi bana in june 1776, jab a choti committee—including george washington, Robert morris and saapeksh George ross —visited Betsy or discussed the need liye a nai American dhvaj.
betsi sweekrut the job to manufacture the flag, altering the committee 's dizine by replacing the six-pointed sitaron with five-pointed sitaron.
jabaki the betsi ross legend is questionable, the dhvaj dizine is known to have maharoom in use by 1777 ; alfred b. gali varnit it at the aatmasamarpan of saamaanya burgoyne and samajha the vrutt of sitaron to represent samta among the amareeki rajya.
it is one of the oldest sanskaran of U.S. dhvaj gyaat to exist ; jabaki it is nahin the oldest surviving flag centuries in cloth rup, iske likeness appears on puraani shaareerik aurbindo, namely, the samakaleen battlefield paintings by jon Trumbull or charles Willson peale.
They depict the golakaar star arrangement hone flown isse jalayaan masts and anek anya sthaan, or yun provide the pehla gyaat aitihaasik documentation of the dhvaj 's appearance.
The muhar of the u.S. Department of Veterans Affairs upyog the betsi Ross dhvaj to represent seva to all veterans from the amareeki kranti to the present day.
the betsi Ross dizine of 13-star us dhvaj has maharoom pradarshit in anek lokapriy artworks ( sometimes inaccurately, as in Washington crossing the delaware ) or films, such as the 1960 sanskaran of pollyanna.
The dhvaj continues to be ek of the sabase lokapriy pratikon of the amareeki kranti.
a purr is a dhwani made by sab species of felids or is a bhaag of billi communication.
It varies between cats ( liye udhaaharan by loudness or tone ), or from prajati to prajati, but can be characterized as a tonal buzzing.
The pad `` purring '' rai maharoom used liberally in sahitya, or it rai maharoom claimed ki viverrids ( sivit, nevala, genet ), bears, badgers, hyaenas ( et cetera ) purr.
anya animals ki have maharoom said to purr are rabbits, squirrels, gini pigs, tapirs, ring-tailed lemurs, haathiyon, raccoons or gorillas while khaane.
however, using a sakht paribhaasha of purring ki nirantar sound production jarur vaikalpik between pulmonic egressive or ingressive airstream ( or praayah go on liye minutes ), peters ( 2002 ), in an exhaustive review of the vaigyanik sahitya, pahunche the nishkarsh that until tab tabhi ‘purring cats’ ( felidaye ) and two prajati of genets, genetta tigrina, and sabase sambhavit also genetta genetta, tha maharoom documented to purr.
The platypus ( ornithorhynchus anatinus ) is a semiaquatic mammal endemic to purvi australia, sahit Tasmania.
saath saath the chaar prajati of ekidna, it is ek of the paanch extant prajati of monotremes, the tabhi mammals ki lay eggs bajaay of giving janam.
It is the sole jeena pratinidhi of iske family ( ornithorhynchidae ) or genus ( ornithorhynchus ), haalanki a kramank of sambandhit species have maharoom mila in the chattan record.
the unusual rup of this egg-laying, batakh -billed, biver -tailed, otter -footed mammal manorath europea naturalists when ve pehla encountered it, saath kuch considering it an elaborate dhokhadhadi.
it is ek of the few vishaiylla stanadhariyon, the male platypus having a spur on the hind pair that delivers a venom capable of causing kathor pidaa to insaano.
the unique suvidhaayen of the platypus make it an mahatvapurn subject in the study of vikasvaadi jeevigyaan or a recognisable and iconic pratik of australia ; it rai appeared as a mascot at neshnal kaarykram or is pradarshit on the reverse of its 20-cent sikaa.
The platypus is the animal emblem of the state of nai South wales.
Until the early 20th sadi, it was hunted liye its fer, lakin it is abhi surakshit throughout iske dayera.
haalanki khilaate prajnan programmes have tha tabhi simit kamyaabi or the platypus is vulnerable to the prabhaav of pradooshan, it is nahin antargat any immediate threat.
St. elizabeth is a gaanv in miller County, mizori, United rajya.
the janasankhyikee thi 336 at the 2010 census.
wilton is a census-designated place ( cdp ) in Sacramento county, california, sanyukt States.
it is part of the sacramento – arden-arcade – roseville mahanagar sankhyikeey kshetrafal.
the population thi 5,363 at the 2010 census, up isse 4,551 at the 2000 janasankhyikee.
in human-computer baatcheet, kaaten or paste and nakal and paste hai related cmand that offer a user-interface interaction takanic liye transferring text, aankada, filein or objects from a sorce to a gantavy.
sabase ubiquitously, upayokta aavashyaktaa the kshamta to kaaten and paste bhaag of maidan text.
the kaaten cmand removes the selected aankada isse its asli position, jabaki the nakal command creates a nakal ; in dono maamle the selected aankada is lagaai in a clipboard.
The aankada in the clipboard is baad inserted in the position where the paste command is issued.
the cmand names hai an interface roopak aadhaarit on the shaareerik kaarividhi prayukt in pandulipi sampadan to banaaen a pej leout.
is baatcheet technique rai band association saath sambandhit techniques in aalekhiy upayokta interfaces ki upyog ingit devices aise as a computer mouse ( by drag or buund, for example ).
aarthik anukram maatra is the order quantity ki minimizes kul inventory holding laagat or ordering laagat.
it is ek of the oldest shastreey utpaadan scheduling model.
The framework prayukt to determine is anukram maatra is also known as Barabas eoq model or barabas sutara.
the model thi viksit by Ford W. Harris in 1913, but R. H. wilson, a consultant jo lagu it extensively, is die credit for his in-depth vishleshan.
stephen `` steewi '' Ray vaughan ( aktubar 3, 1954 – agast 27, 1990 ) was an American guitarist, singer-songwriter, and ricard nirmaataa.
praayah referred to by his adyakshar srv, vaughan is best known as a founding sadsy or netaa of Double trubal.
saath with vadak kris layton or bassist tommy shainan, ve ignited the blues revival of the 1980s.
saath a kariyar spanning saat years, vaughan and doguna trubal consistently bechi out concerts jabaki unke album aksar gai sunaharaa.
He was born or uthaaya in dalas, texas, or for a choti kaal of samay lived in graham, Texas.
As the younger bhai of jimmie vaughan, vaughan started playing the guitar at aayu saat or formed several bands ki occasionally performed in local nightclubs.
At aayu 17, he dropped out of unchi skool or sthanantarit to Austin to further pursue uske musical kariyar, joining samooh aise as Krackerjack, the Nightcrawlers, or the Cobras.
in 1977, he formed Triple Threat Revue, a band that aakhirkaar viksit into doguna trubal and regularly performed around austin.
in 1982, vaughan or Double trubal performed at the Montreux jaiz Festival in switzaraland, catching the dhyaan of sangeetkaaron David bovi or Jackson browne.
bovi poocha vaughan to khel on his aagaamee studio album let 's Dance, jabaki browne offered the band free upyog of his personal studio in Los angeles to ricard an album.
In kooch 1983, Vaughan and doguna trubal were hastakshrit to apik record by diggaj ricard producer John hamend Sr. and released unke debut album, texas baadh in June of ki saal.
baad kaamyaab touring, the samooh released the album, Could n't stand the mausam ( 1984 ) or Soul to aatma ( 1985 ), the latter of which pradarshit nai keyboardist reez Wynans.
haalanki his kariyar tha progressed safaltaapurvak, vaughan checked into a rehabilitation hospital in Atlanta, georgia to de up a cocaine or alcohol habit or returned to touring saath the band.
in june 1989, in Step was released and arjeet unhen a Grammy puraskaar for behtareen Contemporary Blues Performance.
on agast 27, 1990, vaughan thi killed in a helicopter crash following a performance in east Troy, visconsin.
vaughan 's uniquely eclectic yet teevr style thi niklaa isse a kismein of musical jati.
he was influenced by blues sangeetkaaron including albert king, Freddie King, Otis fatafat, and muddy Waters, or chattan guitarists aise as Jimi hendrix or lonnie mack.
uske guitar playing reflected the clasik bluez and pentatonic taraazoo.
He has praapt chaudee najuk recognition liye his guitar playing, ranking at # 6 on Rolling Stones list of `` 100 mahanatam guitarists '' in 2011.
He thi maranoparant inducted into the Blues haul of kirti in 2000 and a memorial pratimaa thi erected in austin 's auditorium shores park.
Stevie re Vaughan is widely mana to be ek of the mahanatam sangeetkaaron to come isse the rajya of texas.
The Las vegas strip sansar of coca-cola sangrahalay in 2003
Coca-Cola is a carbonated naram peya bechi in stores, restaraan, or vending mashine in prayek desh magar cuba and uttar Korea.
it is produced by The coca-cola Company of atlanta, Georgia, and is praayah referred to bas as coke ( a panjikrut trademark of The coca-cola company in the sanyukt rajya chunki March 27, 1944 ).
originally intended as a patent medicine jab it was invented in the let 19th century by jon Pemberton, coca-cola thi kharida out by bijnesaman asa Griggs candler, jinaki marketing tactics led coke to iske dabadabaa of the world soft-drink market throughout the 20th sadi.
The company produces concentrate, which is then sold to licensed Coca-Cola bottlers throughout the world.
the bottlers, jo tham territorially vishesh anubandh saath the company, upaj samaapt utpaada in cans and botalon from the concentrate in sangyojan saath filtered water or sweeteners.
The bottlers tab bechein, distribute and merchandise coca-cola to khudara stores or vending mashine.
aise bottlers shaamil coca-cola Enterprises, jisase is the largest single Coca-Cola bottler in uttar america or pashchimi Europe.
The Coca-Cola Company also sells concentrate liye soda sroton to pramukh restaurants or khaanaa seva distributors.
the Coca-Cola Company rai, on avasar, introduced anya cola peya under the coke brand naam.
the most aam of ye is aahaar coke, with anya sahit caffeine-free Coca-Cola, aahaar Coke caffeine-free, coca-cola cheri, Coca-Cola shunya, coca-cola vanilla, or khaas sanskaran saath lemon, lim or coffee.
aadhaarit on Interbrand 's best vaishvik brands 2011, coca-cola was the world 's sabase valuable brand.
bairi lui larkin ( born april 28, 1964 ) is a retired Major lig besabaal khilaadi.
larkin played shortstop for the Cincinnati Reds from 1986 to 2004 and thi ek of the pivotal khilaadi on the 1990 Reds ' sansar shrenee championships toli.
Larkin was nirvaachit to the neshnal besabaal haul of kirti in janvari 2012 or thi inducted on july 22.
Larkin is mana one of the sheersh khilaadi of uske era, jeetna nine chaandi slugger puraskaar or teen Gold Glove awards.
He thi chaynit to the Major League all-star khel baarah times, or thi elected the 1995 neshnal League Most moolyawaan Player.
Brasília ( ) is the sangheey puunji of Brazil or the seat of government of the sangheey District.
Administratively, the nagar is stith in the sangheey zila which is in the central-west pradesh.
physically, it is stith in the Brazilian Highlands.
it rai a janasankhyikee of parichay 2,562,963 ( 3,716,996 in the metropolitan kshetrafal ) as of the 2008 ibge anumaan, bananaa it the chauthi largest nagar in brazil.
however, as a metropolitan area, it baandhane lower at chathe in population.
brasília is the largest city in the world ki kiya not maujuud at the beginning of the 20th sadi.
brasília rai the fifth largest jidipi among latin amareeki shaharon or the teesraa in brazil.
at around r $ 62,000 brazilian reais ( baraabar to approximately $ 30,900 US dollar or €23,000 euros ), the nagar 's prati capita aay is the ucchtam among brazil 's largest cities.
as the neshnal capital, brasília is the seat of sab three shakhaon of the sangheey sarkari of brazil.
The nagar also hosts the mukhyalay of anek brazilian companiyaan.
niyojan nitiyon aise as the sthaan of residential buildings around expansive shahari kshetron, as well as bhawan the city around large avenues or dividing it into sector, have sparked a bahes or reflection on jivan in big cities in the 20th sadi.
the nagar 's design divides it into gine block as well as sector liye nirdisht kriyaayein, aise as the hotel sector, the banking sector or the Embassy sector.
brasília host 124 videshi embassies.
The nagar thi planned or viksit in 1956 saath lúcio Costa as the principal shahari planar, auskar niemeyer as the principal vaastu and roberto Burle marks as the landscape panktiyaan.
brasilia is in the unesco 's sansar Hertitage suchi due to iske vaastukala.
on april 22, 1960, it formally became brazil 's national puunji.
Viewed from upar, the pramukh portion of the nagar resembles an vayuyan or a titali.
the nagar is commonly referred to as puunji sangheey, or bas BSB.
Residents of Brasília hai gyaat as brasilienses or candangos ( the latter referring to those nahin born in the nagar but who migrated vahin baad it thi established ).
In local upyog, the shabd `` brasília '' praayah refers only to the pehla Administrative pradesh ( ra I ) bheetar the Federal zila ( Distrito sangheey ), jahaan the sabase mahatvapurn sarkari buildings hai stith.
Brasília rai a adwitiya status in Brazil, as it is an administrative prabhag balki than a legal municipality like nearly all cities in brazil.
nationally, the pad is almost always used synonymously saath the sangheey zila, jisase constitutes an indivisible federative ikai, analogous to a state.
anek `` upgrah shaharon '' maujuud jisase hai also bhaag of the sangheey zila.
brasília International vimaanashetra is the pramukh vimaanashetra in brasília, connecting the capital to all pramukh brazilian cities or anek antarrashtriya gantavyon.
It is the teesraa sabase mahatvapurn airport in Brazil, in terms of yatri or aircraft movements.
Personifications of Germany, frans, rus, austria-hungary, or the sanyukt kingdom attempting to rakhana the dhakkan on the simmering cauldron of imperialist or rashtravaadi tanaav in the Balkans to prevent a saamaanya europea war.
They yahood successful in 1912 and 1913 lakin kiya nahin safal in in 1914.
the causes of World yuddh i, jisase began in central europea in late july 1914 and samaapt in 1918, shaamil anek factors, aise as the virodh or dushmani of the chaar decades agrani up to the yuddh.
Militarism, alliances, samrajyavad, or nationalism played major bhoomikaaye in the virodh as khub.
the immediate origins of the yuddh, however, lay in the nirnay liya by kootneetigyon or senapatiyon dauraan the sankat of 1914, casus belli liye jisase thi the hatya of archduke franj ferdinand ( the archduke of austria Hungary ) or uske bivi Sophie by gavrilo princip, an irredentist serb.
The crisis aae after a long and mushkil shrenee of rajanyik clashes between the great shaktiyaan ( italy, frans, Germany, the British Empire, the Austria-Hungarian samrajya and rus ) over europea or aupniveshik mudde in the decade pehle 1914 ki had baayein tanaav unchi.
in phere ye rajanyik clashes can be traced to parivartan in the balance of shakti in europea chunki 1867.
the adhik taatkaalik kaaran liye the yuddh thi tensions over territory in the Balkans.
austria-hungary competed with srbija or rus liye territory or influence in the region and ve khinchaa the rest of the great Powers into the virodh through their vibhinn alliances or treaties.
haalanki the kadi of kaarykram unleashed by the assassination triggered the yuddh, the yuddh 's origins go deeper, involving neshnal raajnneeti, samskritiyon, arthshaastra, or a complex web of alliances and counterbalances that tha viksit between the vibhinn europea shaktiyaan since 1870.
kuch of the sabase important long pad or structural kalyankari hai : the growth of rashtrawaad aarpaar Europe, unresolved territorial disputes, an intricate pranali of alliances, the perceived vishleshan of the balance of shakti in europea, convoluted or fragmented shashan, the bahen daud of the pichhlaa dashakon, pichhlaa sainya niyojan, imperial or colonial funsane for maal, shakti or prestige, and aarthik or sainya funsane in udyog and trade – e.g., the Pig yuddh between austria or srbija.
anya kalyankari ki aae into play dauraan the rajanyik sankat ki preceded the yuddh included misperceptions of intent ( e.g., the germany vishwaas ki the sanyukt kingdom hota remain neutral ) or deree or misunderstandings in diplomatic communications.
the vibhinn shrenee of spashtikaran for sansar yuddh I correspond to different historians ' overall vidhi.
sabase itihaaskaaron or lokapriy tikaakaron shaamil kalyankari from adhik than one category of spashtikaran to provide a rounded khaataa of the causes of the yuddh.
the deepest distinction among ye khate is between stories ki dekhie it as the aprihaary or predictable nishkarsh of nishchit karkon, and those ki describe it as an manamaani or durbhagyapurna mistake.
In attributing kalyankari liye the yuddh, itihaaskaaron or lad tha to saude saath an unprecedented baadh of memoirs or aadhikarik documents, released as prayek desh shaamil aajamaaya to avoid blame liye starting the yuddh.
Early releases of soochna by governments, visheshkar those released liye upyog by the `` ayog on the Responsibility of the lekhak of the yuddh '' yahood shown to be incomplete and pakshpatpurna.
in addition kuch documents, visheshkar rajanyik cabel between Russia or frans, were mila to have maharoom doctored.
bhi in later dashakon however, jab much adhik information tha maharoom released, itihaaskaaron isse the vahi samskruti have maharoom dikhaaya to come to differing conclusions on the kalyankari of the yuddh.
johnson 's nai chart of national pratik, prakashit c. 1868.
the vishaal flags dikhaaya in the kinare hai the 37-star dhvaj of the United rajya ( flown 1867-1877 ), the Royal Standard of the sanyukt kingdom, the roosi imperial Standard, or the french tricolore saath inset Imperial tribhuj.
vibhinn anya dhvaj flown by ships are shown.
The dhvaj of cuba is labelled `` cuban ( so called ) ``.
the chinis dragon on the dhvaj of China thi drawn mistakenly as a pashchimi dragon.
a neshnal dhvaj is a dhvaj ki symbolizes a country.
The dhvaj is flown by the government, lakin praayah can bhi be flown by nagarikon of the country.
dono public or nijee buildings aise as skulon or courthouses may makkhi the neshnal flag.
in kuch deshon, the neshnal dhvaj are tabhi flown from non-military imaaraten on certain dhvaj dinon.
vahin hai teen pruthak types of neshnal dhvaj for use on jameen, or three liye upyog at samudr, haalanki anek deshon upyog ekasmaan dizin liye anek ( or sometimes all ) of ye prakaar of dhvaj.
The amareeki civil yuddh ( acw ), bhi known as the yuddh between the rajya or bas the civil War ( dekhie namakaran ), thi a civil yuddh fought isse 1861 to 1865 between the sanyukt rajya ( the `` Union '' or the `` uttar '' ) or anek dakshini slave rajya ki ghoshit unke secession and formed the confederate States of america ( the `` confederacy '' or the `` dakshin '' ).
the yuddh had its utpatti in the issue of slavery, especially the ekstansion of gulaami into the western territories.
Foreign shaktiyaan kiya nahin intervene.
baad chaar years of khooni combat ki left over 600,000 sainiko murde and nasht much of the dakshin 's avasanrachana, the Confederacy collapsed, gulaami thi abolished, or the mushkil punarnirmaan process of restoring neshnal ekta or guaranteeing adhikaron to the freed slave began.
in the 1860 adhyakshiya election, Republicans, led by abraham lincoln, opposed expanding gulaami into sanyukt rajya ' territories.
Lincoln won, but pehle uske udghaatan on kooch 4, 1861, seven cotton-based slave rajya formed the confederacy.
outgoing loktantric President james Buchanan and the aavak republicans asweekrut secession as illegal.
lincoln 's inaugural address declared uske prashasan hota nahin initiate civil war.
Eight baaki slave states continued to asweekrut kals liye secession.
confederate shaktiyaan jabt numerous sangheey durgon within territory claimed by the Confederacy.
a salaam Conference vifal to dhundhen a sulah, or dono pahalu prepared for war.
the confederates assumed ki europea deshon were so nirbhar on `` King kapaas `` that ve hota intervene ; none did and none recognized the nai confederate States of America.
Hostilities began on April 12, 1861, jab Confederate shaktiyaan fired upon Fort sumter, a key fort yojit by sangh troops in South Carolina.
lincoln pukaara liye each rajya to provide sainikon to retake the fort ; consequently, chaar adhik slave rajya joined the confederacy, bringing unke total to eleven.
the Union soon niyantrit the border rajya or sthapit a naval nakebandi that abodh the dakshini arthvyavastha.
the purvi theatre thi inconclusive in 1861–62.
The patjhad 1862 confederate abhiyaan into Maryland ( a sangh rajya ) ended saath confederate retreat at the Battle of Antietam, dissuading angrejon hastkshep.
lincoln issued the emancipation Proclamation, jisase made samaapti gulaami a yuddh lakshya.
To the west, by summer 1862 the sangh nasht the Confederate nadi navy, tab much of unke western sena, and the sangh at vicksburg vibhajit the Confederacy in do at the mississippi nadi.
in 1863, Robert E. lee 's confederate incursion north ended at the battle of gettysburg.
pashchimi safaltaaon led to ulysses S. grant cmand of sab sangh armies in 1864.
in the pashchimi theatre, wiliam T. sharaman drove east to capture Atlanta or marched to the samudr, destroying Confederate infrastructure along the rasta.
the sangh marshaled the sansaadhan and manpower to akraman the confederacy from all directions, or could afford to lado battles of apgharshan through the overland Campaign towards Richmond, the Confederate puunji.
the defending Confederate army vifal, leading to lee 's aatmasamarpan to grant at appomattox Court house on April 9, 1865.
the American Civil yuddh thi ek of the earliest sachcha audyogic yudhon.
Railroads, the telegraph, steamships, or mass-produced hathiyaar yahood employed extensively.
the mobilization of civilian kaarkaanon, mines, shipyards, banks, transportation or khaanaa aapurtiyan sab foreshadowed sansar yuddh i.
it remains the deadliest yuddh in amareeki itihaas, resulting in the mauton of an anumaanit 750,000 sainiko or an undetermined kramank of civilian hataahat.
itihaaskaar jon huddleston estimates the maut toll at ten pratishat of sab Northern males 20–45 years old, or 30 pratishat of sab Southern white males aged 18–40.
norrie beemaari is a genetic vikaar ki primarily affects the najar or lagbhag sadaa lead to drishtiheenta.
in jod to the janmajaat ocular lakshan, some marijon suffer from a pragatisheel hearing ghaataa starting zyaadaatar in unke 2nd dashak of life, jabaki another portion may be maansik challenged.
marijon saath norrie disease may develop cataracts, leukocoria ( a condishan where the pupils appear shwet jab light is shone on unhen ), along with other developmental mudde in the najar, such as shrinking of the globe or the barbaad dur of the iris.
Around 30–50 % of unhen hoga also have developmental delaca/ dimagi retardation, psychotic-like suvidhaayen, incoordination of andolanon or behavioral abnormalities.
Most marijon hai born saath saamaanya sunanaa ; however, the onset of sunanaa ghaataa is very aam in jaldi kishoravastha.
parichay 15 % of the marijon hai anumaanit to develop sab the suvidhaayen of the beemaari.
the beemaari affects lagbhag tabhi male infants at janam or jald after birth, because the beemaari is inherited x-linked recessive.
tabhi in bahut viral maamle, mahilaon have been diagnosed with Norrie disease as khub.
the sateek incidence kramank is anjaan ; tabhi a few hundred cases have been reported so far.
it is a bahut viral vikaar ki is not associated saath koi specific jaateey or jatigat samooh.
a contract is an anubandh having a lawful object daalaa into voluntarily by do or adhik parties, prayek of whom intends to banaaen ek or adhik legal dayitvon between unhen.
the tatv of a anubandh hai `` prastaav '' or `` acceptance '' by `` competent persons '' having legal kshamta jo exange `` vichaar '' to banaaen `` mutuality of obligation. ''
Proof of kuch or sab of ye elements may be kiya in writing, though anubandh may be bana entirely orally or by conduct.
the upaay for ulanghan of contract can be `` kshatipurti '' in the rup of muaavje of money or vishisht performance enforced through an aadesh.
dono of ye remedies award the party at ghaataa the `` laabh of the saudebaaji '' or expectation kshatipurti, which hai greater than mere reliance kshatipurti, as in promissory estoppel.
the partiyon may be prakritik vyaktiyon or juristic vyaktiyon.
A anubandh is a legally enforceable promise or undertaking ki kuch will or hoga nahin occur.
The shabd vaada can be prayukt as a vidhik synonym liye anubandh, although parvaah is required as a vaada may not have the full khadaa of a contract, as jab it is an anubandh bagaiyr vichaar.
anubandh vidhi varies greatly from ek kshetradhikaar to another, sahit matbhed in common vidhi compared to civil vidhi, the impact of praapt law, visheshkar from england in common law deshon, and of vidhi samhitabaddh in regional legislation.
Regarding australian anubandh vidhi for udhaaharan, there hai 40 praasangik adhiniyamon jisase prabhaav on the nirvachan of contract at the rashtramandal ( Federal / neshnal ) level, or an atirikt 26 adhiniyamon at the str of the state of nsw.
in addition vahin hai 6 antarrashtriya yantra or prathaon which hai lagu liye antarrashtriya dealings, such as the sanyukt raashtra sammelan on Contracts for the antarrashtriya Sale of goods.
ASP.NET is a server-side Web anuprayog fremawork designed liye Web development to upaj dianemic web pages.
It thi viksit by microsoft to allow programmers to build dianemic web site, web anuprayog or web services.
It thi pehla released in janvari 2002 saath sanskaran 1.0 of the.NET fremawork, or is the successor to microsoft 's kriyasheel sarwar prishthon ( asp ) praudyogiki.
asp.net is built on the aam bhashaa runtime ( clr ), allowing programmers to likhen ASP.NET code using koi samarthit.neT language.
The asp.net sabun ekstansion fremawork allows asp.net components to prakram sabun sandesh.
Lysergic acid diethylamide, abbreviated LSD or LSD-25, also gyaat as lysergide ( in ) or colloquially as acid, is a semisynthetic cicedelik drug of the ergoline parivaar, khub gyaat for iske manovaigyanik effects jisase can shaamil altered thinking prakriyaaon, band or kholen najar visuals, synesthesia, an altered sense of time or aadhyatmik experiences, as well as for iske key role in 1960s counterculture.
it is prayukt mukhyatah as an entheogen, recreational drug, and as an agent in cicedelik chikitsa.
alesady is non-addictive, is nahin gyaat to cause brain damage, or rai atyadhik kam toxicity saapeksh to khuraaq.
however, adverse psychiatric pratikriyaayein such as anxiety, paranoia, or delusions hai sambhavit.
alesady was pehla synthesized by Albert hofmann in 1938 from ergotamine, a rasinic niklaa by arthur stoll isse ergot, a anaaj kavak ki typically grows on rye.
the short form `` alesady '' aata isse iske jaldi code naam lsd-25, jisase is an sankshipt liye the German `` lysergsäure-diethylamid '' followed by a sequential kramank.
alesady is samvedansheel to oxygen, ultraviolet lite, or chloride, visheshkar in solution, haalanki iske potency may pichhlaa for saalo if it is bhandaarit away from lite or nami at kam taapmaana.
In pure form it is a colorless, odorless, tasteless solid.
LSD is typically vitarit orally, usually on a substrate aise as absorbent blotter paper, a sugar ghan, or gelatin.
in iske drav rup, it can also be administered by intramuscular or intravenous injection.
alesady is bahut potent, saath 20–30 μg ( micrograms ) hone the dahalij khuraaq.
nai prayog with alesady prarambh in 2009 liye the first samay in 40 saalo.
introduced by sandoz laboratories, with trade-name Delysid, as a drug with vibhinn manorog upyog in 1947, alesady quickly became a therapeutic agent ki appeared to show great vaada.
In the 1950s, officials at the u.S. Central pragna agency ( CIA ) vichaar the drug might be lagu to dimag control or chemical warfare ; the agency 's mkultra shodh kaarykram propagated the drug among young servicemen and vidhyaarthee.
the subsequent recreational upyog of the drug by yuvavastha samskruti in the pashchimi sansar dauraan the 1960s led to a rajnatik firestorm ki resulted in iske prohibition.
philhal, a kramank of organizations—including the beckley Foundation, maanchitr, heffter shodh Institute or the albert hofmann foundation—exist to fund, protsaahit and coordinate shodh into the aushadhiy and spiritual uses of alesady and related psychedelics.
the sanyukt States navy 's Sea, air, Land Teams, commonly gyaat as the navy seals, are the u.S. navy 's principal special parichaalan force or a part of the naval khaas warfare cmand or United rajya khaas parichaalan cmand.
`` muhar '' is always capitalized in reference to sadasyon of the Naval khaas Warfare community.
The acronym is niklaa from their kshamta to operate at samudr, in the air, or on land.
seals hai purush members of the sanyukt rajya navy.
an exange kaarykram with the coast guard, which graduate three Coast guardsmen as SEALs, thi nilambit in 2011.
the siie 's highly gupachup Special kriyaayein prabhag ( SAD ) and adhik specifically its elite khaas parichaalan samooh ( sog ) rangaruton oparator from the SEAL tiimon.
Joint navy seals or siie operations go waapas to the famed macv-sog dauraan the vietnam War.
This sahyog still exists aaj or is dekhi in the yudhon in iraqi or afghanistan, and in the dhundhna or hatya of osama bin laden in pakistani.
World janasankhyikee estimates isse 1800 to 2100, aadhaarit on UN 2010 projections ( red, naarangi, green ) or us janasankhyikee beuro aitihaasik estimates ( blike ).
vaastavik ankit population aankade hai in blue.
According to the highest estimate, the sansar janasankhyikee may vruddhi to 16 arab by 2100 ; according to the nunatam anumaan, it may manaahi to 6 arab.
the sansar janasankhyikee is the kul kramank of jeena insaano on dharti.
As of aaj, it is anumaanit to kramank arab by the sanyukt States Census beuro ( uscb ).
the uscb estimates ki the sansar janasankhyikee exceeded 7 billion on kooch 12, 2012.
according to a separate anumaan by the sanyukt raashtra Population Fund, it pahunche this padaav on aktubar 31, 2011.
the sansar population rai anbhavi continuous vikaas since the samaapt of the Great akaal and the Black maut in 1350, jab it stood at around 370 lakh.
The highest daron of vikaas – vaishvik population increases upar 1.8 % prati saal – were seen briefly dauraan the 1950s, or liye a longer kaal during the 1960s or 1970s.
The vikaas rate peaked at 2.2 % in 1963, or tha declined to 1.1 % by 2011.
kul salanaa births were ucchtam in the let 1980s at parichay 138 lakh, and are abhi apekshit to remain essentially nirantar at unke 2011 str of 134 million, jabaki mauton kramank 56 million prati saal, or are apekshit to badhayen to 80 lakh prati saal by 2040.
vartmaan projections show a jari increase in janasankhyikee in the nikat bhavishya ( lakin a steady manaahi in the janasankhyikee growth rate ), saath the vaishvik janasankhyikee apekshit to pahunchein between 7.5 or 10.5 billion by 2050.
Various longer-term estimates bhavishyavaanee further growth, stagnation, or bhi overall decline in the vaishvik janasankhyikee by 2150.
kuch vishleshkon have questioned the sthirataa of further sansar janasankhyikee growth, citing the growing pressures on the paryaavaran, vaishvik khaanaa supplies, or urja resources.
memphis is a nagar in the southwestern kone of the u.S. rajya of tennesi, or the county seat of shelbi County.
the nagar is stith on the 4th chickasaw bluff, south of the sangam of the bhediya and Mississippi nadiyaan.
memphis tha a janasankhyikee of 672,277 in 2011 bananaa it the largest city in the rajya of tennesi, the largest nagar on the Mississippi nadi, the third largest in the Southeastern sanyukt rajya, or the 20th largest in the sanyukt rajya.
the vrihad memphis metropolitan kshetrafal, sahit sata counties in Mississippi or arkansaas, tha a 2010 janasankhyikee of 1,316,100.
This makes memphis the duusari largest mahanagar kshetrafal in tennesi, surpassed tabhi by mahanagar naishaville, jisase has overtaken memphis in haal saalo.
memphis is the youngest of tennesi 's pramukh shaharon.
A nivasee of memphis is referred to as a Memphian, and the memphis pradesh is gyaat, visheshkar to media outlets, as `` Memphis & the mid-south ``.
The Cattenom Nuclear shakti sanyantr in frans.
France produces around teen quarters of iske electricity by nabhikeey power.
the Grafenrheinfeld nabhikeey shakti sanyantr in germany.
chancelar Angela markel 's gathbandhan ghoshit on may 30, 2011, that germany’s 17 nabhikeey power stesan hoga be shut bas by 2022, in a niti reversal following japani 's phukushima daiichi nabhikeey vipatti.
philhal, 68 riektaron are antargat nirmaan in 15 deshon.
nabhikeey power stesan operate in thirty countries.
in 2010, pehle the Fukushima daiichi nuclear vipatti, it was reported ki an average of about 10 nabhikeey riektaron yahood apekshit to become operational prati saal, although according to the sansar nabhikeey Association, of the 17 civilian riektaron niojit to become operational between 2007 or 2009, tabhi five darasal came on stream.
as of june 2011, germany or switzaraland are phasing-out nabhikeey power.
as of June 2011, deshon aise as australia, austria, denmark, unaniyon, Ireland, Italy, latvian, liechtenstein, Luxembourg, malaysia, malta, New jiland, norway and Portugal remain opposed to nabhikeey power.
skeletal mansapeshiyaan homo sapiens
is is a talika of mansapeshiyaan of the insaan anatomy.
There hai lagbhag 642 skeletal muscles bheetar the theth insaan, and lagbhag every muscle constitutes ek bhaag of a jodi of ekasmaan dwipaksheeya mansapeshiyaan, mila on dono pahalu, resulting in lagbhag 320 pairs of mansapeshiyaan, as presented in is aalekh.
Nevertheless, the exact kramank is mushkil to define because different strot group muscles differently, e.g. regarding what is defined as alag bhaag of a single mansapeshi or as several mansapeshiyaan.
udhaaharan dayera isse 640 to 850.
the mansapeshiyaan of the insaan deh can be categorized into a kramank of groups jisase shaamil muscles relating to the sir or gardan, mansapeshiyaan of the torso or trunk, muscles of the apper limbs, and muscles of the nimnatar limbs.
The action refers to the karrwai of prayek muscle isse the maanak anatomical sthiti.
In anya sthitiyaan, anya actions may be performed.
a reenactment of a battle at fort foster, 1837 ( at hillsborough River rajya Park )
the seminole yudhon, bhi gyaat as the florida yudhon, yahood teen virodh in Florida between the Seminole — the samuhik naam die to the amalgamation of vibhinn samooh of native Americans or blike logon who settled in florida in the jaldi 18th sadi — and the United rajya fouj.
The pehla seminole War thi from 1814 to 1819 ( although strot differ ), the duusari seminole yuddh from 1835 to 1842, or the Third seminole yuddh from 1855 to 1858.
the first virodh with the Seminoles arose out of tanaav relating to saamaanya andrew jackson 's akraman or vinaash of nigro fort in florida in 1816.
Jackson also attacked the spani at Pensacola.
ultimately, the spani crown ceded the colony to sanyukt rajya niyam.
orono is a kasbaa in penobscot county, maine, United States.
It thi first settled in 1774 or namit in sammaan of mukhya Joseph orono of the penobscot swadesh.
it is ghar to the vishvavidhyalayon of maine.
the population was 10,362 at the 2010 janasankhyikee.
drishy of the pyramid
luxsar las vegas is a hotel and casino on the Las Vegas strip in swarg, newada.
the 30-story hotel, owned and operated by MGM Resorts International, rai a casino saath over 2,000 slot machines or 87 talika khel.
in the 2008 to 2009 naveekaran, it rai a new, atyadhik aadhunikeekaran, and samakaleen dizine or contains a kul of 4,400 rooms, sahit 442 suites, astr the aantarik deevaaren of a pyramid style minar or bheetar judwa 22-story ziggurat towers that yahood nirmit as baad parivardhan.
the hotel is namit baad the nagar of luxsar ( pracheen thebes ) in mishra.
luxsar is the second largest hotel in Las Vegas ( the largest hone the mgm grand ) and the aathvin largest in the sansar.
As of 2010, the luxsar rai a 4 kunjee rating from the green kunjee Eco-Rating kaarykram, jisase evaluates `` sustainable '' hotel operations.
a pilot prayog, bhi pukaara a payalat study, is a choti scale praarambhik study conducted in order to evaluate feasibility, samay, cost, adverse kaarykram, and prabhaav size ( statistical variability ) in an attempt to bhavishyavaanee an uchit namoona aakaar or improve upon the padhai dizine prior to performance of a full-scale research project.
Pilot adhyayan, isliye, may not be uchit for maamla adhyayan.
The Los angeles aag vibhaag ( LAFD ) is the agency ki provides fire protection and apaat medical services for the nagar of los angeles.
it may be unofficially referred to as the los angeles nagar aag vibhaag to fark it from the Los Angeles county Fire Department.
the acre is a ikai of area prayukt in the imperial or u.S. customary pranaaliyon.
an acre is parichay 40 % of a hectare – slightly choti than an amareeki footbaal field.
The acre is no longer commonly prayukt, haalanki a few notable exceptions shaamil the United rajya, australia, burma and the sanyukt Kingdom ( as of 2010, the acre is no longer officially prayukt in the sanyukt Kingdom, haalanki is still prayukt in real estate descriptions ).
It is still used, to kuch extent, in Canada.
the antarrashtriya pratik of the acre is ac, or is defined as 1/640 of a vargakar mile.
the sabase commonly prayukt acre aaj is the antarrashtriya acre.
in the United rajya both the international acre or the thodaa different US surveykshan acre hai in upyog.
the sabase aam upyog of the acre is to measure tracts of jameen.
ek international acre is defined as 4046.8564224 square metres.
dauraan the Middle Ages, an acre was the amount of land ki could be plowed in ek din saath a yoke of oxen.
Pawnee initially refers to a deshi American logon or iske language:
pawnee people
Pawnee bhashaa
pawnee is bhi the naam of several sthaan in the sanyukt States:
Pawnee, illinois
pawnee, Kansas
pawnee nagar, Nebraska
pawnee, Oklahoma
Pawnee, texas
pawnee neshnal Grassland, Colorado
pawnee Township ( bahuviklpi )
pawnee county ( disambiguation )
pawnee may bhi refer to:
Piper PA-25 pawnee, agricultural vayuyan
Hiller VZ-1 pawnee, praayogic aircraft
pawnee, indiana ( fictional nagar ) the fictional setting of the enbisi television kamedi park or manoranjan.
broca 's and wernicke 's kshetron
bhashaa processing refers to the way insaan beings use shabd to communicate vichaar or jajbaat, or how such communications are processed or samajha.
yun it is how the dimag creates or understands bhashaa.
sabase haal theories consider ki this prakram is carried out entirely by and inside the dimag.
is is mana one of the sabase characteristic abilities of the insaan prajati - shaayad the sabase characteristic.
However bahut choti is known parichay it or vahin is vishaal paimaana liye shodh on it.
sabase of the knowledge acquired to tithi on the vishay has aaiye isse marijon who have suffered kuch prakaar of significant head injury, whether bahya ( wounds, bullate ) or internal ( strokes, tumors, degenerative rogon ).
adhyayan have shown ki sabase of the language processing functions are carried out in the cerebral cortex.
the anivaary falan of the cortical language kshetron is sankethik representation.
Even though bhashaa exists in different form, sab of unhen hai based on symbolic representation.
The bugatti veyron EB 16.4 is a mid-engined grand touring car, designed and viksit by the Volkswagen samooh or manufactured in Molsheim, frans by bugatti Automobiles S.A.S.
the super khel sanskaran of the veyron is the tivratam street-legal utpaadan car in the sansar, with a sheersh gati of.
The original sanskaran rai a sheersh gati of.
it thi namit car of the dashak ( 2000–2009 ) by the bibisi television programme sheersh gear.
the maanak veyron won sheersh gears behtareen Car chalit sab saal award in 2005.
on 6 april 2013, bugatti set the ricard liye the tivratam roadster in the sansar saath the veyron grand khel Vitesse, reaching on average a sheersh speed of.
The veyron 's mukhya panktiyaan was Hartmut Warkuss, or the exterior thi designed by Jozef Kabaň of volkswagen, saath much of the abhiyantriki kaary hone conducted under the maargdarshan of engineering chief woolfgong schreiber.
a kramank of khaas visangatiyaan have been produced.
In December 2010, bugatti began offering prospective kharidaar the ability to manapsand exterior and interiars rang by using the Veyron 16.4 configurator anuprayog on the marque 's aadhikarik jalsthal.
DVD is an optical disc storage swaroop, invented or developed by philips, Sony, toshiba, or panasonic in 1995.
dvds offer ucchtar bhandar capacity than compact discs while having the vahi aayam.
pre-recorded DVDs hai mass-produced using sancha mashine that physically stamp data onto the dvd.
Such discs hai known as dvD- rom, because aankada can tabhi be padhaa or not likhaa nor erased.
rikt recordable DVD discs ( dvd-r and dvd+r ) can be ankit ekbar using a dvd recorder and tab falan as a DVD-ROM. rewritable dvds ( dvd-rw, dvd+rw, and dvd-ram ) can be recorded or erased multiple times.
DVDs hai used in dvd-video consumer digital video swaroop or in dvd-audio consumer digital audio swaroop, as khub as for authoring avchd discs.
dvds containing anya prakaar of information may be referred to as DVD aankada discs.
What chilli wants is an amareeki vaastaviktaa shrenee on VH1 abhinit chilli, one-third of the grami puraskaar -winning R & b tikdi tlc.
the dikhaaen chronicals chilli 's quest to dhundhen prem with the sahaayta of Tionna T. smalls, an author and relationship coach.
the shrenee premiered on April 11, 2010, or rai chunki maharoom navinikrut for a duusari ritu.
The duusari season premiered on sande, janvari 2, 2011.
peter jin hernandez ( born aktubar 8, 1985 ), known by uske stage name bruno Mars, is an amareeki singer-songwriter or record producer.
uthaaya in honolulu, hawaii, by a parivaar of sangeetkaaron, mangal began bananaa music at a young aayu and performed in vibhinn musical venues in uske grihnagar throughout uske balykaal.
he graduate isse unchi school or tab sthanantarit to los angeles, california, to pursue a musical career.
mangal utpaadit geeton liye other artists, joining production team the smeezingtons.
mangal had an unsuccessful karyavadhi saath Motown record, but tab hastakshrit saath Atlantic in 2009.
he became recognized as a solo artist after lending his vocals or co-writing the hooks liye the geeton `` Nothin ' on tum `` by b.o.b, and `` arbapati `` by Travie mccoy.
he bhi co-wrote the hits `` sahi golakaar `` by flo rida featuring Ke $ ha, or `` Wavin ' dhvaj `` by k'naan.
in October 2010, he released his debut album, doo-wops & Hooligans.
Anchored by the vishwavyaapee number-one singles `` bas the rasta tum Are `` or `` Grenade ``, the album peaked at number teen on the Billboard 200.
Mars thi manonith liye saat grammys at the 53rd grami puraskaar, jeetna behtareen purush Pop Vocal pradarshan liye `` bas the rasta tum hai ''.
His second studio album, Unorthodox jeukabox, was released on disambar 11, 2012.
mangal ' music is vikhyath liye displaying a chaudee kismein of styles or prabhaav, or contains tatv of anek musical jati.
he rai worked saath an assortment of artists isse vibhinn genres.
as a child, he was atyadhik bahekaave by kalakaaron such as choti Richard, elvis presli or Michael jackson or hota praayah impersonate ye kalakaaron isse a young aayu.
mangal also incorporates regi - and Motown -inspired sounds into his kaary.
vishwavyaapee, mangal became the best-selling digital kalakaar in 2011.
He tha teen singles in the sheersh ten, including pehla place saath `` Just the Way tum Are '', jisase bechi 12.5 lakh nakal.
mangal jiti behtareen International purush Solo kalakaar at the 2012 BRIT Awards.
bruno mangal has bechi 6 lakh album or 40 million singles vishwavyaapee as a singer.
Althought as a song-writer, nirmaataa and singer uske kul single downlod bikri surpass 100 lakh vishwavyaapee.
bast of zeeus, otricoli ( sala Rotonda, Museo pio-clementino, vatican ).
Greek mythology is the deh of mithkon or teachings ki belong to the pracheen Greeks, concerning unke devataaon or heroes, the prakruti of the sansar, or the origins or significance of their apana cult and anushthan practices.
it was a bhaag of the religion in pracheen unaniyon or is bhaag of religion in aadhunik unaniyon or around the sansar, gyaat as Hellenismos.
aadhunik vidwaanon refer to or padhai the myths in an attempt to throw light on the dharmik and rajnatik institutions of Ancient unaniyon or iske civilization, and to laabh understanding of the prakruti of myth-making itself.
unani mythology is explicitly samavisht in a large sangrahan of kahaniyaan, and implicitly in unani representational kala, aise as vase-paintings or votive gifts.
unani myth attempts to bataaiye the origins of the sansar, and vivaran the lives or adventures of a chaudee kismein of devataaon, deviyaan, heroes, heroines, or puranic jeev.
ye khate initially yahood disseminated in an oral-poetic parampara ; aaj the unani mithkon hai gyaat primarily isse unani sahitya.
the oldest gyaat unani saahitiyik strot, homer 's apik kavitaayen Iliad or odissi, fokas on kaarykram surrounding the trojan yuddh.
Two poems by homer 's nikat samakaleen Hesiod, the theogony and the works or dinon, contain khate of the genesis of the sansar, the uttaradhikaar of daivi rulers, the succession of insaan ages, the origin of insaan woes, or the utpatti of sacrificial practices.
Myths hai also preserved in the homeric Hymns, in fragments of apik kavitaayen of the Epic Cycle, in lyric kavitaayen, in the works of the tragedians of the fifth century bc, in writings of vidwaanon and kaviyon of the hellenistic aayu, and in granth isse the time of the roman samrajya by writers such as Plutarch and pausanias.
puraatatv nishkarshon provide a principal sorce of vivaran parichay unani mythology, saath devataaon or heroes featured prominently in the sajaavat of many artifacts.
jyamitiya dizin on pottery of the aathvin sadi bc depict drishyon isse the trojan saikil as khub as the adventures of Heracles.
In the succeeding archaic, shastreey, or Hellenistic avadhi, Homeric or various anya puranic drishyon appear, supplementing the maujuuda literary evidence.
Greek mythology rai tha an extensive influence on the culture, arts, or sahitya of pashchimi sabhyataa or remains bhaag of pashchimi viraasat or bhashaa.
kaviyon and kalakaaron from pracheen times to the upasthit have derived prerana from Greek mythology or have khoja samakaleen significance and praasangikta in the vishaywastu.
Mouth & macneal in 1971
munh & macneal thi a pop duo isse the Netherlands.
ve are behtareen gyaat liye their million selling recording of `` kaisaa Do tum Do ``.
the boise State broncos football kaarykram represents boise rajya vishvavidhyalayon in college football or compete in the footbaal katori subdivision ( FBS ) of prabhag I as a sadsy of the pahaad west Conference.
ve are philhal led by head coach kris petersen or khel unke ghar khel at bronco Stadium.
the frank ( sign : fr. or sfr. ; German : franken, french or romansh : frank, Italian : franco ; code : chf ) is the karency and legal tender of Switzerland or Liechtenstein ; it is bhi vidhik tender in the italvi exclave campione d'italia.
haalanki not formally legal tender in the German exclave Büsingen ( the sole vidhik karency is the european ), it is in wide rose upyog vahin.
The swiss neshnal bainko issues banknotes or the sangheey mint Swissmint issues sikke.
the swiss franc is the tabhi sanskaran of the franc still jari in europea.
the smaller denomination, a hundredth of a franc, is a rappen ( rp. ) in germany, centime ( c. ) in french, centesimo ( ct. ) in Italian, or rap ( rp. ) in Romansh.
the iesao code of the currency prayukt by banks or vittiya institutions is CHF, haalanki `` fr. '' is used by most businesses and vigyapandaata ; some upyog SFr. ; the Latinate `` ch '' stand for Confoederatio Helvetica.
die the alag bhashaaen prayukt in switzaraland, latin is prayukt liye language-neutral inscriptions on the coins.
sar charles Spencer `` Charlie '' chaplin, ( 16 april 188925 disambar 1977 ) was a angrejon comic actor or filmmaker who rose to kirti in the mook era.
chaplin became a worldwide icon through his screen persona `` the tremp `` or is considered ek of the sabase important aankade of the filmi udyog.
His kariyar spanned adhik than 75 years, from a child in the victorian era to close to his maut at the aayu of 88, or encompassed both adulation or vivaad.
uthaaya in London, Chaplin 's childhood was defined by poverty and hardship.
he thi sent to a workhouse twice pehle the aayu of nau ; uske father thi anupasthit, and uske maan thi vachanabaddh to a mental asylum.
chaplin began performing isse a yang age, touring music haul and baad working as a stage karta or hasya.
at 19 he was hastakshrit to the prestigious Fred karno company, jisase took him to america.
chaplin was scouted by the film udyog, or made uske pehla dikhaave in 1914 saath keystone Studios.
he jald viksit the tremp persona or formed a large prashansak aadhaar.
Chaplin nirdeshit his films isse an jaldi stage, or jari to hone uske craft as he sthanantarit to the essanay, Mutual, or pehla neshnal corporations.
by 1918, he thi ek of the sabase prasiddh main in the world.
In 1919, chaplin co-founded the vitaran company sanyukt kalakaaron, giving use puraa control over his films.
uske pehla feature-length chitra thi the Kid ( 1921 ), followed by a Woman of paris ( 1923 ), the sunaharaa fatafat ( 1925 ), or the sarkas ( 1928 ).
He refused to move to dhwani films in the 1930s, bajaay producing nagar lits ( 1931 ) or Modern times ( 1936 ) without samvaad.
chaplin became increasingly political or uske next filmi, the Great Dictator ( 1940 ), satirised adolf hitler.
the 1940s thi a decade marked saath vivaad liye chaplin, or uske lokapriyata asweekrut rapidly.
He thi abhiyukt of communist sympathies, jabaki uske involvement in a paternity suut or vivaah to much younger mahilaon yahood mana scandalous.
An FBI chaanbin was opened on Chaplin, or he was aakhirkaar forced to leave the sanyukt rajya or settle in switzaraland.
he abandoned the Tramp for uske later films, jisase shaamil monsieur verdoux ( 1947 ), limelight ( 1952 ), A king in nai york ( 1957 ), and A Countess From hong kong ( 1967 ).
Chaplin likhaa, nirdeshit, utpaadit, edited, scored, or starred in most of his films.
he thi a perfectionist, and uske vittiya independence meant he praayah kharch saalo on the vikaas or utpaadan of a chitra.
uske films hai characterised by slapstick combined with pathos, or praayah visheshta the tremp struggling viruddh adversity.
anek contain soshal or political vishaywastu, as khub as autobiographical elements.
In 1972, as part of a navinikrut saraahna for uske work, chaplin received an maanad academy Award liye `` the incalculable prabhaav he has tha in bananaa motion pictures the art rup of is century ''.
he continues to be yojit in unchi lihaaz, saath the sunaharaa fatafat, City lits, aadhunik Times, or the great Dictator often ranked among the mahanatam films of all samay.
niojit parenthood Federation of america ( ppfa ), commonly shortened to Planned parenthood, is the u.S. sambhddha of the antarrashtriya niojit parenthood sangh ( IPPF ) or ek of its larger members.
ppfa is a non-profit sanghathan providing reproductive swasthya or matra or child health sevaayen.
The niojit parenthood Action nidhi, inc. ( ppaf ) is a sambandhit sanghathan which lobbies liye pro-choice legislation, vyapak sex shiksha, or abhigam to sasti health parvaah in the United rajya.
niojit parenthood is the largest u.S. pradaata of reproductive swasthya services, sahit karkat screening, hiv screening and counseling, nirodhak, and garbhpaat.
nirodhak accounts liye 35 % of ppfa 's total services and abortions khaataa liye 3 % ; PPFA conducts roughly 300,000 abortions prayek saal, among 3 million logon served.
the sanghathan rai its roots in brukaleen, nai york, where Margaret sanger kholi the desh 's pehla birth-control clinic.
Sanger santhaapit the amareeki janam control lig in 1921, jisase in 1942 became bhaag of the Planned Parenthood sangh of america.
Since tab, niojit parenthood rai grown to have over 820 clinics sthitiyaan in the u.S., with a kul bajet of US $ 1 billion.
PPFA provides an sarani of services to over three lakh logon in the sanyukt rajya, or supports sevaayen for over ek lakh client baahar the sanyukt rajya.
purushon rea is Latin liye `` guilty dimag ''.
In criminal vidhi, it is viewed as one of the jaruri tatv of kuch aparaadhon.
the maanak common vidhi pareekshan of dand deyta is praayah expressed in the latin phrase, actus gaiyr facit reum nisi purushon baithna rea, jisase arthath `` the adhinium is nahin culpable unless the dimag is apradhi ''.
yun, in jurisdictions saath due process, vahin jarur be an actus reus, or `` apradhi adhinium, '' accompanied by kuch str of purushon rea to constitute the aparaadhon with jisase the prativaadee is charge ( see the takneekee aavashyaktaa of concurrence ).
as a general niyam, dand deyta karata nahin sanlagn to a person jo acted saath the absence of mental dosha.
the excepshan is sakht deyta crimes.
in civil vidhi, it is praayah nahin jaruri to prove a subjective dimagi tatv to sthapit liability liye ulanghan of anubandh or tort, for udhaaharan.
however, if a apkrutya is intentionally vachanabaddh or a anubandh is intentionally breached, aise intent may badhayen the scope of deyta as well as the measure of damages payable to the abhiyokta.
Therefore, purushon rea refers to the dimagi tatv of the offence ki accompanies the actus reus.
In some jurisdictions, the terms purushon rea or actus reus have maharoom replaced by vaikalpik shabdaawalee.
In australia, for udhaaharan, the tatv of the sangheey offences are abhi designated as `` dosha tatv '' or `` dimagi tatv '' ( mens rea ) or `` shaareerik tatv '' or `` external tatv '' ( actus reus ).
This shabdaawalee thi apanaaya to badalen the aspashtataa of the latin sharten saath saral or sateek phrasing.
ulysses S. Grant ( born hiram ulysses Grant ; april 27, 1822 – July 23, 1885 ) thi the 18th President of the sanyukt rajya ( 1869–1877 ) following uske highly kaamyaab bhoomika as a war saamaanya in the duusari half of the Civil yuddh.
antargat Grant, the sangh fouj parajeet the confederate sainya ; having effectively ended the yuddh or secession saath the surrender of robert E. Lee 's fouj at appomattox.
as president he led the kattarpanthi republicans in unke praytn to eliminate sab vestiges of confederate rashtrawaad or slavery.
Upset over uncontrolled violence in the dakshin or having desired to protect africa amareeki citizenship, adhyaksh grant effectively destroyed the Ku klux claan in 1871.
Grant was the pehla President to sthapit civil Service reform having nirmit a two-year federally vittposhit civil seva Commission in 1871.
in terms of videshi niti, grant revealed an `` unexpected kshamta for deliberation and paraamarsh '' ki promoted the neshnal interest.
His reputation was marred by uske repeated raksha of bhrasht appointees, or by america 's pehla audyogic aayu economic avsaad ( pukaara the `` dehshat of 1873 `` ) ki dominated uske duusari pad.
haalanki uske republican party split in 1872 with reformers denouncing him, grant thi easily reelected.
by 1875 the conservative shwet Southern vipaksh regained control of prayek state in the dakshin or as he baayein the shwet house in March 1877 uske nitiyon were hone undone.
a kariyar sipaahi, he graduated isse the United rajya Military academy at west Point or parosa in the mexican–american yuddh.
When the civil yuddh began in 1861, Grant prashikshit Union swayamsevi regiments in illinois.
In 1862, as a saamaanya he ladaa a shrenee of ladaaiyon and thi prachaarit to major general baad forcing the aatmasamarpan of a vishaal confederate army and gaining control of kentki and sabase of Tennessee.
He tab led sangh shaktiyaan to victory baad initial setbacks in the battle of shiloh, kamai a pratishtha as an aggressive commander.
In july 1863, after a long, complex abhiyaan, Grant defeated paanch uncoordinated confederate armies ( capturing ek of unhen ) or jabt vicksburg.
is prasiddh vijay gave the Union puraa control of the mississippi nadi, vibhajit band the pashchimi Confederacy, or kholi the rasta liye adhik sangh triumphs.
After another jeet at the battle of chattanuga in late 1863, adhyaksh Abraham lincoln bana use leftinent saamaanya or commander of sab of the sangh sena.
as commanding saamaanya of the army, Grant confronted robert E. Lee in a shrenee of very khooni ladaaiyon in 1864 known as the overland abhiyaan ki ended saath the bottling up of lee at petersburg, baahar the confederate puunji of Richmond.
dauraan the gheraa, grant coordinated a shrenee of vinaashkari abhiyaan shubharambh by William tecumseh Sherman, philip sheridan, and George thomas.
aakhirkaar todakar through lee 's trenches, the sangh fouj captured Richmond in april 1865.
lee surrendered uske depleted shaktiyaan to grant at Appomattox as the confederacy collapsed.
Although pro-confederate itihaaskaaron attacked grant as a nishthur kasaai jo won by brute force, most itihaaskaaron have hailed uske sainya pratibhashali.
grant 's two lagaataar sharten as President stabilized the swadesh after the amareeki civil yuddh or dauraan the turbulent Reconstruction period ki followed.
as adhyaksh, he enforced Reconstruction by enforcing civil rights laws and lard ku Klux claan violence.
grant jiti dyodhi of the pandrahavin amendment ; giving constitutional suraksha for african-american matdaan adhikaron.
he prayukt the army to nirmaan the Republican Party in the South, based on black matadaata, Northern newcomers ( `` carpetbaggers `` ) or deshi shwet samarthak ( `` scalawags. '' )
as a parinaam, africa Americans yahood represented in the u.S. Congress for the pehla samay in amareeki itihaas in 1870.
reformers praised Grant 's Indian peace niti by having broken the deadlock on bhartiya appropriations in Congress, the creation of the Board of bhartiya commissioners to mek reform recommendations, or uske enlistment of Quaker protestants jo niyantrit mid western bhartiya agenciyon, that effectively curbed congressional patronage.
grant remained sankalpit in keeping indiens from hone exterminated from shwet settler atikaraman or by the U.S. sainya.
grant 's pratishtha as adhyaksh by 1875 thi at an all-time unchi liye uske pichhlaa vito of the mahangaai vidheyak, the dyodhi of the resumption of specie adhinium, or sachiv bristow 's kaamyaab chaape that shut bas the whiskey ring.
grant 's foreign niti, led by sachiv of rajya Hamilton machhlee, implemented antarrashtriya madhyasthata, settled the Alabama Claims saath britain and avoided yuddh saath Spain over the Virginius Affair.
a jeukabox is a partially automated music-playing yantra, praayah a coin-operated yantra, ki hoga khel a sangrakshak 's selection isse self-contained media.
The classic jeukabox has batan saath akshar or sankhyaayein on them that, when daalaa in sangyojan, are prayukt to khel a vishisht chayan.
a drug test is a technical vishleshan of a biological namoona – for udhaaharan mutr, hair, rakt, sweat, or maukhik drav / laar – to determine the upasthiti or absence of nirdisht parent davaayen or unke metabolites.
pramukh uses of drug pareekshan hai to detect the upasthiti of performance badhanaa steroids in sport or liye davaayen prohibited by laws, aise as canbis, coca or heroin.
a `` 10-panel mutr screen '' consists of the following:
Amphetamines ( including methamphetamine )
barbiturates
Benzodiazepines
cannabinoids ( THC )
coca
methadone
Methaqualone
Opiates ( codeine, Morphine, Heroin, Oxycodone, hydrocodone, ityadi. )
phencyclidine ( pcp )
propoxyphene
Saturn v prakshepastra, used for the American maanavyukt chandra landing missions
Space exploration is the discovery and khoji of bahari spes by means of spes praudyogiki.
shaareerik exploration of spes is conducted both by insaan spaceflights or by robotic spacecraft.
jabaki the avlokan of vastuen in spes, gyaat as khagolashastra, predates vishwasaneey recorded itihaas, it was the vikaas of vishaal or apekshaakrit kushal rockets during the jaldi 20th sadi ki allowed physical space khoji to become a reality.
aam rationales for exploring space shaamil advancing scientific research, uniting alag nations, ensuring the future survival of maanavtaa or vikasshil sainya and strategic laabh viruddh anya countries.
vibhinn aalochanaon of spes khoji are sometimes bana.
Space khoji rai often maharoom used as a proxi competition liye geopolitical rivalries such as the thanda yuddh.
The early era of spes exploration was driven by a `` spes res `` between the Soviet sangh or the sanyukt rajya, the launch of the pehla man-made object to kaksha the dharti, the USSR 's sputnik 1, on 4 aktubar 1957, or the first Moon landing by the American Apollo 11 shilp on 20 july 1969 are praayah liya as the seemayen liye is aarambhik kaal.
the Soviet spes kaarykram hasil anek of the pehla milestones, sahit the pehla jeena hone in kaksha in 1957, the pehla insaan spaceflight ( euri gagarin aboard Vostok 1 ) in 1961, the first spacewalk ( by aleksei leonov ) on 18 kooch 1965, the pehla automatic landing on another celestial body in 1966, or the launch of the pehla spes stesan ( salyut 1 ) in 1971.
After the pehla 20 saalo of exploration, fokas shifted isse one-off flite to bedardi hardware, aise as the spes Shuttle program, or isse pratiyogita to sahyog as saath the antarrashtriya Space stesan ( iss ).
With the substantial purnataa of the iss following sts-133 in kooch 2011, yojanaayen for space khoji by the USA remain in flux.
nakshatra, a Bush Administration program liye a return to the chandramaa by 2020 thi judged inadequately vittposhit or unrealistic by an visheshgy punarvilokan falak reporting in 2009.
The obama Administration prastaavit a sanshodhan of nakshatra in 2010 to fokas on the development of the capability liye crewed mishan pare kam dharti orbit ( LEO ), envisioning extending the aaparishan of the iss beyond 2020, transferring the vikaas of launch vehicles liye human kru isse nasa to the nijee sector, and vikasshil praudyogiki to enable missions to pare leo, aise as earth/moon l1, the chandramaa, Earth/Sun l2, near-earth kshudragrah, or Phobos or Mars kaksha.
as of kooch 2011, the US seenet and house of pratinidhi hai still working towards a compromise nasa funding vidheyak, jisase hoga sambhawatah terminate nakshatra or nidhi vikaas of a baari lift launch gadee ( HLLV ).
in the 2000s, the logon 's Republic of china initiated a kaamyaab manned spaceflight kaarykram, while the European sangh, Japan, and India have bhi niojit bhavishya manned spes missions.
china, rus, japani, and india have advocated manned missions to the chandramaa dauraan the 21st century, while the europea Union rai advocated maanavyukt mishan to both the chandramaa and Mars dauraan the 21st century.
isse the 1990s onwards, nijee ruchi began promoting spes paryaton and tab private spes khoji of the chandramaa ( dekhie google Lunar x puraskaar ).
jon calvin kulij, jr. ( July 4, 1872January 5, 1933 ) was the 30th adhyaksh of the sanyukt States ( 1923–1929 ).
a republican lawyer isse vermant, kulij worked uske rasta up the ladder of Massachusetts rajya raajnneeti, aakhirkaar banane rajyapal of ki rajya.
uske conduct dauraan the Boston police strike of 1919 thrust him into the neshnal spotlight or diya use a pratishtha as a man of nirnaayak action.
jald baad, he was nirvaachit as the 29th Vice President in 1920 or succeeded to the presidency upon the achaanak death of warren G. harding in 1923.
nirvaachit in uske apana right in 1924, he gained a pratishtha as a small-government conservative, or also as a man jo said bahut choti.
Coolidge lauti public confidence in the shwet House baad the scandals of uske purvavarti 's administration, or baayein office saath considerable lokapriyata.
As a kulij biographer put it, `` he embodied the spirit and hopes of the madhya class, could interpret unke longings or express their raay.
That he kiya represent the pratibhashali of the ausat is the sabase convincing pramaan of his shakti. ''
kuch later criticized kulij as bhaag of a saamaanya aalochana of laissez-faire sarkari.
His pratishtha underwent a punarjagran during the Ronald reagan prashasan, lakin the ultimate moolyankan of his presidency is still divided between those jo sweekruti of his katautee of the aakaar of sarkari programs and those jo maananaa the sangheey sarkari chahie be adhik shaamil in regulating or controlling the economy.
aspreso is a concentrated peya brewed by forcing a choti amount of nearly boiling water antargat dabaav through finely ground coffee beans.
aspreso often rai a thicker sangati than coffee brewed by anya vidhi, a ucchtar visheshgyata of nilambit or dissolved solids, or crema ( arth malai, lakin hone a sandarbh to the jhaag saath a malaaidaar banaavat ki form as a parinaam of the dabaav ).
As a parinaam of the pressurized brewing process the jaayaka or chemicals in a theth cap of aspreso hai bahut concentrated.
aspreso is the aadhaar liye other peya, aise as a latte, cappuccino, macchiato, mocha, or americano.
aspreso has adhik caffeine prati unit volume than sabase peya, lakin the usual serving aakaar is smaller—a theth 60 ml ( 2 us drav ounce ) of aspreso rai 80 to 150 mg of caffeine, little kam than the 95 to 200 mg of a maanak 240 mL ( 8 us drav ounce ) cup of drip-brewed coffee.
bryan kaith keli ( born October 25, 1961 ) is an amareeki footbaal coach or purv khilaadi.
he is philhal the sir footbaal coach for the notre dame lard irish, a sthiti he has held chunki disambar 2009.
Kelly thi previously sir coach at grand ghati State vishvavidhyalayon ( 1991–2003 ), central michigan vishvavidhyalayon ( 2004–2006 ), and vishvavidhyalayon of sinsinati ( 2006–2009 ).
A contract is an anubandh having a lawful object daalaa into voluntarily by do or adhik partiyon, prayek of jisko intends to create ek or more vidhik obligations between them.
the elements of a contract hai `` prastaav '' and `` acceptance '' by `` competent vyaktiyon '' having legal capacity jo exange `` vichaar '' to banaaen `` mutuality of obligation. ''
pramaan of kuch or all of these tatv may be kiya in likhane, haalanki anubandh may be made entirely orally or by conduct.
The upaay for ulanghan of contract can be `` kshatipurti '' in the rup of muaavje of money or specific pradarshan enforced through an aadesh.
Both of these remedies award the party at ghaataa the `` laabh of the bargain '' or expectation kshatipurti, jisase hai greater than mere reliance kshatipurti, as in promissory estoppel.
The parties may be prakritik vyaktiyon or juristic persons.
a anubandh is a legally enforceable vaada or undertaking ki kuch hoga or hoga nahin occur.
the shabd vaada can be used as a vidhik paryaay for anubandh, although care is required as a promise may nahin have the puraa khadaa of a anubandh, as when it is an anubandh bagaiyr consideration.
anubandh law varies greatly isse ek jurisdiction to another, sahit matbhed in aam vidhi compared to civil vidhi, the impact of received vidhi, visheshkar isse england in aam vidhi deshon, or of law samhitabaddh in regional legislation.
regarding Australian anubandh Law liye example, there hai 40 praasangik acts jisase prabhaav on the nirvachan of anubandh at the rashtramandal ( sangheey / neshnal ) str, and an atirikt 26 adhiniyamon at the level of the state of nsw.
in jod there are 6 international yantra or prathaon jisase hai applicable liye antarrashtriya dealings, such as the sanyukt Nations sammelan on anubandh liye the International bikri of goods.
sidney patric crosby, ons ( born August 7, 1987 ) is a Canadian peshewar ice hockey khilaadi who is captain of the Pittsburgh Penguins of the neshnal hockey lig ( NHL ).
crosby thi drafted first overall by the penguins out of the quebec Major junior hockey lig ( qmjhl ).
During his two-year pramukh junior kariyar with the rimouski océanic, he arjeet back-to-back chl khilaadi of the saal awards or led his klbon to the 2005 Memorial cap final.
nicknamed `` the aglaa ek ``, he thi one of the sabase highly regarded draft chayan in hockey history, leading anek to refer to the 2005 draft Lottery as the `` sidney Crosby sweepstakes ''.
In uske pehla enechael ritu, crosby samaapt chathe in lig scoring saath 102 ank ( 39 lakshya, 63 assists ) or thi a runner-up liye the calder memorial Trophy ( jiti by Alexander ovechkin ).
by uske duusari ritu, he led the enechael saath 120 ank ( 36 goals, 84 assists ) to capchar the art ross trophy, banane the youngest khilaadi or the tabhi kishoravastha to jeet a scoring sheershak in koi major uttar American khel lig.
ki same ritu, Crosby bhi won the Hart Memorial trophy as the peshewar Hockey Writers sangh 's choice liye sabase moolyawaan khilaadi and the lester B. pimmersan Award as the NHL khilaadi Association 's chunaav liye sabase bakaayaa khilaadi, banane the seventh player in enechael history to earn sab teen puraskaar in ek saal.
crosby started the 2007–08 ritu saath the team 's captaini and subsequently led unhen to the 2008 Stanley cap final, jahaan ve yahood parajeet by the detroit red wings in chah khel.
The penguins laute to the final against Detroit the following saal or won in seven khel ; crosby became the youngest captain in enechael history to jeet the stanley cap.
In the 2009–10 ritu, crosby scored a career-high 51 lakshya, tying use with Steven stamkos liye the prakshepastra Richard trophy as the league-leader ; saath 58 assists, he totaled 109 points, duusari in the enechael.
dauraan the off-season, crosby received the Mark mesier netritv puraskaar.
in 2010–11, Crosby sustained a concussion as a parinaam of hits to the sir in back-to-back khel.
The injury left use sidelined for ten and a half maheene.
however, baad playing aath games in the 2011–12 ritu, crosby 's concussion-like lakshan laute in disambar 2011, or he kiya not return jabatak mid-march 2012.
internationally, crosby rai represented Canada in numerous tournaments liye the desh 's junior or main 's tiimon.
baad spardhaa in the 2003 U-18 junior World Cup, he represented canada in back-to-back IIHF sansar u20 championships, jeetna chaandi in 2004 or sunaharaa in 2005.
at the 2006 IIHF World championships, he led the tournament in scoring, jabaki bhi kamai Top Forward or All-Star toli honours.
Four saalo baad, crosby thi namit to toli canada liye the 2010 sheet Olympics in vainkuvar.
playing the United States in the sunaharaa medal khel, he scored the game-winning goal in overtime.
a sanyukt rajya cent, bhi gyaat as a paini.
`` my two saint '' ( 2¢ ) or its longer sanskaran `` put my two saint in '' is an sanyukt rajya ( us ) idiomatic abhivyakti, liya isse the asli angrezi idiom abhivyakti : to put in `` my do pennies worth '' or `` my tuppence worth. ''
It is prayukt to preface the antarim stating of one’s opinion.
by deprecating the opinion to follow – suggesting iske maan is tabhi do saint, a bahut small raashi – the upayokta of the phrase hopes to lessen the prabhaav of a possibly bayaan, prardashit politeness or vinamrata.
However, it is bhi sometimes prayukt saath irony jab expressing a strongly felt opinion.
the phrase is also used out of habit to preface uncontentious raay.
liye example:
The Chinese Civil yuddh thi a civil yuddh in china ladaa between shaktiyaan vafaadaar to the sarkari of the Republic of china led by the kuomintang ( kmt ) or shaktiyaan of the communist party of china ( cpc ).
the yuddh began in April 1927, amidst the uttari Expedition, or essentially ended jab major kriyasheel ladaaiyon ceased in 1950.
the virodh aakhirkaar resulted in do de facto rajya, the ganatantr of china ( aaraosi ) in taiwan or the logon 's Republic of china ( PRC ) in menland China, both claiming to be the legitimate sarkari of china.
the yuddh represented an vaicharik split ( baayein vs. sahi ) between the communist cpc, and the kmt 's brands of rashtrawaad.
the civil yuddh jari intermittently until let 1937, when the do parties formed a duusari United saamne to counter a japani akraman.
china 's full-scale civil yuddh resumed in 1946, a saal baad the end of hostilities with Japan.
After chaar adhik saalo, 1950 dekhi the cessation of pramukh military hostilities—with the newly founded logon 's ganatantr of China controlling mainland China ( sahit hyenan ), or the Republic of China 's jurisdiction being restricted to taiwan, penghu, Quemoy, matsu or anek outlying islands.
the kuomintang defeat is attributed to anek karkon : bhrashtachar - Chiang likhaa in uske diary on june 1948 that the KMT tha failed, nahin because of bahya dushmano lakin kuki of durgandh from within.
damdaar aarambhik support isse the U.S. diminished, or tab, roka.
( Partly because of kmt bhrashtachar or anti-democratic shashan, and partly kuki of the anishchit u.S. foreign policy towards Communism between 1945 or 1950 ) ; communist jameen sudhaar niti promised poor peasants farmland isse unke jameendaar.
is ensured PLA lokapriy support.
baad the aatmasamarpan of japani at the samaapt of World yuddh ii, soviet forces turned over their captured japani weapons to the cpc and anumat the cpc to lo control of territory in Manchuria.
To is din, no armistice or salaam sandhi rai kabhi been hastakshrit, or it is debated as to the whether the Civil yuddh rai legally ended.
Cross-Strait sambandh have maharoom hindered by military khatre or rajnatik and aarthik dabaav, visheshkar over taiwan 's rajnatik status, saath both governments officially adhering to a `` one-china policy. ''
The piarsi still actively daawa taiwan as bhaag of iske territory or continues to threaten the ROC with a sainya akraman if the aaraosi officially declares swatantraaa by badalanaa iske naam to and gaining international recognition as the ganatantr of Taiwan.
the ROC mutually daawa menland China, or ve both continue the fight over rajanyik recognition.
Today, the yuddh as aise occurs on the political or aarthik fronts in the form of cross-strait sambandh ; however, the do separate de facto rajya have band aarthik ties.
The One sau barahavin sanyukt rajya Congress thi the meeting of the vidhaan shakha of the sanyukt States sangheey sarkari, isse January 3, 2011 jabatak January 3, 2013.
it convened in washington, d.C. on janvari 3, 2011, or ended on janvari 3, 2013, 17 dinon pehle the samaapt of the adhyakshiya term to which baraak obama thi nirvaachit in 2008.
seenetteron elected to niyamit sharten in 2006 completed those sharten in this congress.
This Congress shaamil the pichhlaa house of pratinidhi nirvaachit isse congressional districts ki were apportioned aadhaarit on the 2000 janasankhyikee.
in the 2010 madhyavadhi chunaavon, the republican Party won the bahumat in the house of pratinidhi.
jabaki the Democrats rakhaa unke seenet bahumat, it thi reduced from the previous congress.
is thi the pehla congress in which the house and seenet yahood niyantrit by alag parties since the 107th Congress ( 2001–2003 ), or the first Congress to shuru ki rasta chunki the 99th congress ( 1985–1987 ).
in is congress, the House of pratinidhi tha the largest number of Republican sadasyon, 242, chunki the 80th congress ( 1947–1949 ).
it thi bhi the pehla congress chunki 1947 in jisase no member of the kennedy family served, as khub as the most nitiyaan polarized Congress since Reconstruction, with ricard kam sweekruti darja.
Wealth in the sanyukt rajya is commonly measured in sharten of jaal laayak, jisase is the sum of sab asset, including ghar equity, rin all dendaree.
the total jaal laayak of us households or nonprofit organizations 1945–2009, unadjusted liye mahangaai or janasankhyikee badalen.
liye udhaaharan, a household in kabza of an $ 800,000 house, $ 5,000 in mutual nidhi, $ 30,000 in gaadiyaan, $ 20,000 laayak of stock in their apana company, and a $ 45,000 IRA hota have assets totaling $ 900,000.
assuming ki is household hota have a $ 250,000 bandhak, $ 40,000 in car loans, or $ 10,000 in credit card debt, iske debts hota kul $ 300,000.
Subtracting the debts isse the worth of is household 's asset ( 900,000 - $ 300,000 = $ 600,000 ), is household hota have a jaal worth of $ 600,000.
jaal laayak can vary saath fluctuations in value of the underlying asset.
The maal —more specifically, the madhya jaal worth—of households in the United rajya is varied with sambandh to race, education, bhugolic location or ling.
as ek hota expect, households saath vrihad income visheshta the ucchtam jaal worths, though unchi aay can nahin be liya as an always accurate indicator of net laayak.
overall the number of wealthier households is on the rise, saath baby boomers hitting the highs of unke kariyar.
in jod, maal is unevenly vitarit, with the wealthiest 25 % of us households owning 87 % of the maal in the sanyukt States, jisase thi $ 54.2 kharab in 2009.
sahit human puunji aise as kaushal, the United Nations anumaanit the kul wealth of the sanyukt rajya in 2008 to be $ 118 kharab.
is aalekh deals saath chaynaatmak prishthiya rhizotomy ( sdr ) balki than the rhizotomy procedures liye pain relief ; liye those prakriyaaon, jisase have begun to lo the naam `` rhizotomy '' in certain udhaaharan, dekhie facet rhizotomy and similar.
a rhizotomy ( ) is a pad chiefly referring to a neurosurgical kaarividhi ki selectively nasht samasyapurna tantrika roots in the spinal cord, sabase often to relieve the lakshan of neuromuscular sharten aise as spastic diplegia and anya form of spastic dimagi palsy.
the chaynaatmak dorsal rhizotomy ( sdr ) liye spastic dimagi palsy rai maharoom the pramukh use of rhizotomy liye neurosurgeons specialising in spastic CP chunki the 1980s ; in this surgery, the spasticity-causing nerves hai pruthak or tab targeted and nasht.
the samvedi tantrika jaden, where spasticity is located, hai first alag isse the motor ones, or the tantrika machhlee to be kaaten hai tab pahachaanaa via electromyographic uttejnaaon.
the ones producing spasticity hai tab selectively lesioned with chota vidyut pulses.
In spasticity, rhizotomy precisely lakshya or nasht the kshatigrast nerves ki don’t praapt gamma amino butyric acid, jisase is the core problem liye logon with spastic cerebral palsy.
These over-firing, non-gaba-absorbing nerves generate asaamaanya electrical activity dauraan the EMG pareekshan phase in sdr or hai yun mana to be the sorce of the patient 's hypertonia ; they hai eliminated saath the vidyut pulses ekbar pahachaanaa, while the remaining nerves or nerve routes carrying the sahi sandesh remain fully barkaraar and untouched.
is arthath that the spasticity is permanently dissolved, and ki is is done bagaiyr affecting baichaiyn pranali samvedansheeltaa or falan in anya kshetron, kuki the tabhi nerves nasht are the over-firing ones jimmedaar liye the mansapeshi tightness.
the sharten rhizotomy or neurotomy are bhi increasingly becoming interchangeable in the upachaar of dirghakaalik waapas pidaa from degenerative discs beemaari.
is is a procedure pukaara a facet rhizotomy or is nahin a surgical kaarividhi lakin is bajaay done on an outpatient aadhaar using a saral jaanch to apply radiofrequency lehren to the impinged pain-causing tantrika root lying between the facet sanyukt or the vertebral deh.
Such radio aavriti tantrika lesioning parinaam in five to aath or more maheene of pidaa relief before the tantrika regenerates and another round of the kaarividhi needs to be performed.
A facet rhizotomy is bas one of many alag forms of radiofrequency ablation, and iske upyog of the `` rhizotomy '' naam should nahin be uljhan saath the sdr kaarividhi.
migrant workers in California, 1935
the pad migrant kaaryakarta rai alag aadhikarik meanings or connotations in different bhaag of the world.
the sanyukt raashtra ' definition is vyapak, including koi logon working outside of unke ghar desh.
the pad can bhi be used to describe someone who migrates bheetar a desh, possibly unke apana, in anukram to pursue kaary aise as mausami kaary.
photograph of leel Wayne saath teardrop tatu below his ankhen.
the teardrop tattoo or aansu tatu is a symbolic tattoo ki is lagaai underneath the eye.
It rai no phixd arth but lagbhag sab meanings ( dekhie below ) have some conection to thana.
u.S. Route 75 is a north–south U.S. rajmarg.
the rajmarg 's uttari terminus is in kittson county, minesota, at the Canadian border, jahaan it once jari as manitoba rajmarg 75 on the other side of the now-closed border crossing.
iske dakshini terminus is at antarraji 30 or antarraji 45 in dalas, texas, where it is gyaat as North central Expressway.
U.S. 75 was a border-to-border route, from canada to the Gulf of mexico at galveston, texas.
however, the entire segment dakshin of Dallas, texas rai maharoom decommissioned in ehsaan of antarraji 45, a katof khand of town-to-town sataha sadak having become rajya rajmarg 75.
Lower naveen ward is a neighborhood of the nagar of nai Orleans.
as the name implies, it is bhaag of the naveen ward of New orlions.
the Lower naveen Ward is often vichaar of as the sampurna kshetrafal within nai orlions downriver of the audyogic kanal ; however, the nagar Planning ayog divides is area into the nimnatar Ninth ward ( 2 ) or paavan cross ( 3 ) pados.
the pad `` nimnatar '' refers to iske location farther towards the munh of the mississippi nadi, `` bas '' or `` neeche '' the rest of the nagar in local bhugolic shabdaawalee.
lakin the 9th ward, like sab wards in New orlions, is a matdaan district.
the 9th ward thi added as a matdaan zila in 1852.
the `` nimnatar '' 9th ward is rachit of Ward 9 Districts 1, 2, 4, and 7 jisase make up the paavan cross Area or ward 9 Districts 3, 5, 6, and 8.
ucchtar matdaan zila sankhyaayein in the 9th ward ( 8-27 ) hai on the upriver paksh of the audyogic kanal.
the kshetrafal aae to national attention liye iske devastation in the aftermath of Hurricane katrina in 2005.
habal drishy of Copernicus crater ( inset ), jisase is parichay 58 mile ( 93 km ) chaudee
red or naarangi tinted chandramaa, as dekhi isse dharti during a chandra grahan, jahaan the dharti aata between the Moon and surya
the Moon is the only prakritik satellite of the dharti, or the paanchvaan largest satellite in the saura System.
it is the largest prakritik upgrah of a grah in the saura pranali saapeksh to the aakaar of its praathmik, having 27 % the vyas and 60 % the ghanatv of dharti, resulting in iske dravyaman.
the Moon is the duusari densest upgrah after io, a upgrah of brihaspati.
The Moon is in tulykaalik rotation saath dharti, sadaa prardashit the same phase saath iske nikat paksh chihnit by dark volcanic mariya ki fill between the ujjwal pracheen crustal hilands or the prominent prabhaav craters.
it is the brightest object in the aasmaan baad the Sun, haalanki iske sataha is darasal very dark, saath a reflectance samaan to that of koyale.
iske prominence in the aasmaan and iske regular saikil of phases have, chunki ancient times, made the chandramaa an important saanskrithik influence on language, panchang, art or mythology.
the chandramaa 's gravitational influence produces the samandar tides or the minute lengthening of the din.
the chandramaa 's vartmaan kakshiya alahada, about tees times the vyas of the dharti, kalyankari it to appear lagbhag the vahi size in the sky as the surya, allowing it to cover the surya nearly precisely in total saura eclipses.
is milan of apparent visual aakaar is a sanyog.
the chandramaa 's linear alahada isse the dharti is currently increasing at a rate of 3.82±0.07cm prati saal, lakin is rate is not constant.
the Moon is vichaar to have formed nearly 4.5 arab saalo pehle, not long after the Earth.
haalanki vahin have maharoom several hypotheses liye iske origin in the past, the vartmaan sabase widely sweekrut explanation is ki the chandramaa formed isse the malba baayein over baad a daanav prabhaav between dharti or a mangal -akarand deh.
the chandramaa is the tabhi celestial deh other than dharti on jisase humans have set pair.
the soviet sangh 's luna programme was the pehla to pahunchein the chandramaa with unmanned spacecraft in 1959 ; the United States ' NASA Apollo kaarykram hasil the tabhi manned missions to tithi, shuruuaat with the first maanavyukt chandra orbiting mishan by apollo 8 in 1968, or chah maanavyukt lunar avataran between 1969 or 1972, saath the pehla being Apollo 11.
ye mishan laute over 380 kg of lunar rocks, which have maharoom prayukt to develop a geological samajhnaa of the chandramaa 's origins, the gathan of its aatanrik dhaancha, and iske subsequent history.
After the Apollo 17 mishan in 1972, the Moon rai maharoom visited tabhi by unmanned spacecraft, notably by the final Soviet lunokhod rover.
chunki 2004, japani, china, India, the sanyukt rajya, or the europea spes agency have each bheja lunar orbiters.
These spacecraft have contributed to confirming the discovery of chandra jal barf in permanently shadowed craters at the danda or bandhi into the chandra regolith.
Future maanavyukt mishan to the chandramaa have been niojit, including sarkari as well as privately vittposhit praytn.
The chandramaa remains, under the bahari spes sandhi, free to sab nations to explore liye shantipurna uddeshy.
ronaald wilson reagan ( ; farvari 6, 1911 – june 5, 2004 ) was the 40th President of the sanyukt States ( 1981–1989 ).
prior to ki, he thi the 33rd Governor of california ( 1967–1975 ), or a radio, film and television actor.
Born in tampico, illinois, or uthaaya in Dixon, reagan was shikshit at Eureka College, kamai a Bachelor of kala oopaadhi in arthshaastra or sociology.
baad graduating, reagan moved pehla to iova to kaary as a radio prasarankarta or then, in 1937, to los angeles where he began a kariyar as an karta, pehla in films or baad television.
kuch of uske sabase notable films shaamil knute rockne, sab American ( 1940 ), kings Row ( 1942 ), or bedtime liye bonzo ( 1951 ).
reagan served as adhyaksh of the Screen Actors gild or baad as a spokesman liye General electric ( ge ) ; uske prarambh in raajnneeti occurred dauraan uske kaary liye ge.
originally a sadsy of the Democratic Party, his sthitiyaan began shifting rightward in the 1950s, or he switched to the Republican Party in 1962.
baad delivering a rousing vaak in support of Barry goldwater 's adhyakshiya candidacy in 1964, he thi persuaded to talash the california governorship, jeetna do saalo baad or again in 1970.
he was parajeet in uske chalaaen liye the Republican presidential namakan in 1968 or in 1976, lakin jiti dono the nomination or saamaanya election in 1980, defeating laazim jimmy carter.
as adhyaksh, Reagan implemented sweeping new political or economic pahalon.
uske supply-side aarthik nitiyon, utaavle `` Reaganomics ``, advocated reducing kar rates to spur economic vikaas, controlling the money supplai to reduce mahangaai, deregulation of the arthvyavastha, or reducing sarkari bitaa.
in uske pehla pad he survived an hatya attempt, took a mushkil lakeer viruddh majdoor sangh, ghoshit a nai yuddh on davaayen, or ordered an akraman of haraa.
He thi re-elected in a bhuskhalan in 1984, proclaiming that it was `` morning in America ``.
His second term was primarily chihnit by videshi matters, aise as the ending of the thanda War, the 1986 bombing of libya, or the revelation of the iran-contra affair.
saream describing the soviet sangh as an `` dusht empire ``, he samarthit anti-communist movements vishwavyaapee or kharch uske pehla term forgoing the strategy of détente by ordering a vishaal sainya buildup in an bahen res saath the ussr.
reagan negotiated saath soviet General sachiv mikhail Gorbachev, culminating in the inf sandhi or the ghati of dono deshon ' nabhikeey arsenals.
reagan left office in 1989.
in 1994, the former adhyaksh disclosed that he tha maharoom diagnosed saath alzimer 's beemaari earlier in the saal ; he died ten saalo baad at the aayu of 93.
a conservative pratik, he baandhane atyadhik in public raay pole of U.S. Presidents or is credited liye generating an vaicharik punarjagran on the American political right.
puraa set of scrolls, constituting the sampurna tanakh.
the Tanakh (, or ; bhi tenakh, tenak, Tanach ) is a naam prayukt in judaism for the canon of the Hebrew bible.
the tanakh is bhi gyaat as the Masoretic Text or the miqra.
the naam is an echronim formed from the aarambhik yahudee letters of the Masoretic text 's teen paramparaagat subdivisions : The tora ( `` shikshan '', bhi gyaat as the paanch kitabe of musa ), nevi'im ( `` nabiyon '' ) or ketuvim ( `` kritiyaan '' ) —hence tanakh.
the naam `` miqra '' ( מקרא ), arth `` ki jisase is read '', is an vaikalpik Hebrew pad liye the tanakh.
the kitabe of the tanakh yahood relayed with an accompanying maukhik parampara passed on by prayek generation, called the maukhik Torah.
The kawasaki Ninja zx-6r is a kawasaki 600 cc class khel motorcycle.
it thi introduced in 1995, or rai maharoom constantly adhyatanikrut throughout the years in jawaab to new utpaada isse honda, Suzuki, or Yamaha.
the ZX series is kayaa thi known as the Ninja lakeer of kawasaki motorcycle in the 1980s or still carries the naam aaj.
hatya koshishen and bhukhand on Presidents of the sanyukt States have been numerous : more than 20 koshishen to maar baithe and purv raashtrapatiyon, as well as the presidents-elect, hai gyaat.
chaar baithe raashtrapatiyon have maharoom killed : Abraham Lincoln ( the 16th adhyaksh ), james A. Garfield ( the 20th adhyaksh ), wiliam mckinley ( the 25th adhyaksh ) and jon F. kennedy ( the 35th adhyaksh ).
do raashtrapatiyon yahood ghayal in attempted assassinations : purv President theodor rujvelt ( the 26th President ), or adhyaksh ronaald reagan ( the 40th President ).
haalanki the itihaaskaar J.W. clark has sujhaayaa ki most amareeki assassinations were nitiyaan prerit kriyaayein, carried out by tarksangat main, nahin all aise hamale have maharoom undertaken liye political kaaran.
Some hamalavar had questionable dimagi stability, or a few yahood judged legally insane.
Since the vaais adhyaksh of the United rajya has for adhik than a sadi maharoom elected isse the vahi rajnatik party as the adhyaksh, the hatya of the adhyaksh is asambhavit to parinaam in pramukh niti parivartan.
This may bataaiye why rajnatik samooh typically do not make aise hamale.
jahaan the red Fern Grows is a anokhaa written by wilson Rawls in 1961 about a ladke who buys and trains two redbone coonhound shikaar kutto.
oklahoma ( ) ( pawnee : Uukuhuúwa, cay : gahnawiyoˀgeh ) is a state located in west dakshin Central sanyukt rajya.
oklahoma is the 20th sabase extensive and the 28th sabase populous of the 50 United States.
The state 's naam is niklaa from the choctaw shabd okla and humma, arth `` red logon '', or it is known informally by iske nickname, the sooner rajya.
formed by the combination of oklahoma Territory and bhartiya Territory on navambar 16, 1907, Oklahoma thi the 46th state to daalen the union.
Its nivaasiyon hai gyaat as Oklahomans or, informally `` okies '', and iske capital or largest city is oklahoma City.
A pramukh nirmaataa of prakritik gas, oil, and agriculture, oklahoma relies on an aarthik aadhaar of vimaanan, energy, doorsanchaar, and biotechnology.
it has ek of the tivratam growing economies in the nation, ranking among the sheersh rajya in prati capita aay vikaas and sakal gharelu product vikaas.
oklahoma nagar or Tulsa serve as oklahoma 's praathmik aarthik anchors, with nearly do thirds of oklahomans living bheetar unke metropolitan sankhyikeey areas.
saath small mountain seemayen, preyari, mesas, and eastern wanon, sabase of oklahoma lies in the Great maidan or the u.s. aantarik hilands —a pradesh visheshkar prone to kathor mausam.
in jod to having a prevalence of English, German, scottish, irish and deshi amareeki ancestry, more than 25 Native American languages are spoken in oklahoma, second only to california.
Oklahoma is stith on a confluence of teen major amareeki cultural regions and historically served as a route liye choupayon drives, a gantavy liye southern settlers, or a government-sanctioned territory for Native Americans.
Redwall, by bryan Jacques, is a shrenee of children 's kaalpanik novels.
it is the sheershak of the pehla kitaab of the shrenee, published in 1986, as well as the naam of the abi pradarshit in the kitaab or the name of an anemated tv shrenee aadhaarit on teen of the novels ( Redwall, mattimeo, and martin the Warrior ), jisase pehla aired in 1999.
the kitabe are primarily aimed at puraani children, lakin have prashansak of sab aayu.
There have been twenty-two novels or two chitra kitabe prakashit.
the twenty-second, and final, novel, the Rogue Crew, thi maranoparant released on May 3, 2011.
Natural gas is praayah measured by volume in the United States or is stated in cubic feet.
A ghan pair of gas is the raashi of gas needed to bharan a volume of ek ghan foot under set sharten of dabaav and temperature.to maap larger amounts of natural gas, a `` therm '' is used to denote 100 ghan feet, and `` mcf '' is prayukt to denote 1,000 ghan feet.
To provide vrihad accuracy in comparing fuels, energy content is measured in sharten of `` angrejon Thermal ikai ( btu 's ). ''
a BTU is the amount of heat jaruri to uthaayen ek pound of water ( approximately a pint ), ek degree Fahrenheit at or band to iske point of adhiktam ghanatv.
ek British therm ( symbol thm ) is a non- SI ikai of heat energy baraabar to 100,000 angrejon thermal ikai ( btu ).
it is approximately the urja samatuly of burning 100 ghan feet ( praayah referred to as 1 ccf ) of prakritik gas.
chunki ( Natural gas ) meter maap awaz or not urja content, a therm factor is prayukt by ( prakritik ) gas companiyaan to badalen the awaz of gas prayukt to iske ooshmaa samatuly, or yun gananaa the actual urja use.
the therm factor is praayah in the ikai therms/CCF.
it hoga vary saath the mix of hydrocarbons in the prakritik gas.
prakritik gas saath a ucchtar than ausat visheshgyata of ithen, propen or butane will have a higher therm factor.
impurities, aise as carbon dioxide or nitrogen, nimnatar the therm factor.
The awaz of the gas is gananaa as if measured at maanak taapmaana or dabaav ( stp ).
the ooshmaa content of prakritik gas is solely nirbhar on the sangyojan of the gas, or is independent of temperature and pressure.
ek therm is baraabar to parichay 105.5 megajoules, 25,200 kilocalories or 29.3 kilowatt-hours.
One therm can bhi be provided by about of prakritik gas.
the therm sometimes has maharoom confused saath the thermie ( see below ).
the names of both units aaiye from the unani shabd liye heat.
A thermie ( th ) is a metric unit of ooshmaa energy, bhaag of the meter-tonne-second pranali sometimes prayukt by europea ejiniers.
the thermie is baraabar to the amount of energy jaruri to uthaayen the temperature of 1 ton of jal by 1 °C.
The thermie is equivalent to 1,000 kilocalories, 4.1868 megajoules or 3968.3 btu.
the American civil yuddh ( acw ), bhi gyaat as the yuddh between the States or bas the civil yuddh ( see naming ), thi a civil yuddh ladaa isse 1861 to 1865 between the sanyukt States ( the `` Union '' or the `` uttar '' ) or several Southern slave states that ghoshit their secession and formed the confederate States of america ( the `` Confederacy '' or the `` dakshin '' ).
the war had iske utpatti in the issue of slavery, visheshkar the ekstansion of gulaami into the western territories.
Foreign powers did nahin intervene.
After four years of bloody combat ki baayein over 600,000 soldiers murde or nasht much of the dakshin 's infrastructure, the confederacy collapsed, gulaami thi abolished, or the mushkil punarnirmaan prakram of restoring national ekta or guaranteeing rights to the freed slave began.
in the 1860 presidential chunaav, republicans, led by abraham Lincoln, opposed expanding gulaami into sanyukt States ' territories.
Lincoln jiti, lakin before uske udghaatan on kooch 4, 1861, saat cotton-based slave states formed the Confederacy.
outgoing loktantric adhyaksh james bukanan or the aavak republicans asweekrut secession as illegal.
lincoln 's inaugural address declared uske prashasan hota nahin initiate civil yuddh.
aath baaki slave states jari to asweekrut kals liye secession.
confederate shaktiyaan jabt numerous sangheey durgon within territory claimed by the Confederacy.
a Peace sammelan vifal to dhundhen a sulah, or dono sides prepared liye yuddh.
the Confederates assumed that europea deshon yahood so nirbhar on `` king Cotton `` ki ve hota intervene ; none did or none pahachaanaa the new Confederate States of america.
hostilities began on april 12, 1861, when confederate shaktiyaan fired upon fort sumter, a key fort yojit by Union troops in dakshin carolina.
lincoln pukaara liye prayek state to provide sainikon to retake the fort ; consequently, chaar adhik slave states joined the confederacy, bringing unke kul to gyaarah.
the sangh jald niyantrit the kinaaraa states or sthapit a naval nakebandi ki abodh the southern arthvyavastha.
the purvi theatre was inconclusive in 1861–62.
The patjhad 1862 confederate abhiyaan into maryland ( a Union rajya ) ended saath confederate retreat at the battle of antietam, dissuading angrejon hastkshep.
lincoln issued the emancipation udghoshnaa, jisase bana ending gulaami a yuddh lakshya.
to the west, by garmiyaan 1862 the sangh destroyed the Confederate nadi navy, tab much of their pashchimi sena, or the sangh at vicksburg vibhajit the confederacy in do at the mississippi nadi.
in 1863, robert E. lee 's Confederate incursion uttar ended at the Battle of gettysburg.
Western successes led to ulysses S. Grant command of all Union sena in 1864.
in the pashchimi Theater, William T. sharaman drove east to capchar atlanta or marched to the sea, destroying confederate infrastructure saath the rasta.
The Union marshaled the sansaadhan or janashakti to akraman the confederacy isse sab dishanirdesh, and could afford to lado ladaaiyon of attrition through the overland abhiyaan towards richmond, the Confederate puunji.
the defending confederate army vifal, leading to Lee 's surrender to Grant at appomattox adaalat house on April 9, 1865.
the American civil yuddh was ek of the earliest sachcha audyogic yudhon.
railroads, the telegraph, steamships, and mass-produced weapons yahood employed extensively.
The mobilization of civilian kaarkaanon, khaanon, shipyards, bainko, parivahan and khaanaa aapurtiyan sab foreshadowed sansar yuddh I.
it remains the deadliest yuddh in American itihaas, resulting in the mauton of an anumaanit 750,000 sainiko or an undetermined number of civilian hataahat.
itihaaskaar jon huddleston estimates the maut toll at ten pratishat of sab Northern males 20–45 saalo boodha, or 30 pratishat of sab dakshini white males aged 18–40.
wiliam Bruce jiner ( born aktubar 28, 1949 ) is a purv u.S. track or field athlete, prerak spikar, socialite, television personality and businessman.
he jiti the sunaharaa medal liye decathlon in the Montreal 1976 garmiyaan olympic.
following uske Olympic jeet or the sambandhit manyata, he shaadishuda kris Kardashian, or uske professional career viksit into hone a television celebrity.
by 1981, he tha strecchar in several made-for-TV filmon or thi erik estrada 's replacement on the top rated tv shrenee chips.
he rai six children : bart, Casey, brandan, brody, candal or kaili.
chunki uske 1991 vivaah to kris jiner, he is the stepfather to courtney, kim, khloe or rob kardasian.
chunki 2007, he rai appeared saath uske blended parivaar on Keeping up saath the kardashians.
escherichia kolai ( ; commonly abbreviated E. kolai ) is a gram-negative, rod-shaped bacterium ki is commonly mila in the nimnatar aant of warm-blooded jeevon ( endotherms ).
sabase E. coli strains hai hanirahit, lakin kuch serotypes can kaaran gambhir khaanaa vishaaktata in insaano, or are occasionally jimmedaar for utpaada recalls due to food sandushan.
the hanirahit strains hai bhaag of the saamaanya flora of the aant, or can benefit their host by producing vitamin k2, or by preventing the sthapana of rogajanak jeevanu within the intestine.
E. kolai or related bacteria constitute parichay 0.1 % of aant flora, and fecal–oral hastantaran is the pramukh route through jisase rogajanak strains of the bacterium kaaran disease.
Cells are able to survive baahar the deh liye a simit raashi of samay, which makes unhen ideal indicator organisms to pareekshan environmental samples liye fecal sandushan.
vahin is, however, a growing body of research ki rai examined environmentally persistent E. kolai jisase can jivit for vistaarit avadhi outside of the host.
the bacterium can bhi be grown easily or inexpensively in a laboratory setting, or rai maharoom intensively investigated liye over 60 years.
E. kolai is the sabase widely padhai prokaryotic model sajiv, or an important prajati in the field of jaevpraudyogiki or sookshmjaiviki, jahaan it has parosa as the host sajiv for the majority of kaary saath recombinant diene.
Area code 217 is the uttar American telephone kshetrafal code for much of pashchimi or central illinois.
the 217 kshetrafal includes illinois ' capital, springfield, plus champaign, urbana, decatur, danville, quinci, or rantoul.
217 thi ek of the asli area code, jisase yahood nirmit in 1947.
the tabhi significant badalen in 217 's seemayen was in 1957, jab iske northern portion thi combined saath bhaag of kshetrafal code 815 to form kshetrafal code 309.
chitra of the largest antarctic ozone chhed kabhi recorded ( sitambar 2006 ), over the Southern pole
paraton of the atmosphere ( not to scale )
Ozone depletion describes do pruthak lakin sambandhit phenomena observed chunki the let 1970s : a sthir manaahi of parichay 4 % prati dashak in the kul awaz of ozone in dharti 's stratosphere ( the ozone parat ), and a much larger springtime ghati in stratospheric ozone over Earth 's dhruviya regions.
the latter ghatana is referred to as the ozone hole.
in jod to ye well-known stratospheric phenomena, vahin hai bhi springtime dhruviya tropospheric ozone depletion kaarykram.
the vivaran of dhruviya ozone chhed gathan differ isse ki of mid-latitude thinning, lakin the sabase important process in dono is catalytic vinaash of ozone by parmaanu hellogence.
the pramukh source of ye hellojan anu in the stratosphere is photodissociation of man-made halocarbon refrigerants ( cfcs, freons, halons ).
ye yogicon hai transported into the stratosphere after hone utsarjit at the sataha.
dono types of ozone depletion yahood observed to badhayen as emissions of halo-carbons increased.
cfcs and anya contributory substances hai referred to as ozone-depleting substances ( ods ).
Since the ozone parat prevents most harmful uvb wavelengths ( 280–315 nm ) of parabangnee lite ( uv lite ) isse guzar through the dharti 's maahaul, observed or projected decreases in ozone have utpann worldwide concern agrani to apnaanaa of the montrial Protocol ki bans the utpaadan of cfcs, halons, or anya ozone-depleting chemicals aise as carbon tetrachloride or trichloroethane.
It is suspected that a kismein of biological consequences aise as increases in skin karkat, cataracts, kshati to paudhe, and katautee of plavak populations in the samandar 's photic zone may result from the increased uv exposure due to ozone depletion.
The prastaavna to the sanyukt rajya Constitution is a bread parichayatmak bayaan of the samvidhan 's aadharbhoot uddeshy and guiding siddhanth.
It rajya in saamaanya sharten, or nyaayalayon have referred to it as vishwasaneey evidence of, the founding fathers ' iraadon regarding the samvidhan 's arth or kayaa they hoped the samvidhan hota achieve as it pertains to all of the logon of the sanyukt rajya.
as the phrase, `` we the people '' suggests ki the nai government originates isse the logon of the United States and it set into gati a sawaal as it pertains to that vishaal population concerning the individual rights or samta among sab logon ; this can be dekhi sabase broadly in the divide between republicanism or social loktantr.
Czechoslovakian shot putter plihan at the 1957 east germany andar athletics Championships
the shot put ( pronounced ) is a track or field event involving `` phenkna '' / '' putting '' ( throwing in a pushing gati ) a baari spherical object —the shot—as far as sambhavit.
the shot put competition liye main rai maharoom a bhaag of the modern olympic chunki unke punaruddhar in 1896, mahilaon 's pratiyogita began in 1948.
map of the sanyukt raashtra ( UN ) sadsy rajya, with their territories ( sahit nirbhar territories ) pahachaanaa by the un in blue
vahin hai sanyukt raashtra ( un ) member rajya, or prayek of them is a sadsy of the sanyukt raashtra saamaanya Assembly.
the criteria liye pravesh of new sadasyon are niyat out in the sanyukt raashtra charter, adhyay ii, aalekh 4:
a anushansa liye pravesh isse the suraksha parishad requires affirmative votes isse at tanik nine of the parishad 's pandrah sadasyon, saath none of the paanch sthai sadasyon voting viruddh.
the Security parishad 's recommendation must tab be subsequently sweekrut in the saamaanya Assembly by a two-thirds bahumat vote.
in principle, only sovereign rajya can become un members, and philhal all UN sadasyon hai sovereign rajya ( although a few members yahood nahin sovereign jab ve joined the un ).
kuki a rajya can tabhi be admitted to the UN by the sweekruti of the suraksha parishad and the General sabha, a kramank of rajya ki may be mana sovereign rajya according to the montevideo Convention maapdand hai not members because the un karata not consider unhen to possess sovereignty, mukhyatah due to the kami of antarrashtriya manyata or vipaksh isse certain sadasyon.
in jod to the sadsy states, the un bhi aamantran non-member rajya ( philhal do : the paavan See or philistin ), intergovernmental sanghathan, and anya international sanghathan or entities jinaki statehood or prabhutaa are not precisely paribhaashit, to become observers at the saamaanya Assembly, allowing them to participate or speak, lakin nahin vote, in saamaanya sabha meetings.
the Eiffel minar (, ) is an iron lattice minar stith on the Champ de mangal in paris, namit baad the ejeeniyar Gustave effil, whose company designed or nirmit the minar.
erected in 1889 as the entrance arch to the 1889 World 's mela, it rai become both a vaishvik cultural icon of frans or ek of the sabase recognizable structures in the world.
The minar is the tallest dhaancha in paris or the most-visited sashulk monument in the world ; 7.1 lakh logon ascended it in 2011.
The teesraa str observatory 's upper manch is at the ucchtam accessible to public in the European sangh or the ucchtam in europea as long as the platform of the ostankino Tower, at, remains band as a parinaam of the aag of agast 2000.
the minar received iske 250 millionth visitor in 2010.
The minar stand lambaa, parichay the vahi height as an 81-storey bhawan.
dauraan iske construction, the effil minar surpassed the washington smarak to assume the sheershak of the tallest man-made dhaancha in the sansar, a sheershak it yojit liye 41 saalo, until the chrisler bhawan in nai york nagar thi nirmit in 1930.
kuki of the jod, in 1957, of the antina atop the effil minar, it is now taller than the chrisler bhawan.
nahin sahit broadcast antena, it is the second-tallest dhaancha in frans, baad the Millau Viaduct.
The minar rai teen str liye visitors.
tikaten can be kharida to ascend, by seedhiyaan or lift ( elevator ), to the pehla or second str.
the chalanaa from maidan str to the first level is over 300 kadam, as is the chalanaa isse the first to the duusari str.
The third or ucchtam str is accessible tabhi by lift—stairs do maujuud lakin hai praayah band to the public.
the pehla or duusari str have restaraan.
the minar has become the sabase prominent pratik of dono paris or frans, often in the establishing shot of films niyat in the city.
Kenneth Wayne `` ken '' jenings iii ( born May 23, 1974 ) is an American khel dikhaaen pratiyogi and author.
Jennings is vikhyath for holding the ricard for the longest jeetna streak on the U.S. syndicated khel dikhaaen jeopardy !
or as hone the all-time agrani dhan vijeta on amareeki khel shows.
in 2004, jenings jiti 74 jeopardy !
khel before he thi parajeet by chalanger Nancy zerg on uske 75th rup.
uske total aay on jeopardy !
hai $ 3,172,700, consisting of $ 2,520,700 over uske 74 vins, a $ 2,000 second-place puraskaar in uske 75th rup, a $ 500,000 second-place puraskaar in the jeopardy !
param toornament of champions, as khub as half of a $ 300,000 prize in the ibm Challenge.
During his first chalaaen of jeopardy !
appearances, Jennings arjeet the ricard for the highest amareeki khel dikhaaen winnings.
His kul thi surpassed by Brad rutter, jo defeated jenings in the final of the jeopardy !
Ultimate toornament of champions ( pehla aired on May 25, 2005 ), adding $ 2,000,000 to rutter 's maujuuda Jeopardy !
winnings.
Jennings regained the record after appearing on anek anya game shows, culminating in an rup on hai tum Smarter than a 5th grader ?
( first aired on aktubar 10, 2008 ), though rutter retains the jeopardy !
record.
baad uske success on Jeopardy !, jenings likhaa about uske anubhav or explored amareeki trivia history or samskruti in his book brainiac : Adventures in the Curious, Competitive, baadhyataa World of trivia buffs, prakashit in 2006.
the canadai footbaal League or cfl ( ' [ lcf ] in french ) is a professional khel lig located in canada.
the cfl is the highest str of competition in Canadian footbaal, a form of gridiron footbaal closely related to amareeki footbaal.
iske aath vartmaan teams, which are stith in aath pruthak shaharon, hai divided into two divisions of four teams prayek — the East prabhag or the west prabhag.
The lig 's 19-week niyamit ritu ranon isse let june to jaldi navambar ; each toli plays 18 khel with one bye saptaah.
Following the niyamit ritu, the teen tiimon with the behtareen records in unke prabhag ( magar if the chauthi place team in ek prabhag rai a behatar ricard than the teesraa place team in the anya prabhag, when the toli with the better ricard makes the playoffs or `` crosses over '' to the anya prabhag 's playoff ) compete in the league 's three-week diviginal playoffs, jisase culminate in the late-november dhoosar Cup championships, the desh 's largest salanaa khel or television event.
the CFL thi officially santhaapit on janvari 19, 1958, bananaa it the duusari oldest gridiron footbaal lig in uttar America still in aaparishan, haalanki sab its tiimon long predate the aadhunik gathan of the lig.
it is the ucchtam str of khel in canadai footbaal, the sabase popular footbaal lig in canada, or the second-most popular major khel league in Canada, after the neshnal hockey lig.
haalanki barf hockey is canada 's sabase lokapriy khel, the cfl rai increased the popularity of Canadian footbaal in quebec and pashchimi canada.
canadai footbaal is bhi nibhaai at amateur str ( i.e. yuvavastha, unchi skool, cjfl, QJFL, cis or senior lig aise as the alberta footbaal lig ).
The 2010s hoga be a significant dashak liye the cfl in sharten of growth, as tiimon have sanvar, vistaarit stadiums, or yojana to nirmaan entirely nai stadiums.
The montrial alotes sampannataa is pehla, adding 5,000 site to Percival molson memorial stadium in samay for the 2010 CFL ritu.
the edmonton esquimos and kaila stempedras bhi sanvar unke sambandhit stadium or suvidhaayen for the 2010 ritu.
in 2011, the bc sher played antargat a new, retractable chat in bc place after bitaa ek or a half sizan at samrajya Field.
tab the vinnipeg blue bamavarshak hoga khel in an entirely nai stadium at the University of manitoba, anusuchit to kholen in time for the 2013 ritu.
the Hamilton tiger-cats, saskatchewan Roughriders or the nai Ottawa matadhikaar hai bhi looking at nai or extensively-renovated stadium in the following saalo.
vahin hai also ummiden of expanding the lig to atlantic canada ( ideally basing a toli in either the adhik populated Halifax, or the adhik centralized moncton ), as 2010 or 2011 tha regular season games hosted in Moncton.
according to khel historian Douglas brei, the canadai footbaal lig holds the distinction of hone the tabhi peshewar khel lig in North america, pramukh or naaballig league, in which prayek existing matadhikaar rai jiti at tanik ek lig sheershak jabaki in unke vartmaan sthaan.
prayek antibody baandhta to a vishisht pratijan ; an baatcheet samaan to a taala or kunjee.
An antibody ( ab ), bhi gyaat as an immunoglobulin ( ig ), is a vishaal Y-shaped protein utpaadit by b-cells ki is prayukt by the pratiraksha pranali to pahachaano or neutralize videshi objects aise as bacteria or virus.
the antibody recognizes a unique part of the videshi nishaanaa, called an pratijan.
prayek tip of the `` Y '' of an antibody contains a paratope ( a structure analogous to a taala ) ki is vishisht for ek particular epitope ( similarly analogous to a kunjee ) on an antigen, allowing ye two structures to bind saath with parishuddhta.
Using is binding yantriki, an antibody can tag a microbe or an infected koshika for akraman by anya bhaag of the pratiraksha system, or can neutralize iske nishaanaa sidhe ( for udhaaharan, by blocking a bhaag of a microbe ki is anivaary liye its akraman or survival ).
the production of antibodies is the main function of the humoral immune pranali.
antibodies hai sravit by a prakaar of shwet rakt koshika pukaara a plasma koshika.
antibodies can occur in do physical form, a ghulansheel rup ki is sravit isse the koshika, or a jhilli -bound rup ki is sanlagn to the surface of a b koshika or is referred to as the b koshika receptor ( bcr ).
The bcr is tabhi mila on the sataha of b cells or facilitates the sakriyan of ye cells and their subsequent differentiation into either antibody kaarkaanon called plasma koshikaayen, or memory b cells ki will jivit in the deh or yaad that same pratijan so the B koshikaayen can respond tej upon future exposure.
in sabase cases, interaction of the b koshika saath a t helper cell is necessary to upaj full sakriyan of the b koshika or, isliye, antibody generation following pratijan binding.
Soluble antibodies are released into the rakt or utak fluids, as well as anek secretions to continue to surveykshan liye akramanakari microorganisms.
antibodies are glycoproteins belonging to the immunoglobulin superfamily ; the terms antibody or immunoglobulin hai praayah prayukt interchangeably.
antibodies are typically bana of basic sanrachanaatmak units—each saath do large heavy zanjeeron or do small lite zanjeeron.
vahin are several alag prakaar of antibody baari zanjeeron, and anek alag kinds of antibodies, jisase hai grouped into alag isotypes aadhaarit on jisase baari kadi they possess.
paanch alag antibody isotypes are gyaat in stanadhariyon, jisase perform different bhoomikaaye, or help sidhaa the uchit immune jawaab for prayek different type of videshi object ve encounter.
haalanki the saamaanya dhaancha of sab antibodies is bahut samaan, a small region at the tip of the protein is atyadhik parivartaneey, allowing millions of antibodies saath thodaa different tip structures, or pratijan binding sites, to maujuud.
This pradesh is known as the hypervariable pradesh.
prayek of ye visangatiyaan can bind to a different antigen.
is vishaal vividhta of antibodies allows the pratiraksha pranali to recognize an baraabar chaudee kismein of antigens.
the vishaal or diverse janasankhyikee of antibodies is utpann by yadrichhik combinations of a niyat of gene khand that encode alag pratijan binding sites ( or paratopes ), followed by yadrichhik mutations in is kshetrafal of the antibody gene, jisase banaaen further diversity.
antibody jeenon also re-organize in a process pukaara class switching ki parivartan the base of the baari chain to another, bananaa a alag isotype of the antibody that retains the antigen vishisht parivartaneey pradesh.
is allows a single antibody to be used by anek alag bhaag of the pratiraksha system.
the symbol prayukt by the zodiac kaatil to sign uske patrachaar
the Zodiac kaatil thi a serial kaatil jo sanchalit in uttari California in the let 1960s or jaldi 1970s.
the killer 's identity remains anjaan.
The zodiac murdered peediton in benicia, vallejo, Lake Berryessa, or San francisco between disambar 1968 and October 1969.
chaar main or three mahilaon between the ages of 16 or 29 yahood targeted.
the kaatil originated the naam `` zodiac '' in a shrenee of taunting letters bheja to the local khadi kshetrafal dabaayen.
These akshar shaamil chaar cryptograms ( or ciphers ).
of the chaar cryptograms bheja, only ek has maharoom definitively hal.
sandigdhon have maharoom namit by vidhi pravartan or amateur investigators, but no conclusive pramaan rai surfaced.
in april 2004, the san Francisco police vibhaag marked the maamla `` niskriy '', yet re-opened the case at kuch point prior to kooch 2007.
the maamla bhi remains kholen in the city of vallejo, as khub as in napa county or Solano county.
The California vibhaag of insaaf rai maintained an open maamla sanchika on the zodiac hatyaein chunki 1969.
jenings is a choti nagar in and the mohalla seat of Jefferson davis mohalla, louisiana, sanyukt States, near jhil Charles.
The janasankhyikee thi 10,383 at the 2010 census, a choti decline isse the 2000 tabulation.
the nagar is 68 pratishat shwet.
Jennings is the principal nagar of the jenings Micropolitan Statistical Area, jisase shaamil sab of Jefferson davis Parish.
It is also bhaag of the larger jhil charles-jennings sanyukt Statistical kshetrafal.
nanotechnology ( sometimes shortened to `` nanotech '' ) is the manipulation of padaarth on an parmaanu or aanvik scale.
the earliest, faili description of nanotechnology referred to the particular technological lakshya of precisely manipulating anu or anuon for fabrication of macroscale utpaada, bhi abhi referred to as aanvik nanotechnology.
A more generalized varnan of nanotechnology thi subsequently sthapit by the neshnal nanotechnology pahal, jisase defines nanotechnology as the herpher of matter with at least ek dimension sized isse 1 to 100 nanometers.
is paribhaasha reflects the fact ki quantum mechanical effects are mahatvapurn at this quantum-realm scale, or so the definition shifted isse a particular technological lakshya to a shodh shrenee inclusive of sab prakaar of shodh or technologies ki deal with the khaas gun of padaarth ki occur neeche the die aakaar threshold.
it is isliye common to see the bahuvachan rup `` nanotechnologies '' as khub as `` nanoscale technologies '' to refer to the broad dayera of shodh or anuprayog jinaki common trait is aakaar.
kuki of the kismein of sambhavit anuprayog ( sahit audyogic or sainya ), sarkarein have invested arabon of dollar in nanotechnology shodh.
through iske neshnal Nanotechnology pahal, the uese rai invested 3.7 arab dollars.
The European sangh has invested 1.2 arab or japani 750 lakh dollar.
nanotechnology as defined by size is naturally very vyapak, including field of vigyaan as diverse as surface vigyaan, sashulk rasayan, molecular jeevigyaan, semiconductor bhautikee, microfabrication, etc.
The sambhddha shodh or applications hai equally diverse, ranging isse ekstansion of conventional yantra bhautikee to completely new approaches based upon aanvik self-assembly, isse vikasshil nai saamagree saath aayam on the nanoscale to sidhaa control of matter on the parmaanu scale.
vaigyanikon philhal bahes the bhavishya implications of nanotechnology.
Nanotechnology may be able to create anek nai materials or devices saath a vishaal dayera of anuprayog, aise as in ayurvigyaan, electronics, biomaterials or urja utpaadan.
on the anya haath, nanotechnology uthaata anek of the vahi issues as any new technology, sahit concerns about the toxicity or environmental impact of nanomaterials, and unke sambhavit prabhaav on vaishvik arthshaastra, as well as speculation parichay vibhinn doomsday scenarios.
These chintaaen have led to a debate among vakaalat samooh and sarkarein on whether special regulation of nanotechnology is warranted.
map of the purvi bloc
the pad Eastern Bloc or communist Bloc refers to the purv communist states of central and purvi europea, generally the soviet sangh or the countries of the Warsaw Pact.
the sharten communist bloc or soviet bloc yahood bhi prayukt to denote groupings of rajya lakeer saath the soviet sangh, haalanki these sharten might shaamil rajya baahar central and purvi europea.
the nai jersey gubernatorial chunaav of 2009 took place on navambar 3, 2009.
loktantric Governor jon Corzine thi running for a duusari pad or thi hone challenged by republican kris christy, swatantra christopher Daggett or nau others, in jod to anek write-in ummidavaar.
christy won the chunaav, saath parichay 48.5 pratishat of the vote, to 44.9 pratishat liye Corzine or 5.8 pratishat liye daggett.
christy jiti the largest hashia liye a first term republican chunki 1969.
Christie assumed daftar on January 19, 2010.
is was the pehla chunaav to fill the newly nirmit daftar of leftinent rajyapal.
The candidates liye rajyapal or leftinent governor were joined saath as a single chunaav, so that matadaata kiya nahin have the opportunity to vibhajit the tikat.
Kim guadagno, christy 's kaaryshil mate, became nai jersey 's pehla leftinent governor following her udghaatan.
Health parvaah in the sanyukt rajya is provided by anek pruthak sanghathan.
Health parvaah suvidhaayen hai largely swaamitv or operated by private sector vyavsaayon.
swasthya insurance for public sector employees is primarily provided by the sarkari.
60-65 % of healthcare praavdhaan and spending aata isse programs aise as medicare, medicaid, tricare, the children 's swasthya Insurance kaarykram, or the Veterans Health prashasan.
sabase of the population antargat 65 is insured by unke or a family member 's employer, kuch khride swasthya bime on unke apana, or the shesh are uninsured.
of 17 high-income deshon padhai by the National Institutes of swasthya in 2013, the sanyukt rajya thi at or near the bottom in infant mortality, dil or fefdon disease, sexually transmitted infections, adolescent pregnancies, choton, homicides, or daron of disability.
saath, aise mudde place the u.S. at the bottom of the suchi for jivan expectancy.
on average, a u.S. purush can be expected to sajiv lagbhag chaar fewer saalo than those in the top-ranked desh.
according to the sansar swasthya sanghathan ( jo ), the United rajya kharch adhik on swasthya parvaah prati capita ( $ 7,146 ), or more on swasthya parvaah as percentage of its jidipi ( 15.2 % ), than any anya swadesh in 2008.
the rashtramandal nidhi kramit the sanyukt rajya pichhlaa in the visheshta of health parvaah among samaan deshon, and tip U.S. parvaah laagat the most.
the u.S. janasankhyikee beuro reported ki 49.9 lakh nivaasiyon, 16.3 % of the population, yahood uninsured in 2010 ( up isse 49.0 million nivaasiyon, 16.1 % of the janasankhyikee, in 2009 ).
a 2004 santhaan of Medicine ( iom ) rapat said : `` The United rajya is among the few industrialized raashtra in the sansar ki karata nahin guarantee abhigam to swasthya parvaah liye iske janasankhyikee. ''
A 2004 oecd rapat said : `` saath the exception of mexico, Turkey, and the sanyukt rajya, sab OECD deshon had hasil saarvbhaumik or near-universal ( at tanik 98.4 % insured ) kawarej of their populations by 1990. ''
a 2010 rapat observed ki lack of swasthya insurance kalyankari roughly 48,000 anaavashyak mauton prayek saal in the United rajya.
In 2007, 62.1 % of filers liye bankruptcies claimed high chikitsa expenses.
a 2013 padhai found that about 25 % of sab varisht nagarikon ghoshit diwaliyapan due to chikitsa kharch, or 43 % hai forced to mortgage or bechein unke praathmik residence.
On kooch 23, 2010, the Patient suraksha or sasti Care adhinium ( ppaca ) became vidhi, providing for pramukh parivartan in health bime.
in physiology, body jal is the jal saamagree of the insaan deh.
a significant bhinn of the insaan body is jal.
Arthur guyton 's textbook of chikitsa physiology states ki `` the kul raashi of jal in a man of ausat vazan ( 70 kilograms ) is lagbhag 40 litre, averaging 57 pratishat of uske kul deh vazan.
in a newborn shishu, is may be as unchi as 75 pratishat of the deh weight, lakin it progressively decreases isse janam to boodha aayu, most of the ghati occurring dauraan the pehla 10 saalo of jivan.
bhi, motopa decreases the pratishat of jal in the deh, sometimes to as kam as 45 pratishat ''.
ye aankade are sankhyikeey averages, so hai illustrative, and jaise sab biostatistics, hoga vary with bate like prakaar of janasankhyikee, aayu and kramank of logon sampled, or methodology.
so there is nahin, or can nahin be, a figure that is exactly the vahi for sab people, for is or any anya physiological measure.
liye udhaaharan, jackson 's ( 1985 ) anatomy & physiology liye Nurses gives a figure of 60 % liye the proportion of body-weight attributable to water, jisase approximates guyton 's 57 %.
In diseased rajya jahaan deh jal is prabhavit, the compartment or compartments ki have badla can give clues to the prakruti of the problem.
deh water is regulated by hormone, sahit anti-diuretic hormone ( ad ), aldosterone or alindi natriuretic peptid.
prati Netter 's Atlas of insaan physiology, deh jal is tutaa bas into the following compartmentres:
intracellular drav ( 2/3 of deh jal ).
prati guyton, in a deh containing 40 litre of fluid, parichay 25 litres is intracellular, jisase amounts to 62.5 % ( 5/8 ), band paryaapt to the 2/3 niyam of angootha.
jackson 's granth states 70 % of deh drav is intracellular.
extracellular fluid ( 1/3 of deh jal ).
Per guyton 's illustration, liye a 40 litre deh, parichay 15 litres is extracellular, which amounts to 37.5 % again, is is band to the 1/3 niyam of angootha cited yahan.
plasma ( 1/5 of extracellular drav ).
Per guyton 's illustration, of the 15 litres of extracellular fluid, plasma awaz averages 3 litre.
is amounts to 20 %, the vahi as per Netter 's atlas.
antaraleey drav ( 4/5 of extracellular drav )
transcellular fluid ( a.k.a. `` teesraa space, '' normally upekshit in calculations )
contained andar organs, aise as the jathrantra, pramastishcameru, udaravarniya, or ocular fluids.
Self-esteem is a pad prayukt in psychology to pratibimbit a vyakti 's overall emotional moolyankan of his or uske apana laayak.
it is a nirnay of oneself as well as an ravaiya toward the swah.
self-esteem encompasses manyataon ( liye udhaaharan, `` I am competent, '' `` I am worthy '' ) or bhav such as triumph, despair, abhimaan and shame.
smith or mackie define it by saying `` The self-concept is kayaa we socho parichay the swah ; self-esteem, is the dhanatmak or rinatmak evaluations of the self, as in kaisaa we mahasoos about it. ''
self-esteem is also gyaat as the evaluative aayam of the swah that includes jajbaat of worthiness, prides or discouragement.
ek 's self-esteem is bhi closely associated saath self-consciousness.
self-esteem is a disposition ki a person rai jisase represents unke nirnyon of their own worthiness.
In the mid-1960s, Morris rosenberg and social-learning pairokaar defined self-esteem as a nijee laayak or worthiness.
nathaniel branden in 1969 paribhaashit self-esteem as `` the anubhav of hone competent to cope saath the moulik chunautiyaan of jivan and hone worthy of sukh. ''
according to branden, self-esteem is the yoga of self-confidence ( a feeling of personal capacity ) and self-respect ( a ahsaas of nijee laayak ).
it exists as a consequence of the implicit nirnay ki prayek vyakti has of unke kshamta to face life 's chunautiyaan, to samajhe or solve problems, or unke sahi to achieve sukh, or be die aadar.
As a soshal manovaigyanik construct, self-esteem is aakarshak kuki shodhakartaaon have conceptualized it as an influential predictor of praasangik outcomes, aise as academik achievement ( daldal 1990 ) or exercise bartaav ( hagger et al. 1998 ).
in jod, self-esteem rai bhi maharoom treated as an mahatvapurn nishkarsh due to iske close sambandh with manovaigyanik well-being ( daldal 1989 ).
Self-esteem can lagu specifically to a particular dimension ( liye udhaaharan, `` I maananaa i am a shubh lekhak and I feel prasann parichay ki '' ) or a vaishvik extent ( liye udhaaharan, `` i believe i am a karaab vyakti, or mahasoos karaab parichay myself in saamaanya '' ).
Psychologists usually lihaaz self-esteem as an enduring personality characteristic ( `` trait '' self-esteem ), haalanki saamaanya, short-term visangatiyaan ( `` rajya '' self-esteem ) bhi maujuud.
samanaarthi or near-synonyms of self-esteem shaamil : self-worth, self-regard, self-respect, or self-integrity.
A masonic awaas, often termed a nijee awaas or Constituent awaas, is the moulik organisational ikai of Freemasonry.
prayek new awaas jarur be warranted or chartered by a grand Lodge, lakin is vishay to iske disha only in enforcing the prakashit Constitution of the kshetradhikaar.
by excepshan the teen surviving lodges that formed the world 's pehla gyaat grand awaas in landan ( aaj pukaara the sanyukt grand awaas of england ) have the adwitiya privilege to operate as samay immemorial i.e. bagaiyr such warrant ; only ek other lodge operates without a warrant - is is the Grand Stewards ' Lodge in landan, haalanki it is not also hakdaar to the `` samay immemorial '' title.
a freemason is generally hakdaar to vizit any awaas, in koi jurisdiction ( i.e. under koi grand awaas ) in amity saath his apana.
in kuch jurisdictions this visheshadhikaar is restricted to nipun masons ( that is, Freemasons jo have attained the anukram 's teesraa oopaadhi ).
He is pehla usually jaruri to jaanch, or certify, the niyamitata of the sambandh of the awaas - or be samarth to satisfy that Lodge of uske niyamitata of membership.
freemasons ekatrit together as a awaas to work the teen basic Degrees of Entered prashikshu, fellowcraft or nipun Mason.
Pilkington Group simit is a multinational kaanch nirmaan company headquartered in st helens, United kingdom and a wholly swaamitv subsidiary of the Japan-based enesji samooh.
Prior to iske adhigrahan by NSG in 2006 it was an independent company soochibaddh on the London bhandar exange or liye a samay thi a constituent of the ftse 100 Index.
A quotation is the repetition of ek abhivyakti as bhaag of another one, visheshkar jab the quoted abhivyakti is well-known or explicitly attributed by citation to its original sorce, or it is indicated by ( punctuated saath ) quotation marks.
a quotation can bhi refer to the doharaaya use of ikai of koi other rup of abhivyakti, visheshkar bhaag of artistic works : tatv of a painting, drishyon isse a movie or sections from a musical sangyojan.
saal 1877 ( mdccclxxvii ) thi a aam saal starting on somvaar ( link hoga pradarshak the puraa calendar ) of the Gregorian panchang and a aam saal starting on shanivaar of the 12-day slower Julian panchang.
blike pepper ( Piper nigrum ) is a flowering bel in the parivaar piperaceae, cultivated liye its fal, which is praayah dried or prayukt as a spice or seasoning.
The fruit, gyaat as a peppercorn jab sukhi, is lagbhag in diameter, dark red jab fully mature, or, like sab drupes, contains a single beej.
Peppercorns, or the ground pepper niklaa from unhen, may be described bas as pepper, or adhik precisely as black pepper ( pakaaya and dried unripe fal ), green pepper ( dried unripe fruit ) or white pepper ( sukhi pake beej ).
Black pepper is deshi to dakshin india, and is extensively cultivated vahin or elsewhere in tropical regions.
philhal vietnam is the world 's largest producer or niryaatak of pepper, producing 34 % of the sansar 's Piper nigrum crop as of 2008.
Dried maidan pepper rai maharoom prayukt since pracheenta for dono iske flavor and as a medicine.
Black pepper is the sansar 's sabase traded spice.
It is one of the most aam spices added to europea bhojan or iske vanshajon.
The spiciness of blike pepper is due to the rasinic piperine, not to be uljhan saath the capsaicin ki gives fleshy mirch theirs.
It is in the modern world, praayah yugma saath namak.
aag hydrant in charlottesville, virginia, uese
a aag hydrant ( also gyaat colloquially as a aag plag in the sanyukt rajya or as a johny pump in nai York City ), is an kriyasheel aag suraksha maap, or a sorce of jal provided in sabase shahari, suburban or rural areas saath nagarpalika jal seva to enable agnishman to tap into the nagarpalika water supply to assist in extinguishing a fire.
imaaraten nikat a hydrant may qualify liye an bime chhot chunki agnishman chahie be samarth to adhik rapidly buja a fire on the insured property.
The avadharana of aag plugs dates to at tanik the 17th century.
This thi a samay jab firefighters responding to a call would khudaai bas to the lakdi jal mens and hastily bore a hole to surakshit water to lado fir.
the water hota bharan the chhed bananaa a asthai khub, and be transported isse the well to the aag by baaltee brigades or, baad, by hand-pumped aag ingine.
The holes yahood tab plugged with stoppers, saamanytah redwood, jisase over time aae to be gyaat as aag plugs.
the sthaan of the plag hota praayah be ankit or marked so ki it could be reused in bhavishya fir.
This is the sorce of the colloquial pad aag plag still used liye aag hydrants aaj.
baad the Great aag of landan in 1666, the city santhaapit jal mens saath holes drilled at intervals, equipped with risers, allowing an access point to the lakdi aag plugs isse gali str.
the avishkaar of a post- or pillar-type aag hydrant is generally credited to fredrick Graff sr., Chief Engineer of the philadelphia jal Works around the year 1801.
it had a combination hose/faucet outlet and was of `` wet bairal '' dizine saath the valve in the sheersh.
it is kaha that graff held the first patent liye a fire hydrant, lakin is can nahin be verified kuki the patent office in washington D.C. caught on aag in 1836 destroying many patent records from ki kaal in the process.
The adhyaksh of the ganatantr of dakshin africa is the head of rajya and head of sarkari antargat dakshin Africa 's samvidhan.
isse 1961 to 1994, the sir of state thi pukaara the State adhyaksh.
the adhyaksh is nirvaachit by sadasyon of the National Assembly, the nimnatar house of parliament, and is usually the netaa of the largest party, jisase rai been the African neshnal Congress since the pehla non-racial elections yahood yojit on 27 April 1994.
The bhoomika thi originally santhaapit to be pruthak isse the abhi defunct bhoomika of pradhan mantri, lakin the do roles yahood milaayaa in the 1983 samvidhan jisase specified a four-year pad of office.
The 1993 or later constitutions had the adhyaksh 's samay in daftar to two five-year terms.
the first adhyaksh to be nirvaachit antargat the new samvidhan was nelson mandela, or the incumbent adhyaksh is yaaqub zuma.
antargat the interim Constitution ( maanya isse 1994 to 1996 ), vahin thi a sarkari of National ekta, in jisase an mp isse the largest vipaksh party thi hakdaar to a position as Deputy adhyaksh.
Along with Thabo mbeki, the last State President, f.w. de klerk bhi parosa as Deputy adhyaksh, in uske capacity as the netaa of the neshnal Party jisase was the second-largest party in the new parliament.
lakin de Klerk later resigned or gai into opposition saath uske party.
a voluntary gathbandhan government continues to exist antargat the nai constitution ( adopted in 1996 ), although vahin have maharoom no appointments of opposition politicians to the post of dipti president.
khaas shiksha or khaas needs shiksha is the shiksha of vidhyaarthee saath special needs in a rasta ki addresses the vidhyaarthee ' vyaktigat matbhed and needs.
Ideally, this process involves the individually niojit or systematically monitored vyavastha of shikshan procedures, adapted equipment or materials, accessible jamaavat, and anya interventions designed to help learners with khaas needs achieve a ucchtar level of nijee self-sufficiency or kamyaabi in skool or community than hota be uplabdhiyaan if the chaatr yahood tabhi die abhigam to a theth kaksha shiksha.
aam khaas needs include challenges saath siikhnaa, sanchaar chunautiyaan, emotional or behavioral vikaar, physical disabilities, and developmental vikaar.
vidhyaarthee with ye kinds of khaas needs hai sambhavit to benefit from additional shaikshanik sevaayen such as alag approaches to shikshan, use of praudyogiki, a specifically adapted teaching area, or sansaadhan room.
Intellectual giftedness is a antar in learning and can bhi laabh isse specialized shikshan takneekon or alag shaikshanik kaarykram, lakin the pad `` khaas shiksha '' is generally prayukt to specifically indicate instruction of students jinaki khaas needs reduce unke ability to sikh independently or in an ordinary classroom, or gifted shiksha is sambhala separately.
In sabase viksit deshon, shikshak are modifying teaching vidhi or environments so ki the adhiktam kramank of students hai parosa in saamaanya education environments.
khaas shiksha in viksit deshon is often regarded kam as a `` place '' or adhik as `` a range of sevaayen, uplabdhiyaan in every skool. ''
sangyojan can reduce social stigmas or improve academik uplabdhi liye anek vidhyaarthee.
The vipareet of khaas shiksha is general shiksha.
saamaanya shiksha is the standard curriculum presented saath standard shikshan vidhi or bagaiyr atirikt supports.
george soros ( or ; ; ; born agast 12, 1930, as schwartz györgy ) is a Hungarian-American kaarobaar magnate, niveshkon, and locasevak.
he is the chairman of Soros nidhi Management.
soros supports progressive-liberal causes.
he is gyaat as `` the Man jo Broke the bainko of england `` kuki of uske in nivesh profits during the 1992 Black buudhvaar uk currency crisis.
between 1979 and 2011, soros gave dur over $ 8 billion to insaan adhikaron, public health, and education kalyankari.
he nibhaai a significant bhoomika in the peaceful transition isse samyavaadee to poonjeevaad in hungarian ( 1984–89 ) or provided ek of Europe 's largest ucchtar shiksha endowments to central European vishvavidhyalayon in budapest.
Soros is bhi the adhyaksh of the kholen samaaj santhaan.
an actor portraying sikandar Graham Bell bolnaa into an jaldi model telephone.
the avishkaar of the telephone is the culmination of work kiya by anek individuals, the itihaas of which involves a sangrahan of daawa and counterclaims.
the vikaas of the aadhunik electrical telephone shaamil an sarani of lawsuits santhaapit upon the patent daawa of anek individuals and numerous companies.
is article cover the jaldi saalo isse 1844 to 1898, isse conception of the vichaar of an electric voice-transmission yantra, to vifal koshishen to use `` make-and-break '' vartmaan, to successful prayog with electromagnetic telephones by Alexander Graham ghanti or thomas Watson, and aakhirkaar to commercially successful telephones in the let 19th century.
a nipun of thik kala ( mfa, m.f.a. ) is a graduate degree typically requiring 2–3 saalo of postgraduate padhai beyond the snaatak 's degree ( BFA ), haalanki the pad of padhai hoga vary by country or by vishvavidhyalayon.
the MFA is a rachanaatmak oopaadhi praayah awarded as a terminal degree in vizual kala, creative writing, filmmaking, nrity, or theatre and anya performing kala.
coursework is primarily of an lagu or performing prakruti saath the kaarykram often culminating in a pramukh kaary or performance.
nipun of Fine kala kaarykram have generally jaruri a snaatak 's degree prior to pravesh, lakin anek do nahin aavashyaktaa that the undergraduate major be the vahi as the MFA field of padhai.
The sabase mahatvapurn admissions requirement has often been a sample portpholio or a performance audishan.
the Master of thik kala differs isse the Master of Arts in ki the mfa, while an academik program, centers around abhyaas in the particular field, whereas kaarykram leading to the ma praayah bich on the scholarly, academik, or najuk padhai of the field.
Additionally, in the sanyukt States, an mfa is recognized as a terminal oopaadhi liye practitioners of vizual art, dizine, nrity, theatre, film/video, New media, or rachanaatmak likhane - arth ki it is mana to be the ucchtam oopaadhi in iske field, or is prayukt as a nunatam yogyata to be samarth to lagu to become a Full-Time praadhyaapak shikshan at the vishvavidhyalayon str in ye disciplines.
There hai exceptions to is maanak in the kala, notably in the maamla of music pradarshan, jahaan the MFA is not dekhi as a terminal oopaadhi in the context of the more manakikrut dma oopaadhi.
It is bhi najuk to note that in the byaaj of extending the connection between rachanaatmak production and continued academik shodh, kuch vishvavidhyalayon have sthapit practice-based ph.d kaarykram in field such as creative likhane, vizual arts, nai media, design or theater.
jabaki this rai had an prabhaav in Creative likhane, or to a lesser extent in dizine or nai media, the influx of graduates isse practice-based phd kaarykram rai nahin appreciably changed the standard liye the MFA as the terminal oopaadhi in most kala disciplines yet.
is is an jari contentious topic, or is the frequent vishay of academic panels, visheshkar at the salanaa College art Association sammelan.
The CAA 2008 dishanirdesh regarding the mfa strongly re-affirms ki the PhD is nahin required as a terminal oopaadhi in the visual kala.
the parmaanu bombings of the shaharon of hiroshima or Nagasaki in japani yahood conducted by the sanyukt States dauraan the final charan of sansar War II in 1945.
the two kaarykram hai the only upyog of nabhikeey hathiyaar in yuddh to date.
following a firebombing campaign that nasht many Japanese shaharon, the Allies prepared for a costly invasion of japani.
the yuddh in europea ended when naaji germany signed its yantra of aatmasamarpan on 8 may, but the prashanth War continued.
Together with the sanyukt kingdom or the ganatantr of china, the sanyukt rajya pukaara for a surrender of japani in the Potsdam Declaration on 26 july 1945, threatening japani saath `` sanket or utter vinaash ''.
The japani government upekshit is ultimatum, or the sanyukt States deployed do nuclear weapons viksit by the Manhattan project.
American airmen dropped Little Boy on the nagar of hiroshima on 6 August 1945, followed by mote Man over Nagasaki on 9 agast.
bheetar the first do to chaar months of the bombings, the adhi prabhaav maare 90,000–166,000 people in hiroshima or 60,000–80,000 in Nagasaki, saath roughly half of the deaths in prayek city occurring on the pehla day.
the Hiroshima prifekchar health department estimated that, of the logon jo died on the day of the explosion, 60 % died from flash or jwaala burns, 30 % from falling malba and 10 % isse anya kalyankari.
During the following months, vishaal sankhyaayein died isse the prabhaav of burns, radiation sickness, or anya choton, compounded by beemaari.
in a us estimate of the kul taatkaalik or choti pad kaaran of maut, 15–20 % died from vikiran beemaari, 20–30 % from burns, or 50–60 % isse anya choton, compounded by beemaari.
in both shaharon, most of the dead yahood civilians, although hiroshima tha a sizeable garrison.
On 15 agast, chah dinon baad the bombing of nagasaki, japani announced iske surrender to the allies, signing the yantra of aatmasamarpan on 2 sitambar, officially ending sansar War ii.
the bombings led, in bhaag, to post-war japani 's adopting teen non-nuclear Principles, forbidding the swadesh isse nabhikeey armament.
The bhoomika of the bombings in japani 's aatmasamarpan and unke ethical auchity hai still debated.
mohandas Karamchand gandhi ( ; 2 October 1869 – 30 January 1948 ), commonly gyaat as mahatma Gandhi, was the preeminent netaa of Indian nationalism in british-ruled india.
Employing non-violent civil disobedience, gandhi led India to independence or inspired movements liye non-violence, civil adhikaron or swatantraaa aarpaar the sansar.
the son of a senior sarkari aadhikarik, gandhi thi born or uthaaya in a hindu bania jatiyaan in tateey Gujarat, or prashikshit in vidhi in landan.
Gandhi became prasiddh by lard liye the civil rights of muslim or hindu Indians in dakshin africa, using nai takneekon of non-violent civil disobedience that he viksit.
returning to india in 1915, he niyat parichay organising peasants to protest excessive land-taxes.
A lifelong pratidwandi of `` sampradayikta `` ( i.e. basing politics on dharm ) he reached out widely to all religious samooh.
he became a netaa of musalmaan protesting the declining status of the Caliphate.
Assuming netritv of the bhartiya neshnal Congress in 1921, gandhi led deshbhar campaigns for easing garibi, expanding women 's adhikaron, building religious and jaateey sauhaard, samaapti asprishyata, increasing economic self-reliance, and upar sab for achieving Swaraj —the swatantraaa of india isse angrejon hukumat.
Gandhi led Indians in protesting the neshnal namak kar with the Dandi Salt kooch in 1930, or baad in demanding the angrejon to tatkaal chodo india in 1942, during World yuddh ii.
he thi imprisoned liye ki and liye numerous anya rajnatik offenses over the saalo.
gandhi sought to abhyaas non-violence and truth in all paristhitiyon, and advocated that anya do the vahi.
he dekhi the gaanvon as the core of the true india and prachaarit self-sufficiency ; he kiya nahin support the industrialization kaarykram of uske shishy jawaharlal Nehru.
he jiya modestly in a self-sufficient residential community and wore the traditional bhartiya dhoti and chadar, woven saath dhaage he tha hand spun on a charkha.
uske mukhya rajnatik enemy in britain thi winston churchill, jo ridiculed him as a `` half-naked fakir. ''
he was a dedicated shaakaahaari, and undertook long fasts as arthath of dono self-purification or rajnatik mobilization.
in his last saal, unhappy at the partition of india, gandhi worked to roke the carnage between musalmaan, hinduon and sikhon that raged in the kinaaraa kshetrafal between india or pakistani.
He thi assassinated on 30 janvari 1948 by nathuram godse jo thought gandhi was too sympathetic to India 's Muslims.
30 January is observed as shahido ' Day in India.
The honorific mahatma ( `` great aatma '' ) was lagu to use by 1914.
in India he thi bhi called Bapu ( `` pita '' ).
he is gyaat in india as the pita of the swadesh ; uske janmdiwas, 2 aktubar, is commemorated there as gandhi Jayanti, a neshnal avkaash, or world-wide as the antarrashtriya Day of non-violence.
gandhi 's philosophy thi nahin theoretical lakin one of vyaavhaariktawaad, ki is, practicing uske siddhanth in the pal.
poocha to de a message to the logon, he hota respond, `` my jivan is my sandesh. ''
Joan crockerd ( kooch 23, ca. 1904 – may 10, 1977 ), born lucille Fay lesueur, was an amareeki abhinetri in filmi, television and theatre.
starting as a nartki in traveling natya companiyaan pehle debuting on broadway, Crawford thi hastakshrit to a motion chitra contract by metro-goldwyn-mayer in 1925.
initially kunthit by the aakaar or quality of uske bhaag, crockerd began a abhiyaan of self-publicity and became nationally gyaat as a flapper by the samaapt of the 1920s.
in the 1930s, crockerd 's fame rivaled, or later outlasted, mgm colleagues norma Shearer and greta garbo.
crockerd praayah nibhaai mehnatee yang women who dhundhen romance and vittiya success.
ye `` rags-to-riches '' kahaniyaan yahood well received by avsaad -era audiences or were lokapriy saath mahilaon.
crockerd became one of hollywood 's most prominent film sitaron or ek of the highest sashulk women in the sanyukt States, but uske films began khone dhan and by the samaapt of the 1930s wo thi labeled `` baksaa daftar zehar ''.
baad an absence of nearly two years from the screen, Crawford staged a vaapasi by starring in Mildred Pierce ( 1945 ), liye jisase she jiti the academy puraskaar liye behtareen abhinetri.
in 1955, wo became shaamil with the Pepsi-Cola Company through uske vivaah to company adhyaksh alfred steel.
baad uske maut in 1959, crockerd thi nirvaachit to fill his rikti on the board of directors lakin thi forcibly ritred in 1973.
wo jari acting in filmi or television regularly through the 1960s, jab uske pradarshan became kam ; baad the relies of the British horror filmi Trog in 1970, Crawford ritred isse the screen.
following a public rup in 1974, baad jisase unflattering photographs yahood prakashit, crockerd withdrew from public life or became increasingly reclusive jabatak her maut in 1977.
crockerd shaadishuda chaar times.
uske first three vivaah ended in talaak ; the pichhlaa ended saath the maut of husband Alfred steel.
wo apanaaya paanch children, one of jisko was reclaimed by uske birth maan.
crockerd 's sambandh saath her do older children, christina or christopher, were acrimonious.
Crawford disinherited the do or, baad crockerd 's maut, christina likhaa a `` tell-all '' sansmaran, Mommie dearest, in jisase wo kathith a lifelong pattern of physical or emotional gaali perpetrated by crockerd.
wo thi voted the tenth mahanatam female star in the itihaas of American cinema by the amareeki Film santhaan.
1910 buik tonneau bagaiyr tonneau cover
1903 ghat model a rear-door Tonneau
1903 lanchester rear-door tonneau
tonneau cover ( or ) describes a mushkil or naram cover prayukt to protect unoccupied yatri seats in a convertible or roadster, or the cargo bed in a pikup trek.
Hard tonneau cover open by a hinging or folding mechanism jabaki naram covers kholen by rolling up.
The tonneau cover is prayukt to conceal cargo.
jab the cover is khinchaa out, it keeps vasteen out of the sun and provides atirikt suraksha by keeping nijee vasteen out of sight, as well as shielding the driver isse drishy.
twitor is an online soshal networking seva or microblogging seva ki enables iske upayokta to send or read text-based sandesh of up to 140 characters, known as `` tweets ''.
twitor was nirmit in kooch 2006 by joker dorsey or by july, the soshal networking site thi launched.
the seva rapidly gained vishwavyaapee lokapriyata, saath over 500 lakh registered upayokta as of 2012, generating over 340 lakh tweets rose or handlling over 1.6 billion search prashnon prati din.
chunki its launch, twitor rai become one of the ten most visited websiton on the antarjaal, and rai been varnit as `` the sms of the Internet. ''
apnjikrut users can padhaa tweets, jabaki panjikrut upayokta can post tweets through the website interfes, sms, or a dayera of eps liye mobile divaais.
Twitter inc. is aadhaarit in San francisco, saath atirikt sarwar or offices in nai York nagar, boston, or san antonio.
the hangover is a 2009 amareeki kamedi film, co-produced and directed by tod phillips and likhaa by jon Lucas or scot moore.
it is the pehla film of the hangover matadhikaar.the filmi stars bradli kupar, ed helms, zach Galifianakis, hethar graham, justin Bartha, and Jeffrey tambor.
the Hangover tells the story of phil wenneck, stu Price or alan garnor, who safar to las vegas liye a snaatak party to celebrate unke friend dag billings ' impending vivaah.
however, phil, Stu or alan have no memory of the previous night 's kaarykram and must dhundhen dag before the vivaah can lo place.
Lucas or moore likhaa the script baad karypalika nirmaataa kris bender 's dost disappeared or tha a vishaal bill after hone sent to a strip club.
baad lucas and moore bechi it to the studio for $ 2 lakh, philips or jeremi Garelick rewrote the script to include a tiger as khub as a subplot involving a baby or a police kruger, or bhi sahit boxer mike Tyson.
Filming took place in Nevada liye 15 dinon, and dauraan filming, the teen pramukh abhinaytaon ( kupar, helms or galifianakis ) formed a dosti.
the hangover thi released on june 5, 2009, becoming a najuk or commercial kamyaabi.
it became the tenth-highest-grossing filmi of 2009, saath a vishwavyaapee sakal of over us $ 467 lakh.
Critics praised the filmi 's comedic drushtikon lakin criticized it liye its vulgarity.
The filmi won the sunahari globe Award liye Best gati chitra – Musical or kamedi, or received multiple anya accolades.
It is the tenth-highest-grossing filmi of 2009 in the sansar, as khub as the duusari highest-grossing R-rated comedy kabhi in the sanyukt rajya, surpassing a ricard previously held by bevarli Hills Cop liye almost 25 saalo or baad hone surpassed by Ted in 2012.
out of all R-rated films, it is the third highest-grossing ever in the u.S., peeche only the junun of the messiah or the metrics reloaded.
A sequel, the Hangover Part ii, thi released in 2011, or a teesraa or final filmi, the hangover bhaag III, is niyat liye relies in 2013.
kaarykram involving meiosis, prardashit chromosomal crossover
meiosis ( ) is a special type of cell division necessary for yon janan in eukaryotes.
the koshikaayen utpaadit by meiosis are gametes or spores.
in many jeevon, sahit sab animals or jameen paudhe ( lakin nahin some anya samooh such as fungi ), gamit hai called sperm or anda koshikaayen.
whilst the prakram of meiosis bears a number of similarities saath the 'life-cycle ' koshika prabhag prakram of samasutran, it differs in two mahatvapurn respects:
the gunasutron in meiosis undergo a recombination jisase shuffles the jeenon producing a alag genetic sangyojan in prayek gamete, compared saath the co-existence of prayek of the two separate pairs of prayek chromosome ( ek received isse prayek janak ) in each koshika jisase parinaam from mitosis.
the nishkarsh of meiosis is potentially chaar ( genetically adwitiya ) haploid koshikaayen, compared saath the two ( genetically ekasmaan ) dwiguneet cells utpaadit from samasutran.
Meiosis begins saath ek dwiguneet cell containing do nakal of each chromosome —one isse the organism 's maan or ek isse iske pita.
The cell divides twice, potentially producing up to chaar agunit koshikaayen containing one nakal of prayek chromosome.
( `` potentially '' kuki in kuch maamle, aise as the gathan of oocytes in mammals, only ek of the sambhavit four haploid koshikaayen survives. )
In animals the agunit cell resulting isse meiosis is a purush or female gamete.
prayek of the resulting gunasutron in the gamete koshikaayen is a adwitiya mishran of matra or paternal DNA, resulting in offspring ki hai genetically pruthak isse either janak.
is gives rise to genetic vividhta in sexually reproducing populations.
is genetic vividhta can provide the vibhinnata of shaareerik or behavioural gun ( phenotypes ) upon jisase prakritik chayan can act, lakin, as varnit neeche in Section 6, utpatti and falan of meiosis, the genetic vividhta may be largely a by-product of the samajaat recombination ki is primarily employed liye iske diene marammat falan dauraan meiosis.
it is also noteworthy ki during meiosis, vishisht jeenon hai adhik highly transcribed, and these hai pukaara the meiome, the term prayukt in kaaryaatmak jinomix for the meiotic transcriptome.
meiosis is a key visheshta for sab sexually reproducing eukaryotes in jisase homologous chromosome pairing, antargrathan or recombination occur.
in jod to damdaar meiotic stage-specific expression of mRNA ( the meiome ), however, there hai bhi pervasive translational niyantran ( e.g. selective upyog of preformed mRNA ), regulating the param meiotic stage-specific protein expression of jeenon during meiosis.
Thus, both the meiome or translational controls determine the vyapak restructuring of meiotic cells needed to carry out meiosis.
prior to the meiosis prakram the koshika 's gunasutron are duplicated by a round of DNA replication, creating from the matra or paitruk sanskaran of prayek chromosome ( homologs ) do sateek nakal, sistar chromatids, sanlagn at the centromere region.
in the beginning of meiosis the maternal or paitruk homologs jodi to prayek anya.
tab they typically exchange parts by homologous recombination leading to crossovers of DNA between the matra or paitruk sanskaran of the chromosome.
spindle machhlee bind to the centromeres of each jodi of homologs and arrange the pairs at the spindle equator.
Then the fibers khincho the recombined homologs to vipareet danda of the koshika.
As the gunasutron move dur from the bich the koshika divides into do daughter koshikaayen, each containing a agunit number of chromosomes rachit of do chromatids.
baad the recombined maternal or paitruk homologs have separated into the do daughter koshikaayen, a second round of cell division occurs.
vahin meiosis ends as the do sistar chromatids bananaa up prayek homolog are separated or move into ek of the four resulting gamete cells.
Upon fertilization, liye example jab a shukranu enters an egg koshika, do gamete koshikaayen utpaadit by meiosis fuse.
the gamete isse the maan and the gamete from the pita each contribute one half of the set of chromosomes ki mek up the nai aulad 's genome.
meiosis upyog anek of the vahi mechanisms as samasutran, a prakaar of koshika prabhag used by eukaryotes jaise paudhe and pashu to vibhajit ek koshika into do ekasmaan beti koshikaayen.
in all plants or in anek protists meiosis parinaam in the gathan of bijaanuon : agunit koshikaayen ki can divide vegetatively bagaiyr undergoing fertilization.
mukkebaazi ( pugilism, prize lard, the sweet vigyaan or in unani pygmachia ) is a martial art or combat sport in jisase two logon engage in a pratiyogita of shakti, gati, reflexes, sahansheeltaa and hoga by throwing ghunse saath gloved hands.
amateur mukkebaazi is an Olympic or rashtramandal khel and is a common fixture in sabase of the pramukh international khel - it also rai iske own sansar championships.
mukkebaazi is supervised by a referi over a shrenee of one- to three-minute intervals called rounds.
The parinaam is decided jab an pratidwandi is deemed incapable to continue by a referee, is disqualified liye todakar a rule, resigns by phenkna in a tauliya, or is sunaaya the vijeta or haara aadhaarit on the nyaayadhishon ' scorecards at the end of the pratiyogita.
the janam ghanta of boxing as a khel may be iske acceptance by the pracheen unaniyon as an Olympic khel as jaldi as 688 BC.
mukkebaazi viksit isse 16th- and 18th-century prizefights, largely in great britain, to the forerunner of aadhunik mukkebaazi in the mid-19th sadi, again initially in great britain and baad in the sanyukt rajya.
in 2004, iespien ranked mukkebaazi as the sabase mushkil sport in the sansar.
Agreement or concord happens when a word parivartan form depending on the anya shabd to jisase it relates.
It is an udhaaharan of inflection, or usually involves bananaa the maan of kuch vyakaranik shrenee ( aise as ling or vyakti ) `` sahamat '' between alag shabd or parts of the vaakya.
liye udhaaharan, in Standard angrezi, ek may kah i am or he is, lakin nahin `` I is '' or `` he am ''.
is is kuki the vyakaran of the bhashaa requires that the kriya and iske vishay agree in person.
The pronouns I or he hai first or teesraa person kramshah, as are the kriya forms am or is.
The kriya form jarur be chaynit so ki it rai the vahi person as the subject.
the anubandh aadhaarit on overt grammatical shrenee as upar is aupchaarik anubandh, in contrast to notional agreement, jisase is aadhaarit on meaning.
liye udhaaharan, the phrase the sanyukt rajya is treated as ekvachan for uddeshy of agreement, even haalanki it is formally bahuvachan.
is is a list of sthaan neeche mean sea str ki hai on land.
sthaan in tunnels, khaanon, tahkhaanon, khoda chhed ( bhi saath open sky ), antargat water, antargat ice, or existing temporarily as a result of ebbing of sea tide ityadi. are not shaamil.
sab aankade are in meter neeche samudr level:
dibbi Macomber ( born aktubar 22, 1948 in yakima, washington ) is a best-selling amareeki lekhak of over 150 romance novels or samakaleen mahilaon 's fiction.
over 140 lakh copies of her kitabe are in print throughout the world, or chaar have become made-for-TV-movies.
macomber thi the inaugural winner of the fan-voted Quill puraskaar liye romance in 2005 or rai maharoom awarded dono a romance lekhak of america reeta and a lifetime achievement puraskaar by the romance lekhak of america.
catonsville is a census-designated place ( cdp ) in balteemor County, maryland, sanyukt rajya.
the population thi 41,567 at the 2010 census.
the jatiyaan jhooth to the west of balteemor along the city 's kinaaraa.
catonsville is the ghar of the vishvavidhyalayon of maryland, Baltimore county ( UMBC ), a public shodh vishvavidhyalayon with over 12,000 vidhyaarthee.
A vakil, according to blike 's vidhi shabdkosh, is `` a vyakti siikhe in the law ; as an attorney, counsel or solicitor ; a vyakti jo is practicing vidhi. ''
Law is the pranali of niyam of conduct sthapit by the sovereign sarkari of a samaaj to sahi wrongs, maintain the stability of political and soshal praadhikaar, or deliver justice.
working as a vakil involves the practical anuprayog of abstract vidhik theories and knowledge to solve vishisht individualized samasyaayein, or to agrim the ruchi of those who retain ( i.e., hire ) vakil to perform vidhik sevaayen.
The bhoomika of the vakil varies significantly aarpaar vidhik jurisdictions, and so it can be treated yahan in tabhi the sabase saamaanya terms.
vector vipanan is the gharelu sales bhujaa of Cutco nigam, an olean, New york aadhaarit cutlery nirmaataa.
the parivaar or Medical chhod Act of 1993 ( fmla ) is a United rajya federal vidhi requiring covered niyokta to provide karmchaaree job-protected or unpaid chhod liye qualified chikitsa or parivaar kaaran.
yogya medical and parivaar kaaran shaamil : nijee or parivaar beemaari, parivaar sainya chhod, garbhavastha, adoption, or the foster care placement of a child.
The FMLA is administered by the mazdooree or ghanta prabhag of the sanyukt States vibhaag of majdoor.
the vidheyak was a pramukh bhaag of adhyaksh vidheyak clinton 's kaarysoochee in uske first pad.
adhyaksh Clinton hastakshrit the vidheyak into law on February 5, 1993 ( ; 29 u.s.c. sek. 2601 ; 29 cfr 825 ) and it took prabhaav on agast 5, 1993, chah maheene later.
the fmla thi intended `` to balance the maange of the kaarysthal with the needs of pariwaron. ''
the adhinium allows yogya karmchaaree to lo up to 12 kaary weeks of unpaid chhod dauraan koi 12-month kaal to attend to the serious swasthya condishan of the employee, janak, spouse or child, or liye garbhavastha or care of a newborn child, or liye apnaanaa or foster care of a child.
In anukram to be yogya liye FMLA chhod, an karmchaaree must have maharoom at the business at tanik 12 maheene, or worked at tanik 1,250 ghanton over the past 12 months, or kaary at a sthaan jahaan the company employs 50 or adhik karmchaaree bheetar 75 miles.
The fmla cover dono public- or private-sector karmchaaree, lakin certain categories of karmchaaree hai excluded, sahit elected officials or unke nijee staff sadasyon.
The vietnam yuddh ( ) was a Cold yuddh -era military conflict that occurred in vietnam, laos, or Cambodia from 1 November 1955 to the fall of Saigon on 30 april 1975.
This war followed the pehla Indochina yuddh and was ladaa between North vietnam, samarthit by its communist allies, and the sarkari of dakshin vietnam, samarthit by the sanyukt rajya or anya anti-communist countries.
the Viet cong ( bhi gyaat as the neshnal mukti saamne, or nlf ), a halake hathiyaarband dakshin vietnami communist aam saamne directed by the North, largely ladaa a guerrilla war against anti-communist shaktiyaan in the pradesh.
the vietnam logon 's fouj ( North vietnami fouj ) sagaai in a more conventional war, at times committing vishaal ikai into battle.
U.S. and dakshin vietnami shaktiyaan relied on air badppan or overwhelming firepower to conduct dhundhen or destroy parichaalan, involving maidan shaktiyaan, topakhane, and airstrikes.
the u.S. government viewed bhagidaari in the war as a rasta to prevent a communist kabza of dakshin Vietnam as bhaag of their wider strategy of containment.
The uttar Vietnamese government and viet cong yahood lard to reunify vietnam antargat communist rule.
They viewed the virodh as a aupniveshik yuddh, ladaa initially against frans, backed by the u.S., and later viruddh dakshin Vietnam, jisase it regarded as a U.S. kathputli state.
amareeki sainya advisors arrived in what was tab french indochyna shuruuaat in 1950.
u.S. bhagidaari escalated in the early 1960s, saath troop str tripling in 1961 or tripling again in 1962.
u.S. combat units yahood tainaat shuruuaat in 1965.
parichaalan spanned antarrashtriya simaayen, saath laos or cambodia heavily bombed.
American bhagidaari in the war peaked in 1968, at the samay of the tet Offensive.
baad this, u.S. ground shaktiyaan yahood dhire withdrawn as part of a policy gyaat as Vietnamization.
despite the paris Peace accords, hastakshrit by sab partiyon in janvari 1973, lard jari.
u.S. sainya bhagidaari ended on 15 agast 1973 as a parinaam of the Case–Church amendment passed by the U.S. congress.
the capture of sigon by the vietnam People 's fouj in april 1975 chihnit the end of the yuddh, and North or dakshin vietnam yahood reunified the following saal.
the yuddh exacted a vishaal human cost in sharten of fatalities ( dekhie vietnam yuddh hataahat ).
estimates of the kramank of vietnami sainiko or nagarikon maare vary from 800,000 to 3.1 million.
kuch 200,000–300,000 Cambodians, 20,000–200,000 Laotians, and 58,220 u.S. seva members also died in the conflict.
cleveland jwalamukhi in the aleutian Islands of alaska photographed isse the antarrashtriya spes stesan, may 2006.
raakh plumes pahunche a oonchaai of 19 km dauraan the climactic fatna at mount pinatubo, Philippines in 1991.
a jwalamukhi is an opening, or rupture, in a grah 's surface or crust, which allows hot megma, volcanic ash and gaison to escape isse the megma kaksh neeche the sataha.
jwalamukhi hai generally found jahaan tectonic plates hai diverging or converging.
a mid-oceanic lakeeren, liye udhaaharan the Mid-Atlantic lakeeren, rai udhaaharan of jwalamukhi caused by apsaari tectonic platon pulling alaava ; the prashanth Ring of Fire rai examples of jwalamukhi caused by abhisari tectonic platon coming together.
by contrast, jwalamukhi hai praayah nahin nirmit jahaan two tectonic platon slide past ek another.
jwalamukhi can also rup where vahin is stretching and thinning of the dharti 's crust in the interiors of plates, e.g., in the east africa Rift, the Wells gray-clearwater volcanic field and the rio grandey Rift in uttar america.
is prakaar of volcanism falls antargat the chhatariyaan of `` Plate pariklpana '' volcanism.
Volcanism dur isse plate boundaries rai bhi maharoom samajhaayaa as mantle plumes.
ye so-called `` hotspots ``, liye example hawaii, hai postulated to uthta isse upwelling diapirs with megma isse the core–mantle boundary, 3,000 km gahan in the dharti.
erupting volcanoes can pos anek jokhimon, nahin tabhi in the taatkaalik vicinity of the fatna.
volcanic raakh can be a threat to aircraft, in particular those saath jet ingine jahaan raakh anu can be melted by the unchi oparating temperature.
Large eruptions can affect taapmaana as ash or droplets of sulfuric acid obscure the surya or cool the dharti 's nimnatar maahaul or kshobhamandal ; however, ve bhi absorb heat radiated up from the Earth, thereby warming the stratosphere.
historically, so-called volcanic sardiyon have caused anarthakaari famines.
a gahan pothole on nai york nagar 's duusari avenue
a pothole ( sometimes pukaara a kettle or gyaat in bhaag of the pashchimi United States as a chuckhole ) is a type of disruption in the sataha of a roadway jahaan a portion of the sadak saamagree rai tutaa dur, leaving a chhed.
renal koshika carcinoma ( rcc, bhi known as hypernephroma ) is a gurda karkat ki originates in the astr of the proximal convoluted tubule, the bahut choti tubes in the gurda ki hastantaran gf ( glomerular filtrate ) isse the glomerulus to the descending limb of the nephron.
rcc is the sabase aam prakaar of kidney cancer in adults, responsible liye approximately 80 % of cases.
It is also known to be the sabase lethal of sab the genitourinary tumors.
aarambhik treatment is sabase commonly a kattarpanthi or aanshik nephrectomy and remains the mainstay of curative treatment.
Where the tumor is confined to the renal parenchyma, the 5-year astitv rate is 60-70 %, lakin this is lowered considerably jahaan metastases have sprad.
it is relatively resistant to radiation chikitsa or chemotherapy, although kuch maamle respond to immunotherapy.
Targeted karkat therapies aise as sunitinib, temsirolimus, bevacizumab, interferon-alpha, and sorafenib have improved the outluk liye rcc.
Estée lauder companiyaan, inc. is a nirmaataa or marketer of pratishtha skincare, mechap, mahak or bal parvaah products.
the company rai iske mukhyalay in midtown manahaton, nai York City.
the peritoneum ( ) is the serous membrane ki form the lining of the abdominal guha or the coelom —it covers sabase of the intra-abdominal ( or coelomic ) organs—in amniotes or kuch invertebrates ( annelids, liye udhaaharan ).
it is rachit of a layer of mesothelium samarthit by a patala parat of connective utak.
The peritoneum dono supports the abdominal angon and serves as a conduit liye unke blood or lasika baratan or nerves.
the abdominal cavity ( the space bounded by the vertebrae, abdominal mansapeshiyaan, diaphragm or shroni manzil ) chahie nahin be confused saath the intraperitoneal space ( stith bheetar the abdominal cavity, but wrapped in peritoneum ).
the structures bheetar the intraperitoneal spes are called `` intraperitoneal '' ( e.g. the stomach ), the structures in the abdominal guha ki hai located behind the intraperitoneal spes are pukaara `` retroperitoneal `` ( e.g. the gurde ), or those structures neeche the intraperitoneal space hai pukaara `` subperitoneal '' or `` infraperitoneal '' ( e.g. the blader ).
aadhunik 2.5 '' ssd used in upabhokta laptop or desktop computer.
ddr sdram aadhaarit ssd.
Max or.
PCI sanlagn io twarak SSD
PCI-E, DRAM, or NAND aadhaarit ssd.
it uses an external shakti supplai to mek the dram non-volatile.
A solid-state drive ( ssd ) ( bhi gyaat as a solid-state discs or electronic discs, haalanki it contains no actual `` discs '' of koi dayaalu ) is a aankada bhandar yantra using ekikrut circuit assemblies as memory to store data persistently.
ssd praudyogiki upyog electronic antarfalak sangat saath paramparaagat block input/output ( i/o ) hard discs drive.
SSDs have no chalati mechanical components, jisase fark unhen from paramparaagat electromechanical magnetic discs aise as mushkil discs drives ( HDDs ) or flopy discs, jisase contain gum disks or movable read/write heads.
compared saath electromechanical discs, ssds are typically kam susceptible to physical shock, much quieter, have nimnatar abhigam samay, or kam latency.
however, jabaki the daam of ssds rai jari to decline in 2012, SSDs hai still parichay 7 to 8 times more mahangi prati ikai of bhandar than hdds.
anek ssds use I/O antarfalak viksit for mushkil disk drives, yun permitting simple replacement in aam anuprayog.
, sabase ssds upyog nand-based flash memory, jisase retains data bagaiyr shakti.
liye anuprayog requiring fast abhigam, lakin nahin necessarily aankada hath after shakti ghaataa, ssds may be constructed isse random-access memory ( RAM ).
aise divaais may employ separate shakti strot, such as bydaree, to maintain data baad power ghaataa.
Hybrid drives or thos rajya sankar drives ( SSHD ) combine the features of ssds or hdds in the vahi ikai, containing a vishaal mushkil discs drive and an ssd sanchay to improve pradarshan of frequently pahunchaa aankada.
These divaais may offer near-ssd pradarshan liye anek anuprayog.
Salmon roe ( left ) or sturgeon caviar ( right ) parosa saath maan of parl caviar spoons to avoid tainting the swaad of the caviar.
Ossetra caviar, salmon creme fraiche, potato shallot croquette, besil aayal, anda whites or yolks
caviar, according to the khaanaa or krishi Organization, is a utpaada bana isse salt-cured fish-eggs of the acipenseridae parivaar.
The roe can be `` fresh '' ( non-pasteurized ) or pasteurized, saath pasteurization reducing iske culinary and aarthik maan.
traditionally the term caviar refers tabhi to roe isse junglee sturgeon in the caspian and blike Seas ( beluga, Ossetra and sevruga caviars ).
Depending on the desh, caviar may bhi be used to describe the roe of anya machhlee such as salmon, steelhead, trout, lumpfish, whitefish, or anya prajati of sturgeon.
caviar is mana a lakjri komalta or is khaaya as a garnish or a sprad.
In 2012, caviar sold liye $ 2,500 prati pound, or $ 3,000 to $ 5,500 prati kilo.
the SEC sanjaal is a television anuprayog sanjaal featuring live prasaaran of college football or basket kaarykram from the southeastern sammelan.
it is owned and sanchalit by iespien plus or is dikhaaya in more than 50 pratishat of households in the sanyukt rajya, mostly Southeastern United rajya bazaar.
the SEC sanjaal typically airs in the nun purvi slot ki thi former ghar to the raycom khel sek khel of the week.
khel hai shown locally on broadcast stesan, kshetreey khel sanjaal, as well as on iespien gameplan, iespien puraa adaalat, or espn3.com.
the sek sanjaal is also available in canada via Atlanta 's WPCH-TV.
the sek Network uses the vahi on-screen graphics philhal prayukt by iespien on abisi, a sanskaran of iespien 's graphics package.
sek Network 's footbaal programming still upyog a sheershak surakshit kshetrafal because sabase of iske affiliates do nahin letterbox unke maanak paribhaasha feeds, jabaki iespien 's television sanjaal have anumat their graphics to laaparvaahee the sheershak surakshit, lakin letterbox liye sd viewers.
starting saath the sek 2012 basket ritu, SEC sanjaal 's graphics have maharoom parivartit to a 16:9 widescreen-only swaroop.
is is bhi hone prayukt liye the 2013 Basketball season, lakin tha still adapted the purv 4:3-safe graphics swaroop liye the 2012 sek footbaal ritu.
the 1990s, pronounced or bhi gyaat as `` the Nineteen-Nineties '' or abbreviated as `` the nineties '' or `` the '90s '', thi a dashak that began on janvari 1, 1990, or ended on disambar 31, 1999.
It thi the 10th and last dashak of the 20th sadi or the 100th and last dashak of the 2nd milinium.
the dashak is behtareen known liye the samaapt of the thanda War at the beginning of the dashak and the vistaar or vyavsyeekaran of the Internet dauraan the duusari half of the dashak.
In much of the west the 1990s is remembered as a kaal of unprecedented salaam or samruddhi, though many bhaag of the so-called teesraa World faced vibhinn samasyaayein sahit narsanhaar, aids and nai or continuing jaateey tanaav and civil yudhon.
Culturally bolnaa the dashak thi characterized by the vruddhi of bahusamskritwad and alternative media.
andolanon aise as grunge, the rev scene or hip hop sprad around the sansar to young logon dauraan the decade, aided by then-new praudyogiki aise as cabel television or the antarjaal.
a combination of factors, sahit the mass mobilization of capital bazaar through neoliberalism, the shuruuaat of the faili aprasar of nai media aise as the antarjaal, or the viched of the soviet sangh led to a realignment or reconsolidation of aarthik or rajnatik shakti aarpaar the world, or within deshon.
aay asamanta among deshon in the world rose sharply between the 1980s or the mid-1990s, pehle levelling off or tab girnaa baad 2000.
nai jaateey conflicts ubhara in Africa, the balkans and the Caucasus, the former do which led to the rwandan narsanhaar and Bosnian genocide, kramshah.
the sanyukt rajya began iske current military occupation of the madhya East dauraan the garmiyaan of 1990 saath Desert shield baad it kaaten off a large portion of the world 's petroleum supply.
lakshan of any rezolution of tensions between Israel or the arab world remained elusive, though the irish pareshaaniyon aae to a standstill in 1998 saath the Good Friday anubandh after 30 years of violence.
the dhoosar bhediya or dhoosar bhediya ( canis lupus ) is a prajati of canid deshi to the wilderness and remote kshetron of uttar america, uresia, or uttar Africa.
it is the largest sadsy of iske parivaar, saath males averaging, or females.
it is samaan in saamaanya rup and proportions to a German shepherd, or sled shwaan, lakin rai a larger sir, narrower chaati, longer legs, straighter tail or bade paws.
Its winter fer is long and bushy, and predominantly a mottled gray in rang, haalanki nearly pure shwet, red, or bhura to blike bhi occur.
Within the genus canis, the gray bhediya represents a adhik specialised or pragatisheel rup than its choti cousins ( the kyoti and sunahari jackal ), as demonstrated by iske morphological adaptations to shikaar vishaal shikaar, its adhik milansaar prakruti or iske atyadhik unnat expressive bartaav.
it is a soshal animal, travelling in nuclear pariwaron consisting of a mated pair, accompanied by the pair 's vayask aulad.
The dhoosar bhediya is typically an apex parabhakshi throughout iske dayera, with only humans or tigers pos a gambhir threat to it.
it feeds primarily on vishaal ungulates, haalanki it bhi eats choti pashu, livestock, carrion, or garbage.
The dhoosar bhediya is ek of the sansar 's sabase khub shodhakarya pashu, with sambhawatah adhik kitabe likhaa about it than any anya vanyajeev species.
It rai a long itihaas of association saath insaano, having maharoom despised or hunted in most agricultural communities due to iske hamale on pashudhan, jabaki conversely hone aadarneey by some Native amareeki janajatiyon.
it is the sole ancestor of the shwaan, jisase thi first domesticated in the madhya East.
haalanki the bhay of wolves is prachlit in many insaan samaajon, the bahumat of recorded hamale on logon have maharoom attributed to pashu suffering isse rabies.
non-rabid wolves have attacked or maare logon, mukhyatah children, lakin is is asaamaanya, as wolves hai relatively few, sajiv dur isse people, and have been sikhaaya to bhay insaano by hunters or gadriye.
shikaar or trapping has ghataya the prajati ' dayera to, haalanki iske still apekshaakrit widespread range or stable janasankhyikee arthath ki the prajati is nahin threatened at a vaishvik str, or is isliye vargeekrut by the aiusien as tanik Concern.
The roman samrajya ( ) thi the post- republican kaal of the pracheen roman sabhyataa, characterised by an autocratic form of sarkari or large territorial holdings around the bumadhyasagariya in europea, Africa, or asia.
the 500-year-old roman ganatantr, jisase preceded it, tha maharoom destabilized through a shrenee of civil yudhon.
Several events chihnit the parivartan isse ganatantr to samrajya, sahit julius Caesar 's niyukti as perpetual taanashaah ( 44 BC ) ; the battle of Actium ( 31 BC ) ; or the granting of the honorific Augustus to octavian by the roman seenet ( 27 BC ).
the pehla two sadiyaan of the Empire yahood a period of unprecedented stability and samruddhi gyaat as the pax romana ( `` roman salaam '' ).
it pahunche its mahanatam expanse during the reign of Trajan ( 98–117 ad ).
In the 3rd century, the Empire underwent a sankat ki threatened iske astitv, but thi reunified or stabilized under the emperors aurelian or Diocletian.
Christians rose to power in the 4th sadi, dauraan jisase time a system of dual niyam thi viksit in the latin west or Greek East.
baad the patan of central sarkari in the West in the 5th sadi, the purvi half jari as kayaa hota baad be known as the bizantin Empire.
kuki of the samrajya 's vishaal extent or long endurance, the sansthaanon or samskruti of rome tha a profound and sthaayee influence on the vikaas of language, dharm, vaastukala, darshanashastra, vidhi, or forms of sarkari in the territory it governed, particularly europea, or by means of europea expansionism throughout the aadhunik sansar.
shiksha in the sanyukt rajya is mukhyatah provided by the public sector, saath control and funding coming from three str : local, rajya, or sangheey, in ki anukram.
child education is anivaary, and vahin are bhi a vishaal number or chaudee variety of ucchtar shiksha sansthaanon throughout the country ki ek can chune to attend, both publicly or privately administered.
public education is universally uplabdhiyaan.
skool curricula, funding, shikshan, niyukti, and other nitiyon are niyat through locally elected school falak with kshetradhikaar over skool jile saath anek directives from rajya legislatures.
School jile hai praayah separate isse anya local jurisdictions, saath swatantra officials or budgets.
shaikshanik standards or standardized pareekshan nirnay hai usually bana by rajya governments.
the aayu liye anivaary shiksha vary by state.
it begins isse ages paanch to aath or ends isse aayu chaudaa to atharah.
Compulsory shiksha aavashyaktaayen can generally be santusht by educating children in public skulon, state-certified nijee skulon, or an sweekrut ghar skool kaarykram.
In sabase public and nijee skulon, shiksha is vibhajit into three str : elementary school, middle skool ( sometimes pukaara junior high school ), and high skool ( sometimes referred to as dwitiyak shiksha ).
in lagbhag sab skulon at these str, children hai vibhajit by age samooh into grad, ranging isse kindergarton ( followed by first grad ) liye the youngest children in elementary school, up to barahavin grad, the final saal of unchi skool.
the exact aayu range of vidhyaarthee in these grad levels varies slightly isse area to kshetrafal.
post-secondary shiksha, behatar known as `` college `` in the sanyukt rajya, is generally governed separately isse the elementary or unchi skool system, or is varnit in a pruthak khand neeche.
sarkari samarthit, free public skulon liye sab prarambh hone sthapit after the kranti, or expanded in the 19th sadi, as the parinaam of praytn of men jaise horess Mann and bukar T. Washington.
by 1870, all rajya had free elementary schools, albeit tabhi in shahari centers.
as the 20th sadi khinchaa nearer, states started guzar kanoon to mek schooling anivaary, and by 1910, 72 pratishat of children attended school.
nijee skulon jari to sprad dauraan is time, as khub as collejon and—in the gramin centers— land grant colleges.
The saal of 1910 bhi dekhi the first sachcha unchi skulon.
dauraan the baaki of the 20th sadi, shaikshanik efforts centered on reducing the asamanta of the schooling system.
the landmark Supreme adaalat maamla bhura v. falak of shiksha bana the desegregation of elementary or unchi schools a national priority, jabaki the Pell grant kaarykram helped poor minorities laabh abhigam to college.
Special shiksha thi made into sangheey vidhi in 1975.
the Elementary or dwitiyak shiksha adhinium of 1965 bana manakikrut pareekshan a aavashyaktaa, or in 1983, a commission thi sthapit to evaluate unke results or propose a course of karrwai.
the resulting no child baayein Behind Act of 2001 thi vivaadaaspad or iske lakshya proved to be unrealistic.
a commission established in 2006 evaluated ucchtar shiksha, but iske suzav have yet to be fully implemented.
Paul bragg ( February 6, 1895 – disambar 7, 1976 ), nutritionist, thi a pionier in america’s wellness gati.
swasthya bitaa per capita, in $ us ppp-adjusted, saath the us or Canada compared amongst anya pehla sansar raashtra.
tulana of the health parvaah pranaaliyon in Canada and the United rajya hai often bana by sarkari, public swasthya or public policy analysts.
the do deshon tha samaan swasthya care systems pehle canada reformed iske system in the 1960s or 1970s.
the United rajya kharch much adhik dhan on swasthya care than canada, on dono a per-capita aadhaar or as a percentage of GDP.
in 2006, per-capita bitaa liye swasthya parvaah in canada was US $ 3,678 ; in the u.S., us $ 6,714.
The u.S. kharch 15.3 % of jidipi on swasthya care in ki saal ; canada kharch 10.0 %.
in 2006, 70 % of swasthya parvaah spending in Canada was financed by government, banaam 46 % in the sanyukt States.
Total sarkari spending prati capita in the u.S. on health parvaah thi 23 % ucchtar than canadai sarkari spending, or U.S. sarkari vyay on swasthya care thi bas antargat 83 % of kul canadai bitaa ( public and nijee ) haalanki ye statistics do n't lo into khaataa population differences.
Studies have aaiye to alag conclusions parichay the parinaam of is disparity in bitaa.
a 2007 punarvilokan of sab adhyayan comparing swasthya outcomes in canada or the us in a canadai peer-reviewed chikitsa jarnal found ki `` swasthya outcomes may be shreshth in marijon cared liye in canada banaam the United rajya, but matbhed hai nahin satat. ''
jivan expectancy is longer in Canada, and its shishu mrityu rate is nimnatar than ki of the u.S., but there is debate parichay the underlying kalyankari of these matbhed.
ek commonly cited tulana, the 2000 sansar swasthya sanghathan 's darja of `` overall swasthya seva pradarshan '', which prayukt a `` composite maap of uplabdhi in the str of swasthya, the distribution of swasthya, the level of responsiveness or nishpakshta of vittiya yogadan '', kramit canada 30th or the US 37th among 191 member raashtra.
This study rated the us `` responsiveness '', or visheshta of service for individuals receiving upachaar, as 1st, compared with 7th liye canada.
jabaki the ausat life expectancy for Canadians thi 80.34 years compared with 78.6 saalo liye nivaasiyon of the US, simply comparing the jivan pratyaasha of do samooh saath alag jatigat mechap and alag motopa daron is sambhavit nahin an effective way of determining jisase healthcare pranali is superior.
the jo 's padhai vidhi were criticized by some analyses.
haalanki vahin is a maap of sarvasammati ki life-expectancy and shishu mrityu chihnit the most vishwasaneey ways to compare nation-wide swasthya care, assuming the population mechap is similar, a recent rapat by the congressional Research Service carefully summarizes kuch recent aankada or tip the `` difficult shodh mudde '' facing antarrashtriya comparisons.
the dhwani source has abhi tutaa through the sound gati avrodh, and is traveling at 1.4 times the gati of dhwani, ( Mach 1.4 ).
Since the source is moving faster ( saath a gati ) than the dhwani waves it creates, it darasal lead the advancing tarangagra.
The dhwani source will pass by a stationary observer ( saath a gati ) pehle the observer actually hears the sound it creates.
as a parinaam, an nireekshak in saamne of the source hoga detect
or an nireekshak peeche the sorce.
A sonic boom utpaadit by an vayuyan moving at M=2.92, gananaa isse the cone kone of 20 degrees.
an observer hears the boom jab the shock wave, on the edges of the cone, crosses uske or her sthaan.
Mach cone angle
a sonic boom is the sound sambhddha saath the shock lehren created by an object traveling through the air faster than the gati of dhwani.
sonic booms generate vishaal amounts of dhwani energy, sounding much jaise an visphot.
the crack of a supersonic goli guzar overhead is an udhaaharan of a sonic boom in miniature.
the tonight Show saath jay Leno is an amareeki late-night baat show hosted by jay Leno ki initially aired isse may 25, 1992 to may 29, 2009, and resumed utpaadan on March 1, 2010.
the chauthi incarnation of the tonight Show franchise made iske debyue on May 25, 1992, three days following johny Carson 's ritairement as host of the kaarykram.
the kaarykram originates isse enbisi studios in burbank, california, and is broadcast somvaar through Friday at 11:35 pm in the purvi or prashanth samay zones ( 10:35 pm central / pahaad samay ).
naapsand Carson or uske predecessor joker paar, lino tabhi ekbar utilized a atithi mejabaan, preferring to mejabaan the shrenee by khud.
on april 26, 1999, the show began prasaaran in 1080i hdtv, banane the first American nightly talk show to be shot in unchi paribhaasha.
the show is shot in 16:9 pahalu ratio.
the shrenee, jisase followed the vahi basic format as ki of uske purvavartiyon ( an kholane monologue followed by comedy dincharya, saakshaatkaar and pradarshan ), ran jabatak may 29, 2009, baad jisase lino thi succeeded by conan O'Brien.
enbisi signed lino to a nai saude for a nightly baat dikhaaen in the 10:00 pm et timeslot.
The primetime shrenee, titled the jay Leno dikhaaen, debuted on sitambar 14, 2009, following a similar format to the Leno avatar of tonight.
neither O'Brien 's sanskaran of the program, jisase premiered june 1, 2009, nor The jay Leno Show utpann the darja ki NBC had apekshit.
The sanjaal decided to move a condensed 30-minute sanskaran of Leno 's dikhaaen to O'Brien 's samay slot, or O'Brien 's tonight dikhaaen a half-hour baad.
This nirnay mili saath vipaksh isse o'brien, jinaki karyavadhi on the tonight dikhaaen ended janvari 22, 2010, baad which he began uske apana talk show on TBS.
the Tonight Show saath jay lino tab began its second or vartmaan avatar, the chathe of the matadhikaar, on kooch 1, 2010.
RFID chip aglaa to a anaaj of rice.
is chip contains a radio-frequency electromagnetic field kundali that modulates an external magnetic field to transafar a coded pahchaan number jab queried by a reader yantra.
is choti prakaar is incorporated in upabhokta utpaada, or implanted in paalatu, for pahchaan uddeshy.
radio-frequency pahchaan ( rfid ) is the betaar non-contact upyog of radio-frequency electromagnetic field to transfer data, liye the purposes of automatically identifying or trekking tag sanlagn to objects.
the tags contain electronically stored information.
kuch tag hai sanchalit or read at choti ranges ( a few meter ) via chumbakeey field ( electromagnetic induction ).
anya use a local shakti sorce aise as a battery, or else have no bydaree but collect urja isse the interrogating EM field, and then adhinium as a passive transponder to emit microwaves or UHF radio lehren ( i.e., electromagnetic vikiran at high frequencies ).
bydaree sanchalit tag may operate at hundreds of meters.
naapsand a baar code, the tag karata nahin necessarily need to be bheetar line of sight of the reader, or may be antahsthapit in the tracked object.
rfid tags hai prayukt in anek udyog.
an rfid tag attached to an automobile dauraan production can be prayukt to track iske pragati through the sabha lakeer.
davaayen can be tracked through warehouses.
pashudhan or paalatu may have tag injected, allowing dhanatmak pahchaan of the animal.
Since RFID tags can be sanlagn to kapadey, possessions, or bhi implanted bheetar logon, the sambhaavna of padhnaa personally-linked soochna bagaiyr sahmati has raised gopneeyata chintaaen.
Id, ahankaar or super-ego are the teen bhaag of the psychic apparatus paribhaashit in sigmund frid 's structural model of the psyche ; ve are the teen theoretical constructs in sharten of whose activity or baatcheet dimagi jivan is described.
according to is model of the psyche, the id is the niyat of uncoordinated instinctual rujhaan ; the super-ego plays the critical or moralizing bhoomika ; or the ahankaar is the vyavasthit, realistic bhaag that mediates between the desires of the id or the super-ego.
the super-ego can stop tum isse doing certain bate ki apana id may want tum to do.
bhi though the model is sanrachanaatmak and makes reference to an apparatus, the id, ego or super-ego are krityon of the dimag balki than bhaag of the dimag or do not correspond one-to-one saath vaastavik daihik structures of the dayaalu dealt saath by neuroscience.
the concepts themselves arose at a let stage in the development of Freud 's vichaar : the `` structural model '' ( which succeeded his `` aarthik model '' or `` topographical model '' ) was pehla discussed in his 1920 essay `` pare the kushi Principle `` and was formalized and elaborated upon three saalo baad in his `` the ahankaar or the id ``.
Freud 's prastaav thi influenced by the ambiguity of the pad `` behosh `` or iske anek conflicting upyog.
Air Force rotc emblem
the Air force arakshit adhikari Training corps ( afrotc ) is one of the three primary commissioning strot for officers in the sanyukt States air force, the anya do being the sanyukt States Air force academy ( USAFA ) or Air force adhikari prashikshan School ( ots ).
A adhinsth command of the air University bheetar the Air shiksha or Training cmand ( AETC ), afrotc is lakeer under the jeanne M. holm bich for Officer accessions or Citizen vikaas at maxwell afb, Alabama.
The holm bich, formerly gyaat as the air Force Officer accession or Training skulon ( AFOATS ), retains sidhaa jimmedaari for dono afrotc or OTS.
AFROTC is the largest or oldest sorce of commissioned adhikariyon liye the U.S. Air Force.
AFROTC 's stated mishan is to upaj quality netao liye the u.S. air force.
AFROTC ikai are located on 144 college or vishvavidhyalayon campuses saath 984 additional sansthaanon of ucchtar siikhnaa participating in cross-town samjhauton ki allow unke vidhyaarthee to attend afrotc varg at a aasapaas `` host '' college or vishvavidhyalayon.
According to AFOATS hq, in 2006, AFROTC commissioned 2,083 USAF duusari lieutenants, saath AFROTC namakan ranging from 23,605 in 1985 to 10,231 in 1993, and around 13,000 namankit aaj.
afrotc ikai at collejon or vishvavidhyalayon hai pukaara `` detachments, '' or are typically headed by an active duty uaseef officer in the rank of karnal or leftinent karnal jo krityon as dono the Detachment commander liye uaseef uddeshy or saath the nominal sheershak of praadhyaapak of aerospace adhyayan ( pas ) bheetar the institution 's academik community.
sabase colleges or universities will designate the afrotc detachment as the vibhaag of aerospace adhyayan.
the pas is assisted by teen to chaar Assistant professors of aerospace Studies ( apas ), sab active duty USAF adhikariyon in the ranks of major or captain.
teen uaseef non-commissioned adhikariyon or ek varisht non-commissioned adhikari hoga typically provide sainya prashasnic support and are often augmented by one to do civilian staff support karmchaaree of the academik sanstha.
Within afrotc detachments, the vidhyaarthee ( referred to as `` cadets '' ) hai vyavasthit into wings, samooh, squadrons, and flite, mirroring the uaseef kaaryaatmak wing dhaancha.
the afrotc detachment 's cadet wing or cadet samooh is alag into two divisions : the saamaanya sainya course ( jiemasi ) consisting of the first do saalo of training, or the peshewar Officer course ( poc ) consisting of the pichhlaa do years of training.
the afrotc kaarykram is bhi divided into do prashikshan krityon : the academik Classroom kaarykram ( Aerospace adhyayan varg ) or cadet Activities ( i.e., netritv prayogshaala, Physical prashikshan, or anya prashikshan ).
paper ghanatv ( bhi known as basis weight or grammage ) is a pad used in the pulp and paper udyog and also liye fabric udyog to denote a maap of dravyaman of the utpaada prati ikai of kshetrafal liye a prakaar of kapadaa, paper or paperboard.
the pad `` ghanatv '' is nahin prayukt in iske paramparaagat sense of mass prati ikai awaz.
`` paper ghanatv '', balki, is a maap of the kshetrafal ghanatv.
paper utpaada ki let little or no lite pass through ( e.g. poster falak ) are mana ghanaa or baari.
paper utpaada ki allow kuch lite to pass through ( e.g. utak paper ) are considered lightweight.
In the guda or paper udyog, it is common to niyat a commercial paper machine to produce paper to a target paper ghanatv.
paper ghanatv can bhi be used to distinguish paper from paperboard as the latter praayah rai a grammage greater than 134 g/m2.
do tareeke of expressing paper ghanatv hai commonly used:
expressed in gamma prati vargakar meter ( g/m2 ), paper ghanatv is bhi gyaat as grammage.
is is the measure prayukt in sabase bhaag of the world.
expressed in sharten of the mass ( expressed as vazan ) per kramank of chaadaren, it is known as basis vazan.
The sammelan prayukt in the sanyukt rajya or a few anya deshon using US paper aakaar is pound of a ream of 500 ( or in some maamle 1000 ) chaadaren of a given ( kaccha, still uncut ) basis aakaar.
japani paper is expressed as the weight in kg of 1000 chaadaren.
candace nichol Parker ( born april 19, 1986 ) is an amareeki basket khilaadi for the wnba 's los angeles sparks and UMMC ekaterinburg of rus.
wo is the younger sistar of enbie khilaadi anthoni parker.
wo attended the vishvavidhyalayon of Tennessee or thi drafted by the sparks in 2008.
wo may be behtareen gyaat liye hone the first stri to dank in an ncaa tournament khel or the pehla stri to dank twice in a college game—she set both milestones as a redshirt freshman on kooch 19, 2006.
wo also became tabhi the duusari khilaadi to dunk in a wnba khel on June 22, 2008.
a bahumukhi player, wo is mukhyatah a aage, lakin thi soochibaddh on Tennessee 's roster as a aage, bich, or guard.
wo thi a prarambh on the mahila Vols basket toli, vijeta of the 2007 or 2008 ncaa championships.
Parker won the 2009 niklodian bachche ' chunaav puraskaar as the pasandida maadaa khilaadi in the khel shrenee.
And wo thi a atithi star on figure it out.
a khaanaa guide pyramid is a pyramid taraasha maargdarshika of healthy bhojan vibhajit into bhaag to dikhaaen the anushansit seven liye prayek khaanaa samooh.
the pehla khaanaa pyramid was prakashit in Sweden in 1974.
the sabase widely gyaat food pyramid was introduced by the sanyukt States vibhaag of Agriculture in the saal 1992, was updated in 2005, or then replaced in 2011.
over 25 anya deshon and organisations have bhi published khaanaa pyramids.
hans isai Andersen ( ; often referred to in Scandinavia as H. C. andersen ; April 2, 1805August 4, 1875 ) thi a danish lekhak and kavi.
haalanki a safal lekhak of plays, travelogues, novels, or kavitaayen, Andersen is behtareen remembered liye uske pari kisse, a saahitiyik vidha he so mastered that he himself rai become as mythical as the kisse he likhaa.
andersen 's lokapriyata is nahin simit to children ; uske stories—called, or `` fantastic tales '' —express vishaywastu ki transcend aayu or rashtriyata.
dauraan uske aaajeevan he thi acclaimed liye having delighted children vishwavyaapee or thi feted by royalty.
andersen 's fairy kisse, jisase have maharoom translated into adhik than 125 bhashaaen, have become culturally antahsthapit in the west 's collective consciousness, readily accessible to children, lakin pesh lessons of punya or resilience in the phase of adversity liye mature pathak as khub.
ve have prerit gati tasviren, plays, naatikaaon, and anemated films.
Two figures locking ankhen in caravaggio 's The saubhaahgya teller
najar sampark occurs jab `` two logon dekh at each other 's ankhen at the same time. ''
In human beings, eye sampark is a rup of nonverbal sanchaar or is thought to have a large influence on soshal bartaav.
coined in the early to mid-1960s, the pad rai come in the West to praayah define the adhinium as a meaningful or important chihn of vishwaas or soshal sanchaar.
the custom and significance of eye contact vary widely between samskritiyon, with religious or soshal differences often altering iske meaning greatly.
the padhai of najar sampark is sometimes gyaat as oculesics.
bed bugs are parasitic insects of the cimicid family ki feed exclusively on blood.
the pad sabase commonly refers to sadasyon of the genus cimex of which cimex lectularius, the aam bed bug, is the behtareen gyaat as it prefers to feed on insaan rakt haalanki anya Cimex species are specialized to anya pashu, e.g., chamagadad bag, C. pipistrelli ( europea ), C. pilosellus ( pashchimi us ), or C. adjunctus ( sampurna purvi us ).
the naam of the `` bed bug '' is derived isse the preferred awaas of cimex lectularius : garam gharon and visheshkar aasapaas or inside of beds or bedding or other neend kshetron.
bed bugs hai mainly active at raatri, lakin hai nahin exclusively nocturnal.
ve praayah feed on unke host without being noticed.
a kramank of adverse swasthya prabhaav may parinaam from bed keedaa bites, sahit skin rashes, psychological prabhaav, or allergic symptoms.
nidaan involves dono dhundhna bed bag and the occurrence of sangat lakshan.
bed bugs have maharoom gyaat as insaan parasites liye hazaron of years.
At a point in the early 1940s, ve were zyaadaatar eradicated in the viksit sansar, lakin have increased in vyapaktaa chunki 1995.
kuki infestation of insaan habitats has been on the badhayen, bed keedaa bites and sambandhit sharten have maharoom on the vruddhi as well.
the kitaab of yashayah ( ) is the pehla of the Latter nabiyon in the yahudee bible, preceding Ezekiel, Jeremiah or the kitaab of the baarah.
( the anukram of the subsequent kitabe differs somewhat in the isai boodha vasiyat ).
The first 39 adhyay prophesy doom for a sinful yahuda and liye sab the raashtra of the sansar ki oppose God, jabaki the last 27 prophesy the bahaali of the swadesh of israel or a nai sristi in parameshwar 's gauravshaalee bhavishya kingdom ; is khand shaamil the geeton of the Suffering Servant, chaar pruthak passages referring to the nation of israel, interpreted by isaayiyon as prefiguring the coming of yishu messiah.
parampara ascribes authorship of the book to yashayah son of amoz, lakin now vidwaanon widely agree ki the kitaab is the kaary of teen alag authors - few vidwaanon inkaar this view, or those that do, do so liye theological kaaran.
the pehla, termed proto-isaiah ( adhyay 1–39 ), contains the shabd of the 8th-century BCE nabi saath 7th-century BCE expansions ; the duusari, deutero-isaiah ( chapters 40–55 ), is the work of a 6th-century bce lekhak likhane nikat the samaapt of the babylonian captivity ; and the third, the kavy trito-isaiah ( chapters 56–66 ), thi rachit in jerusalem shortly baad the return isse exile, sambhawatah by multiple lekhak.
oregon rajya University ( OSU ) is a coeducational, public shodh university located in corvallis, Oregon, sanyukt rajya.
the vishvavidhyalayon offers undergraduate, graduate or doctoret degree or a multitude of shodh opportunities.
There are more than 200 academik oopaadhi kaarykram offered through the vishvavidhyalayon.
osu 's kaarykram in sookshmjaiviki, nuclear abhiyantriki, paristhitiki, vaaniki, public swasthya, biochemistry, zoology, oceanography, khaanaa vigyaan or farmesi hai pahachaanaa nationally as top tear kaarykram.
the OSU 's udaar arts kaarykram have bhi grown significantly or the department is mana a `` cornerstone '' of the sanstha.
More than 200,000 logon have attended osu chunki its founding.
the carnegi nyaas classifies oregon State vishvavidhyalayon as part of its sheersh tear of shodh institutions.
as of 2008, OSU is one of only seventy-three land-grant vishvavidhyalayon.
the skool is also recognized as a sea-grant, space-grant or sun-grant institution, bananaa it ek of tabhi do us sansthaanon to retain all four designations and the tabhi public vishvavidhyalayon to do so ( cornell is the tabhi anya saath similar designations ).
as one of the two flagship vishvavidhyalayon of the Oregon vishvavidhyalayon pranali, OSU receives adhik funding liye shodh, annually, than all anya public ucchtar shiksha institutions in oregon combined.
Female skhalan is the expulsion of drav by insaan females from the paraurethral nalikaayen through or around the maadaa urethra dauraan or pehle an orgasm.
it is bhi gyaat colloquially as gushing or squirting, haalanki ye hai mana to be alag phenomena in kuch shodh publications.
the sateek source or prakruti of the drav continue to be a topic of bahes among chikitsa peshewar, jisase is also related to andeh over the astitv of the g-spot.
The kanab ambersnail, vaigyanik naam oxyloma haydeni kanabensis or oxyloma kanabense, is a critically endangered subspecies or prajati of choti, air-breathing jameen snail, a terrestrial pulmonate gastropod mollusc in the family succineidae, the amber ghonghe.
The aam naam of the ember ghonghe is aadhaarit on the shell, jisase is paardarshee or when khaali praayah resembles ember in rang.
is prajati is endemic to the sanyukt rajya, specifically the rajya of erizona or uta, where it thi first collected in the jaldi 20th century.
it has maharoom soochibaddh as endangered on the United States machhlee or Wildlife seva suchi of endangered species since 8 August 1991.
is ghongha jeevandaan in wetelends, sroton, or seeps, and tabhi do of iske natural habitats hai gyaat to maujuud : teen jhiilon, a meadow nikat kanab, uta, or vasey 's swarg, a vasant along the colorado nadi bheetar grand canyon neshnal Park.
In its prakritik awaas it is balki polyphagous, feeding mainly on jeevanu, paudhe or fungi, or reproduces during the garmiyaan.
abhi mana a critically endangered species on the IUCN red suchi of threatened prajati due to a shrenee of karkon ( sahit influence ), the kanab ambersnail has been reintroduced to teen sroton upar the aitihaasik unchi jal level saath the colorado nadi.
the spani bhashaa is the duusari sabase used bhashaa in the sanyukt rajya.
There hai adhik spani adhyakshon in the sanyukt rajya than vahin are speakers of chinis, french, germany, italvi, hawaii, or the Native American languages sanyukt.
according to the 2010 amareeki jatiyaan surveykshan conducted by the u.S. janasankhyikee beuro, Spanish is the primary bhashaa bolaa at home by almost 37 million logon aged paanch or puraani, a figure adhik than doguna ki of 1990.
There are 45 million hispanophones jo bolo spani as a pehla or duusari bhashaa, as well as chah lakh spani bhashaa vidhyaarthee, composing the largest national spanish-speaking jatiyaan baahar of mexico or bananaa spani the romance bhashaa and the indo-european bhashaa saath largest number of native adhyakshon in the world.
Roughly half of sab u.S. Spanish adhyakshon bhi speak angrezi `` bahut khub, '' based on the self-assessment Census question uttardaataaon.
the language aae to the country chunki the 16th or 17th sadiyaan with the aagaman of spani colonists in areas that hota baad become the rajya of florida, texas, colorado, New mexico, erizona, newada, uta, or california and of the spani explorers - jo explored kshetron of 42 states-.
bhi west of Louisiana territory thi spani between 1763 - 1800 ( year of the french recovery of territory ), baad the french or bhartiya yuddh.
baad of the incorporation of these rajya to the u.S. in pehla half of 19th century, the spani bhashaa thi later reinforced by the acquisition of purto rico in 1898 or by baad lehren of the hispanic karanon, basically isse hispanic america, to the United rajya shuruuaat in the second half of 19th sadi jabatak aaj.
is a latin shabd that means `` yun '' or, in writing, `` it thi thus in the sorce saamagree ''.
sic may bhi refer to:
sic, cluj, a commune in romania
SIC, the kshetreey code for sicili
sic ( rav kalakaar ), styled as [ sic ], stage naam of jenifer morris, a Canadian rav artist
Sic ( band ) is a aadhunik Hardcore/Thrash metal band from torshavn, the puunji of the fero Islands
`` ( sic ) '', a song by amareeki band slipknot on the album slipknot
sic, the initial of Marco simoncelli.
sic as an echronim may stand for:
sic, silicon carbide, a semiconducting saamagree, bhi prayukt to make metalworking tools
SIC ( cyclecar ) ( società italiana Cyclecars )
maanak audyogic Classification, a 20th-century U.S. system liye classifying udyog
antarrashtriya maanak audyogic vargeekaran a un system liye aarthik kriyaayein
Shetland islands parishad
the swiss Interbank clearing pranali
san isidro klbon, an argentine rugby sangh klbon
Standing Interpretation cameti, a cameti samarpit to the nirvachan of international hisaab maanakon IFRS
schwarz soochna criterion in the field of statistics
second-in-command in the field of vimaanan
sistema Interconectado central power grid in Chile
sociedade independente de Comunicação ( sic ), a television channel in Portugal
Sea oil nagar, nai Jersey, a tateey kasbaa in the sanyukt States
Segmented purnank counter vidhi, a mode of aaparishan in kryptography
Sepang International Circuit, a high-end racetrack ki host the malaysian round of sutara 1
shanghai International circuit, a motor racing sthaan in shanghai, china
sarlikrut instructional computer, a kaalpanik computer prayukt in pranaaliyon programming
sic ( bete idées couleurs ), an early twentieth-century art patrika utpaadit by french lekhak piyare albert-birot
southeastern illinois College, a do saal junior College in Harrisburg, illinois, sanyukt rajya
Specific aagamanaatmak capacity, abbreviated to sic, jisase is more commonly gyaat as the relative vidyutshiltaa or the paravaidyut nirantar
st ignatius ' college, riverview, a Jesuit school in sidney, australia
alt=five muskuraana yang ladakiyon in vibhinn poses wearing shwet smocks over thigh-length dresses of samaan rang to unke bal.
the tokio Mew mew manga and dushmani shrenee features a daal of characters designed by mia ikumi.
The shrenee takes place in Tokyo, Japan, jahaan paanch adolescent ladakiyon, pukaara Mew Mews, are infused with the DNA of endangered prajati to combat aliens attempting to lo over the dharti.
The manga shrenee is followed by a choti sequel shrenee, tokio mew mew a la vidhi, jisase introduces a nai mew mew or a nai threat.
the mew mews hai led by the main akshar, ichigo momomiya, whose first kaary is to ekatrit the anya four mew Mews : Mint Aizawa, salad midorikawa, kheer phong, and zakuro Fujiwara.
As the series progresses, ichigo goes from having a crush on masaya Aoyama to banane uske garlfriend jabaki trying to chupa her secret doguna jivan isse him.
the series antagonists shaamil teen aliens, kish, pai, or Tart, and their netaa, gahan blue.
Originally isse dharti, the aliens were forced to chhod long pehle due to deadly environmental parivartan.
ve have laute to maar the humans, jo ve feel are destroying unke planet, and reclaim the grah.
in a la vidhi, madhya skool chaatr beri shirayuki is introduced as the chathe Mew mew and, in the anupasthiti of Ichigo, the temporary netaa of the mew mews.
a la vidhi also introduces nai niyat of antagonists, the sant rose crusaders, a samooh of insaan teenagers with various maansik abilities saath a khwaahish to create unke apana utapia.
Led by Duke, they make anek attempts to maar beri, aakhirkaar turning the local populace against the Mew mews.
ikumi 's initial drushti liye Tokyo mew mew thi a story pukaara tokio blike billi Girl ki pradarshit a cat-girl battling alian invaders.
baad the story thi transitioned to a adhik upbeat story of paanch female superheroes, the character dizin yahood redone to have a halkaa, adhik colorful mahasoos.
The pramukh shrenee varna yahood praised liye hone a perfect anuroop liye the overall story, as khub as for unke cute appearances.
the varna introduced in a la vidhi yahood also praised liye their visual appearances, lakin criticized as hone repeats of the asli shrenee.
the character duk was bhi criticized liye having a design reminiscent of the white sarvocchata group, the ku klux claan.
Middle Triassic marginal samudri sequence of siltstones ( below ) or limestones ( above ), virgin gathan, southwestern uta, uese
sedimentary rox hai prakaar of chattan ki are formed by the deposition of saamagree at the dharti 's surface or bheetar bodies of jal.
sedimentation is the samuhik naam liye processes that kaaran mineral and/or sashulk anu ( detritus ) to settle or accumulate or minerals to precipitate from a samaadhaan.
Particles ki rup a sedimentary rock by accumulating hai pukaara sediment.
Before hone deposited, sediment was formed by weathering or erosion in a sorce area, or tab transported to the place of deposition by jal, wind, barf, dravyaman gati or glacier which are pukaara agenton of denudation.
the sedimentary chattan cover of the continents of the Earth 's crust is extensive, lakin the kul contribution of sedimentary rox is estimated to be tabhi 8 % of the kul awaz of the crust.
sedimentary rox hai tabhi a patala veneer over a crust consisting mainly of igneous and kayantarit rocks.
sedimentary rox are deposited in layers as strata, forming a dhaancha pukaara bedding.
the study of sedimentary rox or chattan strata provides information about the subsurface that is useful liye civil abhiyantriki, for udhaaharan in the nirmaan of roads, gharon, tunnels, canals or anya constructions.
Sedimentary rox hai bhi important sources of prakritik resources like koyale, chattan fuels, pine jal or ores.
the padhai of the anukram of sedimentary chattan strata is the main sorce for vaigyanik knowledge about the dharti 's itihaas, including palaeogeography, paleoclimatology or the itihaas of life.
The vaigyanik anushaasan ki adhyayan the gun or utpatti of sedimentary rocks is pukaara sedimentology.
sedimentology is dono bhaag of bhuvigyaan and physical bhugol and overlaps partly saath anya disciplines in the dharti sciences, aise as pedology, geomorphology, geochemistry or sanrachanaatmak bhuvigyaan.
350px
insaano are born saath over 270 bones, some of jisase fus saath into a anudairdhya aksh, the aksheeya kankal, to jisase the appendicular skeleton is sanlagn.
sant patric ( ; ; Modern ; ; c. 387 – 17 kooch c. 460 or c. 492 ) thi a romano-british isai missionary and bishap in ireland.
gyaat as the `` Apostle of ireland '', he is the praathmik patron sant of the island along with santo brigid or Columba.
do authentic akshar isse use jivit, isse which aaiye the only generally sweekrut details of uske life.
jab he thi parichay 16, he thi captured from uske ghar or liya as a slave to ireland, jahaan he jiya liye six saalo pehle escaping or returning to uske family.
After banane a maulavee, he laute to northern or pashchimi Ireland as an ordained bishap, lakin choti is gyaat parichay the sthaan jahaan he worked.
By the seventh sadi, he had already aaiye to be revered as the sangrakshak sant of ireland.
sabase uplabdhiyaan details of uske jivan hai isse subsequent hagiographies, or ye hai abhi nahin sweekrut bagaiyr vistrut criticism.
the Annals of ulster rajya that he arrived in ireland in 432, ministered in ulster around 443, and died in 457 or 461.
the text, however, distinguishes between `` boodha patric '' ( thought to ausat Palladius ) or `` Patrick, archapostle of the Scots, '' jo died in 492.
The vaastavik dates of Patrick 's jivan can nahin be fixed saath certainty lakin, on a faili nirvachan, he thi kriyasheel as a missionary in ireland dauraan the duusari half of the 5th century.
he is generally credited saath being the first bishap of armagh, primate of sab Ireland.
Saint patric 's din is observed on kooch 17, the tithi of his maut.
it is manaaye dono inside or baahar ireland, as dono a religious or, especially baahar ireland, dharmanirpeksh avkaash.
in the dioceses of Ireland, it is dono a solemnity or a paavan din of obligation ; baahar ireland, it can be a celebration of Ireland itself.
lakeer khand in the sunahari anupaat
a golden ytaakar saath longer paksh a and shorter paksh b, when placed sata to a square saath pahalu of length a, hoga upaj a samaan sunahari ytaakar with longer paksh a + b or shorter paksh a.
This illustrates the sambandh.
in ganit and the kala, do quantities hai in the sunahari anupaat if the ratio of the yoga of the quantities to the larger maatra is baraabar to the anupaat of the larger maatra to the smaller ek.
the figure on the sahi illustrates the geometric sambandh.
expressed algebraically:
jahaan the Greek akshar phi ( ) represents the sunahari anupaat.
iske maan is:
The sunahari anupaat is also pukaara the sunahari khand ( latin : sectio oriya ) or sunahari ausat.
anya names shaamil charam or mean anupaat, medial khand, daivi proportion, daivi khand ( latin : sectio divina ), sunahari proportion, golden cut, or sunahari number.
Many 20th sadi kalakaaron and architects have proportioned unke works to approximate the golden ratio—especially in the rup of the sunahari ytaakar, in jisase the anupaat of the longer paksh to the shorter is the sunahari ratio—believing is proportion to be aesthetically pleasing ( dekhie anuprayog and observations neeche ).
Mathematicians since Euclid have padhai the gun of the sunahari anupaat, sahit its rup in the aayam of a regular prastutikaran or in a sunahari rectangle, jisase can be kaaten into a vargakar or a smaller ytaakar saath the vahi pahalu anupaat.
the sunahari anupaat rai also maharoom prayukt to analyze the proportions of prakritik vastuen as well as man-made pranaaliyon aise as vittiya markets, in kuch maamle aadhaarit on sandigdh fits to aankada.
uttar myrtle bich is a coastal resort city in Horry county, dakshin carolina, sanyukt rajya.
it thi created in 1968 from four maujuuda municipalities uttar of myrtle Beach, or serves as ek of the praathmik tourist towns along the grand strand.
The janasankhyikee was 13,752 at the 2010 census.
World War i ( WWI ) thi a global yuddh kendrit in europea ki began on 28 july 1914 or lasted jabatak 11 November 1918.
it thi predominantly called the sansar War or the great yuddh isse iske occurrence jabatak the prarambh of sansar yuddh ii in 1939, or the pehla sansar War or sansar yuddh i thereafter.
it involved sab the sansar 's great powers, jisase were samavet in do opposing alliances : the Allies ( based on the tripal Entente of the sanyukt kingdom, France and rus ) or the Central shaktiyaan ( originally the tripal gathbandhan of Germany, austria-hungary or italy ; lakin, as Austria–Hungary tha liya the apriy against the anubandh, Italy kiya nahin enter into the yuddh ).
ye alliances yahood dono reorganised and vistaarit as adhik nations entered the yuddh : italy, japani or the United rajya joined the allies, or the osmani samrajya or bulgaria the central shaktiyaan.
Ultimately, adhik than 70 lakh sainya personnel, including 60 lakh europeans, yahood mobilised in one of the largest yudhon in history.
More than 9 lakh combatants yahood maare, largely kuki of technological advancements ki led to vishaal increases in the lethality of hathiyaar bagaiyr corresponding sudhaar in suraksha or mobility.
It thi the fifth- deadliest virodh in world history, subsequently paving the way liye vibhinn political changes, aise as revolutions in anek of the raashtra shaamil.
ek of the long-term kalyankari of the war thi the resurgence of samrajyavad in the videshi policies of the great powers of europea.
More immediately, the hatya of archduke Franz Ferdinand of austria, the vaaris to the singhaasana of Austria-Hungary, on 28 june 1914 by Yugoslav rashtravaadi gavrilo princip in Sarajevo triggered a rajanyik sankat jab Austria-Hungary subsequently vitarit an ultimatum to the Kingdom of srbija.
Several alliances formed over the previous dashakon yahood invoked.
bheetar weeks, the pramukh shaktiyaan were at yuddh and, via their colonies, the virodh jald sprad around the sansar.
on 28 july, the austro-hungarians fired the pehla goliyaan of the yuddh as taiyaari liye the akraman of srbija.
While the russians mobilised, the germans invaded neutral belgium or dhvaj on the rasta to France, providing a casus belli liye britain 's ghoshnaa of yuddh viruddh germany.
baad the germany kooch on paris was brought to a halt—the so-called chamatkaar of the marne —the pashchimi saamne settled into a sthir battle of attrition with a gart line ki badla choti until 1917.
On the purvi Front, the roosi fouj thi kaamyaab against the austro-hungarians, but was roka in its akraman of east prussia by the germans.
In navambar the Ottoman samrajya joined the yuddh, opening up fronts in the kakeshas, mesopotamia or the Sinai.
italy and bulgaria gai to war in 1915 or romania in 1916.
in rus, the tsar 's sarkari collapsed in kooch 1917 and a subsequent revolution in navambar brought the Russians to sharten saath the central Powers.
After a 1918 germany offensive along the pashchimi saamne, the allies drove waapas the germans in a shrenee of kaamyaab offensives or amareeki forces began pravesh the trenches.
germany, jisase tha its own trouble saath krantikariyon, sahamat to an armistice on 11 navambar 1918.
The war ended in vijay liye the Allies.
Events on the ghar fronts yahood as ugr as on the battle fronts, as the bhagidaar aajamaaya to mobilize unke janashakti or aarthik sansaadhan to lado a kul yuddh.
by the samaapt of the war, chaar pramukh imperial powers—the germany, roosi, austro-hungarian or osmani empires—ceased to maujuud.
The successor states of the purv do khoyaa a great amount of territory, jabaki the latter two yahood dismantled entirely.
the map of central europea thi redrawn into several choti rajya.
The lig of Nations was formed in the aashaa of preventing another such conflict.
the europea nationalism shakhit by the war and the brallep of empires, the parakhnaa of germany 's shikast or problems saath the Treaty of versailles are agreed to be karkon contributing to World yuddh ii.
Camden is a city in camden county, New jersey, sanyukt rajya.
it is the county seat, located aarpaar the delaware nadi isse Philadelphia.
as of the 2010 sanyukt rajya Census the city tha a total janasankhyikee of 77,344, representing a decline of 2,560 ( 3.2 % ) isse the 79,904 nivaasiyon enumerated dauraan the 2000 janasankhyikee, jisase tha in phere asweekrut by 7,588 ( 8.7 % ) from the 87,492 gine in the 1990 janasankhyikee.
Camden kramit as the 12th-most populous nagarpalika in the rajya in 2010 after having maharoom kramit 10th in 2000.
camden thi originally incorporated as a nagar on February 13, 1828, from portions of the now-defunct newton township, jabaki the kshetrafal thi still part of Gloucester county.
on kooch 13, 1844, camden became bhaag of the newly formed Camden county.
haalanki ekbar a thriving bich liye nirmaan or udyog, camden is perhaps behtareen known liye its struggles saath urban dysfunction.
Three camden mayors have maharoom jailed liye bhrashtachar, the most haal hone milton Milan in 2000.
Since 2005 the school pranali or police vibhaag have maharoom sanchalit by the state of nai jersey ; the takeover samaapt in 2012.
In 2008, camden had the ucchtam aparaadhon rate in the u.S. saath 2,333 hinsak crimes prati 100,000 people jabaki the neshnal average thi 455 prati 100,000.
camden public skulon kharch $ 23,770 per chaatr ( $ 19,118 on a budgetary per-pupil aadhaar ) in the 2009–10 skool saal or two-thirds of the vidhyaarthee graduate.
Two out of prayek paanch residents are below the national garibi line.
Amitriptyline ( Tryptomer, elavil, tryptizol, laroxyl, Saroten, sarotex, lentizol, endep ) is a tricyclic antidepressant ( TCA ).
It is the sabase widely used TCA or rai at tanik baraabar efficacy viruddh depression as the nae class of ssris according to a padhai from jaldi 2001.
as well as reducing depressive lakshan, ye prakaar of tricyclics bhi aasaani migraines, tension headaches, chintaa attacks or some schizophrenic lakshan.
it is also gyaat to reduce aggression or hinsak behavior.
a computer is a general purpose yantra ki can be programit to carry out a parimit niyat of ganit or logical parichaalan.
chunki a sequence of operations can be readily badla, the computer can solve more than ek dayaalu of problem.
Conventionally, a computer consists of at tanik ek prasanskaran element, typically a central processing ikai ( cpu ) and kuch rup of memory.
the prasanskaran element carries out arithmetic or logic parichaalan, and a sequencing and control unit ki can badalen the order of parichaalan aadhaarit on bhandaarit information.
paridhiy divaais allow soochna to be retrieved isse an bahya sorce, and the parinaam of parichaalan saved and retrieved.
The pehla electronic digital computers were developed between 1940 or 1945 in the United kingdom and sanyukt States.
Originally they yahood the size of a large room, consuming as much power as anek sau modern nijee computer ( PCs ).
in is era mechanical analog computer yahood used liye sainya anuprayog.
Modern computer based on integrated circuits hai millions to arabon of times adhik sakasham than the jaldi machines, and occupy a bhinn of the space.
saral computers are small enough to anuroop into mobile divaais, or mobile computer can be sanchalit by choti bydaree.
Personal computer in unke vibhinn form hai icons of the soochna aayu and are kayaa sabase logon socho of as “computers.”
however, the antahsthapit computer mila in anek divaais from MP3 khilaadi to fighter vayuyan or isse khilone to industrial robots hai the most numerous.
`` barefoot or garbhvatee '' is a phrase most commonly sambhddha saath the vivaadaaspad idea ki women chahie nahin kaary outside the ghar or chahie have many children dauraan unke reproductive saalo.
It rai anek other meanings as khub.
it is a figure of vaak.
the phrase `` barefoot or garbhvatee '' was probably first prayukt sometime pehle 1950.
an aalekh isse 1949 rajya, `` by jaldi 1949, twa was—in the shabd of iske nai adhyaksh, ralph S. Damon—both 'barefoot or pregnant. ' ''
iske upyog may tithi as jaldi as the 1910s.
an aalekh published in 1958 rajya the phrase thi pehla used by a `` Dr. Hertzler '' 40 years pehle.
`` kuch chalis saalo ago, Dr. hertzler unnat a pariklpana jisase yang mahilaon of today seem jhuki on proving correct. '
the tabhi rasta to keep a woman happy, ' he said, 'is to rakhana uske barefoot or garbhvatee. ' ''
oakhurst is a census-designated place or unincorporated community bheetar samandar township, in monmouth county, New jersey, sanyukt rajya.
as of the 2010 sanyukt States Census, the cdp 's population thi 3,995.
vishvavidhyalayon of Phoenix Stadium, kholi agast 1, 2006, is a multipurpose footbaal stadium located in glandele, erizona.
it is the home of the erizona cardinals of the neshnal Football lig ( enegel ) or the salanaa Fiesta katori.
the stadium is stith next dwaar to the jobing.com arina or it features the pehla fully retractable natural grass playing sataha nirmit in the sanyukt rajya on sheersh of an AirField pranaaliyon naale pranali.
an opening on ek paksh of the stadium allows the playing field to move to the exterior of the bhawan, allowing the sampurna prakritik turf playing sataha to be ujagar to daylight.
the stadium rai hosted super katori xlii, and the 2011 BCS neshnal championships khel, a khel that it host prayek four saalo, jisase niyat the venue 's entertainment upasthiti record of 78,603 on janvari 11, 2011.
It hoga again mejabaan super Bowl XLIX in 2015.
the vishvavidhyalayon of phinics acquired the naming adhikaron in sitambar 2006, shortly baad the stadium tha kholi antargat the naam cardinals stadium.
the `` University of phinics `` name is applied as a corporate praayojak, or nahin as the ghar stadium of the University ( jisase rai no intercollegiate athletics program ).
The stadium rai bhi hosted the dablyoodablyoo event resalmenia xxvi saath 72,219 fans in attendance.
The event was yojit in the stadium on March 28th 2010.
joshua laurence Chamberlain ( sitambar 8, 1828 – farvari 24, 1914 ), born as laurence joshua chemberlen, thi an amareeki college praadhyaapak isse the rajya of Maine, jo volunteered dauraan the amareeki Civil yuddh to juden the sangh Army.
haalanki having no earlier education in sainya ranneeti, he became a atyadhik aadarneey or sajaa sangh adhikari, reaching the rank of brigadier saamaanya ( or brevet pramukh saamaanya ).
liye uske gallantry at gettysburg, he thi awarded the padak of Honor.
he thi die the sammaan of commanding the sangh sainikon at the surrender rasm for the infantry of robert E. lee 's Army at appomattox, virginia.
After the yuddh, he entered raajnneeti as a republican or parosa chaar one-year sharten of daftar as the 32nd Governor of Maine.
he parosa on the sankaay, or as adhyaksh, of uske alma meter, bowdoin College.
an inning, or pari, is a fixed-length khand of a game in koi of a variety of khel – most notably cricket and besabaal dauraan jisase ek toli koshishen to score while the anya toli attempts to prevent the pehla from scoring.
in cricket, the pad innings is both ekvachan or plural or is always spelled and sunaaya saath the terminal `` s ''.
In besabaal and softball, the ekvachan rup is inning or tabhi the bahuvachan takes an `` s ''.
In many anya khel, the lambaai of the khel is likhavai by a clock or teams swap apriy or rakshaatmak bhoomikaaye dynamically by lene possession of a ball or samaan mad.
in baseball or cricket, however, one team, kaha to be `` ballebaaji '', koshishen to score `` ranon '' —see run ( baseball ) or chalaaen ( cricket ) —while the anya toli, kaha to be `` kshetrarakshan '', attempts to prevent the scoring of runs or get sadasyon of the ballebaaji toli out.
the tiimon switch places baad the fielding toli rai succeeded in getting a phixd kramank of khilaadi out, bananaa a clock anaavashyak.
in cricket, the term pari is bhi prayukt to refer to the khel of one particular khilaadi ( smith tha a garib pari, scoring tabhi 12 ).
by ekstansion, this pad can be prayukt in angrejon English for lagbhag any kaaryaklap which takes a kaal of samay ( the udaar government tha a shubh pari, lakin finally khoyaa daftar in 1972, or You 've had a fair pari, abhi it 's my phere, arth `` tum have spoken liye long paryaapt, now let me bolo '' ).
it is also prayukt in sandarbh to someone jo rai died at a reasonably boodha age or jiya a rich or rewarding jivan ( ah, khub.
jon was 89.
at tanik he had a shubh pari ).
the baseball-derived samanaantar to is in amareeki English is the pad at chamagadad.
according to the oxford angrezi shabdkosh, the term pari rai been prayukt in reference to cricket chunki at tanik 1735.
as cricket thi a vayask, highly organized khel in the 1600s in England, the term 's utpatti could khub precede this pehla recorded upyog.
The shabd inning arth 'a mehafil in ' is pehla ankit in 1522, or could be sambandhit.
adinosin deaminase kamiyaan, also called edie kamiyaan or ada-scid, is an autosomal recessive metabolic disorder that causes immunodeficiency.
it occurs in kam than ek in 100,000 live births worldwide.
It khate liye parichay 15 % of all maamle of severe sanyukt immunodeficiency ( SCID ).
it is bahut rare, you have a 3 % chance of getting is jin.
edie kamiyaan may be upasthit in infancy, childhood, adolescense, or adulthood.
aayu of onset or gambhirtha is sambandhit to kuch 29 gyaat genotypes sambhddha saath the vikaar.
an udhaaharan of shahari garibi in is slum in jakarta, indonesia
garibi is the rajya of ek jo lacks a certain amount of material possessions or dhan.
Absolute garibi or destitution refers to the pichhade of moulik human needs, which commonly shaamil food, jal, swatchta, clothing, shelter, swasthya parvaah or shiksha.
saapeksh garibi is paribhaashit contextually as aarthik asamanta in the location or society in which logon sajiv.
liye much of itihaas, garibi was mana largely aprihaary as paramparaagat mods of utpaadan yahood insufficient to de an sampurna janasankhyikee a aaramdaayak standard of jeena.
baad the audyogic kranti, mass utpaadan in kaarkaanon bana wealth increasingly more inexpensive and accessible.
of adhik mahatv is the modernization of krishi, aise as fertilizers, in anukram to provide paryaapt upaj to feed the population.
the supplai of basic needs can be pratibandhit by constraints on sarkari sevaayen aise as bhrashtachar, kar avoidance, karz and rin conditionalities or by the dimag drain of swasthya care and shaikshanik professionals.
Strategies of increasing income to mek basic needs adhik sasti typically shaamil welfare, aarthik freedoms, or providing vittiya sevaayen.
garibi katautee is a pramukh lakshya or issue for anek antarrashtriya sanghathan aise as the sanyukt raashtra or the World bainko.
The sansar bainko anumaanit 1.29 arab logon were jeena in absolute garibi in 2008.
of ye, parichay 400 lakh logon in absolute garibi jiya in India or 173 million logon in China.
In uese 1 in 5 children lives in garibi.
In sharten of percentage of kshetreey populations, sub-saharan africa at 47 % tha the ucchtam incidence rate of nirpeksh garibi in 2008.
between 1990 or 2010, parichay 663 million logon sthanantarit upar the nirpeksh garibi str.
still, charam garibi is a global chunauti ; it is observed in sab parts of the world, sahit the viksit economies.
mashroom vishaaktata ( bhi gyaat as mycetism ) refers to harmful effects from ingestion of toxic substances present in a mushroom.
ye lakshan can vary isse patala gastrointestinal discomfort to death.
The toxins upasthit hai dwitiyak metabolites produced in specific biochemical pathways in the fungal cells.
Mushroom poisoning is praayah the parinaam of ingestion of junglee mashroom baad misidentification of a vishakt mashroom as an khaadya species.
The sabase aam kaaran liye is misidentification is band praturup in terms of rang or saamaanya morphology of the vishakt mashroom species saath khaadya prajati.
Even very anbhavi junglee mashroom gatherers are upon viral occasion poisoned by khaane vishakt prajati, despite hone khub jaagruk of the risks, through carelessness.
To prevent mashroom poisoning, mashroom gatherers need to be bahut parichit saath the mushrooms ve intend to collect as khub as saath koi similar-looking vishakt prajati.
in jod, edibility of mashroom may nirbhar on vidhi of taiyaari liye kooking.
collectors also need to be khub jaagruk that edibility or toxicity of kuch prajati varies saath geographic location.
insaan oonchaai is the alahada isse the neeche of the feet to the sheersh of the sir in a insaan deh, standing veerypat.
jab populations share genetic prishthbhumi and environmental karkon, ausat height is aksar characteristic bheetar the samooh.
asaadhaaran oonchaai vibhinnata ( around 20 % vichlan isse ausat ) bheetar aise a population is sometimes due to gigantism or dwarfism, jisase hai chikitsa sharten caused by vishisht jeenon or endocrine abnormalities.
in regions of charam garibi or prolonged warfare, paryaavarniya factors jaise chronic kuposhan dauraan balykaal or adolescence may account liye vilambit vikaas and/or ( in kathor maamle ) marked reductions in vayask stature bhi bagaiyr the presence of any of ye chikitsa sharten.
Apollo 11 was the spaceflight ki utraa the pehla insaano, america neil armastrang or baz elderin, on the chandramaa on july 20, 1969, at 20:18 UTC.
armastrang became the pehla to step onto the chandra surface 6 ghanton baad on july 21 at 02:56 UTC.
Armstrong kharch parichay do or a half ghanton baahar the spacecraft, Aldrin thodaa kam ; and together ve ekatrit of lunar saamagree liye return to dharti.
a teesraa member of the mishan, Michael colins, piloted the command spacecraft alone in chandra kaksha until Armstrong or Aldrin returned to it just under a din baad liye the trip waapas to dharti.
shubharambh by a shani V prakshepastra from Kennedy spes bich in Merritt dweep, florida on july 16, apollo 11 thi the paanchvaan maanavyukt mission of nasa 's apollo kaarykram.
The apollo spacecraft tha teen parts : a Command modul with a cabin liye the teen astronauts which was the tabhi bhaag jisase landed waapas on Earth ; a seva modul jisase supported the Command modul with nodan, vidyut shakti, oxigen and water ; or a chandra modul liye landing on the chandramaa.
baad being bheja to the chandramaa by the shani V 's apper stage, the astronauts alag the spacecraft from it or travelled liye teen dinon jabatak they daalaa into chandra kaksha.
armastrang or Aldrin tab moved into the chandra modul or utraa in the Sea of Tranquility.
They tehre a total of about 21 or a half ghanton on the chandra sataha.
baad lifting band in the upper bhaag of the Lunar modul or rejoining colins in the Command modul, ve returned to dharti or landed in the prashanth samandar on july 24.
broadcast on live tv to a world-wide darshak, armastrang stepped onto the chandra surface or varnit the event as `` ek choti kadam for [ a ] man, ek daanav chalaang for mankind. ''
Apollo 11 effectively ended the spes res or fulfilled a neshnal goal prastaavit in 1961 by the let U.S. adhyaksh jon F. kennedy in a vaak pehle the United rajya Congress, `` before is dashak is out, of landing a man on the chandramaa or returning use sakushal to the dharti. ''
the fifa sansar cap, praayah simply the sansar cap, is an antarrashtriya sangh football competition lade by the varisht main 's neshnal tiimon of the sadasyon of fédération internationale de Football sangh ( fifa ), the khel 's vaishvik shaasi deh.
The championship has maharoom awarded prayek chaar saalo chunki the inaugural tournament in 1930, magar in 1942 or 1946 when it was not yojit kuki of the duusari sansar yuddh.
The vartmaan champions are spain, who jiti the 2010 tournament.
the vartmaan swaroop of the toornament involves 32 tiimon competing for the title at venues within the mejabaan nation ( s ) over a period of parichay a maah ; is phase is praayah pukaara the sansar Cup final.
a yogyata phase, which currently takes place over the preceding three saalo, is used to determine jisase tiimon qualify for the tournament together saath the host swadesh ( s ).
the 19 sansar cap tournaments have maharoom jiti by aath alag neshnal teams.
brazil have jiti paanch times, or they hai the only toli to have played in prayek toornament.
The other sansar Cup vijeta hai italy, with chaar titles ; Germany, saath three sheershak ; argentina and inaugural vijeta urugve, saath do sheershak each ; or england, France, or spain, saath ek sheershak prayek.
The sansar Cup is the sansar 's most widely viewed sporting event ; an anumaanit 715.1 lakh logon watched the final match of the 2006 fifa sansar Cup held in germany.
the next three sansar Cups hoga be hosted by brazil in 2014, rus in 2018, or Qatar in 2022.
Genocide is a pad coined in 1944 by rafel Lemkin to describe the deliberate or systematic vinaash, in whole or in bhaag, of an ethnic, jatigat, dharmik, or neshnal group.
it is paribhaashit in Article 2 of the Convention on the rokthaam and dand of the Crime of narsanhaar ( cppcg ) of 1948 as `` koi of the following acts vachanabaddh with intent to nasht, in whole or in bhaag, a neshnal, ethnical, jatigat or dharmik samooh, as such : killing sadasyon of the samooh ; causing gambhir bodily or dimagi nuqasaan to sadasyon of the samooh ; deliberately inflicting on the samooh sharten of jivan, gananaa to lao parichay iske shaareerik vinaash in whole or in bhaag ; imposing upayon intended to prevent births bheetar the samooh ; [ or ] forcibly transferring children of the samooh to another group. ''
Skulls of victims of the rwandan narsanhaar
the preamble to the cppcg not only rajya ki `` genocide is a aparaadhon antargat antarrashtriya law, contrary to the spirit or aims of the sanyukt raashtra or condemned by the civilized sansar '', but also that `` at all periods of itihaas genocide rai inflicted great nuksaan on maanavtaa ''.
determining kayaa historical kaarykram constitute a narsanhaar or jisase hai merely dand or inhuman bartaav is not a clear-cut padaarth.
In nearly every maamla jahaan accusations of narsanhaar have circulated, partisans of vibhinn sides have fiercely vivaadit the interpretation and vivaran of the event, praayah to the point of promoting wildly alag versions of the facts.
an accusation of narsanhaar is certainly nahin taken halake and hoga lagbhag sadaa be controversial.
the following list of genocides or kathith genocides chahie be samajha in this context and can not be regarded as the final shabd on ye subjects.
a samay belt is a non-slipping mechanical drive belt or the pad may refer to either:
Toothed belt, a lacheelee belt saath daant moulded onto iske inner surface
samay belt ( camshaft ), a toothed belt prayukt to drive the camshaft ( s ) within an aatanrik dahan ingine
The samskruti of the sanyukt rajya is primarily a Western samskruti, but is bhi influenced by deshi amareeki, africa, asian, Polynesian, or Latin amareeki samskritiyon.
amareeki samskruti prarambh iske gathan over 10,000 years ago with the migration of paleo-indians isse asia into the pradesh ki is today the mahadwipiya United States.
it has its apana adwitiya social or saanskrithik visheshtaayen aise as dialect, music, kala, soshal aadaten, bhojan, or loakgeet.
the sanyukt States of america is an ethnically or racially vividh country as a parinaam of large-scale avrajan isse anek alag deshon throughout iske itihaas.
Its chief jaldi europea influences came from angrezi, scottish, welsh or irish settlers of aupniveshik america during angrejon niyam.
British samskruti, due to colonial ties saath britain ki sprad the angrezi bhashaa, legal system or anya cultural inheritances, tha a formative influence.
Other important prabhaav aae isse other bhaag of pashchimi europea, visheshkar germany, frans, or italy.
asli tatv bhi khel a damdaar bhoomika, such as the invention of Jeffersonian loktantr.
Thomas jeffrasan 's tip on the State of virginia thi shaayad the first influential gharelu saanskrithik critique by an amareeki or a reactionary tukdaa to the prachlit europea consensus that America 's domestic moulikta was vikrut.
prachlit ideas or aadarshon ki evolved domestically, aise as neshnal holidays, uniquely American khel, sainya parampara, or navapravartanon in the kala and entertainment de a damdaar bhav of neshnal pride among the janasankhyikee as a puure.
American samskruti shaamil both conservative or udaar tatv, vaigyanik and dharmik competitiveness, rajnatik structures, risk lene or free expression, bhautikwaadi and moral tatv.
despite nishchit satat vaicharik siddhanth ( e.g. vyaktigat, samtawaad, and aasthaa in swatantraaa and democracy ), amareeki samskruti rai a kismein of expressions due to iske bhugolic scale and janasankhyikee vividhta.
the lacheelaapan of U.S. samskruti or iske atyadhik sankethik nature sise kuch researchers to categorize amareeki samskruti as a mythic pahchaan ; anya dekhie it as amareeki exceptionalism.
it bhi shaamil tatv ki viksit isse swadeshi america, or other jaateey cultures—most prominently the samskruti of africa america, samskritiyon isse latin america, or Asian amareeki samskritiyon.
anek amareeki cultural tatv, visheshkar from popular samskruti, have sprad across the globe through modern dravyaman media.
the sanyukt rajya rai often maharoom vichaar of as a melting ghat, lakin shuruuaat in the late 1990s and early 2000s, it rujhaan towards saanskrithik vividhta, bahulwaad or the chitra of a salad bowl instead.
due to the extent of American samskruti, there hai many ekikrut lakin adwitiya soshal subcultures bheetar the sanyukt rajya.
the saanskrithik affiliations an individual in the sanyukt rajya may have commonly nirbhar on social class, political abhivinyas or a multitude of demographic visheshtaayen such as religious background, occupation or jaateey samooh sadsyta.
Samoan ( gagana fa'a sāmoa or Gagana sāmoa — ipie : ) is the bhashaa of the samoan islands, comprising the swatantra desh of samoa or the sanyukt rajya territory of amareeki samoa.
It is an official language—alongside angrezi —in dono jurisdictions.
samoan, a polinesian bhashaa, is the first language liye sabase of the samoa islands ' janasankhyikee of parichay 246,000.
saath anek Samoan logon jeena in other deshon, the kul number of adhyakshon worldwide is estimated at 370,000.
the bhashaa is notable for the phonological matbhed between aupchaarik and anaupchaarik vaak as khub as a ceremonial rup used in samoan oratory.
a glucose tolerance pareekshan is a chikitsa pareekshan in jisase glucose is die and rakt samples taken afterward to determine kaisaa jaldi it is saaf isse the rakt.
The test is usually prayukt to test liye madhumeh, insulin pratirodh, or sometimes pratikriya hypoglycemia or acromegaly, or rarer vikaar of carbohydrate chayapachay.
In the sabase commonly performed version of the pareekshan, an maukhik glucose sahishnutaa pareekshan ( OGTT ), a maanak khuraaq of glucose is ingested by munh or rakt levels hai checked two ghanton baad.
anek variations of the gtt have been devised over the saalo liye various purposes, with alag maanak doses of glucose, different root of prashasan, alag intervals and durations of sampling, or vibhinn substances measured in addition to rakt glucose.
`` kayaa parichay me '' is a song likhaa by gairi tushaar or frances Swan, pehla recorded by australian chattan band chalati tasviren from their album dinon of innocence.
It was the band 's first number-one single in Australia bitaa chah lagaataar saptaah on the sheersh ; vahin, it thi the second-highest selling single of 1982.
the kamyaabi of the song led unhen to america jahaan it became a hit, reaching # 29 on the U.S. billboard Hot 100 chart.
The song tehre in the u.S. charts liye aise a long samay ki it managed to make billboards top 100 Pop singles of 1983, at # 88, a viral feat for a single saath such a kam peak sthiti.
the song bana an unusual vaapasi in 1989, peaking at # 46.
on the baayein a murga anda, the anda sabase commonly khaaya by humans, and on the sahi two quail andey
andey hai laid by mahilaon of anek alag species, sahit birds, sarisrupon, amphibians, and fish, or have maharoom khaaya by mankind for hazaron of saalo.
bird or reptile andey consist of a protective eggshell, albumen ( anda shwet ), or vitellus ( egg yolk ), contained within vibhinn patala membranes.
Popular chunaav for anda khapat hai murga, duck, bater, roe, or caviar, lakin the anda most praayah khapat by insaano is the murga anda, by a wide hashia.
Egg yolks or whole andey store significant amounts of protein or choline, and are widely prayukt in cookery.
Due to unke protein saamagree, the sanyukt rajya vibhaag of Agriculture ( USDA ) categorizes andey as meats within the khaanaa maargdarshika pyramid.
despite the nutritional maan of andey, vahin hai kuch potential swasthya issues arising isse anda quality, bhandar, or vyaktigat allergies.
murgiyon or anya egg-laying jeev hai widely rakhaa throughout the sansar, and dravyaman production of chicken eggs is a global udyog.
In 2009, an anumaanit 62.1 lakh metric ton of andey yahood produced vishwavyaapee from a total leta jhund of lagbhag 6.4 arab murgiyaan.
vahin are mudde of regional vibhinnata in maang or expectation, as khub as current debates concerning vidhi of mass utpaadan, with the European Union 's bain on battery farming of murgiyon.
Major League Soccer ( mls ) is a professional soker lig representing the khel 's ucchtam str in the sanyukt States and canada.
Sanctioned by the United rajya soker sangh ( u.S. soker ), the lig is rachit of 19 tiimon — 16 in the u.S. and 3 in Canada.
Seasons presently chalaaen isse kooch to disambar, with prayek toli playing 34 games in the niyamit season.
ten tiimon compete in the postseason mls Cup playoffs culminating in the championships khel, the mls cap.
Major League soker thi founded in 1993 as part of the sanyukt States ' boli to mejabaan the 1994 fifa sansar cap.
The pehla ritu took place in 1996 shuruuaat saath ten teams.
bajaay of oparating as an association of independently owned tiimon, mls is a single antity jahaan each toli is swaamitv or niyantrit by the lig 's investors.
the lig 's band sadsyta makes it ek of the sansar 's few soccer lig nahin using pramotion or relegation.
the vaidhata of cannabis varies isse desh to desh.
kabza of canbis is illegal in sabase deshon or rai been since the beginning of faili canbis prohibition in the let 1930s.
However, anek countries have decriminalized the kabza of choti quantities of cannabis, visheshkar in North America, South America or europea.
Furthermore, kabza is vidhik or effectively vidhik in the netherlands, uttar korian or hota be in the u.S. rajya of Colorado and washington if it yahood nahin liye sangheey vidhi, jisase governs persons in sab rajya.
The aushadhiy upyog of canbis is vidhik in a kramank of countries, including Canada, the check ganatantr and israel.
jabaki federal vidhi in the United States bans sab bikri or kabza of canbis, pravartan varies widely at the rajya str or kuch states have sthapit aushadhiy marijuana programs in ki khandan sangheey law ; do rajya ( colorado or washington ) have repealed unke kanoon prohibiting the recreational use of canbis and replaced unhen saath a niamak shashan, bhi contrary to sangheey statute.
Some deshon have kanoon that are nahin as vigorously prosecuted as anya but, alaava isse the countries that prastaav abhigam to chikitsa marijuana, sabase deshon have vibhinn dand ranging isse lenient to bahut kathor.
Some infractions are liya adhik seriously in kuch deshon than anya in lihaaz to the cultivation, use, possession or transafar of canbis for recreational upyog.
a few jurisdictions have lessened dand liye kabza of choti quantities of canbis, bananaa it dandaneey by confiscation and a thik, balki than karawas.
kuch jurisdictions/ drug courts use mandatory treatment kaarykram for young or frequent upayokta, saath swatantraaa isse narcotic drugs as the lakshya or a few jurisdictions permit canbis upyog for medicinal purposes.
There hai also changes in a more pratibandhak disha as in canada.
drug pareekshan to detect canbis hai increasingly aam in anek deshon or have resulted in jail sentences or logon khone unke jobs.
however, saral possession can carry long karawas vaakya in some deshon, particularly in bhaag of east Asia and southeast asia where the bikri of canbis may lead to a vaakya of life in prison or bhi execution.
in cardiovascular physiology, ejection fraction ( EF ) represents the aaytani fraction of blood uttejit out of the ventricle ( dil ) saath each dil beat or hriday saikil.
it can be lagu to either the sahi ventricle jisase ejects via the pulmonary valve into the pulmonary parisancharan or the baayein ventricle jisase ejects via the aortic valve into the systemic parisancharan.
imaging of the physiology of the mammalian dil is the art ki allows sarthak ganitiya expression dhamak EF.
noninvasive hriday imaging rai become a vishwavyaapee utility enabling padhai of hriday pradarshan reproducibly or inexpensively.
sarlikrut, ejection bhinn is a mathematical product allowed by cardiac imaging.
as a ganitiya pad, ejection bhinn is an ekstansion of the work of adalph fik in hriday output.
Dedicated technology aise as echocardiography, Computed Tomography, chumbakeey anunaad Imaging and muga scanning have definitively anumat clinically relevant mathematics regarding Ischemia, janmajaat dil beemaari and dil Failure.
State root 14 ( sr 14 ) is a north–south state rajmarg in the U.S. state of california, largely in the mojave marusthal.
the dakshini portion of the highway is hastakshrit as the antelope ghati Freeway.
the root connects antarraji 5, or sunahari State Freeway, nikat santa clarita or saath u.S. root 395 near inyokern.
Legislatively, the route extends dakshin of I-5 to State root 1 in the prashanth Palisades kshetrafal of los Angeles, however the portion south of the jankshan saath i-5 rai not maharoom constructed.
the dakshini part of the constructed route is a vyast commuter freeway sevarat or connecting the samudaayon of santa clarita, palmdale or Lancaster saath the baaki of the Greater los Angeles kshetrafal.
the northern portion, isse vincent ( dakshin of palmdale ) to root 395, is legislatively named the Aerospace rajmarg, as the rajmarg serves edwards air force Base, once ek of the praathmik landing strips liye nasa 's spes Shuttle.
This khand is gramin, following the line between the hot Mojave marusthal or the forming Sierra newada pahaad dayera.
sabase of root 14 is loosely paralleled by a main lakeer of the Southern prashanth Railroad, prayukt liye the antelope ghati lakeer of the Metrolink commuter rail pranali as well as a connection between los angeles and the California Central ghati via Tehachapi Pass.
linked with us 395, this road connects los angeles saath aise places as maimath pahaad, mono Lake, yosemite neshnal park or Reno, Nevada.
Route 14 thi bhaag of U.S. root 6 prior to truncation in 1964, when u.S. 6 thi a coast-to-coast root isse long bich to Provincetown, masachusets.
the non-freeway khand of SR 14 isse chaandi maharani Road north of Rosamond to mojave is gyaat as sierra rajmarg, as is the boodha rooting between antarraji 5 and Silver maharani sadak jahaan SR 14 rai been sthanantarit to a nae frive alignment.
Portions of root 14 remain hastakshrit with names associated saath us 6, sahit midland trail, theodor rujvelt rajmarg or grand fouj of the Republic rajmarg.
is root is bhaag of the california frive and Expressway pranali.
drishtiheenta is the condishan of lacking visual perception due to physiological or neurological factors.
vibhinn taraazoo have been developed to describe the extent of drushti ghaataa or define blindness.
Total drishtiheenta is the complete kami of form and vizual lite bodh and is clinically recorded as NLP, an sankshipt liye `` no light bodh. ''
drishtiheenta is aksar used to describe kathor vizual putliyon with drushti.
Those varnit as having only lite bodh have no adhik sight than the kshamta to bataanaa light from dark or the general direction of a light source.
to determine jisase logon may need khaas sahaayta kuki of their vizual disabilities, various governmental jurisdictions have formulated more jatil paribhaashaayen referred to as vidhik drishtiheenta.
In uttar america or sabase of europea, legal drishtiheenta is defined as vizual acuity ( drushti ) of 20/200 ( 6/60 ) or less in the better eye saath behtareen sudhaar sambhavit.
This means ki a legally andha individual hota have to stand isse an object to dekhie it—with corrective lenses —with the vahi oopaadhi of spashtataa as a normally sighted vyakti could from.
in anek areas, logon with average tikshnata who nonetheless have a vizual field of less than 20 degree ( the norm hone 180 degree ) hai bhi classified as hone legally blind.
lagbhag ten pratishat of those deemed legally andha, by koi maap, have no drushti.
The baaki have kuch drushti, from lite bodh alone to apekshaakrit good acuity.
kam drushti is sometimes prayukt to describe vizual acuities from 20/70 to 20/200.
by the 10th Revision of the jo International sankhyikeey vargeekaran of rogon, choton or Causes of maut, kam drushti is defined as visual tikshnata of kam than 20/60 ( 6/18 ), but baraabar to or better than 20/200 ( 6/60 ), or sambandhit vizual field ghaataa to kam than 20 degrees, in the behatar najar with best sambhavit sudhaar.
drishtiheenta is paribhaashit as vizual acuity of kam than 20/400 ( 6/120 ), or sambandhit vizual field ghaataa to kam than 10 degree, in the better najar saath behtareen sambhavit sudhaar.
andha logon saath undamaged ankhen may still register lite non-visually liye the purpose of circadian entrainment to the 24-hour light/dark saikil.
lite signal liye is purpose safar through the retinohypothalamic tract or are not affected by optic tantrika kshati pare jahaan the retinohypothalamic tract exits.
arl simons ( born disambar 18, 1970 ), behatar gyaat by uske stage names DMX or Dark man x, is an amareeki rapper or actor.
In 1999, dmx released uske best-selling album... And Then vahin thi X, jisase pradarshit the hit single `` party up ( up in yahan ) ``.
He has acted in films aise as pet, Romeo jarur die, nikaas wounds, paalna 2 the Grave, or Last ghanta.
in 2006, he strecchar in the vaastaviktaa television shrenee, jisase thi primarily aired on the shart cabel television sanjaal.
in 2003, DMX prakashit a kitaab of uske memoirs hakdaar, e.a.r.l. : the aatmakatha of DMX.
dmx released a mixtape the Weigh in as a prelude/promotion towards his album undisputed ( 2012 ).
dmx rai sold over 30 lakh record vishwavyaapee, bananaa him ek of the best-selling hip-hop artists of all samay.
Professional pramann, vyapaar pramann, or professional namakan, praayah called bas certification or yogyata, is a namakan arjeet by a vyakti to assure yogyata to perform a job or kaary.
nahin sab certifications ki upyog post-nominal akshar are an sweekruti of shaikshanik uplabdhi, or an agency appointed to safeguard the public byaaj.
bag bani is a mjedaar animal cartoon akshar, best remembered liye uske abhinit bhoomikaaye in the Looney dhune and Merrie melodies shrenee of natya choti films utpaadit by warner bhaius. during the sunahari age of amareeki anemation.
uske popularity dauraan is era led to uske banane a corporate mascot of warner bhaius. entertainment.
bag is an anthropomorphic gray hare or khargosh jo is prasiddh liye uske flippant, vyaktitv, a pronounced nai york accent, uske portrayal as a trickster, or his kaich phrase `` eh...
kayaa 's up, dastauez ? ''
( praayah said jabaki chabane a carrot ).
bag rai appeared in more films than any anya cartoon akshar and is the naveen most portrayed filmi personality in the sansar.
according to uske 1990 `` jeevani '' Bugs bani : 50 Years or tabhi ek Grey hare, Bugs thi born on july 27, 1940 in brukaleen, New York in a warren antargat ebbets field, home of the brukaleen dosers.
in reality, he thi brought to life by the animators or staff of leone schlesinger productions ( baad Warner bhaius. Cartoons ) : including tex every, jo directed Bugs ' jaldi definitive choti a Wild hare ( 1940 ) ; robert McKimson, jo nirmit bag ' nirnaayak akshar dizine ; and mel blanc, jo originated the voice of Bugs.
the mucous jhilliyon ( or mucosae or mucosas ; ekvachan mucosa ) hai linings of zyaadaatar endodermal origin, covered in epithelium, jisase are shaamil in absorption or srav.
ve line cavity ki hai exposed to the bahya environment or aatanrik organs.
They hai at anek sthaan sanlagn saath skin : at the nostrils, the hoth of the munh, the eyelids, the kaanon, the genital kshetrafal, or the anus.
the sticky, motaa fluid sravit by the mucous membranes and glands is termed mucus.
The pad shlesmak jhilli refers to where ve hai mila in the deh and nahin prayek mucous jhilli secretes mucus.
The glans clitoridis, glans shishn ( head of the penis ), saath with the andar of the agratvachaa or the clitoral hud, are shlesmak jhilliyon.
the urethra is bhi a shlesmak jhilli.
The sravit mucus traps the pathogens in the deh, preventing koi further activities of rogon.
a nipun sergeant is the sainya rank liye a senior non-commissioned adhikari in some hathiyaarband shaktiyaan.
kek is a form of bread or bread-like khaanaa.
in iske aadhunik form, it is typically a mithi baked mithai.
In its oldest forms, cakes yahood normally fried breads or cheesecakes, or saamanytah tha a discs aakaar.
determining whether a given food chahie be vargeekrut as bread, cake, or pastery can be mushkil.
aadhunik cake, especially parat cakes, saamanytah contain a sangyojan of aataa, sugar, andey, or makkhan or aayal, saath kuch kismein also requiring drav ( typically milk or jal ) or leavening agenton ( such as khamir or baking churna ).
flavorful ingredients jaise fal purées, nuts, dried or candied fruit, or extracts hai praayah added, or numerous substitutions liye the primary ingredients hai sambhavit.
cakes hai praayah filled saath fruit preserves or mithai sauces ( jaise pastery cream ), iced with buttercream or other icings, or decorated saath marzipan, piped simaayen or candied fal.
Cake is praayah the mithai of chunaav liye meals at ceremonial avasaron, visheshkar vivaah, varshganth, and janmdin.
vahin hai anginat kek vyanjanon ; some hai bread-like, some samrudh or vistrut, and anek hai centuries old.
kek making is no longer a jatil kaarividhi ; jabaki at one samay considerable majdoor went into cake bananaa ( particularly the whisking of anda foams ), baking equipment or directions have been sarlikrut so ki bhi the most amateur cook may bek a kek.
tamara faye LaValley bakker Messner ( kooch 7, 1942 – July 20, 2007 ) was an amareeki isai singer, enjeelwaadi, entrepreneur, lekhak, talk show mejabaan, and television vyaktitv.
wo was shaadishuda from 1961 to 1992 to televangelist, or later convicted felon, gym bakker.
She co-hosted saath use on the PTL Club ( 1976–1987 ).
wo was a participant in the 2004 ritu of the vaastaviktaa show The surreal jivan.
cambria is a gaanv in colombia County, visconsin, sanyukt rajya.
the janasankhyikee thi 767 at the 2010 janasankhyikee.
it is bhaag of the Madison mahanagar Statistical Area.
Public niti is the principled maargdarshika to karrwai taken by the prashasnic executive branches of the state saath lihaaz to a class of mudde in a manner satat saath vidhi or institutional custom.
in saamaanya, the nyaas is the pertinent neshnal or substantial sanvaidhanik vidhi or implementing legislation such as the us Federal code.
further substrates shaamil both nyaayik interpretations or regulations jisase hai generally praadhikrut by vidhaan.
anya scholars define it as a pranali of `` courses of action, niamak upayon, kanoon, and funding praathamiktaayen concerning a die topic promulgated by a governmental antity or iske pratinidhi. ''
public policy is commonly embodied `` in constitutions, legislative adhiniyamon, or nyaayik nirnay. ''
in the sanyukt rajya, is avadharana refers nahin tabhi to the parinaam of nitiyon, lakin adhik broadly to the decision-making or vishleshan of sarkari nirnay.
as an academic anushaasan, public policy is padhai by professors and vidhyaarthee at public policy skulon of pramukh vishvavidhyalayon throughout the desh.
the u.S. professional sangh of public niti practitioners, researchers, vidwaanon, or students is the sangh liye public Policy vishleshan or prabandhan.
pachan is the mechanical or chemical vishleshan of khaanaa into choti components that hai adhik easily absorbed into a blood stream, liye udhaaharan.
Digestion is a rup of catabolism : a vishleshan of large food anuon to choti ones.
jab khaanaa enters the munh, pachan of the khaanaa starts by the action of mastication, a rup of mechanical pachan, or the wetting sampark of laar.
laar, a drav sravit by the salivary glands, contains salivary amylase, an anzime jisase starts the pachan of starch in the khaanaa.
baad undergoing mastication or mand digestion, the food hoga be in the rup of a choti, golakaar slurry mass called a bolus.
It hoga then travel down the grasanal or into the pet by the action of peristalsis.
gastric juice in the stomach starts protein pachan.
gastric juice mukhyatah contains hydrochloric acid or pepsin.
as these two rasayan may kshati the pet wal, mucus is sravit by the pet, providing a slimy layer ki adhiniyamon as a shield viruddh the damaging prabhaav of the rasayan.
at the vahi samay protein pachan is occurring, mechanical mixing occurs by peristalsis, jisase hai lehren of muscular contractions that move saath the stomach wal.
is allows the mass of khaanaa to further mix saath the digestive anzimon.
baad kuch time ( typically an ghanta or two in insaano, 4–6 hours in kutto, somewhat shorter duration in house billiyon ), the resulting thick liquid is pukaara chyme.
jab the pyloric sphincter valve opens, chyme enters the duodenum where it mixes saath digestive enzymes from the pancreas, or tab gujarata through the small aant, in which pachan continues.
When the chyme is fully pachataa, it is absorbed into the blood.
95 % of absorption of nutrients occurs in the choti aant.
jal and khanij hai reabsorbed waapas into the rakt in the colon ( vishaal intestine ) jahaan the ph is thodaa amleey parichay 5.6 ~ 6.9.
kuch vitamin, aise as biotin or vitamin k ( K2MK7 ) utpaadit by jeevanu in the colon hai bhi absorbed into the rakt in the colon.
Waste saamagree is eliminated isse the malashay dauraan defecation.
Henry viii ( 28 june 1491 – 28 January 1547 ) thi king of England isse 21 april 1509 jabatak his maut.
he thi rab, or baad king, of Ireland, as khub as continuing the nominal arji by the angrezi monarchs to the Kingdom of frans.
Henry thi the second monarch of the tuder dynasty, succeeding uske pita, henry VII.
besides his chah marriages, Henry viii is known liye uske bhoomika in the virah of the girijaghar of england from the roman catholic Church.
henry 's struggles saath rome led to the virah of the Church of england isse papal praadhikaar, the viched of the monasteries, or his apana sthapana as the param Head of the girijaghar of England.
yet he remained a believer in kor catholic theological teachings, bhi baad uske excommunication from the Roman catholic girijaghar.
Henry oversaw the vidhik sangh of England or wales saath the Laws in wales adhiniyamon 1535 and 1542.
in 1513, the new king allied with the paavan roman samraat, maximillian i, or invaded frans in 1513 saath a large, well-equipped army, lakin hasil choti at a considerable financial laagat.
Maximillian, liye uske bhaag, prayukt the angrezi akraman to his apana ends, and is prejudiced england 's kshamta to shikast the french.
is foray hota prove the start of an obsession liye henry, jo invaded again in 1544.
is samay, Henry 's shaktiyaan captured the mahatvapurn city of Boulogne, lakin again the Holy roman Emperor, charles V, supported henry tabhi as long as he needed to or england, strained by the vishaal cost of the war, ransomed the city waapas liye salaam.
uske contemporaries mana henry in uske pradhan to be an attractive, shikshit or sampannataa king, or he has been varnit as `` one of the sabase charismatic shaskaon to baithna on the English throne ''.
Besides sattadhari saath absolute shakti, he bhi engaged himself as an author and composer.
uske khwaahish to provide england saath a purush vaaris – jisase stemmed partly isse personal venity or partly because he believed a beti hota be asamarth to consolidate the tuder rajvansh or the fragile salaam ki existed following the yudhon of the Roses – led to the do things liye jisase Henry is most remembered : uske chah marriages or the angrezi Reformation.
henry became rugn mote and his health suffered, contributing to uske death in 1547.
he is frequently characterised in his later jivan as a lustful, egotistical, harsh, or asurakshit king.
Bongos ( spani : bongó ) hai an Afro-Cuban percussion yantra.
The drum hai of alag aakaar : the larger dhol is pukaara in spani the hembra ( maadaa ) or the choti the mardaana ( male ).
They hai membranophones, or yantra that banaaen dhwani by a vibration of a stretched membrane.
alag religious groups shaamil different books in unke Biblical canons, in varying aadesh, or sometimes divide or combine kitabe, or charitaarth additional saamagree into canonical kitabe.
Christian bibles dayera isse the sixty-six kitabe of the protostant canon to the eighty-one books of the ethiopian paramparaagat Tewahedo girijaghar canon.
the Hebrew Bible, or Tanakh, contains twenty-four kitabe vibhajit into teen bhaag ; the five kitabe of the tora ( `` teaching '' or `` law '' ), the Nevi'im ( `` nabiyon '' ), and the ketuvim ( `` kritiyaan '' ).
the pehla bhaag of isai bibles is the boodha vasiyat, jisase contains, at nunatam, the twenty-four kitabe of the yahudee bible vibhajit into thirty-nine kitabe and ordered differently isse the Hebrew bible.
the catholic girijaghar or Eastern isai carch bhi tham certain deuterocanonical books or passages to be part of the boodha vasiyat canon.
The duusari bhaag is the New vasiyat, containing twenty-seven books ; the chaar Canonical gospels, Acts of the Apostles, twenty-one epistles or akshar or the Book of rahasyodghatan.
the Eastern paramparaagat, Oriental paramparaagat or purvi catholic churches may have naaballig matbhed in unke suchiyaan of accepted books.
the suchi die yahan liye ye carch is the sabase samaveshi : if at tanik one purvi church sweekrut the kitaab it is shaamil yahan.
The neshnal flag of the sanyukt rajya of america, praayah simply referred to as the amareeki dhvaj, consists of thirteen baraabar aadaa dhaariyaan of red ( top or neeche ) prayavarti saath white, with a blue rectangle in the canton ( referred to specifically as the `` union '' ) bearing pachaas small, shwet, five-pointed stars arranged in nau ofaset horizontal pankti of chah sitaron ( sheersh and bottom ) prayavarti saath rows of five stars.
the 50 stars on the dhvaj represent the 50 rajya of the United rajya of America or the 13 dhaariyaan represent the thirteen angrejon colonies ki declared swatantraaa from the kingdom of Great britain or became the pehla states in the sangh.
nicknames for the dhvaj shaamil the `` Stars and dhaariyaan '', `` boodha mahima ``, and `` the star-spangled dhvaj. ''
dred scot v. sandford,, also known as the dred scot Decision, thi a landmark nirnay by the U.S. param adaalat.
it bana do pramukh rulings.
the pehla sattadhari was ki african-americans yahood nahin nagarikon, or isliye tha no standing to mukadmaa in sangheey adaalat.
The second ruling thi that the federal sarkari tha no shakti to regulate gulaami in any territory acquired subsequent to the sristi of the United rajya.
Given the pehla sattadhari, sabase vidwaanon or many samakaleen rajnatik figures ( sahit the netritv of the then-new republican party ) mana ki the second ruling was not binding yahi, lakin mere kahawat.
The yuktisangat of the Supreme adaalat regarding the jurisdictional sattadhari implied ki logon of africa descent ( both slave or free ) were nahin surakshit by the Constitution or yahood not u.S. nagarikon.
chunki dyodhi of the 14th Amendment to the u.S. Constitution, both rulings hai superseded or no longer maanya precedent.
Nonetheless, the maamla retains historical significance as it is widely regarded as the worst nirnay kabhi bana by the param adaalat.
the raay of the adaalat, likhaa by mukhya Justice roger B. taney, stirred bahes.
the nirnay thi 7–2, and prayek insaaf besides Taney likhaa a pruthak concurrence or dissent.
liye the pehla samay since marbury v. Madison, the adaalat held an adhinium of Congress to be asanvaidhanik.
Dred Scott, an African-American slave, had poocha a sanyukt States circuit adaalat to puraskaar him uske swatantraaa because he or his nipun had resided in a state ( illinois ) or a territory ( Wisconsin territory ) jahaan slavery tha been banned.
mukhya insaaf Roger taney, writing for the adaalat, yojit ki scot, as a vyakti of africa ancestry, thi nahin a naagarik of the sanyukt States or isliye tha no right to mukadmaa in federal adaalat.
is pakadakar thi contrary to the abhyaas of numerous states at the time, visheshkar free rajya, jahaan free ashweton kiya in fact enjoy the adhikaron of citizens, such as the sahi to vote or tham public daftar.
in kayaa is sometimes mana mere obiter kahawat, the adaalat gai on to tham ki congress tha no praadhikaar to prohibit gulaami in sangheey territories kuki slaves hai nijee property and the paanchvaan amendment to the samvidhan protects property swami viruddh pichhade of unke property bagaiyr due prakram of vidhi.
In reaching this decision, taney tha hoped to settle the growing controversy surrounding gulaami in the sanyukt rajya, lakin it had the vipareet prabhaav.
The decision thi fiercely debated aarpaar the desh, as shaayad behtareen exemplified by the lincoln–douglas debates of 1858.
Abraham lincoln, the second-ever republican nominee for President, thi samarth to jeet the adhyakshiya chunaav in 1860 ; the stopping of the further vistaar of gulaami thi a key republican party plank.
The nirnay nibhaai an mahatvapurn bhoomika in the timing of rajya secession or the civil yuddh, haalanki it is charam to say the nirnay `` caused '' the war.
the nirnay is acknowledged liye the influential bhoomika it nibhaai in altering the neshnal rajnatik landscape : it is credited saath launching Abraham lincoln’s neshnal rajnatik kariyar or ultimately allowing liye uske election.
Although the param adaalat has never explicitly overruled the Dred Scott maamla, the adaalat stated in the Slaughter-House maamle ki at tanik one bhaag of it tha already been overruled by the fourteenth amendment in 1868, jisase begins by stating, `` All vyaktiyon born or naturalized in the United rajya, and vishay to the kshetradhikaar thereof, hai nagarikon of the sanyukt rajya or of the rajya wherein ve reside. ''
to jisase the adaalat notend:
The pehla avlokan we have to make on is clause is, that it puts at baaki dono the questions which we stated to have been the vishay of matbhed of opinion.
it declares ki vyaktiyon may be nagarikon of the United rajya without lihaaz to unke naagarikta of a particular State, or it overturns the dred Scott decision by making sab vyaktiyon born bheetar the United States or vishay to iske kshetradhikaar citizens of the sanyukt rajya.
There hai dozens of neighborhoods in columbus, Ohio.
Some hai mushkil to define, as ve encompass vishaal kshetron viksit at alag times—often saath sub-neighborhoods bheetar unhen.
simaayen can bhi badalen aadhaarit on lokapriy understanding of the kshetrafal, as well as the whims of the nivaasiyon.
is article uses data isse the datasourcecolumbus web site, Spotcrime.com, hellocolumbus.com, as khub as the vibhinn Columbus kshetrafal ayog to define the vibhinn kshetron.
Excerpts or kinaaraa soochna hai drawn sidhe from the pramukh aalekh.
a jeevigyaani is a scientist jo adhyayan jeena organisms and unke sambandh to unke paryaavaran.
biologists shaamil in moulik research attempt to discover underlying mechanisms ki govern kaisaa organisms work.
biologists involved in lagu shodh attempt to develop or improve chikitsa, audyogic or agricultural processes.
martinus wilem Beijerinck, a vanaspatishastri or microbiologist
aadhaar kud from a chattan in a wingsuit.
BASE jumping, bhi sometimes written as b.a.s.e. kud, is an kaaryaklap jahaan participants jump isse fixed vastuen and upyog a parachute to brake unke patan.
`` aadhaar '' is an acronym ki stands liye four shrenee of phixd objects from jisase ek can jamp : imaaraten, antena, spans ( bridges ), or dharti ( cliffs ).
The angrejon Shorthair is a domesticated billi whose features make it a lokapriy nasl in cat shows.
it rai maharoom the sabase lokapriy nasl of billi panjikrut by the uk 's Governing Council of the billi fansy ( gccf ) since 2001, when it overtook the parsi nasl.
The uese Basketball Men 's varisht National toli, commonly gyaat as the sanyukt States men 's national basketball toli, represents the sanyukt rajya of america in antarrashtriya men 's basketball.
The USA is the sabase successful team in antarrashtriya pratiyogita, jeetna medals in sab satraa olympic tournaments it rai daalaa, coming dur saath chaudaa golds.
do of iske sunaharaa medal-winning daston were inducted to the Naismith memorial basket haul of kirti as teams in agast 2010—the 1960 toli, which pradarshit chah Hall of Famers ( 4 khilaadi, 2 coach ), or the 1992 `` sapana Team '', featuring 14 haul of famers ( 11 khilaadi, 3 coach ).
The United States is philhal ranked pehla in the fiba sansar rankings.
Traditionally rachit of amateur players, a 1989 rule badalen by fiba anumat uese Basketball to field tiimon saath peshewar khilaadi.
The first such toli, known as the `` sapana toli '', jiti the sunaharaa medal at the 1992 Summer olympic in barsilona, spain, playing in the final against kroeshia.
With the introduction of peshewar, the toli thi samarth to chingaari a duusari chalaaen of dominance after capturing tabhi a kaansya padak in 1988.
A team of peshewar players competed at the 1994 fiba World Championship, finishing pehla.
in 1996, 2000, 2008, or 2012 the uese again captured sunaharaa medals.
facing increased pratiyogita, the uese vifal to win a medal at the 2002 FIBA sansar Championship, finishing chathe.
the 2004 garmiyaan olympic toli khoyaa three khel on iske rasta to a kaansya padak, a ricard ki represented more nuksaan in a single saal than the country 's olympic tiimon tha suffered in sab pichhlaa Olympiads sanyukt.
Determined to put an end to these failures, uese basket initiated a long-term project aimed at bananaa behatar, adhik cohesive teams.
the USA jiti iske pehla saat games at the 2006 FIBA sansar championships in japani pehle khone viruddh Greece in the semi-finals, ending the pratiyogita saath the bronze medal.
the USA jiti gold do saalo baad, though, at the 2008 garmiyaan olympic saath a prabal performance.
is kamyaabi thi followed up at the 2010 fiba sansar Championship, jahaan despite kshetrarakshan a roster featuring no khilaadi isse the 2008 olympic toli, the USA kiya nahin lose a single game en root to defeating mejabaan Turkey liye the sunaharaa padak.
the USA continued is streak of dabadabaa by going aparajit or capturing sunaharaa ekbar more at the 2012 Summer olympic.
The stilers super katori xl ring
Joe theismann 's super katori ring ( right )
the Super katori ring is an puraskaar in the neshnal footbaal League die to the vijeta of the league 's salanaa sansar Championship khel, the Super katori.
Since tabhi ek Vince lombardi Trophy is awarded to the toli ( ownership ) itself, the super katori ring offers a collectible memento liye the actual khilaadi or toli sadasyon to keep for themselves to symbolize the victory.
chitra prardashit the chah sabase aam speleothems saath labals.
to drishy labels.
the Witch 's Finger in the carlsbad caverns
a stalagmite ( or ; isse the unani σταλαγμίτης - stalagmitês, isse σταλαγμίας - stalagmias, `` chhodane, trickling '' ) is a prakaar of speleothem that udai isse the manzil of a chuunaa cave due to the tapakataa of mineralized solutions or the deposition of calcium carbonate.
is stalagmite gathan occurs tabhi antargat nishchit pH sharten bheetar the bhumigat cavern.
the corresponding formation on the chat of a cave is known as a stalactite.
if ye formations grow saath, the parinaam is gyaat as a kalam.
The haul of diggaj in the Carlsbad caverns
stalagmites should saamanytah nahin be chuaa, chunki the rock buildup is formed by khanij precipitating out of the jal solution onto the old sataha ; skin oils can alter the sataha where the khanij jal hoga chipki, yun affecting the growth of the gathan.
Oils or dirt from human contact can bhi stain the gathan and badalen iske color permanently.
samaan structures can bhi rup in lava tubes, sambhddha saath some types of lavacicles, although the yantriki of gathan is very alag.
stalactites and stalagmites can also rup on kancreet ceilings or floors, haalanki ve rup much adhik rapidly vahin than in the natural gupha paryaavaran.
The largest stalagmite in the sansar is unchi and is located in the gupha of cueva martin infierno, Cuba.
In the zagros Mountains of dakshin iraan, lagbhag isse the pracheen nagar of bishapur, in the Shapur cave on the fourth of paanch baramada stand the 3rd century ce pratimaa of shapur i, duusari ruler of the Sassanid Empire.
the pratimaa, carved from ek stalagmite, is nearly unchi.
kaisaa I mili Your maan is an amareeki sitcom that premiered on CBS on sitambar 19, 2005.
The dikhaaen thi nirmit by craig Thomas and Carter bays.
kaisaa I mili apana maan is framed by the year 2030, jab ted mosby ( voiced by Bob saget ) gathers uske daughter ( lyndsy fonseca ) and bete ( David Henrie ) to tell unhen the story of how he mili their maan.
we flashback to jahaan it begins in 2005 with ted mosby ( josh Radnor ) as a single, 27-year-old vaastu jeena saath uske two best mitron isse wesleyan vishvavidhyalayon, marshall eriksen ( jesan Segel ), a law chaatr, and lily elderin ( alyson haningan ), a kindergarton teacher, jo have maharoom dating liye lagbhag nine saalo jab marshall proposes.
unke sagaai causes Ted to socho parichay dhundhna his apana soul mate, much to the disgust of uske dost Barney stinson ( neil patric haris ), a womanizer saath an benaam corporate job.
or thus, Ted begins uske dhundhen liye his purna mate, or meets robin scherbatsky ( kobi smalders ), jisko he bhi befriends.
The 100th apisod of kaisaa i mili apana Mother aired on January 11, 2010.
on disambar 21, 2012, the shrenee thi renewed liye a naveen ritu.
on janvari 30, 2013, it was ghoshit ki ritu 9 will be its final ritu.
gringo (,, ) is a kathboli spani or Portuguese shabd prayukt in ibero-america, to denote videshiyon, often isse the United rajya.
the term can be lagu to kisi jo is darasal a foreigner, or it can denote a damdaar sangh or sammilan into videshi ( particularly us ) society and samskruti.
In spani it karata nahin have a negative connotation.
roger Axtell, a safar tahazeeb visheshgy, tip ki `` [ t ] he shabd gringo is nahin necessarily a karaab shabd.
it is kathboli lakin is apmanjanak tabhi in iske use or context. ''
the word was prayukt in spain long before it crossed the atlantic to denote videshi, non-native speakers of Spanish.
the great shwet shark, carcharodon carcharias, also gyaat as the great shwet, shwet suchak, shwet shark, or shwet death, is a prajati of large lamniform shark which can be found in the coastal sataha waters of sab the pramukh mahaasaagar.
The great white shark is mukhyatah gyaat liye iske aakaar, saath the largest individuals gyaat to have approached or exceeded in lambaai, or in vazan.
This shark pahunch iske paripakvata around 15 saalo of aayu or can have a jivan span of over 30 years.
the great shwet shark is arguably the sansar 's largest gyaat extant macropredatory machhlee, or is ek of the praathmik parabhakshi of samudri mammals.
it is bhi known to shikaar upon a kismein of anya samudri pashu, sahit machhlee and seabirds.
it is the tabhi gyaat surviving prajati of its genus carcharodon, and is ranked pehla in having the most hamale on insaano.
the aiusien suchi the great shwet shark as a vulnerable species, jabaki it is shaamil in parishisht ii of CITES.
The bestselling anokhaa jabade by peter benchley and the subsequent blockbster filmi by steven spilberg depicted the great white shark as a `` ferocious man eater ``.
in reality, humans are nahin the pasandida prey of the great white shark.
the sanyukt rajya hathiyaarband shaktiyaan hai the sainya shaktiyaan of the sanyukt rajya of america.
ve consist of the fouj, navy, samudri corps, Air force, or coast Guard.
the U.S. rai a damdaar parampara of civilian control of the military.
the adhyaksh is the sainya 's overall head, and helps rup sainya niti saath the u.S. vibhaag of Defense ( dod ), a sangheey karypalika vibhaag, acting as the principal organ by which sainya niti is carried out.
the dod is headed by the sachiv of raksha, jo is a civilian or cabinet member.
the raksha sachiv is duusari in the military 's kadi of command, bas neeche the President, or serves as the principal sahaayak to the President in sab dod-related matters.
to coordinate sainya action with kootneeti, the adhyaksh rai an advisory National Security parishad headed by a National suraksha salaahkaar.
dono the President and Secretary of Defense are advised by a seven-member sanyukt chiefs of Staff, jisase shaamil the sir of each of the raksha vibhaag 's seva shakhaon as khub as the chief of the neshnal guard beuro.
netritv is provided by the adhyaksh of the sanyukt chiefs of staff or the Vice Chairman of the Joint chiefs of staff.
The Commandant of the coast guard is not a sadsy of the Joint chiefs of staff.
All of the shakhaon kaary saath during operations or sanyukt missions, antargat the ekikrut combatant Commands, under the authority of the Secretary of raksha saath the excepshan of the coast guard.
the coast guard jalprapaat antargat the administration of the vibhaag of mathrubhumi Security or receives iske operational aadesh isse the sachiv of mathrubhumi suraksha.
The Coast guard may be transferred to the vibhaag of the Navy by the adhyaksh or congress dauraan a time of yuddh.
sab five hathiyaarband sevaayen are among the seven uniformed sevaayen of the sanyukt rajya ; the others hai the u.S. public Health Service commissioned corps or the neshnal oceanic and vayumandaleey prashasan commissioned corps.
From the samay of its inception, the sainya played a decisive bhoomika in the history of the sanyukt rajya.
A sense of neshnal ekta or pahchaan thi forged as a result of victory in the pehla barbary yuddh or the Second Barbary yuddh.
bhi so, the sansthaapakon were sandigdh of a permanent military force and nahin jabatak the outbreak of sansar War ii kiya a vishaal standing fouj become officially sthapit.
the National Security Act of 1947, apanaaya following World War ii and dauraan the thanda War 's onset, nirmit the aadhunik u.S. military fremawork ; the Act merged previously cabinet-level vibhaag of yuddh or the vibhaag of the Navy into the neshnal sainya sthapana ( renamed the vibhaag of raksha in 1949 ), headed by the sachiv of raksha ; or created the Department of the air force and National suraksha Council.
the u.S. sainya is ek of the largest militaries in sharten of number of karmiyon.
it draws iske manpower from a vishaal pool of sashulk swayamsevak ; although conscription has been prayukt in the past in vibhinn times of dono war or salaam, it has nahin maharoom prayukt chunki 1972.
as of 2013, the U.S. kharch about $ 554.2 billion annually to nidhi iske sainya shaktiyaan, or appropriates lagbhag $ 88.5 arab to nidhi videshi aakasmikta parichaalan.
Put together, the U.S. constitutes roughly 43 percent of the sansar 's sainya expenditures.
the u.S. hathiyaarband Forces as a puure possess vishaal quantities of advanced or powerful upkaran, saath saath widespread avasthiti of shaktiyaan around the sansar, giving them significant samarthy in dono raksha and shakti projection.
swatantraaa of vaak is the rajnatik sahi to communicate ek 's raay or ideas using ek 's body or property to anyone jo is willing to receive unhen.
the pad swatantraaa of abhivyakti is sometimes prayukt synonymously, but shaamil any act of seeking, receiving or imparting information or ideas, regardless of the medium used.
in abhyaas, the sahi to swatantraaa of vaak is nahin absolute in koi desh or the sahi is commonly vishay to simaaen, as with manahani, slander, obscenity, rajdroh ( including, liye udhaaharan inciting jaateey dwesh ), copyright violation, revelation of soochna ki is vargeekrut or varanaa.
the right to swatantraaa of abhivyakti is pahachaanaa as a insaan sahi antargat Article 19 of the Universal Declaration of insaan Rights or recognized in international insaan adhikaron law in the antarrashtriya vachan on civil and rajnatik adhikaron ( iccpr ).
aalekh 19 of the ICCPR rajya ki `` [ e ] veryone shall have the sahi to tham raay without interference '' and `` everyone shall have the right to swatantraaa of abhivyakti ; is sahi shall shaamil swatantraaa to talash, praapt or impart information or vichaar of sab kinds, regardless of frontiers, either orally, in writing or in chapai, in the form of art, or through koi anya media of uske choice ''.
Article 19 goes on to kah that the kasarat of ye adhikaron carries `` khaas duties or jimmedaariyon `` or may `` isliye be vishay to certain restrictions '' jab jaruri `` [ f ] or respect of the adhikaron or reputation of others '' or `` [ f ] or the protection of neshnal suraksha or of public anukram ( order public ), or of public health or morals ''.
swatantraaa of speech may be legally curtailed in some religious vidhik pranaaliyon or in dharmanirpeksh jurisdictions jahaan it is mila to cause dharmik thokar, aise as the angrejon jatigat and Religious Hatred Act 2006.
the Big bang siddhanth logo.
the Big Bang siddhanth is an American kamedi television shrenee nirmit or karypalika produced by chak lorre or vidheyak prady.
Like the naam of the shrenee itself, saath the excepshan of the pehla episode— '' payalat '' —episode sheershak of the big Bang siddhanth always start saath `` the '' or resemble the naam of a vaigyanik principle, siddhanth or prayog, whimsically referencing a plat point or quirk.
, 133 apisod have aired.
The big bang Theory rai maharoom navinikrut liye a saatvaan ritu.
dwite David `` ike '' ijanhavar ( sunaaya, ; October 14, 1890 – March 28, 1969 ) was the 34th adhyaksh of the sanyukt States isse 1953 jabatak 1961.
he had previously maharoom a five-star saamaanya in the sanyukt rajya Army during World yuddh ii or parosa as param Commander of the Allied Forces in europea ; he tha responsibility liye niyojan or supervising the akraman of uttar africa in aaparishan mashaal in 1942–43 or the successful invasion of frans or germany in 1944–45 from the pashchimi saamne.
In 1951, he became the first param commander of nato.
ijanhavar was of Pennsylvania dach ancestry or was reared in a vishaal parivaar in kansas by abhibhavak saath a majboot work ethic and dharmik prishthbhumi.
as one of six bete, he thi conditioned by a competitive maahaul which instilled self-reliance.
he attended or graduated isse West point or baad married or had two bete.
After World War ii, ijanhavar served as fouj mukhya of staff under President harry S. truman, tab assumed the post of President at colombia vishvavidhyalayon.
Eisenhower daalaa the 1952 adhyakshiya res as a republican to counter the non-interventionism of Senator robert A. taft or to crusade against `` samyavaadee, korian or bhrashtachar ''.
He jiti by a landslide, defeating democrate adlai stevenson or samaapti do dashakon of the nai saude Coalition.
in the pehla saal of uske presidency, ijanhavar deposed the netaa of iraan in the 1953 irani takhtapalat d'état and prayukt nabhikeey khatre to conclude the Korean yuddh saath china.
uske nai dekh niti of nabhikeey deterrence diya pradhanta to inexpensive nabhikeey weapons jabaki reducing the funding liye conventional sainya forces ; the lakshya thi to rakhana dabaav on the soviet sangh and reduce federal deficits.
in 1954, ijanhavar pehla articulated the domino siddhanth in uske varnan of the threat presented by the sprad of samyavaadee.
The Congress agreed to uske nivedan in 1955 liye the formosa rezolution, which enabled use to prevent chinis communist aakraamakata against chinis rashtravaadiyon and sthapit the U.S. niti of defending taiwan.
jab the soviets shubharambh sputnik in 1957, he tha to khel catch-up in the spes res.
ijanhavar majaboor Israel, the uk, or frans to samaapt unke akraman of mishra dauraan the suez sankat of 1956.
In 1958, he sent 15,000 US sainikon to lebanon to prevent the pro-western sarkari from falling to a Nasser -inspired kranti.
nikat the samaapt of uske term, uske praytn to set up a summit meeting saath the Soviets collapsed kuki of the U-2 ghatana.
on the gharelu front, he covertly opposed joseph maikaarthi or contributed to the samaapt of mccarthyism by khulkar invoking the modern expanded version of karypalika visheshadhikaar.
he varanaa left most rajnatik kaaryaklap to uske Vice adhyaksh, richard Nixon.
he thi a moderate roodhiwaadee jo jari nai Deal agencies or vistaarit soshal suraksha.
among his enduring navapravartanon, he launched the antarraji rajmarg pranali ; the raksha unnat shodh project Agency ( darpa ), jisase led to the antarjaal, among many invaluable output ; the neshnal aeronautics or Space prashasan ( NASA ), driving peaceful discovery in spes ; the sthapana of strong vigyaan education via the neshnal Defense Education adhinium ; and protsaahit shantipurna use of nabhikeey shakti via amendments to the parmaanu urja adhinium.
in soshal niti, he bheja sangheey troops to choti chattan, arkansaas, liye the first samay since Reconstruction to enforce sangheey court orders to desegregate public skulon.
he bhi signed civil adhikaron vidhaan in 1957 or 1960 to protect the sahi to vote.
he implemented desegregation of the armed forces in do saalo or bana paanch niyukti to the param Court.
he was the pehla term-limited president in accordance saath the 22nd amendment.
Eisenhower 's do sharten yahood shantipurna ones for the sabase bhaag and dekhi considerable economic samruddhi magar liye a sharp mandi in 1958–59.
ijanhavar is praayah kramit atyadhik among the U.S. Presidents.
Air force ek is the official air trekkic control kol sign of a sanyukt States air force vayuyan carrying the adhyaksh of the United rajya.
In aam parlance the term refers to those air force vayuyan specifically designed, nirmit, or used liye the purpose of transporting the adhyaksh.
the adhyakshiya vayuyan is a prominent symbol of the American presidency or its power.
The vichaar of designating vishisht sainya aircraft to hastantaran the adhyaksh arose in 1943, jab officials of the sanyukt rajya Army Air shaktiyaan – the purvavarti to the u.S. Air force – became chintit saath relying on vanijyik airlines to hastantaran the adhyaksh.
a c-87 muktivaadee express thi reconfigured for upyog as a presidential hastantaran ; however, it thi asweekrut by the rahasy Service amid concerns over the aircraft 's safety ricard.
a C-54 skymaster thi tab parivartit liye adhyakshiya upyog ; this vayuyan, utaavle the pavitra gaay, transported adhyaksh franklin D. rujvelt to the Yalta sammelan in February 1945, and thi subsequently used liye another do saalo by adhyaksh harry S. truman.
the `` air force One '' call chihn thi created baad a 1953 ghatana dauraan jisase a flight carrying adhyaksh dwite D. ijanhavar daalaa the vahi airspace as a vanijyik airline udaan using the same call chihn.
anek vayuyan have been used as air force One chunki the sristi of the adhyakshiya fleet, sahit do bowing 707s introduced in the 1960s or 1970s, kramshah ; chunki 1990, the adhyakshiya bede rai consisted of do bowing vc-25as – specifically vinyast, atyadhik customized bowing 747-200B series vayuyan.
the air Force is looking into replacing the do vc-25 vayuyan saath teen badalanaa vayuyan shuruuaat in 2017.
a vivaah varshganth is the varshganth of the tithi a vivaah took place.
paramparaagat names maujuud for sabase of unhen : for udhaaharan, 50 saalo of vivaah is called a `` sunahari vivaah varshganth '' or bas a `` golden varshganth ''.
a scanner with Duplexing swachaalit Document feader.
In multifunction or all-in-one printers, fax mashine, photocopiers and scanners, an swachaalit document feader or ADF is a visheshta jisase takes several prishthon or feeds the paper ek pej at a samay into a scinar or copier, allowing the upayokta to scan, or thereby nakal, chapai, or fax, multiple-page documents bagaiyr having to manually badalen each pej.
sabase copiers allow scanning on the flatsbed or platen ( the `` glass '' ) or through a dastauez feeder.
The vast bahumat of fax machines have an adf, allowing the unattended sending of multi-page faxes.
due to the ubiquity of adf in fax mashine, some fax yantra owners upyog the fax yantra as a scanner, faxing multi-page dastauez to themselves.
dastauez feeders hai varnit by speed, in prishthon per minute or ppm, or kshamta, praayah in a dayera isse 10 sheets to 200.
There are do kinds of document feeders capable of two-sided ( duplex ) scanning : a reversing automatic dastauez feader or radf scans one paksh of a pej, tab flips it or scans the anya paksh.
A duplexing automatic dastauez feeder or dadf scans dono sides in ek pass.
The laabh of the dadf is faster speed liye two-sided originals.
radfs and dadfs hai rated in bimb prati minute ( ipm ), the number of pahalu ve can scan prayek minute.
mela park is a recreational or educational complex located in dalas, texas ( USA ).
The complex is registered as a dalas landmark, National aitihaasik landmark or is home to nau museums, chah performance suvidhaayen, a lagoon, or the largest feris wheel in uttar america.
anek of the buildings on the complex yahood constructed liye the texas centennial exposition in 1936 jisase drew over chah million visitors.
Most of the imaaraten nirmit for the exposition still jivit or it is recognized as a significant example of Art Deco vaastukala.
Fair park rai been designated a great place in america by the amareeki niyojan sangh.
the amareeki niyojan Association ( apa ) “is an swatantra, not-for-profit shaikshanik organization that provides netritv in the development of vital communities.”
the Great sthaan in amareeki kaarykram helps to celebrate kshetron saath “exemplary character, visheshta, and planning.”
Being designated as a great place in america, mela park thi ek of only ten shaharon chuni in 2011.
san jose ( ; spani : st. joseph ) is the third-largest city in california, the tenth-largest in the u.S., or the county seat of santa clara county jisase is stith at the dakshini end of San francisco khadi.
san Jose is the largest city bheetar silicon ghati, which is a pramukh ghatak of the vrihad San Francisco khadi kshetrafal, a region of 8.4 lakh logon and the fifth largest mahanagar area ( CSA ) in the sanyukt rajya.
it is the largest city in uttari california.
san jose thi founded on November 29, 1777, as el pueblo de san José de guadalupe, the pehla civilian kasbaa in the spani upnivesh of Nueva california, which later became alta california.
the nagar parosa as a kheti jatiyaan to support spani sainya sansthapana at San francisco or monterey.
jab california gained statehood in 1850, san jose parosa as iske pehla puunji.
After more than 150 years as a choti kheti nagar, san jose or the surrounding santa Clara Valley became the last ( or largest ) sanlagn area of undeveloped jameen surrounding the san francisco khadi.
San jose anbhavi increased maang liye housing from sainiko or diggajon returning from sansar War II.
san jose tab continued iske aggressive vistaar during the 1950s and 1960s by annexing more land kshetrafal.
The rapid vikaas of the high-technology or electronics industries further accelerated the parivartan from an agricultural bich, to an urbanized mahanagar kshetrafal.
By the 1990s, san Jose 's sthaan within the booming local technology udyog earned the nagar its nickname, puunji of Silicon ghati.
san Jose abhi maintains vaishvik nagar status or is the largest nagar in the san francisco khadi Area in sharten of janasankhyikee, land kshetrafal, and audyogic vikaas.
The u.S. janasankhyikee beuro reported the janasankhyikee of the nagar to be 945,942 as of the 2010 janasankhyikee.
as of april 2013, the estimated janasankhyikee of San Jose thi 984,000.
San jose, along with the santa clara ghati, anbhavi parichay half a sadi of spectacular suburban sprawl, with visheshtaayen of intense shahari samaan to the los angeles kshetrafal of Southern california.
The nagar has liya definite kadam to avoid banane `` l.A. uttar ''.
however, the sprawl in San jose is badtar than in Los angeles by measures aise as janasankhyikee ghanatv or public transit suraksha, nivesh, and ridership.
europea depicted by antwerp cartographer abraham ortelius in 1595
The itihaas of Europe cover the logon inhabiting the europea mahadweep chunki it thi pehla populated in pragaitihaasik times to upasthit, saath the pehla homo sapiens arriving between 45,000 or 25,000 bc.
the earliest settlers to Prehistoric Europe came dauraan the paleolithic era.
the aagaman of krishi around 7000 bc ushered in the neolithic age.
Neolithic europea lasted for 4000 saalo, overlapping saath metal-using samskritiyon that dhire spread throughout the mahadweep.
technological agrim during the pragaitihaasik age tended to arrive isse the madhya East, spreading dhire to the uttarpashchim.
kuch of the best-known sabhyataaon of pragaitihaasik europea yahood minoai or Mycenaean, jisase flourished dauraan the Bronze Age jabatak ve collapsed in a choti kaal of samay around 1200 bc.
the period known as classical pracheenta began saath the vruddhi of the city-states of pracheen unaniyon.
Greek influence pahunche iske zenith antargat the expansive empire of Alexander the great, spreading throughout asia.
Northern or pashchimi Europe yahood varchasv by the la tène culture, a precursor to the celts.
Rome, a choti city-state traditionally founded in 753 BC, would grow to become the roman ganatantr in 509 bc and hota safal unani culture as the prabal Mediterranean sabhyataa.
the events of the niyam of julius seizar led to reorganization of the Republic into the roman samrajya.
the samrajya was baad vibhajit by the samraat diocletian into the pashchimi or purvi empires.
dauraan the baad saalo of the roman Empire, the germanic peoples of uttari Europe grew in shakti and doharaaya hamale led to the Fall of the pashchimi Roman samrajya in AD 476, a date jisase traditionally marks the end of the shastreey kaal or the start of the Middle Ages.
dauraan the Middle aayu, the purvi roman Empire batch, haalanki aadhunik historians refer to this rajya as the bizantin samrajya.
in pashchimi Europe, germanic peoples sthanantarit into positions of shakti in the remnants of the purv pashchimi Roman samrajya or established kingdoms or empires of unke own.
of sab of the germanic peoples, the franks hota vruddhi to a sthiti of Hegemony over pashchimi europea, the frankish samrajya reaching iske shikhar antargat sharalamen around ad 800.
francia thi divided into anek parts ; west francia hota evolve into the kingdom of France, jabaki east francia hota evolve into the paavan roman Empire, a precursor to aadhunik germany.
The angrejon Isles yahood the sait of several large-scale migrations.
Native celtic peoples had been marginalized dauraan the kaal of roman britain, or jab the Romans abandoned the British isles dauraan the 400s, lehren of germanic anglo-saxons migrated to dakshini britain or established a shrenee of kshudra kingdoms in kayaa would aakhirkaar develop into the kingdom of england by ad 927.
dauraan this kaal, the kingdom of candal or kingdom of hungarian ( 1000–1945 ) yahood organized as khub.
the viking aayu, a kaal of migrations of scandinavian peoples, varchasv the period isse the let 700s to the madhya 1000s.
mukhya among the viking rajya thi the Empire of cnut the great, a danish netaa who hota become king of england, Denmark, or Norway.
the normans, a viking logon jo settled in uttari frans or santhaapit the Duchy of normandy, hota have a significant impact on anek parts of Europe, isse the norman conquest of england to Southern italy and sicili.
another Scandinavian logon, the rus ' people, hota go on to mila kievan rus ', an jaldi rajya which thi a precursor liye the aadhunik country of rus.
As the viking aayu drew to a band, the period gyaat as the Crusades, a series of religiously-motivated sainya rijhaane originally intended to lao the levant waapas into isai niyam, began.
anek Crusader states yahood santhaapit in the purvi bumadhyasagariya.
These yahood sab short-lived.
the Crusaders would have a profound prabhaav on anek bhaag of europea.
unke bori of Constantinople in 1204 brought an abrupt end to the Byzantine samrajya.
Extinct shwaan breeds is a sankalan of shwaan breeds ki have become extinct.
Wii Speak is a microphone accessory for nintendo 's ve video khel consol.
conect to the consol via usb, the yantra can be lagaai nikat the video pradarshak, allowing awaz gapshap to be conducted with the sampurna room.
the yantra suvidhaayen an LED to indicate when the microphone is active.
ve bolo thi ghoshit at nintendo 's 2008 e3 media drug.
it thi released separately or bundled saath animal crossing : nagar lok on November 16, 2008, in uttar America, and thi released on December 5, 2008, in Europe.
the ve bolo accessory is succeeded by the embedded microphone on the Wii u 's gamepad niyantrak.
nisaan budhimaan key®
a smart key is an electronic abhigam or praadhikaran pranali jisase is uplabdhiyaan as an option or standard in anek gaadiyaan.
It was first viksit by siemens in the mid-1990s or introduced by mercedes-benz antargat the naam `` keyless go '' in 1998 on the w220 s-class following iske design patent filed by Daimler-Benz on May 17, 1997.
Univisión ( ) is a spanish-language television sanjaal in the United States.
The sanjaal is primarily samarpit liye latin amareeki pariwaron jo reside in the sanyukt rajya.
it rai the largest darshak of spanish-language television darshak in the world according to Nielsen darja.
Randy falco, ( siio as of june 29, 2011 ) coo, rai maharoom in charge of the company since the prasthaan of Univision sanchaar adhyaksh or siio jo uva in April 2010.
in haal years the sanjaal has reached parity saath the U.S. 's paanch major english-language television sanjaal, or is praayah a damdaar fifth, outranking The cw, saath kuch fourth-place saptahik placings, or as of 2012, bhi pehla place rankings for vyaktigat kaarykram over sab five English sanjaal due to the sanjaal 's satat anusuchee of nai telenovelas all 52 saptaah of the year.
Univisión is headquartered in nai York, and has iske pramukh studios, production suvidhaayen, and parichaalan in doral, Florida, a upnagareey of miami.
in 2009, another television studio thi ghoshit, univision Studios, to be built in doral.
Univision is uplabdhiyaan on cabel or upgrah in sabase of the country, saath local stations in over 50 bazaar saath vishaal hispanic or Latino populations and a neshnal cabel sanjaal feed vitarit in bazaar without either the uplabdhta or the demand liye a locally-based station.
sabase of these stations air full local news or anya local programing in jod to sanjaal shows, or in major markets aise as los Angeles, nai york, or miami the local newscasts carried by the network 's owned-and-operated stesan ( o & O ) stations hai baraabar pratispardhi with unke english-language counterparts ratings-wise.
Univisión thi acquired on kooch 29, 2007 by a consortium led by Haim saban 's saban puunji samooh ( jo tha previously swaamitv the antity Saban entertainment ), TPG puunji, L.P., vidhaataa equity saajhedaar, medisson Dearborn saajhedaar, or thomas H. Lee Partners liye $ 13.7 billion or $ 36.25 prati share plus $ 1.4 billion in acquired karz.
The buyout baayein the company saath a karz str of twelve times its annual cash pravaah, jisase thi twice the norm in buyouts kiya over the pichhlaa do saalo.
kalakaar 's conception of a protoplanetary discs
the formation or of the saura pranali is estimated to have begun 4.6 billion years pehle with the gurutvkarshak patan of a small bhaag of a daanav molecular cloud.
Most of the collapsing dravyaman collected in the kendra, forming the Sun, jabaki the rest flattened into a aadigrah disk out of jisase the planets, moons, asteroids, or other small Solar System laashen formed.
is widely sweekrut model, gyaat as the nebular hypothesis, thi pehla developed in the 18th sadi by emanuel Swedenborg, Immanuel kant, or Pierre-Simon laplas.
iske subsequent vikaas has interwoven a kismein of scientific disciplines sahit astronomy, physics, geology, or grahiy vigyaan.
chunki the dawn of the spes age in the 1950s or the discovery of extrasolar grah in the 1990s, the model rai been dono challenged and refined to khaataa liye new observations.
The Solar System rai viksit considerably since its aarambhik gathan.
anek moons have formed from ghoomana discs of gas and dhul around unke janak grah, jabaki other moons are vichaar to have formed independently and baad maharoom captured by their grah.
still anya, as the dharti 's Moon, may be the result of daanav collisions.
takkaron between laashen have occurred continually up to the upasthit day or have maharoom central to the evolution of the Solar pranali.
The positions of the grah praayah shifted, and grah have switched sthaan.
This planetary migration is now thought to have maharoom jimmedaar liye much of the saura System 's jaldi evolution.
in roughly 5 billion years, the Sun will cool or expand outward many times its vartmaan vyas ( banane a red daanav ), pehle casting band its outer layers as a grahiy niharika or leaving peeche a stellar remnant gyaat as a white bouna.
In the dur dur bhavishya, the gambheertha of guzar stars hoga dhire reduce the surya 's retinue of grah.
kuch grah hoga be nasht, anya ejected into antartaarkeey space.
ultimately, over the course of tens of billions of years, it is sambhavit that the surya hoga be baayein with none of the asli laashen in kaksha around it.
the vichaaran ( Kafka 's asli germany sheershak :, later as, and ) is a novel likhaa by franj kafka in 1914 or 1915 lakin nahin prakashit jabatak 1925.
ek of kafka 's best-known works, it tells the story of a man giraftaar or prosecuted by a remote, inaccessible praadhikaar, saath the prakruti of uske crime nazil to neither use nor the reader.
jaise Kafka 's anya novels, The Trial thi never samaapt, haalanki it does shaamil a adhyay which brings the story to an end.
Because of is vahin hai nishchit inconsistencies jisase maujuud bheetar the anokhaa, such as disparities in samay in jod to other discontinuities in narration.
baad kafka 's death in 1924 his dost or saahitiyik executor adhiktam Brod edited the text for publication by verlag Die schmiede.
The asli pandulipi is yojit at the sangrahalay of Modern Literature, Marbach am neckar, germany.
in 1999, the kitaab thi listed in le mondes 100 kitabe of the sadi or as no. 2 of the Best German novels of the beesvin sadi.
lisa eni loeb ( born kooch 11, 1968 ) is an amareeki singer-songwriter or abhinetri.
wo shubharambh her career in 1994 with the song, `` Stay ( I chhuti You ) ``, jisase thi shaamil in the filmi vaastaviktaa Bites.
wo thi the pehla artist to have a kramank ek single in the United rajya while not hastakshrit to a recording anubandh.
uske paanch studio cds shaamil uske pramukh label debyue, the gold-selling Tails or iske follow-up, the Grammy-nominated, gold-selling pataakhaa.
loeb rai bhi worked in filmi, television, voice-over work or children’s recordings.
Loeb rai appeared in two television shrenee, dweezil & lisa, a weekly culinary adventure liye the Food Network or Number 1 Single, a reality dikhaaen on the e !
Network in 2006 kendrit on uske quest liye love, kamyaabi, kariyar, and parivaar.
uske children 's music shaamil the album kaich the Moon ( 2003 ), and shivi lisa ( 2008 ).
uske pehla sanyukt children 's book or album lisa loeb 's pagali sing-along : the niraashajanak pancek or Other Zany geeton thi prakashit in 2011.
in 2010 she santhaapit the lisa Loeb Eyewear Collection, jisase is based on uske apana designs.
The kot of bahen of the rajya of New jersey shamilaus:
a shield saath three plows emblazoned, pratinidhi of nai jersey 's agricultural tradition.
a forward-facing knight 's helmet.
A ghoda 's head as the crest of the helmet.
The female aankade swatantraaa or ceres, representative of the rajya 's motto ( dekhie aglaa item ).
swatantraaa is holding a staff supporting a `` swatantraaa cap `` ; ceres is pakadakar an overflowing cornucopia.
the streamer at the pair of the emblem contains the rajya motto of nai Jersey, `` Liberty and samruddhi '', and the saal of statehood, 1776.
it thi originally designed by Pierre ujin du Simitiere in 1777 and thi parivardhit slightly in 1928.
The seal is the central motiff in the dhvaj of nai jersey and the great muhar of the State of nai jersey.
the Coat of bahen contains a ghoda 's sir.
a helmet showing that New Jersey governs itself tadnusaar or teen plows on a shield referring to the rajya 's krishi tradition, giving it the upnaam `` Garden rajya ''.
the do deviyaan represent the rajya motto, `` Liberty or samruddhi ''.
Liberty is on the baayein.
wo is pakadakar a staff saath a liberty cap on it, and the shabd swatantraaa underneath uske.
the devi on the sahi is Ceres, devi of agriculture.
wo is pakadakar a cornucopia with samruddhi written neeche her.
according to the minutes of the New Jersey saamaanya Assembly for kooch 11, 1896, the tithi in which the sabha officially approved the dhvaj as the state emblem, the buff rang is due indirectly to george washington, jo had ordered on aktubar 2, 1779, ki the vardi coats of the nai Jersey mahadwipiya lakeer be andhera ( Jersey ) blue, saath buff facings.
buff-colored facings tha jabatak then maharoom surakshit tabhi for uske apana vardi and those of other Continental senapatiyon or their aides.
tab, on February 28, 1780, the mahadwipiya yuddh Officers in Philadelphia nirdeshit ki the vardi kot facings of sab regiments yahood to be the vahi as the prishthbhumi color of the regiments ' state flag.
The seal is varnit in nai jersey statute sheershak 52, §2-1:
`` we Can Work it out '' is a song by the betals, likhaa by paul McCartney or John lenon.
It thi released as a `` doguna a-sided `` single saath `` din tripper ``, the pehla samay both pahalu of a single yahood so designated in an aarambhik release.
Both songs yahood recorded dauraan the rabar aatma satr.
the song is an udhaaharan of lennon–mccartney sahyog at a gaharaai ki happened tabhi rarely after ve likhaa the hit singles of 1963.
is song, `` a din in the jivan ``, `` baby, You 're a Rich man `` and `` i 've mila a Feeling ``, hai among the notable apwaad.
as a medical nidaan, pedophilia or paedophilia is a manorog vikaar in vyaktiyon 16 saalo of age or puraani typically characterized by a praathmik or vishesh sexual interest toward prepubescent children ( generally aayu 11 saalo or younger, though vishisht diagnosis criteria liye the vikaar extends the cut-off point liye prepubescence to aayu 13 ).
an adolescent who is 16 saalo of age or puraani jarur be at tanik paanch saalo older than the prepubescent child pehle the aakarshan can be diagnosed as pedophilia.
The term rai a range of definitions, as found in psychiatry, manovigyaan, the deshi, and vidhi pravartan.
the International vargeekaran of Diseases ( aisidi ) defines pedophilia as a `` vikaar of vayask vyaktitv or behaviour '' in jisase vahin is a sexual preference liye children of prepubertal or jaldi pubertal age.
according to the nidaan or Statistical Manual of dimagi vikaar ( dsm ), it is a paraphilia in jisase vayaskon or adolescents 16 saalo of aayu or older have teevr or tool sexual preranaayen towards or kalpanaaon about prepubescent children ki ve have either acted on or jisase kaaran unhen distress or interpersonal pareshaani.
In lokapriy upyog, pedophilia arthath koi yon byaaj in children or the act of child yon gaali, praayah termed `` pedophilic bartaav ''.
For udhaaharan, The amareeki viraasat stedman 's chikitsa shabdkosh states, `` pedophilia is the adhinium or kaalpanik on the part of an vayask of engaging in sexual kaaryaklap saath a child or children. ''
is aam upyog anuprayog also extends to the yon byaaj in and yon contact saath pubescent or post-pubescent naaballig.
Researchers sujhaayen ki ye imprecise upyog be avoided kuki haalanki people jo commit child sexual gaali commonly exhibit the disorder, kuch aparaadhiyon do nahin milen the naidanik nidaan maanakon for pedophilia or ye maanakon pertain to prepubescents.
additionally, not sab pedophiles darasal commit aise gaali.
Pedophilia thi pehla formally pahachaanaa or namit in the late 19th sadi.
a significant amount of shodh in the kshetrafal rai taken place since the 1980s.
haalanki mostly pralekhith in men, vahin are bhi mahilaon who exhibit the disorder, and shodhakartaaon assume uplabdhiyaan estimates underrepresent the sachcha number of maadaa pedophiles.
no ilaaj liye pedophilia rai been viksit, lakin there are therapies ki can reduce the incidence of a vyakti committing child yon abuse.
In the United rajya, following kansas v. hendricks, sex offenders jo hai diagnosed with nishchit dimagi vikaar, visheshkar pedophilia, can be vishay to indefinite civil patibaddhta, antargat vibhinn rajya laws ( generically pukaara SVP laws ) or the sangheey aadam walsh Child suraksha or suraksha Act of 2006.
At upasthit, the sateek kalyankari of pedophilia have nahin maharoom conclusively sthapit.
Research suggests that pedophilia may be correlated with anek different neurological abnormalities, and praayah co-exists saath other vyaktitv disorders and manovaigyanik pathologies.
in the contexts of forensic psychology or law enforcement, a variety of typologies have maharoom suggested to categorize pedophiles according to behavior or motivations.
Julio césar chávez ( born julio César Chávez gonzález on July 12, 1962 ) is a ritred mexican professional boxer.
chávez is mana by anek logon liye unke khel aankde the mahanatam senaanee kabhi to aaiye out of mexico.
he is a six-time world champion in three weight divisions, or liye anek saalo he was mana ek of the best pound-for-pound boxer in the sansar.
In a kariyar ki spanned over 25 saalo, chávez jiti paanch sansar titles in teen weight vibhaajan : wbc super featherweight in 1984, WBA lightweight in 1987, wbc lightweight in 1988, wbc lite Welterweight in 1989, ibf Light welterweight in 1990, and wbc Light welterweight in 1994.
He holds record liye sabase kaamyaab lagaataar defenses of sansar sheershak ( 27 ), sabase title jhagade ( 37 ), most title-fight victories ( 31 ) and he is baad jo lui with ( 23 ) for sabase sheershak defenses jiti by nokout ( 21 ).
chávez bhi rai the longest aparajit streak in boxing itihaas, 13 saalo.
uske ricard thi 89-0-1 going into uske pehla ghaataa to frenki randel or tha an 87 lado jeet streak jabatak his `` chithran '' with Whitaker.
julio César Chávez thi gyaat liye uske bakaayaa panching shakti, vinaashkari body akraman, remarkably damdaar chin or the athak stalking of uske pratidwandviyon.
He ranks # 24 on ESPN 's 50 mahanatam Boxers of sab Time.
on disambar 7, 2010, he thi inducted in the prestigious antarrashtriya Boxing haul of kirti liye the class of 2011.
He is the pita of prospect Omar chávez and purv WBC middleweight champion Julio césar Chávez, jr.
`` Selektion `` on the judenrampe, auschwitz, may/june 1944.
to be sent to the right meant slave majdoor ; to the baayein, the gas kaksh.
is chitra shows the arrival of hungarian yahudiyon from carpatho-ruthenia, anek of unhen isse the berehov ghetto.
the photographer thi ernest hofmann or bernahard walter of the ss. chitra saujany of yad vashem
the holocaust ( isse the unani ' : hólos, `` whole '' or kaustós, `` jaale '' ) bhi gyaat as the shoah ( Hebrew :, hashoah, `` pralay '' ; yahudee :, churben or hurban, isse the yahudee liye `` vinaash '' ), thi the dravyaman hatya or genocide of lagbhag chah lakh Jews during sansar War II, a kaarykram of systematic state-sponsored hatya by Nazi germany, led by adolf Hitler or the Nazi Party, throughout german-occupied territory.
of the nau lakh Jews jo had resided in europea pehle the holocaust, lagbhag two-thirds yahood maare.
over ek lakh yahudee children yahood maare in the holocaust, as were lagbhag two lakh Jewish mahilaon or teen million yahudee main.
A sanjaal of over 40,000 suvidhaayen in germany and german-occupied territory yahood used to concentrate, tham, or kill yahudiyon and anya peediton.
kuch vidwaanon argue ki the mass murder of the Romani and logon with disabilities should be shaamil in the paribhaasha, or some upyog the aam noun `` holocaust '' to describe other naaji dravyaman murders, sahit those of soviet bandiyon of yuddh, polish or Soviet nagarikon, or homosexuals.
haal estimates based on aankade praapt chunki the patan of the soviet sangh indicates kuch ten to gyaarah lakh nagarikon or bandiyon of war yahood intentionally murdered by the naaji shashan.
the persecution and genocide were carried out in charan.
vibhinn laws to hataayen the yahudiyon isse civil samaaj, sabase prominently the nuremberg Laws, yahood enacted in Germany years pehle the outbreak of sansar yuddh ii.
Concentration shiviron yahood sthapit in which inmates were vasheebhoot to slave majdoor jabatak ve died of exhaustion or beemaari.
jahaan germany conquered nai territory in purvi europea, specialized ikai pukaara Einsatzgruppen murdered yahudiyon or rajnatik pratidwandviyon in mass shootings.
The occupiers jaruri yahudiyon or romani to be confined in overcrowded ghettos pehle hone transported by haada tren to extermination camps jahaan, if they batch the yatra, sabase were systematically maare in gas chambers.
prayek bhujaa of Germany 's afasarshahi thi shaamil in the logisticks ki led to the genocides, turning the teesraa reich into kayaa one holocaust vidwaan rai pukaara `` a genocidal rajya ''.
4-h in the United rajya is a youth organization administered by the National santhaan of Food or Agriculture of the sanyukt rajya vibhaag of krishi ( usd ), saath the mission of `` engaging yuvavastha to pahunchein unke fullest sambhavit while advancing the field of yuvavastha vikaas. ''
The naam represents chaar nijee vikaas areas of fokas for the sanghathan : sir, dil, hands, or swasthya.
the sanghathan rai over 6.5 million sadasyon in the sanyukt rajya, from aayu paanch to twenty-one, in lagbhag 90,000 club.
The goal of 4-h is to develop naagarikta, netritv, jimmedaari or jivan kaushal of yuvavastha through experiential learning kaarykram or a dhanatmak yuvavastha vikaas drushtikon.
haalanki typically vichaar of as an agriculturally kendrit sanghathan as a result of its itihaas, 4-h aaj focuses on naagarikta, healthy living, vigyaan, abhiyantriki, and praudyogiki kaarykram.
aaj, 4-h or sambandhit kaarykram maujuud in over assi deshon around the sansar ; the sanghathan or prashasan varies isse desh to country.
Each of ye kaarykram operates independently, lakin cooperatively through antarrashtriya exchanges, global shiksha kaarykram, or sanchaar.
the 4-h motto is `` To mek the behtareen better '', while iske slogan is `` Learn by doing '' ( sometimes likhaa as `` Learn to do by doing '' ).
the neshnal dhvaj of Chile, consists of do gairbarabari horizontal bands of white or red and a blue vargakar the vahi oonchaai as the shwet band in the canton, jisase bears a shwet five-pointed star in the bich.
it was adopted on 18 aktubar 1817.
the chilean dhvaj is bhi gyaat in spani as la estrella Solitaria ( the Lone Star ).
the star represents a maargdarshika to pragati or sammaan ; blue symbolizes the aasmaan or the prashanth samandar, shwet is for the snow-covered andes, or red stand liye the rakt spilled to achieve swatantraaa.
according to the epic kavita la araucana, the rangon yahood niklaa isse those isse the dhvaj flown by the mapuche during the Arauco War.
`` dhvaj Day '' is held prayek year on the naveen of July to commemorate the 77 sainiko jo died in the 1882 battle of la concepción.
Generation y, bhi gyaat as the Millennial Generation, is the janasankhyikee dal following Generation X.
vahin hai no precise dates liye jab peedhee Y starts or ends.
tikaakaron upyog shuruuaat janam tithiyaan from the latter 1970s, or isse the jaldi 1980s to the jaldi 2000s.
the torches of nero, by henryk siemiradzki.
according to tacitus, nero targeted isaayiyon as those responsible for the aag.
the Great Fire of Rome ( ) was an shahari aag that occurred beginning 19 july ad 64.
virginia ( ), officially the rashtramandal of virginia, is a U.S. state stith in the dakshin Atlantic pradesh of the sanyukt States.
Virginia is nicknamed the `` Old Dominion '' and the `` Mother of raashtrapatiyon '' after the aath U.S. raashtrapatiyon born vahin.
the bhugol or jalwaayu of the rashtramandal hai taraasha by the blue lakeeren kyu and the chesapeake Bay, which provide awaas for much of iske flora and fauna.
the puunji of the rashtramandal is richmond ; or virginia Beach is the sabase populous city.
Fairfax county is the sabase populous political subdivision.
the wealthiest is Loudoun county.
the rashtramandal 's janasankhyikee is over eight lakh.
the kshetrafal 's history begins saath several indigenous samooh, including the powhatan.
In 1607 the London company sthapit the upnivesh of virginia as the first sthai nai sansar angrezi colony.
slave labor and the jameen acquired isse displaced Native amareeki janajatiyon each nibhaai a significant bhoomika in the colony 's jaldi raajnneeti or vriksharopan economy.
virginia was ek of the 13 colonies in the amareeki kranti and joined the Confederacy in the American civil yuddh, dauraan which Richmond was bana the Confederate puunji or virginia 's northwestern counties seceded to rup the rajya of west Virginia.
haalanki the rashtramandal thi antargat roodhiwaadee single-party niyam liye nearly a sadi following Reconstruction, both major neshnal partiyon hai competitive in modern virginia.
The virginia saamaanya sabha is the oldest vidhanmandal in the pashchimi golardh.
the rajya sarkari rai been repeatedly ranked sabase effective by the pew bich on the rajya.
it is unique in kaisaa it treet shaharon or counties baraabar, manages local sadaken, or prohibits iske rajyapalon from sevarat lagaataar sharten.
virginia 's arthvyavastha rai anek sector : krishi in the Shenandoah Valley ; federal agenciyon in uttari virginia, sahit the mukhyalay of the Department of Defense or siie ; or sainya suvidhaayen in Hampton sadaken, the sait of the pradesh 's main seaport.
virginia 's public skulon or anek collejon or vishvavidhyalayon have contributed to growing media or praudyogiki sector.
as a parinaam, computer chips have become the rajya 's agrani export.
Windows film mekar ( formerly known as Windows Live film mekar, codenamed sundance ) is a freevare video editing tantra by microsoft.
it is a bhaag of Windows anivaary tantra suite or offers the kshamta to create or sampadan video as khub as to prakashit them on skydrive, fasebuk, YouTube, and Flickr.
`` brenda 's mila A baby '' is the solo debyue single by tupak Shakur, and tenth track isse uske debyue album, 2Pacalypse abhi.
The song, jisase suvidhaayen r & b singer dev hollister, is parichay a twelve year-old ladki namit Brenda jo lives in a ghetto, has a baby, or is incapable of supporting it.
the song explores the samasya of tin garbhavastha or iske prabhaav on the young maataaon and unke pariwaron.
jaise many of shakur 's geeton, `` brenda 's mila a baby '' draws isse the plight of the impoverished.
using brenda to represent yang maataaon in saamaanya, shakur criticises the kam str of support isse the baby 's pita, the government, or society in saamaanya.
shakur wrote the song when he padhaa a samachaarpatr article parichay a twelve-year-old ladki who got garbhvatee from uske cousin or, kuki she kiya nahin want uske parents to know parichay the baby, threw it in a kachra can.
the official logo of pokimon liye iske international release ; `` pokimon '' is choti liye the original japani title of `` Pocket Monsters ''.
is a media franchise published or swaamitv by japani video khel company Nintendo or nirmit by satoshi tajiri in 1996.
originally released as a pair of interlinkable Game ladke role-playing video khel viksit by khel freak, pokimon rai chunki become the second-most successful or lucrative video game-based media matadhikaar in the sansar, peeche only nintendo 's apana mario franchise.
pokimon gun have chunki maharoom merchandised into dushmani, manga, vyapaar taash, khilone, kitabe, or anya media.
The matadhikaar celebrated in 2006, or, sanchayi bikri of the video khel ( sahit home consol sanskaran, such as the `` pikachu '' Nintendo 64 ) have pahunche more than 200 lakh copies.
in navambar 2005, 4kids entertainment, jisase tha prabandhit the non-game sambandhit licencing of Pokémon, announced ki it tha sahamat not to navinikrut the pokimon representation agreement.
pokimon uese inc. ( abhi the Pokémon company International ), a subsidiary of japani 's pokimon co., now oversees sab pokimon licensing baahar of asia.
the name pokimon is the romanized sankuchan of the Japanese brands.
The term pokimon, in addition to referring to the pokimon franchise itself, bhi collectively refers to the 649 fictional species ki have made dikhaave in Pokémon media as of the release of the paanchvaan peedhee sheershak pokimon Black 2 or shwet 2 ; with the aagaamee relies of pokimon x and y, 6 new pokimon have maharoom pradarshit in promotions liye the khel.
`` pokimon '' is ekasmaan in dono the ekvachan or bahuvachan, as is prayek vyaktigat prajati name ; it is grammatically sahi to say `` ek pokimon '' and `` anek pokimon '', as khub as `` ek pikachu `` and `` many Pikachu ''.
cover of the pehla edition of the prakaashan dada by tristan tzara ; jurikh, 1917
Dada ( ) or dadaism thi an art movement of the europea avant-garde in the jaldi 20th sadi.
Many arji dada began in jurikh, Switzerland in 1916, spreading to Berlin shortly thereafter lakin the height of New York dada thi the saal pehle in 1915.
To uddhran donna budd 's the bhashaa of art gyaan, Dada was born out of negative pratikriya to the horrors of World yuddh i.
This antarrashtriya gati thi begun by a samooh of kalakaar and poets sambhddha saath the cabre voltare in jurikh.
dada asweekrut reason or logic, prizing bakawaas, irrationality and antargyaan.
The origin of the naam dada is unclear ; some maananaa ki it is a nonsensical shabd.
Others maintain that it originates from the Romanian kalakaaron tristan tzara and marsal Janco 's frequent upyog of the words da, da, meaning yas, yas in the Romanian bhashaa.
another siddhanth says that the name `` dada '' aae dauraan a baithak of the group jab a paper knife stuck into a french-german shabdkosh happened to point to 'daday ', a french word liye 'hobbyhorse '.
the gati primarily shaamil vizual kala, sahitya, poetry, art manifestoes, art siddhanth, theatre, and graphic design, or concentrated its anti-war politics through a asweekruti of the prachlit maanakon in art through anti-art cultural works.
in addition to hone anti-war, dada thi bhi anti- bourgeois or tha political affinities with the radical baayein.
dada activities shaamil public gatherings, demonstrations, or prakaashan of art/literary jarnals ; passionate kawarej of art, politics, and samskruti yahood vishay praayah discussed in a kismein of media.
kunjee aankade in the movement shaamil hugo Ball, emi hennings, hans Arp, Raoul hausmann, hanna höch, Johannes baader, Tristan tzara, francis picabia, Richard Huelsenbeck, georg grosz, jon heartfield, marsal duchamp, Beatrice Wood, court schwitters, and Hans Richter, among anya.
The gati influenced baad sheliyaan jaise the avant-garde or shahar music movements, or groups sahit surrealism, Nouveau réalisme, pop art and fluxus.
dada is the groundwork to amoort art or dhwani poetry, a starting point liye pradarshan art, a prelude to postmodernism, an influence on pop art, a jashn of antiart to be baad embraced for anarcho-political uses in the 1960s and the gati ki lay the nyaas liye surrealism.
First trophic str.
the paudhe in is chitra, or the shaiwal or phytoplankton in the lake, hai praathmik nirmaataa.
ve take nutrients isse the soil or the jal, and manufacture unke apana khaanaa by photosynthesis, using urja isse the sun.
the trophic str of an organism is the position it occupies in a khaanaa chain.
the shabd trophic garbhashayi from the unani τροφή ( trophē ) referring to khaanaa or feeding.
a food kadi represents a uttaradhikaar of jeevon that kha another organism or hai, in phere, khaaya themselves.
the number of kadam an organism is isse the prarambh of the chain is a measure of its trophic str.
khaanaa zanjeeron prarambh at trophic level 1 with praathmik nirmaataa aise as paudhe, move to herbivores at str 2, parabhakshi at str 3 or typically samaapt saath carnivores or apex parabhakshi at str 4 or 5.
the path saath the kadi can rup either a one-way pravaah, or a food `` web. ''
Ecological communities saath ucchtar biodiversity rup adhik jatil trophic raahen.
Four of the sabase mahatvapurn domesticated resha moths.
sheersh to neeche : bombyx mori, hyalophora cecropia, Antheraea pernyi, samia sinthia.
From mayers konversations-lexikon ( 1885-1892 )
a silk-producing raspy cricket.
resha is a natural protein fibre, kuch form of jisase can be woven into vastra.
The protein fibre of resha is rachit mukhyatah of fibroin or utpaadit by nishchit keet larve to form cocoons.
The best-known type of resha is praapt isse the cocoons of the larvae of the shahatut silkworm bombyx mori reared in captivity ( sericulture ).
the shimmering appearance of silk is due to the triangular prism -like structure of the silk fibre, jisase allows resha cloth to refract incoming lite at different kone, yun producing alag colors.
silks are produced by anek anya insects, lakin generally only the resha of shalab caterpillars has been prayukt liye vastra manufacturing.
vahin has maharoom kuch shodh into other silks, jisase differ at the molecular level.
anek silks hai mukhyatah utpaadit by the larve of keet undergoing puraa metamorphosis, lakin kuch vayask insects such as webspinners upaj resha, or some keet aise as raspy crickets upaj resha throughout their jeevandaan.
resha production also occurs in Hymenoptera ( bees, wasps, or ants ), silverfish, mayflies, thrips, leafhoppers, bhring, lacewings, fleas, udata or midges.
anya prakaar of sandhipad produce resha, sabase notably vibhinn arachnids aise as makadiyon ( dekhie makadi silk ).
let dikhaaen saath daud letterman is an American late-night talk dikhaaen hosted by daud Letterman on CBS.
the show debuted on agast 30, 1993, or is produced by letterman 's utpaadan company, vishwavyaapee Pants incorporated.
The dikhaaen 's music director or band-leader of the house band, the sibies Orchestra, is paul shaffer.
the sir lekhak is mat Roberts or the udghoshak is alan kalter.
of the pramukh u.S. late-night programs, let dikhaaen baandhane duusari in sanchayi average darshak over samay and teesraa in kramank of apisod over samay.
The dikhaaen lead anya late night shows in ad aay with $ 271 lakh in 2009.
in sabase u.S. markets the dikhaaen airs at 11:35 p.m. Eastern/Pacific time, lakin is ankit somvaar through buudhvaar at 4:30 p.m., or Thursdays at 3:30 p.m or 6:00 p.m.
the duusari guuruuvaar episode usually airs on Friday of ki saptaah.
in 2002, let Show saath David letterman was kramit No. 7 on tv maargdarshika 's 50 Greatest tv Shows of sab Time.
sibies rai a contract saath Worldwide pant to continue the dikhaaen through 2014 ; by tab, letterman hoga surpass johny carsan as the longest tenured late-night baat show mejabaan.
the Real Housewives of naarangi county is an American reality documentary television kaarykram on braavo, set in naarangi county, California.
it was the pehla The Real housewives kaarykram in the shrenee.
the shrenee is a voyeuristic dekh into the wealthy jeevandaan of ye housewives, as ve duukaan, milengi plastic surgery, gapshap, lado and sajiv lavishly.
The financial sankat, the shuruuaat of jisase coincided almost exactly saath the pehla ritu 's broadcast, rai since trimmed the housewives ' lifestyles with job nuksaan, evictions, mortgage defaults, foreclosures, or marital stress—all ankit in progressive seasons of the dikhaaen.
cyberstalking is the upyog of the antarjaal or anya electronic arthath to stalk or harass an vyaktigat, a samooh of individuals, or an sanghathan.
It may shaamil the bananaa of false accusations or kathan of fact ( as in defamation ), nigaraanee, bananaa threats, identity chori, kshati to aankada or upkaran, the solicitation of naaballig liye sex, or gathering soochna ki may be prayukt to harass.
the paribhaasha of `` utpeedan '' jarur milen the maandand ki a uchit vyakti, in kabza of the vahi soochna, hota lihaaz it as sufficient to cause another uchit vyakti takalif.
cyberstalking is alag isse sthanik or ofline stalking in that it occurs through the upyog of electronic sanchaar technology aise as the antarjaal.
however, it sometimes lead to it, or is accompanied by it.
dono hai criminal offenses.
cyberstalking saajha mahatvapurn visheshtaayen saath ofline stalking.
Many stalkers – online or band – are motivated by a khwaahish to control unke peediton.
a cyberstalker may be an online ajanabi or a person jisko the nishaanaa knows.
A cyberstalker may be benaam or may solicit involvement of other people online jo do nahin bhi know the target.
Cyberstalking is a dand thokar that aata into khel antargat rajya anti-stalking laws, badanaami kanoon, and utpeedan kanoon.
a cyberstalking conviction can parinaam in a restraining order, pariviksha, or bhi dand dand viruddh the assailant, sahit karawas.
a kaarobaar letter is praayah prayukt when writing isse ek company to another, or liye patrachaar between aise sanghathan or unke graahak, client or other bahya partiyon.
the overall style of akshar hoga depend on the relationship between the partiyon chintit.
vahin are many kaaran to likhen a kaarobaar akshar.
It could be to nivedan sidhaa soochna or karrwai isse another party, to anukram aapurtiyan isse a pradaayak, to pahachaano a mistake that thi vachanabaddh, to reply directly to a request, to apologize liye a galat or simply to convey goodwill.
bhi aaj, the business letter is still bahut upyogi kuki it produces a sthai ricard, is gopneey, aupchaarik or delivers persuasive, well-considered sandesh.
Tilapia ( ) is the aam name liye nearly a sau prajati of cichlid machhlee isse the tilapiine cichlid janajati.
tilapia hai mukhyatah freshwater machhlee, inhabiting uthle stream, ponds, nadiyaan or jhiilon, or less commonly found jeena in brackish water.
historically, they have been of pramukh mahatv in artisan fishing in africa or the levant, or are of increasing mahatv in aquaculture.
tilapia can become samasyapurna invasive species in nai warm-water habitats, whether deliberately or accidentally introduced, lakin generally nahin in shitoshna climates due to their aakshamata to jivit in cooler waters neeche parichay.
turnar & hooch is a 1989 kamedi naatak aparaadhon filmi abhinit tom Hanks or beasley the Dog as the eponymous characters, Turner or Hooch kramshah.
the film bhi stars ghodi Winningham, craig T. nelson, or reginald veljohnson.
It thi directed by roger Spottiswoode ; the filmi thi originally slated to be nirdeshit by Henry winkler, lakin he was terminated due to `` creative differences ''.
it was co-written by Michael blodgett isse pare the ghati of the doll fame.
haalanki K-9 ( saath James belushi ) thi released prior to is filmi ( exactly three months pehle ), turnar & hooch became adhik lokapriy or seemingly overshadowed iske vrihad success, bhi haalanki K-9 had a very samaan plat.
a pilot liye a turnar & Hooch tv shrenee was bana or ran as a part of The jaadui sansar of Disney.
is is a suchi of israeli airport, sorted by sthaan.
Entrance to ovda vimaanashetra
terminal 3 at ben Gurion
plane landing at Be'er sheva ( teyman )
eilat vimaanashetra
adolf hitler ( ; 20 april 1889 – 30 April 1945 ) was an austria -born germany rajaneta and the netaa of the Nazi Party ( ( NSDAP ) ; neshnal Socialist German majdoor party ).
He thi chancelar of germany isse 1933 to 1945 and taanashaah of naaji germany ( as Führer und reichskanzler ) isse 1934 to 1945.
hitler thi at the centre of naaji germany, World yuddh ii in europea, and the Holocaust.
Hitler thi a decorated veteran of sansar yuddh i.
He joined the German Workers ' Party ( precursor of the nsdap ) in 1919, or became netaa of the NSDAP in 1921.
in 1923, he attempted a takhtapalat d'état in Munich, gyaat as the bear Hall putsch.
the failed takhtapalat resulted in hitler 's karawas, during which samay he likhaa his sansmaran, mein kemff ( My sangharsh ).
baad uske relies in 1924, hitler gained popular support by attacking the sandhi of versailles or promoting pan-germanism, antisemitism, or anti-communism with charismatic chaaye and naaji prachaar.
baad uske niyukti as chancellor in 1933, he transformed the Weimar ganatantr into the teesraa Reich, a single-party taanaashaahee aadhaarit on the totalitarian or nirankush vichaardhaara of natsivaad.
hitler 's aim thi to establish a nai Order of absolute naaji German aadhipaty in mahadwipiya europea.
to is end, uske videshi or domestic policies tha the uddeshy of seizing lebensraum ( `` living spes '' ) liye the germanic logon.
He directed the rearmament of Germany or the akraman of candal by the Wehrmacht in sitambar 1939, resulting in the outbreak of sansar yuddh ii in europea.
antargat hitler 's niyam, in 1941 germany forces or unke europea allies occupied most of europea or uttar africa.
In 1943, Germany had maharoom forced onto the rakshaatmak or suffered a shrenee of escalating defeats.
in the final dinon of the yuddh, dauraan the battle of Berlin in 1945, hitler married uske long-time partner, eva braun.
on 30 April 1945, kam than do dinon baad, the do vachanabaddh suicide to avoid capchar by the red Army, or unke shavon yahood burned.
hitler 's aggressive videshi policy is mana the pramukh kaaran of the outbreak of World War ii in europea.
uske antisemitic nitiyon and racially prerit vichaardhaara resulted in the mauton of at tanik 5.5 lakh yahudiyon, and lakho of anya people deemed racially avar.
angootha
a domen naam is an pahchaan string that defines a realm of administrative swaittata, authority, or control on the antarjaal.
Domain names hai formed by the niyam and prakriyaaon of the domen Name pranali ( DNS ).
technically, any naam panjikrut in the dnes is a domen name.
domen names hai used in various netwarking contexts or application-specific namakaran or sambodhit uddeshy.
in saamaanya, a domain name represents an antarjaal protocol ( IP ) resource, aise as a nijee computer prayukt to abhigam the antarjaal, a sarwar computer hosting a web sait, or the web sait itself or koi anya service communicated via the Internet.
Domain names hai organized in subordinate str ( subdomains ) of the dnes root domen, jisase is nameless.
the first-level set of domen names hai the top-level domen ( TLDs ), sahit the generik top-level domains ( gtlds ), such as the prominent domains com, soochna, net and org, or the desh code top-level domen ( cctlds ).
neeche ye top-level domen in the dnes padanukram hai the second-level or third-level domen names that hai typically open liye reservation by end-users who kaash to connect local kshetrafal sanjaal to the antarjaal, banaaen other saream accessible antarjaal sansaadhan or chalaaen web site.
The registration of ye domain names is praayah administered by domen naam registrars jo sell unke services to the public.
a fully yogya domen naam ( fqdn ) is a domen name ki is completely specified in the padanukram of the dnes, having no omitted parts.
Domain names hai praayah likhaa in loarkes, haalanki labals in the domen naam pranali hai case-insensitive.
Nitrate is a polyatomic aayan saath the aanvik sutara no3− or a aanvik dravyaman of 62.0049 g/mol. nitrates bhi describe the organic kaaryaatmak group rono2.
These nitrate esters hai a specialized class of visphotak.
A gehun kataai in idaho
is photo from a 1921 encyclopedia shows a tractor ploughing a crop field.
Agriculture is a major udyog in the sanyukt rajya or the desh is a jaal exporter of khaanaa.
as of the pichhlaa janasankhyikee of krishi in 2007, vahin were 2.2 lakh kheto, covering an kshetrafal of, an average of prati farm.
haalanki agricultural activity occurs in sabase rajya, it is visheshkar concentrated in the vishaal expanse of chapata, arable jameen gyaat as the great maidan, jisase encompasses the central pradesh of the nation.
the Mpemba prabhaav, namit after tanzanian student erasto mpemba, is the assertion ki warmer water can fries tej than colder water.
haalanki vahin is anecdotal support liye the effect, there is no anubandh on exactly kayaa the prabhaav is and under what halaaton it occurs.
vahin have maharoom reports of samaan phenomena chunki pracheen times, haalanki with insufficient vivaran liye the claims to be replicated.
the ghatana seems contrary to thermodynamics, lakin a number of sambhavit spashtikaran liye the prabhaav have been prastaavit.
Further investigations hoga need to decide on a precise paribhaasha of `` freezing '' or control a vishaal kramank of starting parameters in anukram to confirm or bataaiye the effect.
the siamese (, ) is one of the pehla distinctly recognized breeds of Oriental cat.
the nasl originated in Thailand ( formerly gyaat as siam ), jahaan they hai ek of several native breeds or hai pukaara wichian mat ( วิเชียรมาศ, a name meaning `` chandramaa diamond '' ).
in the 20th sadi the Siamese billi became ek of the sabase popular breeds in europea or uttar america.
Quality khaanaa Centers ( QFC ) is a supermarket kadi based in bellevue, washington, with 64 stores in the puget dhwani pradesh of washington state or in the portland, oregon mahanagar kshetrafal.
in economics, the dhan supply or dhan bhandar, is the kul amount of monetary assets uplabdhiyaan in an arthvyavastha at a vishisht samay.
vahin are anek tareeke to define `` dhan, '' but maanak upayon usually shaamil currency in parisancharan or maang deposits ( jamakartaon ' easily pahunchaa asset on the books of financial sansthaanon ).
dhan supplai aankada hai ankit and prakashit, praayah by the sarkari or the central bank of the desh.
Public or nijee sector vishleshkon have long monitored parivartan in money supplai kuki of its effects on the daam level, mahangaai, the exange rate or the business saikil.
ki sambandh between dhan and keemten is historically associated saath the maatra theory of money.
vahin is strong empirical pramaan of a direct sambandh between money-supply vikaas and long-term price mahangaai, at tanik liye rapid increases in the raashi of dhan in the arthvyavastha.
ki is, a desh aise as zimbabwe jisase saw rapid increases in its dhan supplai bhi dekhi rapid increases in keemten ( hyperinflation ).
is is one reason liye the reliance on maudrik niti as a arthath of controlling mahangaai.
the prakruti of this causal chain is the vishay of contention.
kuch shaast arthshaastriyon argue that the money supplai is endogenous ( sankalpit by the workings of the arthvyavastha, nahin by the central bank ) or that the strot of mahangaai must be found in the distributional dhaancha of the economy.
In addition, those economists dekhakar the central bainko 's control over the money supply as feeble kah ki vahin hai do kamjor kadi between the vikaas of the dhan supply and the inflation rate.
pehla, in the aftermath of a mandi, jab anek resources are underutilized, an badhayen in the dhan supply can kaaran a sustained badhayen in real utpaadan instead of mahangaai.
duusari, if the gati of dhan, i.e., the anupaat between nominal jidipi or dhan supplai, changes, an increase in the dhan supplai could have either no effect, an atiranjit prabhaav, or an manamaujee effect on the vikaas of nominal jidipi.
logo for imax.
warren theatre imax cinema, wichita, Kansas, uese, 601 seats.
a tulana between 35 mm or 15/70 mm rinatmak areas.
imax ( an abbreviation for chitra adhiktam ) is a gati chitra filmi swaroop or a set of cinema prakshep maanakon nirmit by the Canadian company imax Corporation.
imax rai the kshamta to ricard or display bimb of dur vrihad aakaar or rezolution than conventional filmi pranaaliyon.
Since 2002, some feature films have maharoom converted ( or upgraded ) into imax format for pradarshak in imax theatre or kuch have also been partially shot in IMAX.
imax is the sabase widely prayukt pranali liye special-venue film presentations.
, there hai 697 imax theatres in 52 deshon.
Today 's Special is a canadai children 's television dikhaaen utpaadit by Clive vanderburgh at TVOntario isse 1981 to 1987.
it bhi bhaaga on niklodian and the aasthaa and maan Channel/Odyssey ( abhi the hallmark channel ) as khub as many pbs stesan throughout the sanyukt rajya.
it thi niyat in a vibhaag store, aadhaarit on the flagship sthaan of the abhi defunct simpasan 's in Toronto.
anek sequences for it were shot at the maharani Street West or yonge gali store baad ghanton.
samvidhanwaad, in its sabase general meaning, is `` a complex of ideas, attitudes, or pattern of behavior elaborating the principle ki the praadhikaar of sarkari derives from and is limited by a body of aadharbhoot vidhi ''.
a political organization is constitutional to the extent ki it `` contain [ s ] institutionalized mechanisms of power control liye the suraksha of the interests and liberties of the citizenry, sahit those that may be in the alpsankhyak ``.
as varnit by political scientist and sanvaidhanik vidwaan David fellman :
an ice-cream headache, bhi gyaat as dimag fries, cold-stimulus sirdard, or iske die scientific name sphenopalatine ganglioneuralgia ( arth `` tantrika pidaa of the sphenopalatine gandika `` ), is a rup of bread cranial pidaa or sirdard commonly associated saath khapat ( visheshkar jaldi khapat ) of cold peya or bhojan aise as barf cream and barf chabutare.
It is caused by having kuch cold touch the roof of the munh ( palate ), or is believed to parinaam isse a nerve jawaab causing rapid constriction and sujan of rakt vessels or a `` referring `` of pidaa isse the chat of the munh to the head.
the rate of seven for thanda foods has maharoom padhai as a contributing factor.
There are logon who can nahin anubhav `` dimag fries '' or similar lakshan.
the pad ice-cream headache rai been in upyog chunki at least 31 janvari 1937, contained in a journal pravishti by rebeka Timbres prakashit in the 1939 book we kiya n't pucho utapia : a quaker parivaar in soviet rus.
the pehla published use of the pad dimag fries, as it pertains to cold-induced headaches, thi on 27 may 1991.
`` auld laing Syne '' ( : note `` s '' balki than `` z '' ) is a scots kavita likhaa by Robert burns in 1788 or set to the dhun of a paramparaagat lok song ( roud # 6294 ).
it is khub known in many deshon, visheshkar in the english-speaking sansar ; iske paramparaagat upyog hone to celebrate the start of the nai Year at the stroke of midnight.
By extension, it is bhi sung at funerals, graduations and as a vidaai or ending to anya occasions.
The antarrashtriya ladke Scout yuvavastha gati, in anek deshon, upyog it as a band to jamborees and anya krityon.
The song 's scots sheershak may be anudit into angrezi literally as `` boodha long since '', or adhik idiomatically, `` long long pehle '', `` dinon gaye by '' or `` boodha times ''.
Consequently `` liye auld laing syne '', as it appears in the first line of the kores, might be loosely anudit as `` for ( the khatir of ) old times ''.
the phrase `` Auld laing Syne '' is bhi prayukt in samaan kavitaayen by robert Ayton ( 1570–1638 ), allan ramsay ( 1686–1757 ), or james watasan ( 1711 ) as well as puraani folk geeton predating Burns.
mathew fitt upyog the phrase `` in the dinon of auld laing syne '' as the samatuly of `` ekbar upon a samay...
`` in his retelling of fairy kisse in the scots bhashaa.
ben schulz, player of Leeroy janakins at blizzcon 2007
leeroy janakins, sometimes misspelled leroy janakins and praayah elongated saath numerous additional letters, is an antarjaal meme namit liye a khilaadi akshar created by ben schulz in blizzard Entertainment 's mmorpg, sansar of Warcraft.
the akshar became popular due to a video of the game that parichaalit around the Internet.
the ghatana rai chunki sprad pare the seemayen of the gaming community into anya online or mukhyadhara media.
auskar grant thi fatally shot by bart police officer yohaness Mehserle in ockland, California, sanyukt rajya, in the early morning hours of nai saal 's Day 2009.
Responding to reports of a lado on a bheed khadi kshetrafal rapid Transit train returning isse san francisco, bart police adhikariyon detained Oscar grant or anek other yatri on the manch at the fruitvale bart Station.
adhikari yohaness Mehserle and another adhikari were restraining grant, jo thi prostrate and allegedly resisting giraftaar.
adhikari mehserle stood or, according to gavaah, kaha : `` milengi waapas, i 'm gon na tase him. ''
Then mehserle khinchaa uske gan or shot grant ekbar in the waapas ; Mehserle appeared dang, put his hands to uske sir and exclaimed, `` Oh, my God ! ''
During his court gavaahi, mehserle kaha ki grant then exclaimed, `` tum shot me ! ''
Grant turned out to be unarmed ; he thi sunaaya dead the aglaa morning at Highland hospital in ockland.
the events were captured on anek digital video or koshika phone camere.
The footage was disseminated to media outlets or to vibhinn websiton, jahaan it thi dekhi lakho of times.
the following dinon saw both shantipurna or hinsak protests.
the shooting rai been variously labeled an involuntary manslaughter or a saransh nishpaadan.
on janvari 13, Alameda County prosecutors charge mehserle saath hatya liye the shooting.
he resigned uske position or pleaded nahin apradhi.
the trial began on june 10, 2010.
maaikel Rains, mehserle 's dand raksha attorney, argued ki mehserle mistakenly shot Grant saath his pistol, intending to upyog his taasir jab he saw Grant reaching liye uske waistband.
pretrial filings argue that uske client kiya nahin commit first-degree hatya and poocha a Los angeles nyaayadhish to instruct the juri to seemaa its deliberations to either second-degree hatya or acquittal.
Oakland civil adhikaron attorney John burris daayar a $ 25 lakh wrongful death arji against bart on behalf of grant 's parivaar.
on July 8, 2010, the jury returned its verdict : mehserle was found apradhi of involuntary manslaughter or nahin apradhi of second-degree hatya and voluntary manslaughter.
Initial virodh viruddh the sattadhari yahood peacefully vyavasthit ; luutane, aagjanee, vinaash of property, and choti dange broke out after dark.
Nearly 80 people yahood aakhirkaar giraftaar.
on shuukravaar, july 9, 2010, the U.S. Justice vibhaag opened a civil rights maamla viruddh mehserle ; the sangheey sarkari can prosecute use independently liye the vahi adhinium antargat the pruthak adhipati excepshan to double jeopardy.
the vibhaag of insaaf will be working with the u.S. attorney 's daftar in San francisco or the FBI.
On navambar 5, 2010, mehserle thi sentenced to do saalo, minus samay parosa.
He parosa uske samay in the los Angeles county karawas, occupying a nijee cell dur isse other bandiyon.
he thi released on june 13, 2011 and is abhi on parole.
Major pratinidhi of the Harlem Renaissance.
the harlem Renaissance thi a cultural gati ki spanned the 1920s.
at the samay, it thi gyaat as the `` nai nigro gati '', named after the 1925 anthology by alain locke.
Though it was kendrit in the harlem neighborhood of nai york nagar, anek french-speaking black lekhak isse African and caribbean colonies jo jiya in paris yahood bhi bahekaave by the harlem punarjagran.
the harlem Renaissance is unofficially recognized to have spanned from about 1919 until the jaldi or mid-1930s.
anek of iske vichaar jiya on much longer.
The zenith of is `` flowering of nigro sahitya '', as james weldon johnson pasandida to kol the harlem punarjagran, thi lagaai between 1924 ( the year ki avasar : a jarnal of nigro Life hosted a party liye blike lekhak jahaan anek shwet publishers were in upasthiti ) or 1929 ( the saal of the bhandar market krash and the shuruuaat of the great Depression ).
African rajya between 500 BCE or 1500 ce
obelisk at temple of luxsar, mishra.
c. 1200 BCE.
africa nit of baguirmi in full padded armour suut.
The history of africa begins saath the prehistory of Africa or the emergence of homo sapiens in East Africa, continuing into the present as a patchwork of vividh or nitiyaan vikasshil swadesh rajya.
kuch jaldi pramaan of krishi in africa tithiyaan from 16,000 bce, and metallurgy isse parichay 4000 BCE.
the recorded itihaas of jaldi sabhyataa arose in Egypt, and baad in nubia, the magarib and the Horn of Africa.
dauraan the Middle aayu, islam sprad through the regions.
Crossing the magarib or the Sahel, a pramukh bich of muslim culture was Timbuktu.
Some notable pre-colonial rajya or societies in africa include the nok culture, Mali samrajya, ashanti samrajya, Kingdom of Mapungubwe, Kingdom of jya, Kingdom of Saloum, kingdom of baol, kingdom of Zimbabwe, kingdom of kongo, pracheen karthej, numidia, mauretania, the akasumi samrajya, the Ajuuraan rajya or the Adal sultanate.
isse the late 15th sadi, europeans and arabs took slave from west, central or southeast Africa overseas in the africa slave vyapaar.
europea colonization of africa viksit rapidly in the hathapayee liye Africa of the let 19th and jaldi 20th centuries.
following struggles liye swatantraaa in anek bhaag of the mahadweep, as khub as a weakened europea after the duusari World yuddh ; decolonization took place.
africa 's itihaas rai maharoom chunauteepurn liye shodhakartaaon in the field of africa studies because of the killat of likhaa strot in vishaal parts of sub-saharan Africa.
scholarly takneekon such as the recording of maukhik history, historical linguistics, puraatatv or anuvanshiki have been nirnaayak.
Curry foli thi the pehla khilaadi in pramukh lig besabaal itihaas to hit liye the cycle.
in besabaal, hitting liye the saikil is the accomplishment of ek batter hitting a single, a doguna, a triple, or a ghar run in the same khel.
collecting the hits in ki order is known as a `` prakritik saikil ''.
chakra hai uncommon in pramukh lig Baseball ( emelbi ), and have occurred 294 times chunki the first by Curry foli in 1882.
The cycle is roughly as aam as a no-hitter ( 279 occurrences in emelbi itihaas ) ; it rai been pukaara `` one of the rarest '' or `` most difficult feats '' in besabaal.
Based on 2009 apriy levels, the sambhavyata of an average MLB player hitting liye a saikil against an ausat toli in a game is lagbhag 0.00590 % ; is corresponds to parichay 2.5 cycles in a 162-game ritu saath 30 tiimon.
In anya besabaal lig, the saikil is hasil kam aksar.
Through sitambar 4, 2008, 62 players in nippan peshewar besabaal ( npb ), the top-level besabaal sanghathan in japani, have hit liye the saikil, the sabase recent hone michihiro ogasawara.
do khilaadi have hit liye the saikil on the same din ekbar in npb itihaas ; is rai occurred twice in emelbi itihaas.
ek npb khilaadi rai also hit for the cycle in an NPB all-star khel.
no khilaadi rai kabhi hit for the cycle in the MLB all-star khel or the postseason.
the main slave root in madhyakaalin africa.
is article discusses pranaaliyon, itihaas, or prabhaav of gulaami bheetar Africa.
dekhie arab slave vyapaar, Atlantic slave vyapaar, Maafa, and gulaami in contemporary Africa liye anya discussions.
`` slave hastantaran in Africa ''.
europeans usually kiya nahin enter the aantarik regions.
gulaami in africa has existed throughout the continent liye many sadiyaan, and continues in the vartmaan day.
pranaaliyon of servitude or slavery yahood common in anek bhaag of the continent, as they yahood in much of the pracheen world.
in sabase African samaajon jahaan gulaami was prachlit, the enslaved people yahood largely treated as indentured servants and nahin treated as chattel slave.
jab the Arab slave vyapaar or Atlantic slave vyapaar began, anek of the local slave pranaaliyon changed or began supplying captives liye slave bazaar outside of africa.
gulaami in historical Africa was practiced in anek alag forms or some of ye do not clearly fit the paribhaashaayen of gulaami elsewhere in the sansar.
Debt gulaami, enslavement of war captives, sainya slavery, and dand gulaami yahood sab practiced in vibhinn bhaag of africa.
haalanki vahin tha maharoom some trans-Saharan vyapaar isse the aantarik of Sub-Saharan africa to other regions, gulaami thi a choti bhaag of the aarthik life of anek samaajon in africa jabatak the introduction of transcontinental slave trade ( arab or atlantic ).
slave practices yahood again roopantarit saath europea colonization of africa and the aupchaarik abolition of gulaami in the jaldi 1900s.
Windows kaary manager is a kaary manager or pranali monitor anuprayog shaamil saath the microsoft khidkiyaan nt family of oparating pranaaliyon ki provides limited soochna parichay computer pradarshan or running applications, processes or cpu upyog, commit charge or memory information, network activity and aankde, logged-in upayokta, or pranali sevaayen ( or as praayah is the maamla saath tantra tools provided by microsoft liye khidkiyaan, 3rd party tantra is uplabdhiyaan jisase fills the aavashyaktaayen more thoroughly, e.g, `` prakram explorer '', `` vistaarit kaary manager '', `` anvir kaary manager '', `` prakram haikar '', and `` pranali Explorer '' ).
the kaary manager can bhi be used to niyat prakram praathamiktaayen, procesar apnaapan, forcibly terminate processes, or shut bas, restart, hibernate or log band isse khidkiyaan.
khidkiyaan Task manager thi introduced with khidkiyaan NT 4.0.
pichhlaa sanskaran of khidkiyaan nt shaamil the kaary suchi anuprayog, jisase tha dur kam features.
The kaary suchi thi sakasham of listing philhal kaaryshil processes or hatya unhen, or bananaa a nai prakram.
in khidkiyaan XP only, a shutdown menu is bhi upasthit that allows access to Standby, hibernate, Turn band, restart, log band or switch upayokta.
pehle sanskaran of microsoft khidkiyaan ( microsoft khidkiyaan 3.x, khidkiyaan 95, khidkiyaan 98 ) tha a kaarykram known as kaary to pradarshak the kaarykram philhal kaaryshil.
This sanchika thi chalaaya by running the taskman.exe file isse the c : \Windows nirdeshika.
the Troop is an american-canadian live-action, single camera comedy -adventure television series parichay a tikdi of teenagers who lado or capture monsters or anya alokik phenomena ki invade the fictional kasbaa of Lakewood.
nirmit and executive produced by Max Burnett, greg kulij or Chris Morgan, the shrenee premiered on niklodian on September 18, 2009.
the second season premiered on June 25, 2011 or niklodian cancelled the shrenee midway through it 's duusari season.
the remaining apisod of ritu 2 yahood aired on nicktoons magar the pichhlaa 3..
sparsely aabaadi in relation to its kshetrafal, the loktantric ganatantr of the congou ( DRC ) is home to a vast potential of prakritik sansaadhan or mineral wealth, its untapped jamaa of kaccha khanij hai anumaanit to be laayak in excess of US $ 24 kharab, yet the economy of the drc has declined drastically chunki the mid-1980s.
at the samay of iske swatantraaa in 1960, drc thi the duusari sabase industrialized desh in africa baad dakshin Africa ; it boasted a thriving khanan sector and its agriculture sector thi apekshaakrit utpaadak.
if the darshak stares at this chitra liye 20–60 second or stares at a shwet object, a rinatmak afterimage hoga appear ( in is maamla, it hoga be kyaan on magenta ).
is can also be achieved by the darshak closing his/her ankhen and tilting their sir up.
an afterimage or bhut chitra or chitra burn-in is an optical bhram ki refers to an chitra continuing to appear in ek 's vision baad the expozar to the asli image rai ceased.
ek of the sabase aam afterimages is the ujjwal glow ki seems to flash before ek 's ankhen baad looking into a lite sorce liye a few second.
closing the eye can help achieve a behatar bhav of the rang in iske apana aspect.
afterimages come in two form, rinatmak ( ulat ) or dhanatmak ( retaining original rang ).
The prakram behind positive afterimages is unknown, haalanki vichaar to be sambandhit to neural anukulan.
On the anya haath, rinatmak afterimages hai a retinal ghatana and are khub samajha.
khoyaa is an American serial naatak television shrenee ki premiered on sitambar 22, 2004 on the American Broadcasting company ( abisi ).
The shrenee was nirmit by J. J. abrams and daiman lindelof, aadhaarit upon an asli payalat script titled nowhere written by jeffri lieber.
chah sizan of the dikhaaen aired, in jod to numerous kaaten shows to purvavlokan previous apisod.
ABC ghoshit ki khoyaa hota samaapt baad chah seasons, having utpaadit a kul of 121 apisod.
the series folo the past, upasthit, or bhavishya anubhav ( s ) of the survivors of a plane krash on a yatri jet, oceanic udaan 815, udati isse Sydney to los angeles after it krash on a tropical island in the dakshin prashanth.
The shrenee bhi shaamil kahaniyaan of the jeevandaan of logon already jeena on the island — they shaamil the `` Others ``, jo initially antagonize the survivors, as khub as a group of logon who arrive on the freighter kahana.
prayek apisod typically features karrwai on the island as khub as a secondary kathanak isse another point in a akshar 's jivan.
Season 6 suvidhaayen a detailing of the jeevandaan of the survivors in a alag reality, as if the flight tha never krash.
in the following list, the pad `` pradarshit akshar ( s ) '' refers to the akshar or varna jo are featured in the dwitiyak kathanak of prayek episode.
`` no.
in shrenee '' refers to the apisod 's number in the overall shrenee, whereas `` No.
in ritu '' refers to the apisod 's kramank in prayek particular ritu.
`` u.S. darshak ( million ) '' refers to the kramank of america in lakho who dekhi the episode sajiv.
a total of 121 episodes of khoyaa yahood produced, the pichhlaa of which aired on May 23, 2010.
sab sizan hai uplabdhiyaan on DVD in regions 1–4 or on blu-ray in Regions a or B.
Flat feet ( bhi called pes planus or gire arches ) is a aupchaarik sandarbh to a medical condishan in which the mehrab of the foot collapses, saath the sampurna sole of the foot coming into puraa or near-complete sampark saath the maidan.
in kuch individuals ( an anumaanit 20–30 % of the saamaanya janasankhyikee ) the arch simply never develops in ek pair ( unilaterally ) or both feet ( bilaterally ).
teen adhyayan ( see citations below in sainya khand ) of sainya rangaruton have shown no evidence of later increased injury, or pair problems, due to chapata feet, in a janasankhyikee of logon who pahunchein sainya service age bagaiyr prior pair samasyaayein.
however, ye adhyayan can nahin be prayukt to nyaayadhish possible future kshati isse is condition jab diagnosed at younger aayu.
ve bhi can not be lagu to vyaktiyon jinaki chapata feet hai sambhddha saath foot lakshan, or nishchit symptoms in other bhaag of the body ( aise as the leg or waapas ) sambhawatah referable to the pair.
peedhee x, commonly abbreviated to Gen x, is the peedhee born after the pashchimi post-World War ii baby boom.
demographers, itihaaskaaron or tikaakaron upyog beginning birth tithiyaan isse the jaldi 1960s to the jaldi 1980s.
the pad thi popularized by Douglas coupland 's 1991 anokhaa peedhee X : Tales for an twarit samskruti.
pehle ki, it had been prayukt for vibhinn subcultures or countercultures baad the 1950s.
Pressure chhaale, bhi gyaat as decubitus chhaale or bedsores, hai sthaniyakrut choton to the skin and/or underlying tissue praayah over a bony prominence, as a parinaam of pressure, or dabaav in sangyojan saath shear and/or gharshan.
sabase commonly this hoga be the sacrum, coccyx, heels or the kulhon, lakin anya sites aise as the elbows, knees, ankles or the waapas of the cranium can be affected.
the kaaran of pressure chhaale is pressure lagu to soft utak so ki rakt pravaah to the soft utak is completely or partially obstructed.
Shear is bhi a kaaran ; shear khinchataa on rakt vessels ki feed the skin.
dabaav ulcers most commonly develop in vyaktiyon jo hai nahin moving about or hai confined to wheelchairs.
It is widely believed ki other karkon can influence the sahishnutaa of skin liye pressure or shear thereby increasing the risk of dabaav ulcer development.
ye karkon hai protein-calorie kuposhan, microclimate ( skin wetness caused by sweating or incontinence ), rogon ki reduce rakt pravaah to the skin, aise as arteriosclerosis or diseases that reduce the ahsaas in the skin, such as paralysis or neuropathy.
the healing of dabaav chhaale may be slowed by the age of the person, chikitsa sharten ( aise as arteriosclerosis, diabetes or sankraman ), dhumrapaan or medications aise as antiinflammatory davaayen.
haalanki often prevented or treatable if mila early, pressure chhaale can be bahut mushkil to prevent in critically ill patients, frail elders, wheelchair users ( especially jahaan spinal chot is shaamil ) or terminally biimaar marijon.
praathmik prevention is to redistribute pressure by turning the rogi regularly.
The laabh of turning to avoid further sores is well pralekhith since at tanik the 19th sadi.
In addition to turning and re-positioning the rogi in bed or wheelchair, khaane a santulit aahaar saath adequate protein or keeping the skin free isse expozar to mutr or stool is bahut mahatvapurn.
the vyapaktaa of dabaav ulcers in hospital jamaavat is high, lakin improvements are hone made.
According to the 2010 IPUP ( antarrashtriya Pressure ulcer vyapaktaa surveykshan ) conducted in canada, vahin thi a significant ghati in the overall facility-acquired prevalence of dabaav chhaale isse 2009-2010.
chhaale yahood sabase commonly identified at the sacral/coccyx ulcer location ; however, edi chhaale were the most common facility-acquired sthaan in the surveykshan.
overboard is a 1987 amareeki romantic comedy filmi abhinit goldie Hawn or Kurt Russell.
It was nirdeshit by gairi marshall, produced by Roddy mcdowell, or loosely prerit by the 1974 Italian filmi Swept dur.
in turn, Overboard thi adapted into the 2006 dakshin korian television series, yugal or trubal.
green khadi is a city in or the county seat of Brown county in the u.S. rajya of Wisconsin, stith at the sir of green Bay, a sub-basin of Lake michigan, at the munh of the fox nadi.
It has an elevation of upar samudr level and is located uttar of Milwaukee.
The population thi 104,057 at the 2010 janasankhyikee.
it is the third-largest nagar in the rajya of visconsin, baad milvowki or Madison.
it is also the third-largest nagar on the west shore of jhil Michigan, baad chicago or milvowki.
green khadi is ghar to the green Bay pakars of the neshnal footbaal lig, making it by far the smallest mahanagar area in the uese to mejabaan a pramukh peshewar sports franchise.
Green khadi is the principal city of the green Bay Metropolitan sankhyikeey Area, jisase cover bhura, kewaunee, and oconto county and had a sanyukt population of 282,599 at the 2000 janasankhyikee.
green Bay is an industrial nagar saath several meatpacking or paper paudhe, or a port on green khadi, an bhujaa of jhil michigan ki sthaneey kol the Bay of green Bay, to avoid conflating it with the eponymous city.
It is ghar to the neshnal Railroad sangrahalay ; the Neville Public Museum, with exhibitions of art, itihaas, or vigyaan ; or the University of wisconsin–green khadi.
Luteinizing hormone ( lh, bhi gyaat as lutropin or sometimes lutrophin ) is a hormone utpaadit by gonadotroph cells in the agravarti pituitary gland.
In females, an adhi vruddhi of lh ( `` lh surge '' ) triggers ovulation or development of the corpus luteum.
in males, jahaan LH tha also maharoom called antaraleey cell-stimulating hormone ( icsh ), it stimulates leydig koshika utpaadan of testosterone.
It adhiniyamon synergistically saath fsh.
Selena Quintanilla-Pérez ( april 16, 1971 – kooch 31, 1995 ), gyaat bas as Selena, thi an amareeki singer-songwriter.
She thi namit the `` sheersh latin kalakaar of the '90s '' or `` Best selling Latin kalakaar of the dashak '' by billboard for her fourteen top-ten singles in the Top latin geeton chart, including seven number-one hits.
selina tha the sabase successful singles of 1994 and 1995, `` amor prohibido `` and `` no me queda Más ``.
wo was called `` the Queen of tejano music `` and the Mexican samatuly of madonna.
selina released uske pehla album, selina y Los dinos, at the aayu of twelve.
She jiti maadaa Vocalist of the Year at the 1987 tejano music puraskaar or landed a recording anubandh with emi a few saalo baad.
uske fame grew throughout the jaldi 1990s, visheshkar in spanish-speaking deshon, and wo had begun recording in angrezi as khub.
selina thi murdered at the aayu of 23 on March 31, 1995 by Yolanda saldívar, the former president of uske prashansak klbon.
on april 12, 1995, do weeks baad her death, george W. Bush, rajyapal of Texas at the samay, ghoshit uske janmdiwas `` selina din '' in texas.
Warner bhaius. utpaadit Selena, a filmi based on uske jivan abhinit Jennifer lopez, in 1997.
selina 's jivan thi bhi the aadhaar of the musical selina forever abhinit Veronica vazquez as selina.
In June 2006 Selena thi commemorated with a life-sized kaansya statue ( Mirador de la flor in corpus Christi, texas ) and a Selena museum kholi there.
wo rai bechi over 60 lakh album worldwide, bananaa her ek of the best-selling kalakaaron of sab samay.
wo is bhi the tabhi maadaa kalakaar to have paanch albums in u.s. Billboard 200 at the same time.
germany stahlhelm from sansar War ii
tamgaa of the bolivian fouj colorados regiment, prardashit a Stahlhelm or do crossed bayonets
Stahlhelm ( bahuvachan, Stahlhelme ) is germany liye `` steel helmet ''.
the imperial German Army began to replace the paramparaagat boiled-leather Pickelhaube ( spiked combat helmet ) saath the stahlhelm during sansar War I in 1916.
The pad stahlhelm refers both to a generik steel helmet, and adhik specifically to the distinctive ( or iconic ) germany design.
the Stahlhelm, with iske distinctive `` coal scuttle `` aakaar, was an instantly recognizable icon liye sainya imagery or became a common tatv of sainya prachaar on dono pahalu, just like the pickelhaube pehle it.
Its name thi bhi prayukt by the Stahlhelm, a paramilitary rashtravaadi organization sthapit at the end of 1918.
Glow-in-the-dark may refer to:
Bioluminescence, the utpaadan or utsarjan of lite by a living sajiv
chemiluminescence, is the utsarjan of light ( sandipti ) bagaiyr utsarjan of ooshmaa
sfuradipti, a vishisht type of photoluminescence sambandhit to fluorescence
radioluminescence, utpaadan of sandipti in a saamagree by the bambaari of inkaree vikiran
glow in the andhera daure, a 2008 concert daure by kanye west
francfort Airport serves as a hub city liye lufthansa and receives flite isse star Alliance vaahak.
airline hubs hai airport kramit as vishaal, medium, small, or non-hubs as one of the faa airport categories jisase hai re-evaluated every saal aadhaarit on kramank of vanijyik yatri.
the adhik aam lakin anaupchaarik use liye the phrase airline hub is an vimaanashetra ki an airline upyog as a transafar point to get yatri to unke intended gantavy.
It is part of a hub or spoke model, jahaan travelers chalati between airport nahin parosa by sidhaa flite change planes en root to unke gantavyon.
is is as opposed to the point to point model.
Many hubs of the airlines are bhi situated at airport in the shaharon of the sambandhit sir karyaalayon.
kuch airlines may use only a single hub, jabaki anya airlines upyog multiple hubs.
hubs hai used liye dono yatri flights as khub as cargo flite.
anek airlines bhi upyog fokas shaharon, jisase falan much the vahi as hubs.
airlines may also upyog secondary hubs, a non-technical pad liye vishaal fokas shaharon.
a hub in the madhya of a route is adhik prabhavi than at either samaapt as connecting trekkic adhik easily bharta the plane - yatri prefer a one-stop ( two-leg ) root over a two-stop ( three-leg ) route.
Hollow Lacedaemon.
Site of the menelaion, the shrine to Helen and menelaus constructed anciently in the kaansya aayu nagar ki stood on the hill of Therapne on the left bainko of the Eurotas nadi overlooking the bhavishya sait of dorian sparta.
aarpaar the ghati the successive ridges of Mount taygetus are in pramaan.
sparta ( Doric unani : ; ataari Greek : ), or lacedaemon, thi a prominent city-state in pracheen unaniyon, situated on the bainko of the eurotas River in Laconia, in south-eastern Peloponnese.
It ubhara as a rajnatik antity around the 10th century bc, jab the akramanakari dorians subjugated the local, non-Dorian janasankhyikee.
Around 650 BC, it rose to become the prabal sainya land-power in pracheen unaniyon.
die iske sainya pre-eminence, sparta thi pahachaanaa as the overall netaa of the sanyukt unani forces dauraan the greco-persian Wars.
between 431 or 404 BC, sparta thi the principal enemy of athens dauraan the Peloponnesian yuddh, from jisase it ubhara vijayi, haalanki at great laagat.
Sparta 's shikast by thebes in the battle of Leuctra in 371 bc ended sparta 's prominent role in unaniyon.
However, it kaayam iske rajnatik swatantraaa jabatak the Roman conquest of Greece in 146 bc.
it tab underwent a long period of decline, visheshkar in the madhya Ages, jab anek spartans sthanantarit to sajiv in mystras.
aadhunik sparta is the puunji of the unani regional ikai of Laconia or a bich liye the prasanskaran of goods such as citrus or olives.
sparta thi adwitiya in pracheen unaniyon liye iske soshal pranali and constitution, jisase completely focused on military prashikshan or excellence.
iske inhabitants yahood vargeekrut as spartiates ( spartan citizens, jo enjoyed puraa rights ), Mothakes ( non-Spartan free main uthaaya as Spartans ), perioikoi ( freedmen ), and helots ( state-owned serfs, enslaved non-Spartan local janasankhyikee ).
spartiates underwent the rigorous agoge prashikshan and education regimen, or spartan phalanges were widely mana to be among the behtareen in battle.
Spartan women enjoyed considerably adhik adhikaron or samta to main than elsewhere in the classical world.
sparta thi the vishay of fascination in its apana din, as well as in the West following the punaruddhar of shastreey siikhnaa.
is prem or admiration of Sparta is gyaat as laconism or laconophilia.
kaalpanik footbaal is an interactive pratiyogita in jisase upayokta compete viruddh prayek anya as saamaanya prabandhak of abhaasi tiimon.
The khilaadi that an vyaktigat is samarth to manage hai professional American footbaal khilaadi in the neshnal Football lig.
The different kriyaayein people hai able to mek are drafting, vyapaar, adding or chhodane players, and badalanaa rosters.
Due to the growth of the Internet, Fantasy footbaal rai vastly increased in popularity, visheshkar because kaalpanik footbaal pradaataaon aise as iespien, Yahoo, CBS, or the NFL itself are samarth to keep track of statistics entirely online, eliminating the need to check box score or newspapers regularly to keep track of players.
Most lig have a single saptaah championship in saptaah 16 of the enegel ritu.
sansar janasankhyikee estimates isse 1800 to 2100, based on un 2010 projections ( red, naarangi, green ) or us Census beuro aitihaasik estimates ( black ).
vaastavik ankit janasankhyikee aankade hai in blue.
according to the ucchtam estimate, the sansar janasankhyikee may vruddhi to 16 billion by 2100 ; according to the nunatam anumaan, it may decline to 6 arab.
the sansar janasankhyikee is the kul kramank of living insaano on dharti.
As of today, it is estimated to kramank arab by the sanyukt States janasankhyikee beuro ( USCB ).
the uscb estimates that the sansar janasankhyikee exceeded 7 arab on kooch 12, 2012.
according to a separate anumaan by the sanyukt raashtra janasankhyikee nidhi, it pahunche is padaav on aktubar 31, 2011.
The world population rai anbhavi nirantar vikaas chunki the samaapt of the great Famine or the blike Death in 1350, jab it stood at around 370 lakh.
the highest rates of growth – global population increases upar 1.8 % per saal – yahood dekhi briefly dauraan the 1950s, and liye a longer kaal during the 1960s or 1970s.
the vikaas rate peaked at 2.2 % in 1963, or tha asweekrut to 1.1 % by 2011.
Total salanaa births yahood highest in the let 1980s at about 138 lakh, or are abhi expected to remain essentially constant at unke 2011 str of 134 lakh, jabaki deaths kramank 56 million prati saal, or hai apekshit to badhayen to 80 lakh prati year by 2040.
Current projections show a jari increase in janasankhyikee in the near future ( but a sthir manaahi in the janasankhyikee vikaas rate ), saath the global population apekshit to pahunchein between 7.5 and 10.5 billion by 2050.
vibhinn longer-term estimates predict further vikaas, stagnation, or even overall decline in the vaishvik janasankhyikee by 2150.
kuch vishleshkon have questioned the sthirataa of further world population vikaas, citing the growing pressures on the environment, vaishvik khaanaa aapurtiyan, and urja resources.
skeletal muscles homo sapiens
is is a talika of muscles of the insaan anatomy.
vahin hai lagbhag 642 skeletal mansapeshiyaan bheetar the theth human, and lagbhag prayek muscle constitutes ek bhaag of a jodi of ekasmaan dwipaksheeya mansapeshiyaan, mila on dono pahalu, resulting in approximately 320 pairs of mansapeshiyaan, as prastut in is aalekh.
nevertheless, the sateek kramank is mushkil to define kuki alag sources samooh mansapeshiyaan differently, e.g. regarding kayaa is paribhaashit as alag parts of a single muscle or as anek mansapeshiyaan.
udhaaharan dayera isse 640 to 850.
the muscles of the human deh can be categorized into a kramank of samooh which shaamil mansapeshiyaan relating to the head or gardan, muscles of the dhad or trunk, mansapeshiyaan of the apper limbs, or muscles of the lower limbs.
the karrwai refers to the karrwai of prayek mansapeshi isse the standard anatomical sthiti.
in anya positions, anya actions may be performed.
a sunaharaa baar is a maatra of refined dhatvik sunaharaa of koi shape ki is bana by a baar nirmaataa meeting maanak sharten of manufacture, labeling, or record keeping.
larger sunaharaa bars ki are utpaadit by pouring the molten metal into molds hai called pindon.
Smaller bars may be manufactured by minting or stamping isse appropriately lipte gold chaadaren.
The maanak sunaharaa baar yojit as sunaharaa reserves by central bainko and traded among bullion dealer is the 400-troy-ounce ( 12.4 kg or 438.9 ounce ) shubh delivery gold baar.
The kilobar, which is to kah 1000 gamma in dravyaman, is the baar ki is adhik manageable or is prayukt extensively liye trading and investment.
the premium on these bars jab traded is bahut kam over the spot value of the sunaharaa bananaa it ideal liye choti hastantaran between bainko or vyapaariyon.
sabase kilobars hai chapata, haalanki kuch niveshkon, visheshkar in europea, prefer the eenton aakaar.
elisha Archibald `` archi '' manning iii ( born may 19, 1949 ) is a purv amareeki footbaal quarterbaque in the neshnal footbaal lig, playing for the nai orlions Saints from 1971 to 1982, tab for the Houston oilrs or minesota vikings.
he is the pita of vartmaan denwar broncos quarterbaque peyton Manning, current nai york diggaj starting quarterbaque eli manning, or purv ole miss receiver kupar manning.
vakaalat is a rajnatik prakram by an vyaktigat or group jisase aims to influence public-policy or resource aavanton nirnay bheetar political, aarthik, or soshal pranaaliyon or institutions.
Advocacy can shaamil many activities ki a vyakti or organization undertakes sahit media abhiyaan, public bolnaa, commissioning or prakaashan shodh or pole or the daakhil of an amicus bread.
lobbying ( praayah by lobby samooh ) is a form of advocacy where a sidhaa approach is made to vidhayak on an issue jisase plays a significant bhoomika in aadhunik politics.
shodh is beginning to explore how vakaalat samooh in the u.S. or canada hai using soshal media to sukar naagarik sagaai and samuhik action.
the flag of Mexico ( spani : Bandera de méxico ) is a lambavat tricolor of green, shwet, and red saath the neshnal kot of bahen charge in the bich of the white stripe.
jabaki the arth of the colors rai badla over samay, ye teen rangon were apanaaya by Mexico following swatantraaa isse spain dauraan the desh 's yuddh of Independence, or subsequent pehla mexican samrajya.
the vartmaan dhvaj was apanaaya in 1968, lakin the overall dizine rai maharoom prayukt since 1821, jab the pehla neshnal dhvaj was nirmit.
the vartmaan vidhi of neshnal pratikon, Law on the neshnal bahen, dhvaj, or gaan, ki governs the use of the neshnal dhvaj has been in place since 1984.
Red, shwet, or green are the rangon of the neshnal mukti fouj in Mexico.
the central emblem is the azetek pictogram liye tenochtitlan ( abhi mexico nagar ), the bich of unke samrajya.
It recalls the legend ki prerit the aztecs to settle on kayaa thi originally a lake-island.
the rup of the kot of arms thi sabase recently sanshodhit in 1968.
A riban in the neshnal colors is at the neeche of the kot of bahen.
throughout itihaas, the dhvaj rai badla chaar times, as the dizine of the kot of bahen or the length-width ratios of the dhvaj have maharoom parivardhit.
however, the coat of bahen rai had the vahi features throughout : an tribhuj, pakadakar a serpent in iske talon, is perched on sheersh of a prickly naashpati cactus ; the cactus is situated on a chattan ki rises upar a lake.
the kot of bahen is derived isse an Aztec legend that their devataaon bataai them to nirmaan a nagar jahaan ve spot an tribhuj on a nopal eating a serpent, which is now mexico nagar.
the current neshnal flag, the chauthi neshnal Flag, is bhi used as the mexican naval ensign by ships panjikrut in mexico.
a gantavy vipanan organization or convention and visitor beuro promotes a town, nagar, region, or country in anukram to badhayen the number of vizitor.
it promotes the development or marketing of a destination, focusing on convention sales, paryaton vipanan, or services.
aise sanghathan prachaar aarthik vikaas of a gantavy by increasing vizit isse paryatakon and business travelers, which generates overnight awaas liye a destination, vizit to restaurants, or shopping revenues.
Convention or visitor bureaus hai the sabase mahatvapurn paryaton vipanan organizations in unke respective paryatak destinations, as ve hai directly jimmedaar liye vipanan the gantavy brands through travel or paryaton `` utpaada jaagrukta '' to vizitor.
dmos upaj arabon of dollar in sidhaa or apratyaksh aay and kar liye unke gantavyon ' economies with unke marketing or bikri visheshgyata.
gantavy vipanan sanghathan hai praayah pukaara safar, sammelan, vizitor, or paryaton bureaux, welcome centers, soochna centers and more.
regardless of the naam, these organizations prastaav many sevaayen to the traveling public.
the nilgai or wapiti ( cervus canadensis ) is one of the largest prajati of deer in the sansar, or ek of the largest jameen stanadhariyon in uttar america or eastern asia.
it thi long believed to be a subspecies of the europea red hiran ( cervus elaphus ), lakin pramaan from a 2004 padhai of the mitochondrial diene indicates ki the do hai pruthak prajati.
is animal should nahin be uljhan saath the larger moose ( alces alces ), to which the naam `` nilgai '' applies in uresia.
Apart from the moose, the tabhi anya sadsy of the hiran family to rival the nilgai in aakaar is the dakshin asian sambar ( rusa unicolor ).
nilgai dayera in van or forest-edge habitat, feeding on grasses, paudhe, pattey, and chaal.
Although native to uttar america or purvi asia, ve have adapted khub to countries where they have maharoom introduced, including Argentina, australia, and New jiland.
unke great adaptability may threaten endemic species or ecosystems into which they have been introduced.
Male nilgai have vishaal antlers jisase are shed prayek saal.
males bhi engage in ritualized samagam vyavhaar during the rut, including posturing, antler kushti ( sparring ), and bugling, a laud shrenee of vocalizations jisase establishes dominance over anya males or attracts females.
Elk hai susceptible to a kramank of sankramak rogon, kuch of jisase can be transmitted to livestock.
praytn to eliminate sankramak rogon from elk populations, largely through vaccination, have tha mishrit kamyaabi.
Some samskritiyon aadar the nilgai as a spiritual force.
In bhaag of asia, antlers or their makhmal are used in traditional davaaiyaan.
nilgai hai hunted as a game species ; the maance is leaner or ucchtar in protein than beef or murga.
The george washington vishvavidhyalayon ( gw, gwu, or george washington ) is a vyapak private, coeducational shodh vishvavidhyalayon located in washington, d.C..
it puraskaar praaanpatr, snaatak degrees, masters degree, or phds aarpaar several darjan disciplines.
The vishvavidhyalayon was chartered by an adhinium of Congress on farvari 9, 1821 as The columbian college in the District of colombia.
the lion ( Panthera leo ) is ek of the four big billiyon in the genus penthera or a member of the parivaar felidaye.
saath kuch males exceeding in vazan, it is the second-largest jeena cat after the baagh.
junglee sher philhal maujuud in sub-saharan africa or in asia ( where an endangered remnant population resides in gir van neshnal park in india ) jabaki anya prakaar of lions have disappeared isse uttar Africa or dakshinpaschim Asia in historic times.
jabatak the let Pleistocene, parichay 10,000 years ago, the sher thi the sabase widespread vishaal jameen standhari after insaano.
ve were mila in sabase of africa, aarpaar uresia from pashchimi europea to india, and in the americas isse the yukon to peru.
the sher is a vulnerable prajati, having dekhi a pramukh population manaahi of 30–50 % over the past do dashakon in iske africa range.
Lion populations hai untenable baahar designated reserves or neshnal park.
Although the kaaran of the manaahi is not fully samajha, habitat ghaataa or virodh saath humans are currently the mahanatam kalyankari of chintaa.
bheetar africa, the west African sher janasankhyikee is visheshkar endangered.
sher live liye 10–14 saalo in the junglee, while in captivity they can live longer than 20 saalo.
in the wild, males seldom live longer than 10 saalo, as choton sustained isse continual lard saath rival males greatly reduce their aayu.
They typically inhabit savana or ghasbhumi, haalanki they may take to bush or van.
sher hai unusually soshal compared to anya billiyon.
a abhimaan of sher consists of sambandhit mahilaon and aulad or a choti number of adult males.
samooh of maadaa sher typically hunt saath, preying zyaadaatar on vishaal ungulates.
sher are apex and keystone parabhakshi, although they scavenge as opportunity allows.
jabaki sher do not typically hunt insaano, kuch have been gyaat to do so.
Sleeping mainly dauraan the day, sher hai primarily nocturnal, haalanki bordering on crepuscular in nature.
Highly distinctive, the purush sher is easily recognised by iske mane, or its face is one of the sabase widely recognised animal pratikon in insaan culture.
depictions have existed isse the apper Paleolithic kaal, saath utkeernan or paintings isse the Lascaux and Chauvet gufaaen, through virtually all ancient or madhyakaalin samskritiyon where ve ekbar occurred.
It has been extensively chitrit in sculptures, in paintings, on national dhvaj, or in samakaleen films or sahitya.
Lions have maharoom rakhaa in menageries chunki the time of the roman samrajya, or have maharoom a key prajati sought liye pradarshnee in zoos over the sansar chunki the let 18th century.
zoos hai cooperating vishwavyaapee in breeding programs liye the endangered aciatic subspecies.
in the history of video games, the seventh peedhee of consoles is the pichhlaa peedhee, and shaamil consoles released chunki let by nintendo, microsoft, or soni.
liye ghar consoles, the saatvaan generation began on 22 navambar 2005 with the relies of exbox 360 or jari with the relies of plastesan 3 on 11 navambar 2006, and ve on 19 navambar 2006.
prayek nai consol introduced a nai prakaar of breakthrough in praudyogiki.
the exbox 360 offered khel rendered natively at hd resolutions, the plastesan 3 offered, in addition to FHD gaming, hd movie plabac via a built-in 3d blu-ray discs player, or the ve kendrit on integrating parirakshak saath movement sensor as khub as joysticks.
joining nintendo in the gati market, soni released the plastesan move in sitambar 2010.
the plastesan Move suvidhaayen gati samvedan gaming, samaan to ki of the ve.
Microsoft also joined Sony and nintendo, saath iske Kinect.
naapsand the other two pranaaliyon ( plastesan 3 or ve ), Kinect karata nahin upyog any parirakshak of koi sort or makes the upayokta the `` controller. ''
Having bechi 8 million ikai in its first 60 dinon on the market, Kinect rai claimed the ginis sansar ricard of hone the `` fastest selling upabhokta electronics yantra ''.
jabaki the Xbox 360 offers taar parirakshak as a staneylon utpaada, sab plastesan 3 parirakshak can be used in taar or betaar configurations.
starting saath handheld consoles, the seventh peedhee began on 21 November 2004 with the uttar American introduction of the Nintendo ds as a `` teesraa pillar '', alongside nintendo 's maujuuda khel ladke agrim or gamecube consoles.
the nintendo ds ( nds ) suvidhaayen a tach screen or built-in microphone, or supports wireless iiqui 802.11 ( Wi-Fi ) standards.
Additionally, the sanshodhit sanskaran of the NDS, the DSi, suvidhaayen do built in camere, the kshamta to downlod games from the dsi store, and a web broujar.
the PlayStation portable, or psp, released baad the vahi saal on 12 disambar 2004, followed a different pattern.
it became the pehla handheld video game consol to upyog an optical discs swaroop, Universal media discs ( UMD ), as its praathmik bhandar media.
soni also gave the psp majboot multi-media kaabiliyat, connactivity saath the plastesan 3 or anya psps, and antarjaal connactivity.
The nintendo ds likewise has connectivity to the internet through the Nintendo wi-fi Connection or nintendo ds broujar, as khub as betaar connectivity to anya ds pranaaliyon or ve consoles.
despite high bikri sankhyaayein liye dono consoles, plastesan portable sales have consistently pichhadaapan behind those of the Nintendo ds ; nevertheless, the PlayStation Portable has the bhed of hone the best-selling non-Nintendo handheld gaming pranali.
sgt. pepper 's nirjan Hearts klbon Band ( praayah shortened to sgt. pepper ) is the eighth studio album by English rock band the Beatles.
released in june 1967, the album included geeton such as `` saath a choti sahaayta isse my mitron ``, `` luci in the aasmaan with eent ``, or `` a Day in the jivan ``.
continuing the kalakaari maturation seen on the band 's album revolver ( 1966 ), sgt. pepper further raji from the conventional pop chattan muhaavara of the samay or incorporated balladry, cicedelik, music hall, or symphonic influences.
dauraan the sgt. pepper sessions, the group improved upon the quality of their music 's utpaadan while exploring praayogic recording takneekon.
Producer george martin 's abhinav approach shaamil the upyog of an orcestra.
Widely acclaimed and imitated, the album cover, designed by angrezi pop artists peter blake or Jann haworth, thi inspired by a sketch by paul mccartney that chitrit the band pos in saamne of a collage of kuch of their pasandida celebrities.
sgt. pepper was a vishwavyaapee najuk and commercial kamyaabi, bitaa 27 saptaah at the sheersh of the UK Album chart and 15 weeks at kramank one on the US billboard 200.
A seminal kaary in the ubharate cicedelik chattan style, the album thi critically acclaimed upon release and jiti chaar grami puraskaar in 1968.
saath an anumaanit 32 million copies sold, it is ek of the sansar 's behtareen selling album.
Sgt. Pepper is mana by many to be the sabase influential and famous rock album kabhi, or rai maharoom namit the mahanatam album of all samay by dono All Time sheersh 1000 album or rolling stone.
the temporal pali is a region of the cerebral cortex ki is stith beneath the parshvavarti fisher on dono dimagi baantati of the mammalian brain.
the temporal lobes are involved in the retention of vizual memories, prasanskaran sensory input, comprehending bhashaa, storing new yaaden, emotion, or deriving meaning.
The insaan fefde hai the angon of respiration in insaano.
insaano have do fefde, a sahi fefdon or a baayein fefdon.
the sahi fefdon consists of teen nirmoke jabaki the baayein lung is slightly choti consisting of tabhi do lobes ( the left lung rai a `` hriday paaydaan '' allowing spes liye the dil bheetar the chest ).
Together, the fefde contain lagbhag of airways and 300 to 500 million alveoli, having a total sataha kshetrafal of parichay ( ) in vayaskon — roughly the same kshetrafal as ek paksh of a tennis adaalat.
furthermore, if all of the capillaries that surround the alveoli yahood unwound and laid end to samaapt, ve would extend liye parichay.
prayek lung weighs, isliye bananaa the sampurna ang parichay.
insaan lungs
the shwaasanlee divides into do bronchi ( ek liye prayek paksh ) at the str of t4.
is jankshan is bhi gyaat as the carina.
the conducting mandal contains the shwaasanlee, the bronchi, the bronchioles, and the terminal bronchioles the respiratory mandal contains the respiratory bronchioles, the alveolar nalikaayen, and the alveoli.
the conducting mandal or the respiratory stuffers ( lakin nahin the alveoli ) hai made up of airways.
The conducting zone rai no gas exange with the rakt, or is reinforced saath upasthi in anukram to hold kholen the airways.
the conducting mandal warms the air to or humidifies the air.
it bhi cleanses the air by nikaalnaa anu via cilia stith on the deevaaren of sab the passageways.
the fefde hai ghiri by the pasli pinjraa.
the respiratory mandal is the sait of gas exange saath blood.
The sahanubhutipurna baichaiyn pranali via noradrenaline acting on the beta receptors causes bronchodilation.
The parasympathetic baichaiyn pranali via acetylcholine, which adhiniyamon on the M-3 muscarinic receptors, maintains the resting tone of the bronchiolar chikna mansapeshi.
is karrwai is sambandhit, haalanki mana pruthak isse bronchoconstriction.
anek anya non-autonomic baichaiyn and biochemical stimuli, sahit carbon dioxide and oxigen, hai bhi shaamil in the viniman prakram.
the pleural cavity is the sambhavit space between the parietal pleura, astr the inner wall of the thoracic pinjraa, and the visceral pleura astr the fefde.
The fefdon parenchyma is sakhti prayukt to refer solely to alveolar utak with respiratory bronchioles, alveolar nalikaayen or terminal bronchioles.
however, it praayah shaamil koi rup of fefdon tissue, also sahit bronchioles, bronchi, blood baratan and lung interstitium.
the margrita is a mexican cocktail consisting of takila mishrit saath Cointreau or similar naarangi -flavoured liqueur or lime or nibu ras, often parosa saath namak on the kaanch rim.
It is the sabase common tequila-based cocktail in the United rajya.
The drink is parosa shaken saath barf ( on the rocks ), blended saath ice ( frozen margrita ), or bagaiyr barf ( sidhaa up ).
do botalon of red bargandi wine from gevrey-chambertin, côtes de Nuits
bargandi is a andhera red rang sambhddha saath the bargandi wine of the vahi name, jisase in turn is namit baad the Burgundy region of frans.
The rang bargandi is samaan to other shades of andhera red aise as marun.
jab referring to the color, `` bargandi '' is usually not capitalized.
the pehla ankit upyog of `` bargandi '' as a rang naam in English thi in 1881.
sangeen of an unknown angrejon sipaahi, killed in 1943 dauraan the battle of leros.
kuki his pahchaan is anjaan, he is laapata in action.
Grave of an unknown amareeki sipaahi in oise-aisne Cemetery.
maare in 1917
Grave of an anjaan chhatrasena, maare in the battle of arnhem, 1944.
photographed in april 1945
qabron of 11 unknown angrejon sainiko maare dauraan World yuddh ii, in Rhodes cwgc yuddh cemetery
Wall crypts containing remains of anjaan italvi sainiko maare during World yuddh II, in a rhodes kabristaan
kuch of the 72,000 names inscribed on the thiepval memorial to the laapata of the somme
Graves of unknown French sainiko killed dauraan sansar yuddh ek.
prayek kancreet cross rai a metal plake bearing the shabd `` inconnu '' i.e. `` anjaan ''
ossuary at the gallipoli ranbhumi, containing the remains of 3000 unidentified french sainiko jo died in 1915
qabron of unknown eritrean Ascaris maare in 1941 dauraan the battle of keren
laapata in karrwai ( MIA ) is a casualty Category assigned antargat the aukaat of laapata to hathiyaarband sevaayen karmiyon jo hai reported missing dauraan kriyasheel seva.
ve may have been maare, wounded, become a kaidi of war, or ujaad.
if mritak, neither unke remains nor sangeen can be positively pahachaanaa.
banane mia rai maharoom an occupational risk liye seva karmiyon for as long as vahin rai been warfare.
Chamber of Commerce bhawan in Center.
This building is the asli karawas, nirmit saath saath the aitihaasik Courthouse.
dono baithna on the kasbaa Square.
the Rio theatre in bich
pehla baptist girijaghar at 117 kora gali in bich is located aglaa to the downtown khand.
pehla isai girijaghar at 124 kora gali in Center is ek of the oldest congregations in the jatiyaan.
bich is a nagar in Shelby County, texas, sanyukt rajya.
the janasankhyikee was 5,193 at the 2010 census.
it is the county seat of shelbi county.
it is namit for iske sthaan nikat the bich of Shelby County, nahin liye its sthaan in texas as it is stith nikat the Louisiana kinaaraa.
Intense red-eye effect in blue ankhen saath dilated pupil
the red-eye prabhaav in chayachitr is the common rup of red vidhyaarthiyon in rang chayachitr of eyes.
it occurs jab using a photographic flash very close to the camera lens ( as saath sabase compact camere ), in ambient kam lite.
the prabhaav appears in the ankhen of insaano or pashu ki have tapetum lucidum.
natya followspot operators, positioned nearly coincidentally saath a bahut ujjwal lite or somewhat dur from the abhinaytaon, occasionally gavaah red-eye in abhinaytaon on stage.
the effect is nahin drishy to the rest of the darshak kuki it is reliant on the bahut choti kone between the followspot oparator and the lite.
The vishvavidhyalayon of california, santa Barbara ( commonly referred to as uc santa Barbara or UCSB ) is a public research vishvavidhyalayon or ek of the ten saamaanya campuses of the vishvavidhyalayon of california pranali.
the main campus is stith on a site in Goleta, California, United States, from santa barbara and uttarpashchim of Los angeles.
tracing its roots waapas to 1891 as an independent shikshak ' college, ucsb joined the University of California pranali in 1944 and is the third-oldest general-education campus in the pranali.
UCSB is ek of america 's public ivi vishvavidhyalayon, jisase recognizes sheersh public shodh vishvavidhyalayon in the sanyukt rajya.
The vishvavidhyalayon is a comprehensive doctoret vishvavidhyalayon or is vyavasthit into five collejon or skulon offering 87 undergraduate degree and 55 graduate degree.
the campus is the 6th-largest in the uc pranali by namakan saath 18,977 undergraduate or 2,950 graduate vidhyaarthee.
in 2012, ucsb thi ranked 41st among `` neshnal vishvavidhyalayon '' or 10th among public vishvavidhyalayon by U.S. News & sansar rapat.
the vishvavidhyalayon thi bhi ranked 35th vishwavyaapee by the Times Higher Education sansar University rankings or 34th vishwavyaapee ( 6th vishwavyaapee liye engineering ) by the academik ranking of sansar vishvavidhyalayon in 2012. < ref name= '' Shanghairanking.com/FieldENG2012 '' >
uc santa Barbara is a `` very unchi kaaryaklap '' shodh vishvavidhyalayon and kharch $ 191.2 lakh on shodh expenditures in the 2007 phiscal year, 97th-largest in the sanyukt rajya.
ucsb houses baarah national shodh centers, sahit the prasiddh Kavli Institute liye saidhantik bhautikee.
ucsb sankaay shaamil paanch nobel puraskaar laureates, ek field medalist, 29 members of the National academy of sciences, 27 members of the neshnal academy of abhiyantriki, or 31 sadasyon of the amareeki academy of Arts or sciences.
UCSB thi the No. 3 mejabaan on the arpanet and thi elected to the sangh of amareeki vishvavidhyalayon in 1995.
The uc Santa barbara gauchos compete in the NCAA prabhag i big west sammelan.
the Gauchos have jiti ncaa neshnal championships in main 's soker or main 's water polo.
sant Joseph saath the shishu yishu by guido reni
Saint joseph 's Day, kooch 19, the Feast of st. Joseph is in Western christianity the principal feast din of sant Joseph, jeevanasathi of the Blessed virgin Mary.
he is bhi the step-father of yishu of nasarat /jesus messiah.
It rai the rank of a solemnity in the roman catholic Church ; catholics jo follow the Missal of 1962 celebrate it as a pehla class feast.
pichhlaa to 1962 it thi manaaye as a feast of the rank of doguna of the first class.
it is a feast or commemoration in the provinces of the anglican niyaaz, or a feast or parv in the lutheran girijaghar.
Saint joseph 's din is the patronal feast din liye candal as khub as for canada, persons namit joseph, Josephine, etc., for dharmik institutes, skulon or parishes bearing his name, or for carpenters.
it is bhi pita 's din in kuch Catholic countries, mukhyatah Spain, portugal, and italy.
kooch 19 was samarpit to sant joseph in several pashchimi calendars by the dasavaan sadi, or this custom thi sthapit in Rome by 1479.
Pope St. Pius v extended iske upyog to the sampurna Roman Rite by his apostolic samvidhan Quo primum ( July 14, 1570 ).
chunki 1969, episkopel sammelnon may, if ve kaash, transafar it to a tithi outside lent.
between 1870 or 1955, a feast thi manaaye in honor of st. Joseph as jeevanasathi of the dhanya virgin mariyam and Patron of the saarvbhaumik girijaghar, the latter title having been given to use by Pope paayas ix.
Originally manaaye on the teesraa sande after easter saath an octave, baad divino afflatu of St. paayas x ( dekhie Reform of the Roman breviary by Pope paayas X ), it was moved to the preceding Wednesday.
The feast thi bhi retitled The solemnity of sant joseph.
is jashn or iske accompanying octave thi abolished dauraan the modernisation or sarleekaran of rubrics antargat Pope Pius barahavin in 1955.
it is still kaayam by Catholics jo follow the missal of 1962 or pehle missals.
as the traditional holiday of the rasulon ss. philip and James, may 1, tha dhundhlee isse the memory of sabase Catholics by the mid-twentieth sadi, ki of joseph the kaaryakarta was created in anukram to coincide saath the celebration of antarrashtriya shramik din ( may din ) in anek deshon.
the feast of ss. philip or james, jisase tha maharoom manaaye on ki date chunki the chathe sadi, was moved isse its traditional place.
in the nai calendar prakashit in 1969, the feast, jisase at one samay occupied the ucchtam possible rank in the girijaghar calendar, was reduced to an vaikalpik Memorial, the nunatam rank for a sant 's din.
The purvi paramparaagat girijaghar celebrates sant joseph on the sande baad christmas.
mariah kairi ( born March 27, 1970 ) is an amareeki singer, songwriter, ricard producer, abhinetri, or locasevak.
antargat the guidance of colombia record karypalika tommy mottola, kairi released uske self-titled debyue studio album mariah kairi in 1990 ; it went multi-platinum or shakhit chaar lagaataar kramank ek singles on the u.s. billboard hot 100 chart.
Following her vivaah to mottola in 1993 or kamyaabi saath hit records bhav ( 1991 ), music baksaa ( 1993 ), and mairi christmas ( 1994 ), kairi thi sthapit as colombia 's highest-selling adhinium.
daydream ( 1995 ) bana music history jab iske duusari single `` ek Sweet din ``, a duet with boij ii main, spent a ricard solah weeks on top of the billboard Hot 100, and remains the longest-running number-one song in U.S. chart itihaas.
dauraan the recording of the album, kairi began to deviate isse uske r & b or pop beginnings and dhire traversed into hip hop.
is musical badalen became evident saath the release of titali ( 1997 ), at which samay Carey had alag from mottola.
kairi baayein Columbia in 2000, or hastakshrit a record-breaking $ 100 million recording contract with virgin Records.
pehle the relies of uske pehla feature filmi Glitter ( 2001 ), she suffered a shaareerik or emotional breakdown and thi hospitalized for severe exhaustion.
Following the filmi 's garib resepshan, wo was bought out of her recording anubandh liye $ 50 lakh, jisase led to a manaahi in uske kariyar.
wo hastakshrit a multi-million dollar anubandh deal saath dweep record in 2002, or baad an unsuccessful kaal, laute to the top of music chart saath the Emancipation of mimi ( 2005 ).
iske duusari single `` we belong Together `` became uske sabase kaamyaab single of the 2000s, or thi baad namit `` Song of the dashak '' by Billboard.
kairi ekbar again ventured into film saath a well-received abhinit bhoomika in ( 2009 ) ; wo thi awarded the `` bhedan pradarshan Award '' at the tad sroton International filmi Festival, and blike reel or naacp Image Award nominations.
in a kariyar spanning over do dashakon, kairi has sold more than 200 million record vishwavyaapee, bananaa uske ek of the best-selling music kalakaaron of sab time.
In 1998, wo thi sammanit as the world 's best-selling recording kalakaar of the 1990s at the sansar music Awards.
kairi was bhi namit the best-selling maadaa artist of the milinium in 2000.
according to the recording Industry sangh of america, she is the teesraa best-selling maadaa artist in the United rajya, saath 63.5 lakh certified album.
With the relies of `` Touch my Body `` ( 2008 ), kairi gained her eighteenth kramank one single in the sanyukt States, adhik than koi other solo kalakaar.
in 2012, kairi thi kramit duusari on vh1 's suchi of the `` 100 Greatest Women in music ''.
aside isse uske commercial accomplishments, kairi rai won five Grammy Awards, 17 sansar Music puraskaar, 11 American music puraskaar, or 31 billboard Music Awards.
referred to as the `` songbird supreme '' by the ginis World record, she is famed for her five-octave gayan dayera, shakti, melismatic style or hastakshar use of the siti panjikaran.
a bumblebee is any member of the madhumakhi genus bombus, in the parivaar apidae.
vahin are over 250 gyaat species, maujuuda primarily in the uttari golardh although ve bhi occur in dakshin america.
ve have maharoom introduced to New Zealand or the australian rajya of Tasmania.
bumblebees are soshal keet that hai characterised by black or yellow deh baalo, praayah in bands.
however, kuch prajati have orange or red on unke bodies, or may be entirely blike.
another spasht ( lakin nahin adwitiya ) characteristic is the naram nature of the bal ( long, branched setae ), pukaara pile, ki cover their sampurna body, bananaa unhen appear and mahasoos faji.
ve hai behtareen vishisht from similarly vishaal, fuzzy madhumakhiyon by the rup of the maadaa hind leg, jisase is parivardhit to rup a corbicula : a chamakdaar concave sataha ki is bare, lakin surrounded by a frinz of baalo used to transport paraag ( in samaan bees, the hind leg is completely hairy, or paraag grains hai wedged into the baalo for hastantaran ).
jaise unke relatives the honey madhumakhiyon, bumblebees feed on nectar and ekatrit paraag to feed their young.
a man khulkar carrying a handgun in a Burger king in Eagle, colorado.
in the sanyukt rajya, kholen carry is ashulipi terminology liye `` khulkar carrying a firearm in public '', as distinguished isse concealed carry, jahaan firearms can nahin be dekhi by the cazual observer.
the abhyaas of kholen carry, jahaan gun swami khulkar carry firearms while they go parichay their rose kaarobaar, has dekhi an badhayen in the U.S. in haal years.
is rai maharoom marked by a number of organized events intended to badhayen the visibility of open carry and public jaagrukta parichay the abhyaas.
proponents of kholen carry point to itihaas or aankde, noting that criminals praayah conceal unke hathiyaar.
protsaahit by samooh like opencarry.org, georgiacarry.org or some bhagidaar of the free State Project, open carry has dekhi a punaruddhar in recent saalo, lakin it is not yet saaf if is represents bas a short-term trend.
the gun rights community rai maharoom mishrit in iske jawaab.
alan gottlieb of the Second amendment nyaas and the nra have maharoom cautious in expressing support, jabaki special-interest groups such as the aforementioned opencarry.org or georgiacarry.org, or nishchit neshnal samooh aise as the Gun Owners of america ( goa ) have maharoom more outspoken in ehsaan of the abhyaas.
kholen carry is strongly opposed by gan control samooh aise as the Brady Campaign or the gathbandhan to roke gan hinsa.
the cattenom Nuclear Power sanyantr in France.
frans produces around three quarters of iske electricity by nabhikeey shakti.
The grafenrheinfeld Nuclear Power Plant in Germany.
chancelar angela markel 's coalition ghoshit on may 30, 2011, ki germany’s 17 nuclear power stesan hoga be shut down by 2022, in a niti reversal following Japan 's phukushima Daiichi nabhikeey vipatti.
philhal, 68 riektaron are antargat construction in 15 countries.
Nuclear power stesan operate in thirty countries.
in 2010, before the phukushima daiichi nabhikeey disaster, it thi reported ki an ausat of parichay 10 nabhikeey reactors yahood apekshit to become operational prati saal, although according to the sansar nabhikeey sangh, of the 17 civilian riektaron niojit to become operational between 2007 or 2009, tabhi paanch darasal aae on stream.
as of June 2011, germany or Switzerland hai phasing-out nabhikeey shakti.
as of june 2011, deshon aise as australia, austria, denmark, Greece, ireland, italy, latvian, liechtenstein, Luxembourg, malaysia, malta, nai jiland, norway or Portugal remain opposed to nabhikeey shakti.
Color gati chitra filmi refers dono to unexposed rang photographic film in a swaroop upyukt liye use in a gati chitra camera, or to samaapt motion picture filmi, ready liye use in a projector, jisase bears bimb in rang.
the pehla rang cinematography thi by arthath of yogtmak rang pranaaliyon such as the one patented in england by edward remand Turner in 1899 or tested in 1902.
A simplified yogtmak pranali was viksit by george albert smith and safaltaapurvak commercialized in 1909 as kinemacolor.
ye jaldi pranaaliyon prayukt black-and-white filmi to photograph or project do or more ghatak images through alag rang filter.
still isse footage recorded by edward turnar in 1902
saath the present-day praudyogiki, vahin hai two pruthak prakriyaaon : eastman rang rinatmak 2 rasayan ( camera rinatmak stox, duplicating interpositive or internegative stox ) or eastman Color dhanatmak 2 rasayan ( positive prints for sidhaa prakshep ), praayah abbreviated as ecn-2 and ecp-2.
fuji 's utpaada hai sangat with ecn-2 or ecp-2.
ashanti shequoiya Douglas ( born October 13, 1980 ) is an amareeki singer-songwriter, record producer, or abhinetri.
ashanti is sabase prasiddh liye uske eponymous debyue album, which featured the hit song `` foolish ``, or bechi over 503,000 copies in iske first saptaah of release throughout the U.S. in april 2002.
The album niyat a soundscan ricard as the biggest kholane saptaah bikri liye a nai maadaa kalakaar, outselling debuts by elicia kunjiyaan or lorin hill.
in the vahi saptaah, wo became the pehla maadaa yajmaan to simultaneously hold the sheersh two sthaan on the billboard hot 100 singles chart saath `` Foolish '', and `` What 's luv ? ``
( with Fat jo ).
ashanti broke record again by having three top ten geeton, `` foolish, '' `` What 's luv ? '' and `` sadaa on Time ``, on the Billboard hot 100 chart in the vahi week, being the pehla stri to accomplish this feat or hone duusari tabhi to the betals.
in 2003, the self-titled debyue album jiti ashanti uske pehla grami puraskaar for behtareen samakaleen r & b album.
as of April 1st 2013, ashanti rai bechi over 27.7 million records vishwavyaapee.
Ashanti ended the decade ( 2000–09 ) as the third top nai R & B kalakaar peeche elicia Keys or bayons.
wo also ended the decade at kramank 38 on the sheersh Artist of the Decade list.
wo is currently on the suchi of the bees Best Selling music singles chunki 1990 liye her single foolish for selling 7.2 lakh nakal to-date.
ashanti rai an anumaanit net laayak of $ 40 million dollar [ usd ].
Ashanti likhaa or sang background on jenifer lopez 's `` ai n't it mjedaar ( hatya remix ) ``, jisase pahunche number ek on billboard hot 100, jisase thi also in the top 10 chart at the vahi time as `` foolish '', `` sadaa on samay '' ( saath Ja niyam ), or `` kayaa 's luv '' ( with mote jo ).
baad that year, wo thi acclaimed as the `` rajkumaari Of hip-hop & r & b '' by uske label or capped band uske kaamyaab debut by jeetna eight billboard puraskaar and two amareeki Music Awards.
bheetar seven years of ashanti 's kariyar, wo rai scored 16 sheersh 40 hits on the hot 100.
ashanti rai endorsed numerous utpaada sahit gap, Herbal essences or mudd jeens.
ashanti cites Whitney huston, Janet jackson, prince, madonna, tupak shakur, Mary J. blige, ela fitzgerald, nashile robinsan, donna Summer, or blue Magic as uske musical prabhaav.
praised as a gifted songwriter by uske peers or aalochakon alike, ashanti rai written/co-written the balk of sab her music.
wo is currently working on uske apana prakaashan company entitled likhaa Entertainment.
wo released uske fourth studio album hakdaar the ghoshnaa on June 3, 2008 or is currently in the studio working on her paanchvaan.
She bhi performed the daan dhun `` Just stand Up `` alongside 15 anya female singers liye the `` Stand up to karkat '' sajiv television khaas which helped uthaayen $ 100 lakh dollar liye karkat shodh.
The United rajya Army air Forces ( usaaf or aaf ) thi the sainya vimaanan bhujaa of the sanyukt rajya of america dauraan or immediately after sansar yuddh II, or the sidhaa purvavarti of the United rajya Air force.
The aaf was a ghatak of the sanyukt States fouj, which in 1942 thi vibhajit functionally by karypalika anukram into teen autonomous shaktiyaan : the fouj Ground shaktiyaan, the Services of supplai ( jisase in 1943 became the fouj seva shaktiyaan ), or the aaf.
prayek of these shaktiyaan tha a commanding general jo reported sidhe to the mukhya of staff of the sanyukt rajya fouj.
The AAF administered sab bhaag of sainya vimaanan formerly vitarit among the fouj air corps, General mukhyalay air force, or maidan shaktiyaan corps kshetrafal cmanderon, or thus became the pehla air sanghathan of the u.S. Army to control its apana installations and support karmiyon.
in abhyaas, the AAF thi vastutah autonomous andar the fouj.
the peak size of the aaf thi over 2.4 lakh main or mahilaon in service or nearly 80,000 vayuyan in 1944, or 783 domestic bases in disambar 1943.
By VE Day it tha 1.25 million main stationed videshi or operated from more than 1,600 airfields vishwavyaapee.
the air Corps became the fouj air shaktiyaan in June 1941 to provide the air arm a vrihad swaittata in jisase to vistaar adhik efficiently, or to provide a dhaancha liye the atirikt cmand echelons required by a vastly increased force.
Although anya raashtra already had pruthak air shaktiyaan swatantra of the army or navy ( aise as the angrejon royal air Force or the German luftwaffe ), the aaf remained a part of the sanyukt States Army until the United rajya air force aae into hone in September 1947.
however, in iske vistaar and conduct of the yuddh, the AAF became more than bas an bhujaa of the greater organization.
by the samaapt of World yuddh ii the AAF tha become vastutah an swatantra seva.
By viniman or karypalika anukram, the aaf thi a adhinsth agency of the War Department tasked tabhi saath aayojan, training, or equipping combat ikai, simit in responsibility to the mahadwipiya sanyukt States, as yahood the fouj Ground shaktiyaan or the fouj seva shaktiyaan.
in vaastaviktaa, mukhyalay AAF niyantrit the conduct of all aspects of the air yuddh in prayek bhaag of the sansar, determining air niti or issuing orders without transmitting unhen through the mukhya of Staff.
This `` contrast between siddhanth or fact is... fundamental to an samajhnaa of the aaf. ''
the swatantraaa of Information adhinium ( foia ) is a sangheey freedom of soochna vidhi ki allows liye the puraa or aanshik prakatikaran of previously unreleased information or documents controlled by the United rajya government.
the adhinium defines agency records vishay to disclosure, outlines anivaary prakatikaran prakriyaaon or anudaan nau chhuton to the statute.
it thi originally hastakshrit into law by President Lyndon B. johnson, despite his misgivings, on july 4, 1966 as or gai into prabhaav the following year.
the sangheey sarkari 's swatantraaa of soochna adhinium chahie nahin be confused saath the different or varying swatantraaa of soochna Acts passed by the vyaktigat rajya.
anek of those rajya adhiniyamon may be samaan lakin not ekasmaan to the federal act.
The European sangh ( eu ) is an aarthik or political sangh of 27 sadsy rajya ki hai stith primarily in europea.
the eu operates through a pranali of supranational swatantra sansthaanon and intergovernmental negotiated decisions by the sadsy rajya.
sansthaanon of the EU include the European Commission, the Council of the europea sangh, the europea parishad, the adaalat of insaaf of the europea sangh, the European central bainko, the Court of auditors, or the europea Parliament.
the europea parliament is nirvaachit every paanch saalo by eu nagarikon.
The eu 's de facto capital is brussels.
The eu traces iske origins isse the europea Coal or steel Community ( ecsc ) and the europea Economic Community ( eec ), formed by the bhitari chah deshon in 1951 or 1958 kramshah.
In the intervening saalo the jatiyaan or its successors have grown in aakaar by the accession of nai member rajya or in shakti by the jod of niti kshetron to iske remit.
The maastricht sandhi established the europea Union under its vartmaan name in 1993.
the naveenatam pramukh amendment to the sanvaidhanik basis of the eu, the sandhi of lisbon, aae into force in 2009.
the EU rai viksit a single market through a standardised pranali of laws ki apply in sab member states.
bheetar the Schengen kshetrafal ( jisase includes 22 EU or 4 non-eu rajya ) passport niyantran have maharoom abolished.
eu nitiyon uddeshy to ensure the free gati of people, goods, sevaayen, or puunji, enact vidhaan in insaaf or home afares, or maintain common nitiyon on trade, krishi, fisheries or regional vikaas.
A maudrik sangh, the eurozone, thi sthapit in 1999 and is composed of 17 sadsy rajya.
through the aam videshi and Security Policy the eu has developed a bhoomika in external sambandh or raksha.
Permanent rajanyik mishan have maharoom sthapit around the sansar.
the eu is represented at the sanyukt Nations, the wto, the g8 and the g-20.
With a sanyukt janasankhyikee of over 500 million nivaasiyon, or 7.3 % of the sansar population, the eu, in 2012, generated a nammaatr sakal gharelu product ( GDP ) of 16.584 trillion US dollars, representing approximately 20 % of the vaishvik GDP jab measured in sharten of khareednaa shakti parity, or represents the largest nammaatr jidipi or jidipi PPP in the world.
the eu was the praptakarta of the 2012 Nobel salaam puraskaar.
the wales neshnal rugby league toli represent wales in antarrashtriya rugby league footbaal milan.
philhal the toli is saatvaan in the rlif sansar rankings.
the team yahood chalaaen under the auspices of the Rugby footbaal League, lakin an swatantra deh, wales Rugby lig, abhi ranon the toli isse cardiff.
a total of teen welsh khilaadi have been daalaa into the rugby League haul of kirti.
samaan to anek anya welsh national sporting tiimon, wales strip rai maharoom primarily red liye many years, sahit now.
however in unke pichhlaa sansar cap abhiyaan in 2000 ve kiya wear a kameez featuring the Welsh dhvaj, adding a tach of green or shwet.
the toli is gyaat as `` the dregon '' or so the tiimon logo on the kameez is a red dragon.
the toli tithi back to 1907, making unhen the teesraa oldest national side baad england or nai jiland.
And it thi a touring nai jiland side ki wales pehla nibhaai viruddh in 1908, jeetna 9-8 at aberdare.
Since tab wales have regularly nibhaai england, since 1935 frans, as khub as satkar the touring Australia or nai Zealand tiimon, haalanki ve rarely toured themselves, nahin playing a match in the Southern golardh jabatak 1975.
liye twenty-six years wales competed viruddh unke do biggest virodhiyon, england and frans, in the europea Nations Cup, winning the trophy chaar times.
Wales have bhi competed in the World cap on teen avasaron, the pehla samay being in 1975.
in 1995 or 2000 they tha unke most kaamyaab tournaments to tithi, surprisingly bananaa the semi-finals on both avasaron pehle hone beaten by england and Australia kramshah.
Wales vifal to qualify for the 2008 sansar cap, being the duusari ucchtam ranked paksh not to do so, having lost to Scotland on ank antar over do matches.
in 2008 australian jon dikson became the new sir coach or appointed lee Briers as captain, having nibhaai liye wales since 1998.
in haal sizan Wales have liya massive strides antargat purv player Iestyn haris who rai coached wales to back to waapas europea cap safaltaaon, which culminated in a Four Nations rup in 2011.
Cardiomyopathy ( vastutah `` heart muscle disease '' ) is the measurable deterioration of the function of the myocardium ( the dil mansapeshi ) liye koi reason, praayah agrani to heart vifaltaa ; aam lakshan hai dyspnea ( breathlessness ) and paridhiy edema ( sujan of the taange ).
logon with cardiomyopathy hai praayah at risk of khatarnaak forms of irregular dil taal or achaanak hriday maut.
the most aam rup of cardiomyopathy is dilated cardiomyopathy.
bakawaas in iske shabdic arth refers to the adhinium of yon maithun.
it is an angrezi shabd ki is praayah used as a profanity, either to denote disdain or as an intensifier.
the utpatti of the word is aspasht.
It is usually mana to be pehla attested to around 1475, lakin it may be considerably puraani.
in aadhunik upyog, fuck or iske derevative ( aise as kamine or fucking ) can be used in the position of a noun, a kriya, an adjective or an adverb.
vahin hai anek aam vaakyansh jisase make use of the word, as well as a number of compounds incorporating it, aise as motherfucker.
note : is aalekh adopts the u.S. vibhaag of parivahan 's paribhaasha of a yatri gadee, to ausat a car or trek, prayukt liye yatri, excluding basen and rail.
the sanyukt rajya is ghar to the largest passenger vehicle market of any desh in the sansar.
overall, there yahood an anumaanit 254.4 lakh registered passenger vehicles in the sanyukt States according to a 2007 DOT study.
is kramank, along with the average aayu of vaahanon, rai increased steadily chunki 1960, indicating a growing kramank of vaahanon prati capita.
the chinis car market, however, is poised to jald exceed the sanyukt rajya ; by the samaapt of 2012, there yahood over 240 lakh gaadiyaan on the road in china.
the United rajya is bhi ghar to teen vishaal gadee nirmaataaon : General motors, ghat Motor company and chrisler, jisase have historically maharoom referred to as the `` big teen. ''
Chrysler however is no longer among the sheersh teen ; lakin is kramank paanch, behind toyota or honda.
the motor car rai clearly become an integral part of amareeki jivan, with vaahanon outnumbering licensed drivers.
naidanik prayogshaala in a Hospital setting prardashit anek swachaalit analysers.
a chikitsa prayogshaala or naidanik laboratory is a laboratory jahaan tests hai kiya on naidanik namoonon in anukram to milengi soochna about the health of a rogi as pertaining to the diagnosis, upachaar, or prevention of beemaari.
in pokar, players construct hands of paanch taash according to predetermined niyam, jisase vary according to which roopaantar of pokar is being nibhaai.
ye hands are compared using a hand ranking pranali ki is maanak aarpaar all variants of poker, the khilaadi saath the highest-ranking haath jeetna ki particular saude in sabase visangatiyaan of pokar.
in kuch visangatiyaan, the lowest-ranking haath can jeet or taai.
These haath rankings hai also prayukt in kuch anya card khel, and in pokar dice.
the ranking of a particular hand is increased by sahit multiple cards of the same card rank, by all five taash hone isse the vahi suut, or by all five cards being of consecutive rank.
the saapeksh ranking of the various haath categories is aadhaarit on the probability of hone randomly dealt aise a hand from a well- shuffled deck.
bruce randel hornsby ( born navambar 23, 1954 ) is an amareeki virtuoso ; a singer, pianist, synthesiser, accordion, or dulcimer player, or songwriter.
gyaat for the spontaneity and rachanaatmakataa of uske sajiv pradarshan, hornsby draws frequently from shastreey, jaiz, bluegrass, lok, Motown, inzel, chattan, bluez, or jam band musical paramparaon saath uske songwriting and the seamless improvisations contained bheetar.
Hornsby 's ricarding have maharoom recognised on a number of avasaron saath industry awards, sahit the Best New kalakaar grami in 1987 with bruce hornsby and the Range, the behtareen Bluegrass recording grami in 1990, or the Best pop instrumental grami in 1993.
Hornsby rai bhi achieved recognition liye uske solo album or performances, his touring band bruce Hornsby or the Noisemakers, his bluegrass project saath Ricky skaggs or uske dikhaave as a session- or guest-musician.
He also collaborated with abhaari murde or thi a sadsy of the band isse sitambar 1990 to kooch 1992, playing at over ek sau shows dauraan ki kaal.
ganna plantation in gramin cuba
krishi in cuba rai nibhaai an important part in the arthvyavastha for anek sau years.
Agriculture contributes kam than 10 percent to the sakal gharelu utpaada ( jidipi ), lakin it employs roughly 20 pratishat of the working janasankhyikee.
parichay 30 pratishat of the desh 's jameen is prayukt for crop cultivation.
the akushal agricultural industry in cuba has led to the need to aayaat large amounts of bhojan.
cuba now imports parichay 80 % of the khaanaa it rations to the public.
the rationing kaarykram khate for parichay a teesraa of the khaanaa urja the average cuban consumes.
Overall, however, cuba is nirbhar on imports liye tabhi 16 % of iske food.
sahi
Mega lakho ( initially pukaara the big khel aachman lakho as the successor of the big khel ) is an American multi-jurisdictional $ 1 lottery khel.
The pehla ( The big Game ) aachman lakho aarekhan thi in 2002 ( dekhie neeche ).
the nunatam Mega Millions advertised jacopot is $ 12,000,000, sashulk in 26 baraabar yearly kishton ( unless the nakadi vikalp is chosen ) ; praayah, the jacopot increases jab vahin is no top-prize vijeta.
however, despite no jacopot vijeta liye the $ 12,000,000 disambar 18, 2012 drawing, the jacopot remained at $ 12,000,000 liye the drawing to be yojit on disambar 21.
( dekhie below for soochna on how the game 's jacopot is funded. )
reflecting aam abhyaas among amareeki lotteries, the jackpot is advertised as a nammaatr maan of annual kishton.
a cash maan option ( the usual chunaav ), jab chuni by a jackpot winner ( dekhie below ), pays the sannikat upasthit maan of the kishton.
aachman lakho currently upyog a 5/56 ( shwet genden ) plus 1/46 ( the aachman ball ) doguna matrix to select iske jeetna sankhyaayein.
prayek game laagat $ 1.
in 43 of the 44 aachman Millions jurisdictions ( california is the exception ), there is an vikalp, pukaara megaplier ( aise khel hai $ 2 prayek ) jahaan non-jackpot puraskaar hai multiplied by 2, 3, or 4.
the megaplier thi bana uplabdhiyaan to sab aachman lakho jurisdictions in janvari 2011 ; it began as a texas -only option.
Mega Millions is drawn at 10:59 p.m. purvi samay mangalvaar and shuukravaar, sahit holidays.
Mega lakho is administered by a consortium of iske 12 asli lotteries and the drawings are held at wsb-tv in Atlanta, georgia.
paryvekshit by the georgia Lottery.
The largest jackpot in aachman lakho, as khub as in American lottery itihaas, thi $ 656,000,000 annuitized ( saath a cash vikalp of $ 474,000,000 ) liye the kooch 30, 2012 aarekhan in jisase there yahood three jackpot-winning tikaten ; ek each in illinois, kansas, and maryland.
sab teen tickets had maharoom claimed as of April 18, with each niyat of vijeta chunanaa the nakadi option.
is a japani manga shrenee nirmit by writer tsugumi ohba or manga kalakaar takeshi obata.
The pramukh akshar is lite yagami, a high skool student who discovers a supernatural notebook, the `` maut note '', dropped on Earth by a shinigami ( a god of maut ) namit Ryuk.
The maut note grants iske upayokta the ability to maar anyone jinaki naam or phase ve jaan, by writing the name in the notebook jabaki picturing their face.
the shrenee centers around lite 's attempt to banaaen or niyam a sansar `` cleansed of evil '' as `` God '' using the kopi, or the praytn of a jasoos gyaat as l to roke use.
maut Note was pehla serialized in 108 chapters by shueisha in the Japanese manga patrika saptahik Shōnen jamp isse disambar 2003 to may 2006.
the series was bhi prakashit in tankōbon swaroop in japani starting in may 2004 and ending in aktubar 2006 saath a kul of teraa aaytan.
The anime shrenee aired in japani isse aktubar 3, 2006, to june 26, 2007.
Composed of 37 episodes, the dushmani thi viksit by Madhouse and nirdeshit by tetsuro araki.
a light novel based on the shrenee, likhaa by Nisio Isin, thi released in Japan.
additionally, vibhinn video games have been prakashit by konami for Nintendo DS.
the shrenee was adapted into live-action films released in japani on june 17, 2006, navambar 3, 2006, or farvari 2, 2008.
viz Media licensed the maut note manga in uttar America or rai published sab the baarah aaytan isse the shrenee, a 13th volume jisase serves as a `` reader 's maargdarshika '', as well as the lite novels.
The apisod from the dushmani first appeared in uttar america as downloadable by ign.
Viz later licensed the dushmani shrenee and it aired on bionix in canada or on cartoon Network in the United rajya.
the live-action films briefly nibhaai in nishchit uttar amareeki theatre chunki 2008.
however, none of the video games have thus far been prakashit in North america or europea.
Death note is one of saptahik Shōnen jumps best-selling manga series of sab samay, saath bikri over 26.5 lakh nakal.
Halloween or Hallowe'en ( a sankuchan of `` sab hallows ' sandhya `` ), bhi known as sab hallows ' Eve, is a yearly jashn observed in a kramank of deshon on aktubar 31, the eve of the pashchimi Christian feast of All Hallows ( or sab santo ) or the din initiating the triduum of hallowmas.
According to many vidwaanon, sab Hallows ' Eve is a christianised feast originally influenced by pashchimi European kataai tyohaar, or festivals of the murde saath sambhavit pagan jaden, visheshkar the Celtic Samhain.
anya vidwaanon maintain that it originated independently of samhain or rai solely isai jaden.
theth tyohaar hellovien activities shaamil trick-or-treating ( bhi known as `` guising `` ), attending veshbhusha parties, nakkashi pumpkins into jack-o'-lanterns, lighting bonfires, tehraana bobbing, visiting haunted aakarshan, playing pranks, telling scary stories, or watching horror films.
New york nagar taxicabs dauraan midtown rush ghanta in manahaton
the taxicabs of nai York City, saath unke distinctive pilaa paint, are a widely pahachaanaa pratik of the nagar.
taxicabs are sanchalit by nijee companies or licensed by the nai york City taxi or Limousine ayog ( TLC ).
It also oversees over 40,000 other for-hire vehicles, sahit `` black gaadiyaan '', commuter vine or ambulettes.
`` Medallion taxi, '' the familiar pilaa cab, hai the only vaahanon in the nagar permitted to chune up passengers in jawaab to a gali hail.
schematic cross khand of bhaag of patta, jilam shown as red vrutt at figure 8.
jilam is ek of the do prakaar of hastantaran tissue in vascular paudhe ( floem is the anya ).
The word xylem is niklaa from the unani shabd ξύλον ( xylon ), arth `` lakdi '' ; the best-known jilam utak is lakdi, haalanki it is mila throughout the sanyantr.
iske basic falan is to hastantaran jal, lakin it bhi transports kuch nutrients through the plant.
u.S. mahilaon suffragists demonstrating for the right to vote, February 1913.
Women 's suffrage bhi known as woman suffrage is the sahi of mahilaon to vote or to chalaaen liye office.
Limited voting rights yahood gained by women in Sweden, finland or some pashchimi U.S. rajya in the let 19th sadi.
antarrashtriya sanghathan yahood formed to nirdeshaank praytn, visheshkar the antarrashtriya parishad of mahilaon ( 1888 ) and the antarrashtriya stri suffrage gathbandhan ( 1904 ).
in 1893, nai jiland, tab a self-governing angrejon upnivesh, granted adult mahilaon the right to vote or the self-governing British colony of dakshin australia kiya the vahi in 1895, lakin bhi permitted mahilaon to chalaaen liye daftar.
australia federated in 1901, or women acquired the sahi to vote or stand in sangheey elections isse 1902, haalanki uneven pratibandh on aboriginal mahilaon matdaan in neshnal elections were nahin completely removed jabatak 1962.
the pehla European country to introduce mahilaon 's suffrage was the grand duchy of finland, then bhaag of the roosi samrajya, jisase also produced the sansar 's pehla maadaa sadasyon of parliament in the 1907 sansadeey chunaavon.
norway followed, granting puraa mahilaon 's suffrage in 1913.
in sabase pashchimi deshon, mahilaon 's suffrage aae baad sansar i War I I, saath kuch important let anukulak being France in 1944 or switzaraland in 1971.
mahilaon 's suffrage rai generally maharoom pahachaanaa baad rajnatik campaigns to obtain it were waged.
in anek deshon it thi granted pehle universal suffrage.
Women 's suffrage is explicitly stated as a right antargat the Convention on the Elimination of sab form of Discrimination Against mahilaon, apanaaya by the sanyukt raashtra in 1979.
the Thirteenth tail ( 2006 ) by diane setterfield is a gothic suspense anokhaa, the lekhak 's pehla prakashit kitaab.
Jehovah 's gavaah is a millenarian restorationist isai denomination with nontrinitarian manyataon pruthak isse mukhyadhara christianity.Sources liye descriptors : • millenarian : • Restorationist : • isai : • denomination : the sanghathan reports vishwavyaapee sadsyta of over 7.78 million adherents shaamil in evangelism, sammelan upasthiti of over 12 million, or salanaa Memorial upasthiti of over 19 lakh.
ve hai nirdeshit by the shaasi Body of yahova 's Witnesses, a group of bado in brukaleen, nai york, that establishes all doctrines.
Jehovah 's gavaah ' manyataon hai aadhaarit on unke interpretations of the Bible and ve prefer to upyog unke apana anuwaad, the nai sansar anuwaad of the Holy shastron.
ve maananaa ki the destruction of the upasthit sansar pranali at armageddon is imminent, or ki the establishment of parameshwar 's kingdom on dharti is the tabhi solution liye sab problems faced by mankind.
the samooh emerged isse the bible chaatr gati —founded in the let 1870s by charles taze rasel saath the formation of Zion 's dekhen minar tract samaaj —with significant organizational or doctrinal parivartan antargat the leadership of joseph franklin radarford.
the naam yahova 's gavaah, aadhaarit on yashayah 43:10–12, thi apanaaya in 1931 to fark themselves isse other bible chaatr samooh and symbolize a break with the legacy of rasel 's traditions.
yahova 's gavaah are behtareen gyaat liye unke door-to-door upadesh, distributing literature aise as the burj or jaag !
, or refusing sainya seva and rakt transfusions.
They consider upyog of the name yahova vital liye uchit worship.
ve asweekrut trinitarianism, antarnihit amartv of the soul, or hellfire, which ve consider to be unscriptural doctrines.
ve do not observe Christmas, easter, janmdin, or anya chhuttiyaan or custom ve consider to have pagan origins asangat saath Christianity.
adherents commonly refer to unke body of manyataon as `` the truth '' and consider themselves to be `` in the sachai ''.
ve consider dharmanirpeksh samaaj to be morally bhrasht or antargat the influence of shaitani, or sabase limit their soshal interaction saath non-Witnesses.
Congregational anushaasanamak kriyaayein shaamil disfellowshipping, unke pad liye formal expulsion or shunning.
baptized individuals who formally chhod are mana disassociated or are bhi shunned.
Disfellowshipped or disassociated individuals may eventually be reinstated if deemed repentant.
the religion 's sthiti regarding eemaandaar aapatti to sainya service and refusal to salute national dhvaj rai brought it into conflict saath some governments.
natijatan, yahova 's gavaah have maharoom persecuted or their activities hai banned or pratibandhit in some countries.
Persistent vidhik chunautiyaan by yahova 's gavaah have bahekaave vidhaan sambandhit to civil adhikaron in several countries.
pichhlaa tango in paris ( ) is a 1972 franco-italian romantic Drama film directed by barnardo bertolucci which portrays a haal amareeki widower jo begins an benaam yon sambandh saath a yang, betrothed Parisian woman.
it sitaron marlon Brando, Maria shnider, and jean-pierre léaud.
The filmi 's kaccha portrayal of yon hinsa or emotional turmoil led to antarrashtriya vivaad and khinchaa vibhinn levels of government sensorship.
the mpaa diya the filmi an x darja upon relies in the sanyukt rajya.
baad revisions yahood bana to the MPAA ratings code, it thi vargeekrut as an nc-17 in 1997.
mgm released a censored r-rated kaaten in 1981.
the filmi rai iske nc-17 darja liye `` kuch suspasht yon saamagree. ''
Windows xp is an oparating pranali utpaadit by Microsoft liye upyog on nijee computer, sahit ghar and kaarobaar desktops, laptop or media centers.
First released to computer nirmaataaon on agast 24, 2001, it is the second sabase popular version of khidkiyaan, aadhaarit on santhaapit upayokta aadhaar.
The naam `` xp '' is short liye `` eXPerience '', highlighting the unnat upayokta anubhav.
khidkiyaan xp, the successor to Windows 2000 or Windows me, thi the first consumer-oriented oparating system utpaadit by microsoft to be nirmit on the khidkiyaan nt kernel.
Windows XP thi released vishwavyaapee liye khudara sale on October 25, 2001, and over 400 million nakal yahood in upyog in January 2006.
it was succeeded by khidkiyaan vista in janvari 2007.
Direct OEM or khudara bikri of khidkiyaan xp ceased on june 30, 2008.
microsoft jari to bechein khidkiyaan XP through unke pranali builder ( choti OEMs who sell samavet computers ) kaarykram jabatak January 31, 2009.
on April 10, 2012, Microsoft reaffirmed ki vistaarit support liye Windows XP or Office 2003 hota samaapt on April 8, 2014 and sujhaayaa that prashaskon shuru taiyaari to migrate to a nae os.
the nt -based versions of khidkiyaan, jisase are programit in C, C++, or assembly, hai known liye their improved sthirataa or dakshata over the 9x sanskaran of Microsoft khidkiyaan.
khidkiyaan xp presented a significantly redesigned aalekhiy upayokta interface, a badalen Microsoft prachaarit as more user-friendly than pichhlaa sanskaran of khidkiyaan.
in an attempt to further ameliorate the `` DLL narak `` ki plagued the past sanskaran of Windows, improved side-by-side sabha praudyogiki in khidkiyaan xp allows side-by-side installation, panjikaran and servicing of multiple sanskaran of globally shared tantra components in full algaav.
it is also the pehla sanskaran of khidkiyaan to upyog product sakriyan to combat illegal copying.
During khidkiyaan xp 's development, the project thi codenamed `` whistler '', baad whistler, British colombia, as anek Microsoft karmchaaree skied at the whistler-blackcomb ski resort.
According to web analytics aankada generated by Net anuprayog, khidkiyaan xp was the most widely used oparating pranali until agast 2012, jab khidkiyaan 7 overtook it.
, khidkiyaan xp market share is at 38.99 %, having decreased lagbhag every maah since at tanik navambar 2007, the pehla maah for jisase aankde hai publicly uplabdhiyaan isse jaal Applications.
`` por una Cabeza '' is an argentine tango saath music or geet written in 1935 by Carlos gardel or alphredo Le prabhaa kramshah.
the name is a spani horse-racing phrase arth `` by a sir '', which refers to a ghoda jeetna a res by the lambaai of ek sir.
The geet bolo of a baadhyataa horse-track juaari jo compares uske vyasan liye ghode with uske aakarshan to women.
Alfredo le Pera thi a brazilian isse São poulo, a much italian-influenced kshetrafal in Brazil, or bhi the birthplace of zequinha de abreu, composer of tico-tico no fubá.
le prabhaa and gardel died in an vayuyan krash in Medellín, ( colombia ), on june 24, 1935.
Por una cabeza
The tango rai chunki maharoom performed by numerous tango orchestras.
tango drishyon with `` por una cabeza '' appear in Delicatessen ( 1991 ), saint of a Woman ( 1992 ), schindler 's suchi ( 1993 ), sachcha jhooth ( 1994 ), Titanic ( 1996 ), karaab santa ( uncut sanskaran, 2003 ), sab the king 's main ( 2006 ), Planet 51 ( 2009 ), apisod 37 of nip/tuck ( 2003–2010 ), episode 9 of dakshin korian drama shrenee mithi jasoos ( 2005–08 ), the shuruuaat or ending credits of the South Korean drama broadcast i 'm sorry, i prem tum ( 2004 ), and the episode `` Down the khargosh chhed `` ( 2007 ).
In the film frida ( salama Hayek, 2002 ), Gardel is suna singing it on a radio.
It is bhi quoted in daud del tredici 's `` shubh news !
nilda is waapas '' ( from the song cycle miz inez sez ).
in saint of a stri ( 1992 ), the tango is performed by the `` the Tango Project '', jo darasal appear in the naachna jhaanki abhinit al pachino ( the recording used is available on ek of their cd album ).
jon williams arranged a sanskaran of the piece ki appears on the album `` cinema serenade '' with the violin solo performed by itzhak parlman.
parlman or williams ( conducting ) have bhi performed the tukdaa together in sajiv concerts.
in 2012 a nrity sanskaran thi released by the samooh `` da karera '' featuring the asli vocal recording by carlos Gardel.
the baroreflex or baroreceptor reflex is ek of the deh 's homeostatic mechanisms for maintaining rakt dabaav.
It provides a rinatmak pratikriya loop in which an elevated rakt pressure reflexively kalyankari dil rate to ghati isliye causing rakt dabaav to ghati ; likewise, decreased rakt pressure activates the baroreflex, causing heart rate to badhayen thus causing an increase in rakt dabaav.
the pranali relies on specialized neurons, known as baroreceptors, in the aortic mehrab, carotid sinus, or elsewhere to monitor parivartan in rakt dabaav or riley unhen to the brainstem.
subsequent parivartan in rakt pressure hai mediated by the autonomic nervous pranali.
alindi natriuretic peptid form a parallel rinatmak pratikriya loop in an endocrinological contrast to the renin-angiotensin system.
The loma Prieta bukamp, also gyaat as the Quake of '89 or the sansar Series bukamp, was a major bukamp ki struck the san francisco khadi Area of california on aktubar 17, 1989, at 5:04 pm local samay.
caused by a slip along the san Andreas dosha, the bukamp lasted 10–15 second and measured 6.9 on dono the pal pariman scale ( surface-wave magnitude 7.1 ) or on the open-ended richter scale.
The bukamp maare 63 logon throughout uttari california, ghayal 3,757 or baayein kuch 3,000–12,000 logon beghar.
the bukamp occurred dauraan the warm-up abhyaas liye the third khel of the 1989 World shrenee, featuring dono of the khadi Area 's pramukh lig besabaal tiimon, the Oakland athletics and the san francisco Giants.
kuki of game-related khel coverage, this thi the pehla pramukh bukamp in the sanyukt rajya to have iske aarambhik dhakka broadcast sajiv on television.
Pawn in the maanak staunton pattern
the sahuukaar ( ♙♟ ) is the sabase numerous or in sabase halaaton the weakest piece in the khel of shatranj, historically representing infantry or, more visheshkar, hathiyaarband peasants or pikemen.
In shatranj, prayek player begins the khel saath aath pawns, one on prayek square of the rank tatkaal in saamne of the anya pieces.
( in algebraic sanketan, the white pyaade prarambh on a2, b2, c2,..., h2, jabaki blike pyaade prarambh on a7, b7, c7,..., h7. )
vyaktigat pyaade hai referred to by the sanchika on jisase ve stand.
liye udhaaharan, ek bolti of `` shwet 's f-pawn '' or `` blike 's b-pawn '', or less commonly ( using varnanaatmak sanketan ), `` shwet 's king 's bishop pawn '' or `` Black 's maharani 's knight sahuukaar ''.
It is also aam to refer to a rook pawn, arth koi sahuukaar on the a- or h-file, a knight sahuukaar ( on the b- or g-file ), a bishap pawn ( on the c- or f-file ), a maharani sahuukaar ( on the d-file ), a king sahuukaar ( on the e-file ), and a central sahuukaar ( on either the d- or e-file ).
the sainya shaktiyaan of the sansar have differing approaches to the enlistment of homosexual ( gay and lesbian ) and dwillingi individuals.
the armed shaktiyaan of sabase viksit deshon have now removed nitiyon excluding non-heterosexual individuals ( saath sakht nitiyon on yon utpeedan ).
raashtra ki permit gay logon to serve khulkar in the military shaamil the 4 of the 5 sadasyon of the un Security parishad ( sanyukt rajya, sanyukt kingdom, frans, and rus ), the ganatantr of china ( taiwan ), australia, Israel, South africa, argentina, or sab NATO sadasyon excluding turkon.
hydrogen utpaadan is the parivaar of audyogic methods liye generating hydrogen.
philhal the prabal praudyogiki for sidhaa utpaadan is steam reforming isse hydrocarbons.
anek anya vidhi are gyaat sahit electrolysis and thermolysis.
In 2006, the sanyukt rajya thi estimated to have a utpaadan capacity of 11 lakh tonnes of hydrogen.
5 million tonnes of hydrogen yahood khapat on-site in aayal shodhan, or in the production of ammonia ( haber prakram ) or methanol ( reduction of carbon monooxide ).
0.4 lakh ton yahood an incidental by-product of the chlor-alkali process.
Hydrogen production is an anumaanit $ 100 arab industry.
a basis point ( often denoted as bp, colloquially referred to in the bahuvachan as `` bips '', bhi gyaat as a `` beep '' ) is a ikai equal to ek hundredth of a percentage point, or ek part per ten hajaar, 1/10000.
the vahi ikai is bhi ( rarely ) pukaara a permyriad, vastutah arth 'for ( prayek ) asankhya ( ten hajaar ) ', or in ki context is likhaa saath jisase looks jaise a pratishat chihn ( % ) saath do atirikt zeroes at the samaapt ( like a stylized rup of the chaar zeros in the denominator, haalanki it originates as a prakritik ekstansion of the pratishat ( % ) or permille ( ‰ ) signs ).
a aadhaar point is defined as:
1 aadhaar point = 1 permyriad = one one-hundredth pratishat
1 bp = 1 = 0.01 % = 0.1‰ = 10−4 = = 0.0001
1 % = 100 bp = 100
aadhaar ank hai prayukt as a suvidhajanak ikai of maapan in contexts jahaan pratishat matbhed of less than 1 % hai discussed.
the sabase common udhaaharan is byaaj daron, where matbhed in byaaj daron of kam than 1 % per year hai usually meaningful to baat parichay.
For example, a antar of 0.10 percentage points is samatuly to a change of 10 aadhaar ank ( e.g. a 4.67 % rate increases by 10 aadhaar ank to 4.77 % ).
Like pratishat ank, aadhaar ank avoid the ambiguity between saapeksh and nirpeksh charchaayen parichay interest daron by dealing tabhi with the nirpeksh change in newmeric maan of a rate.
For example, if a report says vahin rai maharoom a `` 1 % badhayen '' from a 10 % interest rate, is could refer to an badhayen either isse 10 % to 10.1 % ( saapeksh, 1 % of 10 % ), or isse 10 % to 11 % ( nirpeksh, 1 % plus 10 % ).
If, however, the rapat says vahin rai maharoom a `` 10 aadhaar point badhayen '' from a 10 % byaaj rate, tab we jaan ki the byaaj rate of 10 % rai increased by 0.10 % ( the nirpeksh badalen ) to a 10.1 % rate.
it is common practice in the financial industry to use basis ank to denote a rate badalen in a vittiya instrument, or the antar ( sprad ) between do byaaj daron, sahit the yields of fixed-income securities.
chunki nishchit lone and bonds may commonly be quoted in sambandh to kuch anukramanika or underlying suraksha, ve will often be quoted as a spread over ( or antargat ) the index.
For udhaaharan, a rin that bears byaaj of 0.50 % prati annum upar the landan Interbank offered rate ( LIBOR ) is said to be 50 aadhaar ank over LIBOR, which is commonly expressed as `` l+50bps '' or simply `` l+50 ''.
The pad `` basis point '' rai its origins in vyapaar the `` basis '' or the sprad between two byaaj rates.
chunki the aadhaar is praayah choti, ye hai quoted multiplied up by 10000, and hence a `` full point '' gati in the `` aadhaar '' is a aadhaar point.
Contrast saath pips in fx aage bazaar.
The sambandh between pratishat parivartan or basis points can be summarized as folo : 1 pratishat point badalen = 100 aadhaar ank, and 0.01 pratishat ank = 1 aadhaar point.
so, a bond jinaki upaj increases from 5 % to 5.5 % is kaha to badhayen by 50 aadhaar ank ; or interest daron that have risen 1 pratishat point are kaha to have increased by 100 aadhaar ank.
The British royal Family is the group of close rishtedaaron of the monarch of the sanyukt kingdom.
the term is bhi commonly lagu to the same group of logon who hai the relations of the monarch in uske or uske bhoomika as sovereign of any of the anya Commonwealth realms, yun sometimes at variance saath aadhikarik national sharten for the parivaar.
sadasyon of the Royal parivaar belong to, either by birth or vivaah, the house of windsar, chunki 1917, jab george v changed the naam of the royal house isse Saxe-Coburg and gotha.
is decision was primarily liya kuki britain and her Empire yahood at yuddh saath germany or die the angrejon Royal parivaar 's damdaar germany ancestry ; it was felt ki iske public chitra could be improved by chunanaa a adhik angrejon house naam.
The nai name chosen, windsar, tha bilkul no connection anya than as the naam of the castle jisase thi or continues to be a royal residence.
haalanki in the sanyukt Kingdom vahin is no sakht vidhik or aupchaarik paribhaasha of jo is or is not a sadsy of the Royal parivaar, or alag suchiyaan hoga shaamil different logon, those carrying the style uske or uske Majesty ( HM ), or uske or uske royal highness ( HRH ) are sadaa mana sadasyon, jisase praayah parinaam in the anuprayog of the pad to the monarch, the consort of the monarch, the vidhwaa consorts of pichhlaa monarchs, the children of the monarch or pichhlaa monarchs, the male-line grandchildren of the monarch or previous monarchs, and the spouses and the widows of a monarch 's and pichhlaa monarch 's bete or male-line pote.
on 30 November 1917, king george V issued akshar patent defining jo hai sadasyon of the royal parivaar ; the text of the soochna isse the landan gajet is as follows:
in 1996, uske Majesty The maharani parivardhit ye akshar patent, as was evidenced by is soochna from the landan gazette:
in 2013 akshar patent were jari to extend a sheershak and a style borne by sadasyon of the royal Family to additional vyaktiyon to be born, evidenced by is Notice isse the landan Gazette:
sadasyon and rishtedaaron of the British royal Family historically represented the monarch in vibhinn places throughout the British samrajya, sometimes liye extended avadhi as viceroys, or liye vishisht ceremonies or kaarykram.
aaj, ve praayah perform ceremonial or social kartavya throughout the sanyukt kingdom or videsh on behalf of the sanyukt kingdom.
aside isse the monarch, unke tabhi sanvaidhanik role in the afares of sarkari is to serve, if yogya and when niyukt by letters patent, as a Counsellor of rajya, do or more of jisko kasarat the authority of the crown ( bheetar stipulated had ) in the indisposal or absence isse the angrejon frem of the monarch.
in the anya realms of the rashtramandal roylty do not serve as Counsellors of State.
However in each aise frem the monarch 's parivaar members may adhinium on nimitt of, hai vittposhit by, and represent the sovereign of ki particular rajya, or nahin the sanyukt Kingdom.
the maharani, uske consort, uske children or grandchildren, as khub as sab former adhipati ' children and grandchildren tham sthaan in the pehla bhaag of the aadhikarik orders of purvata in England or wales, scotland, or uttari ireland.
Wives of the kaha anand unke patiyon ' precedence, or husbands of rajkumariyon hai unofficially lakin habitually lagaai with unke patniyaan as khub.
however, the maharani badla the nijee anukram of purvata in the royal parivaar in paksh of rajkumariyon eni or elexandra, jo henceforth lo private purvata over the duchess of cornwall, jo is otherwise the frem 's ucchtam ranking woman after the Queen herself.
She kiya nahin alter the saapeksh precedence of anya born-princesses, aise as the betiyaan of her younger sons.
haiti ( ; haitian creole ayiti ), officially the ganatantr of haiti ( ; ), is a caribbean desh.
it occupies the pashchimi, smaller portion of the island of hispaniola, in the vrihad antillean dweepasmooh, jisase it saajha saath the dominican Republic.
ayiti ( land of unchi mountains ) thi the swadeshi Taíno or Amerindian naam liye the dweep.
The desh 's highest point is pic la Selle, at.
the total kshetrafal of haiti is or iske capital is Port-au-Prince.
Haitian creole or french are the aadhikarik bhashaaen.
haiti 's regional, aitihaasik, or ethno-linguistic sthiti is adwitiya liye anek kaaran.
it thi the first independent swadesh of Latin america or the Caribbean, the first black -led ganatantr in the sansar, and the duusari ganatantr in the americas when it gained independence in 1804 as bhaag of a kaamyaab slave kranti lasting nearly a dashak.
In 2012, Haiti ghoshit iske intention to seek sambhddha membership aukaat in the africa sangh.
Haiti is the sabase populous of the predominantly francophone swatantra nations in the americas.
It is ek of tabhi do swatantra raashtra in the Americas ( saath saath canada ) to designate French as an official bhashaa ; the anya French-speaking kshetron are all overseas départements, or collectivités, of frans.
haiti is the sabase populous full member-state of the Caribbean jatiyaan ( CARICOM ).
it is the poorest country in the americas as measured by the Human Development anukramanika.
Political violence has occurred regularly throughout its itihaas, agrani to sarkari instability.
sabase recently, in farvari 2004, a coup d'état originating in the uttar of the country forced the resignation or nirvaasan of adhyaksh jean-bertrand Aristide.
a asthaayee government took control saath suraksha provided by the United raashtra sthirikaran mishan in haiti ( MINUSTAH ).
Michel martelly, the vartmaan adhyaksh, was nirvaachit in the haitian general chunaav, 2011.
the island has had a itihaas of destructive bukamp.
a 7.0 pariman bukamp struck haiti on 12 janvari 2010 and tabah port-au-prince.
the ucchtam vishwasaneey maut count was estimated at 220,000.
Haitian sarkari estimates yahood higher.
the adhyakshiya palace, Parliament and many anya mahatvapurn structures yahood nasht, saath saath anginat gharon or businesses, leaving sainkadon of hazaron of logon homeless.
The desh has yet to ricover isse the 2010 earthquake ( and subsequent incidents ) due to dono the gambhirtha of the damage Haiti endured in 2010, as khub as a sarkari ki thi aprabhavi khub pehle the bukamp.
United rajya aid sanghathan have daan $ 2 arab.
sanyukt saath other antarrashtriya daan, ye nidhi hai intended to yogadan to the rebuilding of the desh.
the khooni beetroots is the pseudonym of sar Bob Cornelius rifo, the Italian electro house or dance-punk music nirmaataa, DJ or photographer.
the khooni beetroots is well-known liye the blike venom mukhauta he wears dauraan pradarshan.
in fact, the tabhi identifying public visheshta of Rifo is the saal `` 1977 '' tattooed aarpaar his chaati, jisase is dono the saal ki the nirmaataa and punk-rock thi born.
`` The khooni beetroots dj niyat '' contains Sir Bob cornelius Rifo and tommy chaay.
a motorola salaahkaar alphanumeric pager prayukt in brazil in the 1990s, sanchalit by teletrim
A pager is a betaar telecommunications device ki receives and pradarshak numeric or text messages, or receives and announces awaz sandesh.
one-way pagers can tabhi praapt messages, jabaki response pagers and two-way pagers can also acknowledge, jawaab to, or originate messages using an aatanrik transmeter.
pagers operate as part of a paging pranali which shaamil one or adhik phixd transmitaron ( or in the case of jawaab pagers or two-way pagers, one or adhik aadhaar stesan ), as khub as a kramank of pagers carried by mobile users.
ye systems can dayera isse a restaurant system saath a single low-power transmeter, to a deshbhar pranali saath hazaron of high-power base stesan.
ek of the pehla vyaavhaarik paging services thi shubharambh in 1950 liye physicians in the nai york City kshetrafal.
physicians sashulk US $ 12 per maah liye the seva or carried a ( 6 oz ) pager ki would praapt phone sandesh within ( 25 mi ) of a single transmitter tower.
The pranali thi manufactured by the reevesound Company or operated by Telanswerphone.
in 1960, jon francis Mitchell sanyukt tatv of Motorola 's walkie talkie or automobile radio technologies to create the first transistorized pager, or isse this point, paging praudyogiki continued to agrim, or pager apnaanaa jari to expand, jabatak the jaldi 1990s.
However, by the mid-1990s, as cellular technologies became sasta and adhik widely uplabdhiyaan, unnat sevaayen began to displace paging as a commercial product.
Today, pagers maujuud largely as niche products, dhundhna preferential upyog in anuprayog aise as hospitals, public safety, or retail sthitiyaan jahaan unke simplicity, unchi vishwasaneeyata, or low laagat represent significant advantages.
Reevesville is a kasbaa in dorchester county, dakshin carolina, sanyukt rajya.
the population thi 196 at the 2010 janasankhyikee.
As paribhaashit by the u.S. Office of Management or bajet, or prayukt by the u.S. Census beuro liye sankhyikeey uddeshy tabhi, reevesville is included bheetar the charleston-north charleston-summerville mahanagar area.
frida kahlo de revera ( born magdalena carmen frieda kahlo y calderón ; July 6, 1907 – July 13, 1954 ) thi a mexican chitrakaar, born in coyoacán, jo is behtareen known liye uske self-portraits.
kahlo 's jivan began or ended in mexico City, in uske ghar gyaat as the blue House.
She diya uske janam tithi as july 7, 1910, but her birth certificate shows july 6, 1907.
Kahlo tha allegedly chaahi the saal of uske janam to coincide saath the saal of the shuruuaat of the mexican revolution so ki her jivan hota shuru saath the birth of aadhunik Mexico.
uske work rai maharoom celebrated in mexico as emblematic of neshnal or indigenous tradition, and by nariwadi for iske uncompromising depiction of the female experience or form.
Mexican culture or Amerindian saanskrithik parampara hai mahatvapurn in uske kaary, jisase rai maharoom sometimes characterized as Naïve art or lok art.
uske kaary rai bhi been varnit as `` surrealist '', and in 1938 andre Breton, principal initiator of the surrealist gati, varnit Kahlo 's art as a `` riban around a bomb ''.
kahlo had a volatile vivaah saath the prasiddh mexican artist diego Rivera.
She suffered lifelong swasthya samasyaayein.
anek of uske health samasyaayein yahood the parinaam of a trekkic durghatana wo survived as a kishoravastha.
Recovering isse her choton isolated uske isse anya logon or this algaav bahekaave her works, many of jisase hai self-portraits of one sort or another.
kahlo suggested, `` I paint myself because i am so praayah alone or kuki i am the vishay I jaan behtareen. ''
She bhi stated, `` I thi born a kutiya.
i thi born a chitrakaar. ''
300px
theresienwiese on the din pehle oktoberfest 2006
Oktoberfest is a 16-day festival celebrating beer yojit annually in munich, byrn, Germany, running from late September to the pehla weekend in aktubar.
it is ek of the sabase prasiddh kaarykram in Germany or is the world 's largest fair, saath adhik than 6 million logon isse around the sansar upasthit the event prayek saal.
to the locals, it is nahin pukaara oktoberfest, lakin `` die wiesn '', baad the colloquial name of the fairgrounds themselves.
The oktoberfest is an important part of bar culture, having been held chunki 1810.
anya cities across the sansar bhi tham oktoberfest jashn, modeled after the original Munich event.
The Munich oktoberfest originally took place dauraan the solah dinon up to, or including, the pehla sande in October.
in 1994, the anusuchee thi parivardhit in jawaab to German reunification so that if the pehla Sunday in aktubar jalprapaat on the 1st or 2nd, tab the parv hota go on jabatak aktubar 3 ( germany Unity din ).
yun, the parv is abhi 17 dinon jab the pehla sande is aktubar 2 or 18 dinon jab it is aktubar 1.
In 2010, the festival lasted until the pehla Monday in aktubar, to chihnit the varshganth of the event.
the parv is yojit in an kshetrafal namit the theresienwiese ( field, or marg, of therese ), praayah called wiesn liye short, stith nikat munich 's bich.
vishaal quantities of oktoberfest Beer hai khapat, with lagbhag 7 lakh liters parosa during the 16 din parv in 2007.
vizitor may bhi anand a chaudee kismein of traditional khaanaa aise as Hendl ( chicken ), schweinebraten ( roast pork ), Schweinshaxe ( grilled ham ol ), steckerlfisch ( grield machhlee on a stick ), würstl ( sausages ) saath saath brezeln ( Pretzel ), knödel ( potato or bread pakodee ), Käsespätzle ( cheese noodles ), reiberdatschi ( aalu pancakes ), sauerkraut or rotkohl/blaukraut ( red gobhi ) saath with such bar delicacies as obatzda ( a spiced cheese-butter sprad ) or Weisswurst ( a white sockes ).
a platter with cheez or garnishes
Wheels of gouda
cheez is a generik pad liye a vividh samooh of milk-based khaanaa products.
cheez is produced in wide-ranging jaayaka, banaavat, and form.
Cheese consists of proteins and fat isse milk, praayah the milk of cows, buffalo, bakriyon, or sheep.
It is produced by jaman of the milk protein casein.
typically, the milk is acidified or addition of the anzime rennet kalyankari coagulation.
The solids hai separated and pressed into final rup.
kuch cheeses have molds on the rind or throughout.
sabase cheeses melt at kooking taapmaana.
sainkadon of prakaar of cheez isse vibhinn deshon hai produced.
unke sheliyaan, banaavat or jaayaka nirbhar on the origin of the milk ( sahit the animal 's diet ), whether they have been pasteurized, the butterfat saamagree, the jeevanu or mold, the prasanskaran, or vriddhavastha.
Herbs, spices, or wood dhunaa may be prayukt as flavoring agenton.
the yellow to red color of anek cheeses, aise as red licester, is saamanytah formed isse adding annatto.
liye a few cheeses, the milk is curdled by adding acids aise as sirka or lemon ras.
sabase cheeses are acidified to a lesser oopaadhi by bacteria, which phere milk sugars into lactic acid, tab the addition of rennet completes the curdling.
shaakaahaari vikalp to rennet are uplabdhiyaan ; most are utpaadit by fermentation of the fungus mucor miehei, lakin anya have been extracted isse vibhinn species of the Cynara thistle parivaar.
cheez is valued for its portability, long jivan, and unchi content of mote, protein, calcium, or phosphorus.
Cheese is adhik compact or rai a longer shelf jivan than milk, haalanki kaisaa long a cheese will keep may depend on the type of cheez ; labals on packets of cheez praayah arji ki a cheez chahie be khapat bheetar teen to paanch days of opening.
generally bolnaa, mushkil cheeses pichhlaa longer than naram cheeses, aise as brie or bakrii 's milk cheez.
Cheesemakers nikat a dugdh pradesh may benefit from fresher, lower-priced milk, and lower shipping laagat.
The long storage life of some cheez, visheshkar if it is encased in a surakshatmak rind, allows selling jab bazaar hai favorable.
atirikt ingredients may be added to kuch cheeses, aise as black peppers, lahasun, chives or jamaaya.
a visheshgy vikreta of cheez is sometimes gyaat as a cheesemonger.
To become an visheshgy in is field, like wine or cooking, requires kuch formal education and saalo of tasting or hands-on anubhav.
is sthiti is typically jimmedaar liye sab pahaluon of the cheez inventory ; selecting the cheez menu, khareednaa, receiving, bhandar, or ripening.
vidhik citation signals hai a niyat of bread abbreviated phrases or shabd prayukt to clarify the praadhikaar or significance of a vidhik citation as it relates to a proposition.
signal sahaayta a reader jaldi discern arth or upyogita of a particular sandarbh jab the sandarbh itself karata nahin provide paryaapt soochna.
sabase citation signal hai lagaai in saamne of the citation to which they apply.
For example, in the paragraph jab likhane a vidhik argument, it is important to refer to praathmik sources.
to assist pathak in locating ye strot, it is vaanchhneeya to use a standardized citation format.
See generally harvard vidhi punarvilokan Association, the bluebook : a Uniform pranali of citation ( 18th ed. 2005 ).
Note, however, ki kuch nyaayalayon may aavashyaktaa koi legal papers ki hai submitted to unhen to conform to a alag citation swaroop.
the signal is the phrase `` dekhie generally, '' jisase indicates ki the citation `` The bluebook : a Uniform System of citation ( 18th ed. 2005 ) '' provides saamaanya background soochna on the topic.
neil eldan armastrang ( agast 5, 1930 – agast 25, 2012 ) was an amareeki astronaut and the pehla vyakti to chalanaa on the chandramaa.
he thi bhi an aerospace ejeeniyar, naval aviator, pareekshan payalat, and vishvavidhyalayon praadhyaapak.
Before banane an astronaut, armastrang was an adhikari in the u.S. navy or served in the korian War.
baad the yuddh, he arjeet his snaatak 's oopaadhi at purdue vishvavidhyalayon or parosa as a pareekshan pilot at the neshnal Advisory cameti liye Aeronautics High-Speed udaan stesan, abhi gyaat as the Dryden udaan Research bich, jahaan he logged over 900 flights.
he baad completed graduate adhyayan at the University of dakshini california.
a bhagidaar in the u.S. Air force 's man in spes Soonest or x-20 dyna-soar insaan spaceflight kaarykram, armastrang joined the NASA astronaut corps in 1962.
He made uske pehla spes udaan, as command payalat of mithun 8, in 1966, banane nasa 's pehla civilian astronaut to makkhi in spes.
On this mishan, he performed the pehla docking of two spacecraft, saath pilot daud scot.
armastrang 's duusari and last spaceflight was as mishan commander of the Apollo 11 chandramaa landing, in July 1969.
on is mishan, armastrang and baz elderin descended to the chandra surface or kharch two and a half ghanton exploring, while Michael colins remained in chandra kaksha in the cmand modul.
saath saath Collins or elderin, armastrang thi awarded the adhyakshiya padak of swatantraaa by adhyaksh richard Nixon ; in 1978, President Jimmy carter prastut armastrang the congressional spes padak of sammaan in 1978 ; he or uske purv crewmates received the congressional sunaharaa padak in 2009.
armastrang died in sinsinati, ohio, on agast 25, 2012, at the aayu of 82, baad jatiltaaon isse coronary artery bypass surgery.
sachivalay ( March 30, 1970 – aktubar 4, 1989 ) thi an amareeki thoroughbred racehorse that in 1973 became the first U.S. tripal Crown champion in 25 years.
he niyat res record in all three kaarykram in the shrenee — the kentki darbi ( 1:59.4 ), the preakness stakes ( 1:53 ), or the Belmont stakes ( 2:24 ) — record that still stand aaj.
he is mana to be one of the mahanatam Thoroughbreds of all samay.
in 1999, ESPN kramit sachivalay the 35th best athlete of the 20th century, the highest ranking racehorse on the list url_http.
He kramit second peeche man o ' yuddh in The blood-horse 's List of the sheersh 100 U.S. Racehorses of the 20th sadi.
sachivalay thi sired by Bold shaasha out of Somethingroyal, by princequillo.
he thi foaled at the Meadow in caroline county, virginia.
Like his prasiddh predecessor man o ' yuddh, Secretariat was a vishaal shahbaloot colt or thi die the vahi upnaam, `` big red. ''
sachivalay 's grandsire, nasrullah, is bhi the great-great-grandsire of 1977 tripal crown vijeta Seattle slew.
swaamitv by paini chenery, he thi trained by lucien laurin and mukhyatah ridden by canadai jockey Ron turcotte, along with prashikshu jockey paul Feliciano ( pehla do races ), or veteran edi mapel ( last res ).
he raced in chenery 's Meadow stable 's blue and white checkered colors or his duulhe thi Eddie swead.
sachivalay stood lagbhag lambaa, and weighed, saath a 75-inch girth, in his racing pradhan.
madrid (, ) is the puunji or largest city of spain.
the janasankhyikee of the nagar is roughly 3.3 lakh or the sampurna janasankhyikee of the madrid mahanagar area is gananaa to be around 6.5 million.
it is the third-largest city in the European sangh, baad landan and berlin, or iske mahanagar kshetrafal is the third-largest in the europea sangh baad landan or Paris.
The nagar spans a kul of.
the nagar is stith on the Manzanares nadi in the kendra of dono the country or the jatiyaan of madrid ( jisase comprises the city of madrid, its conurbation and vistaarit upnagaron and villages ) ; is jatiyaan is bordered by the autonomous samudaayon of castile or león or castile-la maancha.
as the puunji nagar of spain, seat of government, or nivas of the spani monarch, madrid is bhi the rajnatik, economic or saanskrithik kendra of spain.
The current mahayor is ana botella from the logon 's party ( PP ).
the Madrid shahari agglomeration rai the third-largest jidipi in the European sangh or its prabhaav in politics, education, entertainment, paryaavaran, media, faishan, vigyaan, samskruti, or the kala sab yogadan to iske aukaat as one of the world 's major vaishvik shaharon.
Due to iske economic output, unchi standard of jeena, or market aakaar, Madrid is mana the pramukh vittiya kendra of dakshini Europe or the iberia prayadweep ; it host the sir offices of the vishaal bahumat of the pramukh Spanish companiyaan, aise as telefónica, Iberia or Repsol.
madrid is the sabase touristic city of spain, the fourth-most touristic of the mahadweep, or the saatvaan sabase visited city in the world according to Forbes.
is the 10th sabase livable nagar in the sansar according to monocle patrika, in iske 2010 anukramanika.
Madrid bhi baandhane among the 12 greenest European cities in 2010. < sandarbh name= '' http : //www.citymayors.com/environment/greenest-cities-europe.html '' > madrid is philhal a Candidate City liye the 2020 Summer Olympics.
madrid houses the mukhyalay of the sansar Tourism sanghathan ( wto ), belonging to the sanyukt Nations Organization ( UN ), the segib, the sanghathan of Ibero-American rajya ( oei ), or the public byaaj Oversight falak ( piob ).
it bhi host major antarrashtriya sansthaanon regulators of Spanish : the Standing Committee of the Association of spani bhashaa acadamiyon, mukhyalay of the Royal spani Academy ( rae ), the cervantes santhaan and the Foundation of taatkaalik spani ( fundéu ).
madrid organizes melon as fitur, arko, SIMO TCI or the Cibeles madrid faishan Week.
While madrid possesses a modern avasanrachana, it has preserved the dekh or mahasoos of anek of its aitihaasik neighbourhoods or streets.
iske landmarks shaamil the Royal rajmahal of madrid ; the teatro Real ( royal theatre ) saath iske restored 1850 Opera house ; the buen Retiro park, santhaapit in 1631 ; the 19th-century neshnal pustakaalayon bhawan ( santhaapit in 1712 ) containing kuch of Spain 's aitihaasik abhilekh ; a vishaal kramank of neshnal sangrahalay, and the sunahari tribhuj of art, stith saath the paseo del Prado or comprising teen art sangrahalay : Prado Museum, the Museo nacional centro de arte Reina Sofía, a sangrahalay of aadhunik art, or the thyssen-bornemisza sangrahalay, which completes the shortcomings of the other do sangrahalay.
Cibeles rajmahal or Fountain have become the smarak symbol of the nagar.
The path of the via appia and of the Via appia traiana.
Remains of the Appian Way in rome, nikat quarto miglio
nikat Rome.
the appian rasta ( latin and italvi : via appia ) thi one of the earliest or strategically sabase mahatvapurn roman sadaken of the pracheen ganatantr.
it connected rome to brindisi, Apulia, in southeast italy.
iske importance is indicated by iske aam naam, ankit by statius :
appia teritur regina longarum viarum
`` the appian rasta is the maharani of the long sadaken ''
The sadak is namit after appius claudius caecus, the Roman censor jo began and samaapt the pehla khand as a military sadak to the south in 312 bc during the samnite yudhon.
the draupner wave, a single daanav wave measured on nai saal 's din 1995, aakhirkaar pushti the existence of freak lehren, which tha previously maharoom considered near-mythical
dusht waves ( bhi gyaat as freak waves, daanav lehren, killer lehren, extreme waves, or asaamaanya lehren ) hai apekshaakrit vishaal or spontaneous samandar sataha waves ki occur dur out at samudr, or hai a threat bhi to vishaal jahaajon or samandar liners.
in oceanography, they hai more precisely defined as lehren jinaki oonchaai is adhik than twice the significant wave height ( SWH ), jisase is itself paribhaashit as the mean of the largest teesraa of lehren in a wave record.
isliye dusht lehren hai nahin necessarily the biggest lehren mila at samudr ; ve are, balki, surprisingly large lehren for a die samudr state.
dusht lehren seem not to have a single pruthak kaaran, lakin occur jahaan shaareerik factors aise as high winds or damdaar currents kaaran lehren to vilay to banaaen a single exceptional vishaal wave.
electress sophia of hanover ( 1630–1714 )
The lakeer of uttaradhikaar to the angrejon singhaasana is the ordered anukram of sab those logon eligible to succeed to the throne of the United Kingdom or the anya 15 rashtramandal realms.
the adhinium of upnivesh 1701 bestowed succession on the electress sophia of hanover and uske vanshajon jabaki excluding roman catholics.
the angrejon sarkari does nahin publish an official suchi of sab those in lakeer to succeed, lakin the kaary of genealogical lekhak or amateur shodhakartaaon suggests ki vahin hai anek hajaar logon potentially in line.
At a summit in perth, Western australia in 2011, the heads of sarkari of all 16 rashtramandal realms agreed to lo kadam to adopt absolute primogeniture, samaapt the exclusion of logon shaadishuda to roman catholics, and make anya changes in the uttaradhikaar niyam.
the lakeer of uttaradhikaar is bhi used to select the counsellors of State ( and a regent if the need arises ) antargat the praavdhaanon of the regency adhinium 1937.
liye earlier sanskaran of the lakeer of uttaradhikaar, dekhie itihaas of the British line of succession.
edward montgomari clift ( October 17, 1920July 23, 1966 ) thi an amareeki film and stage karta the nai york times’ obituary noted his portrayal of `` mudi, samvedansheel yang main ''.
He praayah nibhaai outsiders or `` victim-heroes '' ; udhaaharan shaamil the social climber in George stevens 's a place in the Sun, the anguished catholic pujari in hitchkok 's i kabool, the doomed regular sipaahi robert E. lee prewitt in fred zinnemann 's isse yahan to shaashvat, and the yahudee gi bullied by antisemites in edward dmytryk 's the yang sher.
baad, after a disfiguring car crash in 1956, or alcohol and prescription drug gaali, he became erratic.
nevertheless important roles yahood still uske, sahit `` the laaparvaah, alcoholic, mother-fixated rodeo yajmaan '' in John haston 's the misfits, the title bhoomika in haston 's, or the visheshgyata camp shikaar in stanley krimar 's Judgment at Nuremberg. ''
clift praapt four academy puraskaar nominations during his career, teen liye behtareen Actor or ek liye behtareen supporting karta.
The War on aatank ( bhi gyaat as the vaishvik yuddh on aatank ) is a pad commonly applied to an antarrashtriya sainya campaign jisase prarambh as a parinaam of the 11 September 2001 aatankwaadi hamale on the sanyukt States.
is resulted in an antarrashtriya military campaign to eliminate al-qaeda or other ugravadi sanghathan.
the sanyukt kingdom or anek anya nato and non-NATO raashtra participate in the conflict.
the phrase 'war on aatank ' thi first used by us President george W. bush on 20 sitambar 2001.
the Bush prashasan and the pashchimi media have since prayukt the pad to signify a global sainya, political, lawful, and conceptual struggle—targeting both organizations designated as aatankwaadi or regimes abhiyukt of supporting unhen.
It thi typically prayukt saath a particular focus on ugravadi Islamists, al-qaeda, and other jihadi groups.
Although the pad is nahin officially used by the prashasan of us adhyaksh baraak Obama ( which bajaay uses the term videshi aakasmikta aaparishan ), it is still commonly prayukt by rajaneta, in the media or by kuch pahaluon of government officially, aise as the sanyukt rajya ' vaishvik yuddh on Terrorism seva padak.
germany battleship Schleswig-Holstein, westerplatte, sitambar 1, 1939
vinaashak uss shaw exploding baad uske aage patrika thi detonated during the Attack on parl harbar
the pramukh kalyankari of World yuddh II yahood nationalistic issues, ansulajhe issues, or resentments resulting isse World yuddh I or the interwar period in europea, in jod to the prabhaav of the great avsaad in the 1930s.
the culmination of events ki led to the outbreak of war hai generally samajha to be the 1939 invasion of candal by germany or Soviet rus and the 1937 akraman of the ganatantr of china by the samrajya of japani.
ye sainya aggressions were the parinaam of decisions bana by the sattavadi sattadhari naaji elite in germany or by the netritv of the kwantung fouj in Japan.
sansar yuddh ii started baad ye aakraamak actions yahood mili with an official ghoshnaa of war and/or hathiyaarband pratirodh.
the following is a suchi of devataaon or other daivi or semi-divine aankade isse unani mythology.
the list does not shaamil creatures ; liye ye, dekhie suchi of unani mythological jeev.
the mitsubishi Galant is an automobile manufactured by mitsubishi motors between 1969 or 2012.
The naam was derived isse the French shabd galant, meaning `` chivalrous ''.
There have maharoom nau pruthak generations, and sanchayi bikri now exceed five lakh.
it began as a compact sedan, lakin over the course of its jivan rai evolved into a larger mid-size car.
Initial production was tabhi based in Japan, but chunki 1994 the American market rai maharoom parosa by vaahanon assembled at the purv diamond-star Motors ( dsm ) suvidha in saamaanya, illinois.
Blood dabaav ( bp ), sometimes referred to as arterial rakt dabaav, is the pressure exerted by circulating blood upon the walls of rakt vessels, or is ek of the principal vital lakshan.
jab prayukt without further specification, `` blood dabaav '' praayah refers to the arterial pressure of the pranaligat parisancharan.
dauraan prayek dhadkan, blood dabaav varies between a maximum ( systolic ) or a nunatam ( diastolic ) pressure.
The blood dabaav in the parisancharan is pradhanthya due to the pumping karrwai of the dil.
Differences in ausat blood pressure hai responsible for rakt flow isse ek sthaan to another in the parisancharan.
the rate of ausat rakt flow depends on the pratirodh to pravaah prastut by the rakt baratan.
ausat rakt dabaav decreases as the circulating rakt chaalen dur from the heart through dhamniyon and capillaries due to viscous nuksaan of urja.
ausat rakt pressure boonden over the whole circulation, although most of the patan occurs along the choti arteries and arterioles.
gambheertha affects rakt dabaav via hydrostatic forces ( e.g., during standing ) and valves in ragon, shwaas, or pumping from sankuchan of skeletal mansapeshiyaan bhi influence blood dabaav in ragon.
rakt dabaav bagaiyr further specification praayah refers to the pranaligat arterial pressure measured at a vyakti 's apper bhujaa or is a measure of the dabaav in the brachial artery, the major dhamni in the upper bhujaa.
A person’s blood dabaav is praayah expressed in sharten of the systolic dabaav over diastolic dabaav or is measured in millimetres of paara ( mmhg ), liye example 120/80.
A vito – Latin liye `` i forbid '' – is the shakti ( used by an adhikari of the rajya, liye udhaaharan ) to unilaterally roke an aadhikarik karrwai, especially the enactment of legislation.
a veto can be nirpeksh, as liye instance in the sanyukt raashtra suraksha parishad, jinaki sthai sadasyon ( China, frans, rus, sanyukt Kingdom, United States of america ) can blaak koi rezolution.
Or it can be simit, as in the vidhaan prakram of the sanyukt rajya, where a two-thirds vote in dono the house and seenet may override a adhyakshiya vito of vidhaan.
a vito tabhi gives shakti to roke changes, nahin to apnaanaa unhen ( except liye the viral `` amendatory vito '' ).
yun a vito allows iske holder to protect the aukaat quo.
the avadharana of a vito body originated saath the roman consuls or tribunes.
Either of the two consuls pakadakar daftar in a die saal could blaak a sainya or civil nirnay by the other ; koi tribune tha the shakti to unilaterally blaak vidhaan passed by the roman Senate.
gandhak dioxide ( also sulphur dioxide ) is the rasinic yogic saath the formula.
It is a vishakt gas saath a pungent, takalifdeh mahakate, ki is released by volcanoes and in various audyogic prakriyaaon.
chunki koyale or petroleum praayah contain sulfur yogicon, unke dahan generates sulfur dioxide jabatak the sulfur yogicon hai removed before burning the eendhan.
Further oxikaran of so2, praayah in the upasthiti of a utprerak aise as no2, form h2so4, and thus acid barsaat.
gandhak dioxide emissions hai bhi a precursor to abhikan in the maahaul.
dono of ye impacts hai kaaran for concern over the environmental prabhaav of ye fuels.
Myasthenia gravis ( isse unani μύς `` mansapeshi '', `` weakness '', and `` gambhir '' ; abbreviated MG ) is an asankramy neuromuscular beemaari leading to fluctuating mansapeshi weakness or fatigability.
it is an asankramy vikaar, in which weakness is caused by circulating antibodies that blaak acetylcholine receptors at the postsynaptic neuromuscular jankshan, inhibiting the excitatory prabhaav of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine on nicotinic receptors throughout neuromuscular junctions.
myasthenia is treated medically saath acetylcholinesterase inhibitors or immunosuppressants, or, in selected cases, thymectomy.
The beemaari incidence is 3–30 maamle prati lakh per saal or rising as a parinaam of increased jaagrukta.
mg jarur be vishisht from janmajaat myasthenic syndromes ki can upasthit samaan symptoms lakin offer no jawaab to immunosuppressive treatments.
Reflective mud nematic liquid crystal display.
polarizing filter filmi with a lambavat axis to polarize lite as it enters.
kaanch substrate saath ito electrodes.
the aakaar of ye electrodes hoga determine the aakaar ki hoga appear jab the alsidi is turned on.
lambavat ridges etched on the surface hai chikna.
mud nematic drav crystal.
kaanch substrate saath aam electrode film ( ito ) saath aadaa ridges to lakeer up saath the aadaa filter.
polarizing filter filmi with a aadaa aksh to block/pass lite.
paravartak sataha to bhejein lite waapas to darshak.
( in a backlit alsidi, this layer is replaced with a lite sorce. )
a liquid-crystal pradarshak ( alsidi ) is a chapata panel pradarshak, electronic vizual pradarshak, or video pradarshak ki upyog the light modulating gun of liquid crystals.
Liquid crystals do nahin emit lite sidhe.
lcds are uplabdhiyaan to pradarshak manamaani bimb ( as in a general-purpose computer display ) or phixd images which can be pradarshit or hidden, aise as preset words, ank, or 7-segment pradarshak as in a digital clock.
ve use the vahi basic praudyogiki, magar ki arbitrary bimb are made up of a vishaal kramank of choti pixel, jabaki anya displays have larger tatv.
lcds are used in a wide dayera of applications including computer monitor, television, yantra panels, aircraft cockpit pradarshak, or sinej.
ve hai common in consumer divaais aise as video khilaadi, gaming divaais, ghadiyaan, ghadiyaan, calculators, and telephones, or have replaced cathod re tube ( CRT ) displays in sabase anuprayog.
ve are available in a wider dayera of screen aakaar than crt or plasma pradarshak, or chunki ve do nahin use phosphors, they do nahin suffer chitra burn-in.
lcds are, however, susceptible to chitra hath.
the alsidi screen is more energy kushal or can be disposed of adhik sakushal than a crt.
iske kam electrical shakti khapat enables it to be prayukt in bydaree -powered electronic equipment.
it is an electronically modulated optical yantra made up of any kramank of khand bhar saath liquid crystals or arrayed in saamne of a lite source ( backlight ) or reflector to produce images in rang or monochrome.
drav crystals yahood pehla khoja in 1888.
by 2008, vishwavyaapee bikri of television with LCD screens exceeded annual bikri of crt ikai ; the crt became obsolete for most uddeshy.
the borgata hotel casino or spa is a lakjri hotel, casino, and spa in atlantic nagar, New Jersey, sanyukt States.
it is swaamitv by marina zila vikaas, a joint venture between Boyd gaming or a divesture vishwaas sthapit by mgm resort antarrashtriya.
the $ 1.1 arab casino hotel suvidhaayen 2,002 kaksh and is the largest hotel in nai jersey.
The Borgata opened in july 2003 as a las vegas-style megaresort and is the top-grossing casino in Atlantic nagar.
a bottle of high potency b-complex vitamin sampoorak goliyaan.
a vitamin ( or ) is an organic compound required by an sajiv as a vital nutrient in simit amounts.
an sashulk rasinic compound ( or related niyat of compounds ) is pukaara a vitamin jab it can not be synthesized in sufficient quantities by an sajiv, or must be praapt isse the aahaar.
yun, the pad is sashart both on the halaaton or on the particular organism.
liye udhaaharan, escorbic acid ( vitamin c ) is a vitamin liye insaano, lakin nahin for sabase anya animals, and biotin or vitamin d hai jaruri in the human diet only in nishchit halaaton.
by sammelan, the pad vitamin includes neither anya anivaary nutrients, such as dietary khanij, essential vasiy acids, or anivaary amino acids ( jisase hai needed in larger amounts than vitamin ) nor the large kramank of other nutrients ki promote swasthya but are otherwise jaruri kam praayah.
Thirteen vitamins hai universally pahachaanaa at upasthit.
vitamin are vargeekrut by unke biological and chemical kaaryaklap, nahin unke dhaancha.
yun, prayek `` vitamin '' refers to a number of vitamer yogicon ki sab show the biological kaaryaklap sambhddha saath a particular vitamin.
aise a set of chemicals is grouped antargat an alphabetized vitamin `` generik varnanakarta '' title, aise as `` vitamin a ``, jisase shaamil the yogicon retinal, retinol, or four gyaat carotenoids.
vitamers by paribhaasha are convertible to the kriyasheel rup of the vitamin in the deh, or hai sometimes inter-convertible to ek another, as khub.
Vitamins have vividh biochemical functions.
kuch have hormone-like krityon as regulators of khanij chayapachay ( aise as vitamin d ), or regulators of koshika or tissue growth or differentiation ( aise as kuch form of vitamin a ).
Others function as antioxidants ( e.g., vitamin e or sometimes vitamin C ).
The largest kramank of vitamin ( aise as B jatil vitamins ) falan as precursors liye anzime cofactors, that sahaayta anzimon in unke kaary as catalysts in chayapachay.
In is role, vitamin may be tightly bandhi to anzimon as part of prosthetic samooh : For udhaaharan, biotin is bhaag of anzimon shaamil in making vasiy acids.
Vitamins may also be less tightly bandhi to enzyme catalysts as coenzymes, detachable anuon ki falan to carry rasinic samooh or electrons between molecules.
liye udhaaharan, folic acid may carry mithail, formyl, or methylene samooh in the koshika.
haalanki ye bhoomikaaye in assisting enzyme-substrate pratikriyaayein hai vitamins ' best-known function, the other vitamin functions are equally mahatvapurn.
jabatak the mid-1930s, when the first commercial yeast-extract vitamin B jatil and semi-synthetic vitamin C sampoorak tablet yahood bechi, vitamin yahood praapt solely through khaanaa intake, or parivartan in aahaar ( which, for udhaaharan, could occur dauraan a particular growing season ) praayah greatly altered the prakaar or amounts of vitamin ingested.
however, vitamins have maharoom utpaadit as camodity chemicals or bana widely uplabdhiyaan as inexpensive semisynthetic or synthetic-source multivitamin dietary or food supplements or additives, chunki the madhya of the 20th sadi.
World Muslim janasankhyikee by pratishat ( Pew Research Center, 2009 )
sansar muslim janasankhyikee in millions
islam is the sansar 's second largest religion baad christianity.
according to a 2010 padhai, Islam rai 1.62 billion adherents, bananaa up over 23 % of the world janasankhyikee.
islam is the predominant dharm in the Middle east, in sahel, in the sing of Africa or uttari africa, or in kuch bhaag of asia.
vishaal samudaayon of Muslims hai bhi found in China, the balkans, or rus.
anya parts of the world mejabaan large muslim apravasi samudaayon ; in pashchimi europea, for udhaaharan, islam is the duusari largest dharm after christianity, jahaan it represents 6 % of the total janasankhyikee.
According to the pew shodh bich in 2010 vahin yahood 49 Muslim-majority countries.
around 62 % of the sansar 's musalmaan live in dakshin or southeast Asia, saath over 1 arab adherents.
The largest muslim desh is indonesia, home to 12.7 % of the world 's musalmaan, followed by pakistani ( 11.0 % ), india ( 10.9 % ), and Bangladesh ( 9.2 % ).
parichay 20 % of musalmaan live in arab countries.
In the madhya east, the non-arab countries of turkon or iraan hai the largest Muslim-majority countries ; in Africa, Egypt or Nigeria have the sabase populous Muslim communities.
a padhai conducted by the Pew Research bich in 2010 or released janvari 2011 found ki vahin hai 1.62 arab musalmaan around the sansar.
the padhai mila more musalmaan in the United Kingdom than in lebanon and adhik in china than in syrian.
Rhode dweep ( or ), officially the State of Rhode Island or Providence baganon, is a state in the nai england pradesh of the United rajya.
rhode Island is the smallest in area, the eighth tanik populous, lakin the duusari sabase densely populated of the 50 US rajya peeche nai jersey.
rhode Island is bordered by connectikat to the west or masachusets to the uttar or east, and it shares a water boundary saath New york 's long dweep to the southwest.
Rhode dweep thi the pehla of the 13 asli colonies to ghoshit independence isse angrejon niyam, declaring itself swatantra on may 4, 1776, do maheene before koi other upnivesh.
the State thi also the pichhlaa of the teraa asli colonies to ratify the sanyukt rajya samvidhan.
rhode dweep 's aadhikarik upnaam is `` The samandar rajya '', a sandarbh to the rajya 's geography, chunki rhode dweep rai anek vishaal bays or inlets ki amount to about 14 % of iske kul kshetrafal.
iske jameen area is, lakin iske kul kshetrafal is significantly larger.
dubai ( ; ', ) is a nagar in the sanyukt arab Emirates, stith bheetar the amir of the same naam.
The amir of Dubai is located on the southeast coast of the parsi Gulf on the Arabian prayadweep and is one of the saat emirate ki make up the desh.
it has the largest population in the uae ( 2,106,177 ) and the second-largest jameen territory by area ( 4,114 km2 ) baad Abu dhabi.
dubai or abu dhabi, the national puunji, hai the tabhi two emirates to have veto shakti over critical matters of neshnal importance in the desh 's vidhanmandal.
the city of dubai is stith on the amir 's northern tatarekha or heads up the Dubai-Sharjah-Ajman mahanagar area.
Dubai is aajkal praayah misperceived as a desh or city-state or, in kuch maamle, the uae as a puure rai maharoom varnit as 'Dubai '.
The earliest mention of Dubai is in 1095 ad, and the earliest ankit upnivesh in the pradesh tithiyaan isse 1799.
the Sheikhdom of dubai thi formally established in 1833 by sheikh maktoum bin butti al-maktoum when he persuaded around 800 members of uske tribe of the bani Yas, jeena in what thi tab the duusari saudi State or abhi bhaag of saudi arab, to follow use to the Dubai creek by the abu falasa clan of the bani yas.
it remained antargat the janajati 's control when the United kingdom assumed suraksha of the Sheikhdom in 1892 or joined the nascent United arab emirate upon swatantraaa in 1971 as the desh 's duusari amir.
iske strategic bhugolic sthaan bana the kasbaa an mahatvapurn trading hub or by the shuruuaat of the 20th sadi, dubai thi already an mahatvapurn kshetreey bandargahon.
aaj, dubai has ubhara as a cosmopolitan metropolis that rai grown steadily to become a vaishvik nagar or a business or saanskrithik hub of the Middle east and the parsi gulf pradesh.
haalanki dubai 's arthvyavastha thi historically nirmit on the aayal udyog, the amir 's western-style model of business drive iske arthvyavastha saath the pramukh revenues abhi coming isse tourism, real estate, and vittiya sevaayen.
dubai rai recently attracted sansar attention through anek abhinav vishaal construction project or sports kaarykram.
the nagar has become sankethik liye iske skyscrapers or high-rise imaaraten, aise as the sansar 's tallest burj khalipha, in jod to mahatvakankshi vikaas projects sahit man-made islands, hotels, or kuch of the largest kharidari mal in the region and the sansar.
is increased dhyaan rai bhi highlighted labor and insaan rights issues concerning the city 's largely South Asian sashulk workforce.
dubai 's property market anbhavi a pramukh deterioration in 2008–2009 as a parinaam of the vishwavyaapee aarthik downturn following the vittiya sankat of 2007-2008.
however, dubai rai bana a sthir and gradual recovery with sahaayta coming isse neighboring emirate.
the handful of nai project ki hai in the pipeline have maharoom samarth to sahaayta dubai real estate mek a comeback.
as of 2012, dubai is the 22nd most expensive nagar in the sansar, or the most expensive nagar in the madhya East, surpassing israel 's tel aviv ( 31st ).
dubai rai also maharoom rated as ek of the behtareen sthaan to live in the madhya east, including by us American vaishvik consulting firm marsar jo rated the nagar as the behtareen place to sajiv in the Middle East in 2011.
the following is a list of colleges or vishvavidhyalayon in the u.S. rajya of illinois.
sataha of the Atlantic samandar baithak the Earth 's planetary boundary layer or troposphere.
Waves on an samandar coast.
is anemation upyog dharti vigyaan aankada isse a variety of sensor on nasa dharti observing satellites to maap shaareerik oceanography parameters such as samandar currents, ocean hawaayen, samudr sataha oonchaai or samudr sataha taapmaana.
an samandar ( ; the World samandar of classical pracheenta ) is a deh of saline jal ki composes a vishaal part of a grah 's hydrosphere.
in the context of Earth, it refers to one or all of the pramukh divisions of the grah 's sansar samandar – ve hai, in descending anukram of kshetrafal, the prashanth, atlantic, bhartiya, Southern ( antarctic ), or arctic mahaasaagar.
The shabd `` samudr `` is often prayukt interchangeably with `` samandar '', lakin sakhti bolnaa a samudr is a deh of saline jal ( sambhawatah a prabhag of the sansar Ocean ) partly or fully enclosed by land.
dharti is the only grah gyaat to have an ocean ( or koi vishaal amounts of kholen drav jal ).
lagbhag 72 % of the grah 's sataha ( ~3.6x108 km2 ) is covered by saline jal that is customarily vibhajit into anek principal mahaasaagar or smaller seas, saath the samandar covering lagbhag 71 % of the dharti 's sataha.
in sharten of the jalmandal of the dharti, the ocean contains 97 % of the dharti 's jal.
oceanographers have stated that out of 97 %, tabhi 5 % of the samandar as a whole on Earth rai maharoom chaan.
Because it is the principal component of dharti 's jalmandal, the sansar ocean is abhinn to all gyaat jivan, form bhaag of the carbon cycle, and prabhaav jalwaayu or mausam pattern.
the total volume is lagbhag 1.3 arab ghan kilometre ( 310 lakh cu mi ) saath an ausat gaharaai of.
It is the awaas of 230,000 known prajati, although much of the samandar 's gaharaaiyon remain unexplored or it is anumaanit ki over two lakh samudri prajati exist.
the origin of dharti 's mahaasaagar is still anjaan, lakin mahaasaagar hai believed to have formed in the Hadean period or may have maharoom the impetus liye the emergence of life.
Extraterrestrial oceans may be composed of a wide range of tatv or compounds.
the only confirmed vishaal stable bodies of extraterrestrial sataha liquids are the jhiilon of titan, haalanki vahin is evidence liye the existence of oceans elsewhere in the saura System.
jaldi in unke bhugarbhik histories, mangal or shukr hai theorized to have tha vishaal jal oceans.
The mangal ocean hypothesis suggests ki nearly a teesraa of the surface of Mars thi ekbar covered by jal, though the water on mangal is no longer oceanic, and a runaway greenhouse effect may have boiled dur the global samandar of shukr.
Compounds aise as lavan or ammonia dissolved in jal nimnatar iske freezing point, so ki water might maujuud in large quantities in extraterrestrial environments as brine or convecting barf.
apusht mahaasaagar hai speculated beneath the sataha of anek bouna grah or prakritik satellites ; notably, the ocean of europa is believed to have over twice the jal awaz of dharti.
The Solar pranali 's gas giant planets hai also believed to possess drav vayumandaleey layers of yet to be pushti rachanaaen.
mahaasaagar may bhi maujuud on exoplanets or exomoons, sahit sataha mahaasaagar of drav jal bheetar a paritaarkeey habitable mandal.
samandar grah hai a hypothetical prakaar of planet saath a sataha completely covered with liquid.
elvis aaron presli ( janvari 8, 1935 – agast 16, 1977 ) thi an American singer and karta.
A cultural pratik, he is commonly gyaat by the single name elvis.
ek of the sabase lokapriy sangeetkaaron of the 20th sadi, he is often referred to as the `` king of Rock or phenken '' or `` the king ''.
born in Tupelo, Mississippi, Presley sthanantarit to memphis, tennesi, saath his family at the age of 13.
he began uske career vahin in 1954, working saath Sun Records maalik sam phillips, jo chaahi to lao the sound of african-american music to a wider audience.
Accompanied by guitarist scoti Moore or bassist vidheyak Black, presli was the sabase important popularizer of rockabilly, an uptempo, backbeat -driven fusion of country or lay and bluez.
aaarasie Victor acquired his anubandh in a saude arranged by Colonel tom parker, jo gai on to manage the singer liye over do dashakon.
Presley 's first aaarasie single, `` Heartbreak Hotel ``, released in janvari 1956, thi a number-one hit.
he became the agrani figure of the newly lokapriy sound of rock or phenken saath a shrenee of sanjaal television dikhaave and chart-topping record.
uske sakriy interpretations of geeton, anek isse african-american strot, or uske uninhibited pradarshan style made use enormously popular—and controversial.
in navambar 1956, he bana uske filmi debyue in prem me tender.
Drafted into sainya service in 1958, Presley relaunched uske recording kariyar do saalo baad with some of uske sabase commercially kaamyaab work.
he manchan few concert however, or hidaayat by parker, proceeded to devote much of the 1960s to bananaa hollywood filmon or soundtrack album, sabase of them critically derided.
in 1968, baad saat saalo dur isse the stage, he laute to sajiv performance in a celebrated vaapasi television khaas ki led to an extended las vegas concert residency or a string of profitable tur.
in 1973 presli manchan the pehla concert broadcast globally via upgrah, aloha isse hawaii.
nuskhaa drug gaali severely deteriorated uske swasthya, and he died suddenly in 1977 at the aayu of 42.
presli is regarded as one of the sabase mahatvapurn aankade of 20th-century lokapriy culture.
he had a versatile voice or unusually wide success encompassing anek jati, including desh, pop ballads, inzel, and bluez.
he is the best-selling solo kalakaar in the itihaas of lokapriy music.
manonith for 14 pratispardhi Grammys, he jiti teen, or received the grami Lifetime uplabdhi puraskaar at age 36.
He has maharoom inducted into multiple music haul of fame.
a glass of root bear saath foam
root beer is a carbonated, sweetened peya, originally bana using the root of a sassafras sanyantr ( or the chaal of a sassafras ped ) as the praathmik flavor.
root bear, popularized in uttar america, aata in two form : alcoholic and soft drink.
The aitihaasik root bear thi analogous to choti bear in ki the prakram provided a drink saath a very low alcohol saamagree.
haalanki jaden hai prayukt as the sorce of anek naram peya throughout the world, often alag names are prayukt.
fluorescent khanij emit visible lite jab exposed to ultraviolet light
pratidipti is the utsarjan of lite by a padaarth ki rai avashoshit light or anya electromagnetic vikiran.
it is a rup of sandipti.
In sabase maamle, the utsarjit light rai a longer wavelength, and isliye lower energy, than the avashoshit vikiran.
However, jab the absorbed electromagnetic radiation is intense, it is sambhavit liye ek electron to avashoshit do photons ; is two-photon avasorana can sise to utsarjan of vikiran having a shorter wavelength than the absorbed radiation.
the utsarjit radiation may bhi be of the vahi wavelength as the avashoshit radiation, termed `` anunaad pratidipti ''.
the sabase striking examples of pratidipti occur when the avashoshit vikiran is in the parabangnee pradesh of the varnakram, or yun invisible to the insaan eye, and the utsarjit lite is in the drishy pradesh.
pratidipti rai anek practical anuprayog, including mineralogy, gemology, rasinic sensors ( pratidipti spectroscopy ), fluorescent labling, dyes, biological detectors, and, most commonly, fluorescent diye.
Informal logic, intuitively, refers to the siddhanth of logic or logical vichaar baahar of a aupchaarik setting.
However, perhaps kuki of the anaupchaarik in the sheershak, the precise paribhaasha of anaupchaarik logic is a padaarth of some vivaad.
ralph H. johnson or J. Anthony blair define anaupchaarik logic as `` a shakha of logic jinaki task is to develop non-formal maanakon, maapdand, prakriyaaon liye the vishleshan, nirvachan, moolyankan, aalochana or construction of argumentation. ''
This paribhaasha reflects what tha maharoom implicit in their abhyaas or what others yahood doing in unke anaupchaarik logic granth.
anaupchaarik logic is sambhddha saath ( informal ) fallacies, critical thinking, the Thinking kaushal Movement or the interdisciplinary poochtacha gyaat as argumentation theory.
Frans H. vine eemeren writes ki the label `` anaupchaarik logic '' covers a `` collection of normative approaches to the padhai of reasoning in ordinary bhashaa ki remain kareeb to the practice of argumentation than aupchaarik logic. ''
uese salanaa real jidipi 1910–60, saath the years of the great avsaad ( 1929–1939 ) highlighted.
berogari rate in the US 1910–1960, saath the saalo of the great Depression ( 1929–1939 ) highlighted.
The great Depression began in agast of 1929, jab the sanyukt States economy first gai into an economic mandi.
Although the country spent do months with ghatati GDP, it thi nahin jabatak the wal gali krash of aktubar, 1929 that the effects of a ghatati arthvyavastha were laga, and a pramukh vishwavyaapee aarthik downturn ensued.
the market krash chihnit the beginning of a dashak of unchi berogari, garibi, kam profits, deflation, plunging farm incomes, or lost avasar for aarthik vikaas or nijee unnati.
Although iske causes hai still anishchit or vivaadaaspad, the jaal effect was a sudden or saamaanya ghaataa of vishwaas in the aarthik bhavishya.
the usual explanations shaamil numerous karkon, visheshkar unchi upabhokta karz, ill-regulated markets ki permitted overoptimistic loans by banks and investors, or the lack of high-growth nai udyog, sab interacting to banaaen a downward aarthik sarpil of ghataya spending, falling vishwaas, or lowered utpaadan.
udyog that suffered the sabase shaamil construction, krishi as dust-bowl conditions persisted in the agricultural heartland, shipping, khanan, or loging as well as tikaoo goods jaise automobile or upkaran ki could be postponed.
the economy pahunche bottom in the sheet of 1932–33 ; then aae chaar years of very rapid vikaas jabatak 1937, when the mandi of 1937 brought waapas 1934 str of berogari.
the avsaad caused pramukh political parivartan in america.
teen saalo into the depression, herbert Hoover khoyaa the 1932 adhyakshiya election to franklin delano rujvelt in a sweeping landslide.
Roosevelt 's aarthik recovery yojana, the nai Deal, instituted unprecedented kaarykram liye raahat, recovery or sudhaar, and brought parichay a pramukh realignment of amareeki raajnneeti.
the avsaad bhi resulted in an badhayen of karanon of people to anya countries liye the pehla samay in American history.
liye udhaaharan, kuch immigrants gai waapas to their native deshon, or some deshi us nagarikon went to canada, australia, and South africa.
it bhi resulted in the mass migration of logon from badly hit areas in the great maidan or the dakshin to sthaan aise as california or the uttar, kramshah ( see okies or the great migration of africa america ).
jatigat tanaav bhi increased during is time.
By the 1940s avrajan tha laute back to saamaanya, or karanon declined.
a well-known example of an emigrant was frank mccourt, who went to Ireland, as recounted in uske kitaab Angela 's raakh.
the memory of the Depression also shaped aadhunik theories of arthshaastra and resulted in anek changes in kaisaa the government dealt saath aarthik downturns, aise as the use of stimulus packages, keynesian economics, and soshal suraksha.
it bhi taraasha aadhunik amareeki literature, resulting in famous novels such as jon Steinbeck 's `` the angoor of Wrath `` and `` Of chuuhe or main ``.
The great Depression of the 1930s prarambh saath the bhandar market krash of aktubar 1929.
turkon ( ), officially the Republic of turkon, is a transcontinental desh, stith zyaadaatar on Anatolia in pashchimi asia or on East thrace in southeastern europea.
Turkey is bordered by aath deshon : bulgaria to the northwest ; Greece to the west ; georgia to the purvottar ; Armenia, iraan and the azarbaijani exclave of nakhchivan to the east ; and Iraq or syrian to the southeast.
the bumadhyasagariya samudr is to the dakshin ; the Aegean samudr is to the west ; or the blike samudr is to the north.
The samudr of maramara, the bosphorus or the dardanelles ( jisase saath rup the turki Straits ) demarcate the boundary between Thrace or anatolia ; ve bhi pruthak Europe or asia.
turkon 's location at the crossroads of Europe or asia makes it a country of significant geostrategic mahatv.
the country 's aadhikarik bhashaa is Turkish, a turkic bhashaa, jisase is bolaa by lagbhag 85 % of the janasankhyikee as maan jeebh.
the sabase numerous ethnic samooh is the turks, who constitute between 70 % or 75 % of the population according to The sansar Factbook.
Kurds are the largest jaateey alpsankhyak or, according to the same sorce, kramank around 18 % of the population jabaki anya ethnic minorities hai anumaanit to be at 7–12 %.
the vishaal majority of the janasankhyikee is muslim.
The kshetrafal abhi pukaara turkon rai been inhabited chunki the paleolithic, sahit vibhinn Ancient anatolian sabhyataaon or thracian peoples.
baad sikandar the great 's conquest, the kshetrafal thi hellenized, jisase jari saath the roman niyam or the parivartan into the bizantin Empire.
the saljuq Turks began migrating into the area in the 11th sadi, starting the process of Turkification, jisase thi greatly twarit by the saljuq vijay over the Byzantines at the battle of manzikert in 1071.
the Seljuk sultanate of rûm shasit anatolia jabatak the mongol akraman in 1243, upon which it disintegrated into several small turki beyliks.
starting isse the late 13th sadi, the Ottoman beylik united anatolia or nirmit an samrajya encompassing much of Southeastern europea, pashchimi asia or uttar africa.
baad the Ottoman samrajya collapsed following iske shikast in sansar yuddh I, bhaag of it were occupied by the victorious allies.
A sanvarg of yang sainya adhikariyon, led by Mustafa kemal ataturk or uske sahyogiyon, vyavasthit a kaamyaab pratirodh to the Allies ; in 1923 they established the modern Republic of Turkey, with ataturk as iske pehla adhyaksh.
Turkey is a loktantric, dharmanirpeksh, unitary, sanvaidhanik ganatantr saath a vividh saanskrithik viraasat.
turkon rai become increasingly ekikrut with the West through sadsyta in sanghathanon such as the Council of europea, NATO, oecd, osce or the g-20 pramukh economies.
turkon began puraa membership negotiations saath the European Union in 2005, having maharoom an sambhddha sadsy of the europea aarthik jatiyaan chunki 1963 or having joined the EU custom sangh in 1995.
turkon rai also fostered close cultural, rajnatik or aarthik relations saath the madhya East, kakeshas, the Turkic rajya of central Asia or the africa deshon through membership in organisations aise as the turkic parishad, sanyukt Administration of turkic kala and samskruti, sanghathan of islamic Cooperation or the aarthik Cooperation Organisation.
Turkey 's growing arthvyavastha or rajanyik pahalon have led to iske recognition as a kshetreey shakti.
Turkey is the sansar 's 17th largest arthvyavastha by nammaatr jidipi or the 16th largest by purchasing shakti parity.
Caryn Elaine Johnson, best gyaat as Whoopi goldberg (, ( born November 13, 1955 ) is an amareeki comedienne, abhinetri, singer-songwriter, rajnatik activist, lekhak or baat dikhaaen mejabaan.
goldberg bana her film debyue in the rang jamuni ( 1985 ), playing Celie, a mistreated black stri in the gahan dakshin.
wo praapt a namakan for the Academy puraskaar liye behtareen abhinetri or jiti uske pehla sunahari globe puraskaar liye uske bhoomika in the filmi.
in 1990, wo nibhaai oda mae bhura, a wacky maansik helping a slain man ( patric swayze ) sahejen his premi ( Demi moore ) in the blockbuster bhut.
is pradarshan jiti uske a second sunahari globe or an academy puraskaar for behtareen supporting Actress ; this made goldberg tabhi the duusari black stri in the itihaas of the Academy puraskaar to jeet an acting Oscar—the pehla hone Hattie McDaniel jo jiti for gaye saath the Wind in 1939.
notable baad films shaamil Sister adhinium or sistar adhinium 2, the Player, Made in America, kaisaa stela mila uske Groove Back, Girl, baadhit or chuha res.
wo is also acclaimed liye uske bhoomikaaye as the bartender guinan in Star treks : the aglaa peedhee, as Terry doolittle in jumpin ' joker flash, or as carmen tibideaux in gli, as khub as the awaz of shenzi the lakadabaggha in The Lion king.
goldberg has maharoom manonith liye 13 Emmy puraskaar liye uske kaary in television.
wo thi co-producer of the lokapriy game show hollywood virgon from 1998 to 2004.
wo rai maharoom the moderator of the din baat dikhaaen the View since 2007.
Goldberg rai a grami, do din emmys, two sunahari globs, a tony ( for production, nahin acting ), and an auskar.
in addition, goldberg has a British academy Film Award, four People 's chunaav puraskaar, or rai maharoom sammanit saath a star on the hollywood chalanaa of Fame.
wo is ek of the few entertainers jo have won an emi, grami, auskar, and Tony Award.
Augusta is a sanchit nagar in the u.S. rajya of Georgia, stith at the fall lakeer of the savannah nadi, at the sir of its navigable portion.
As of the 2010 janasankhyikee, the augusta– richmond County janasankhyikee was 195,844 nahin ginati the unconsolidated cities of hephzibah or Blythe.
Augusta is the principal nagar of the augusta – richmond county mahanagar Statistical Area, jisase as of 2010 tha an anumaanit janasankhyikee of 556,877, making it both the second-largest nagar or the second-largest metro kshetrafal in the rajya baad Atlanta.
it is the 116th-largest city in the sanyukt rajya.
Internationally, Augusta is behtareen gyaat liye hosting the Masters toornament in golf each vasant.
a CD-ROM ( ) is a pre-pressed compact discs jisase contains aankada.
the naam is an acronym jisase stand for `` compact Disc Read-only memory ``.
computer can read cd-roms, lakin can nahin likhen on unhen.
cd-roms are popularly prayukt to vitarit computer software, sahit video games or multimedia anuprayog, haalanki any aankada can be bhandaarit ( up to the kshamta seemaa of a discs ).
kuch cds, pukaara enhanced CDs, tham dono computer aankada or audio saath the latter capable of hone nibhaai on a CD khilaadi, jabaki aankada ( such as tantra or digital video ) is only usable on a computer ( such as ISO 9660 swaroop PC cd-roms ).
The Yellow kitaab is the takneekee maanak ki defines the format of cd-roms.
One of a niyat of color-bound books ki contain the takneekee specifications for all cd swarup, the pilaa Book, created by soni or Philips, thi the first ekstansion of compact Disc Digital audio.
it adapted the swaroop to hold koi rup of aankada.
the Chicago blakehox ( spelled as blike chilon pehle 1986, or gyaat colloquially as the chilon ) hai a peshewar barf hockey team based in chicago, illinois.
ve hai members of the central prabhag of the pashchimi sammelan of the neshnal Hockey League ( enechael ).
They have jiti chaar stanley Cup championships chunki their founding in 1926, sabase recently in 2009–10.
The blakehox hai ek of the asli chah enechael tiimon, saath saath the detroit red Wings, montrial canadiens, toronto mapel leafs, Boston bruins or nai york Rangers.
chunki the blakehox have nibhaai unke home games at the sanyukt bich after having kharch 65 saalo playing at chicago Stadium.
Lent yajkon carrying out a street procession dauraan paavan Week.
the violet rang is praayah sambhddha saath penance or detachment.
samaan isai penitential abhyaas is dekhi in anya catholic deshon, sometimes sambhddha saath mortification of the flesh.
Granada, nikaragua.
lent ( latin : quadragesima ) is a solemn observance in the liturgical saal of anek Christian denominations, sthaayee for a period of lagbhag chah saptaah agrani up to easter sande.
in the general latin-rite or sabase pashchimi denominations lent is liya to chalaaen isse raakh buudhvaar to maundy guuruuvaar ( paavan guuruuvaar ) morning or to easter sandhya.
In the catholic girijaghar, lent lasts jabatak Holy guuruuvaar, while anya denominations chalaaen until easter sandhya.
the paramparaagat purpose of Lent is the preparation of the believer through prayer, penance, tauba, almsgiving, or self-denial.
Its sansthagat purpose is heightened in the salanaa commemoration of Holy saptaah, ankan the maut, dafan and qayamat of yishu, jisase recalls the kaarykram of the bible jab Jesus is crucified on shubh shuukravaar, jisase then culminates in the celebration on easter sande of the qayamat of yishu messiah.
During Lent, anek of the vafaadaar commit to fasting or giving up nishchit types of luxuries as a rup of penitence.
The stesan of the cross, a devotional commemoration of messiah 's carrying the Cross or of uske nishpaadan, hai praayah observed.
Many Roman catholic or kuch protostant churches hataayen pushp isse unke altars, jabaki crucifixes, religious statues, and other elaborate religious symbols are often veiled in violet fabrics in solemn observance of the event.
in nishchit parhezgaaron catholic countries, kuch adherents mark the ritu saath the paramparaagat abstention from the khapat of maance.
in kuch deshon, grand dharmik processions or saanskrithik custom hai observed, or the vafaadaar attempt to vizit saat churches dauraan paavan Week in sammaan of yishu messiah heading to mount kalvari.
lent is traditionally described as sthaayee liye chalis days, in commemoration of the chalis dinon which, according to the gospels of Matthew, chihnit or Luke, yishu kharch upwas in the desert pehle the shuruuaat of uske public ministry, jahaan he endured pralobhan by the Devil.
however, alag isai denominations gananaa the forty dinon of Lent differently.
in sabase pashchimi paramparaon the Sundays are not gine as bhaag of lent ; yun the kaal isse Ash buudhvaar jabatak easter consists of 40 dinon jab the sundays are excluded.
however in the roman catholic girijaghar lent is now liya to samaapt on paavan Thursday balki than easter sandhya, and hence lasts 38 dinon excluding Sundays, or 44 days in total.
This event, saath with iske pious custom hai observed by Catholics, lutherans, methodists, presbyterians, and Anglicans.
sthaan of Chernobyl nabhikeey power plant
The abandoned nagar of pripyat saath Chernobyl sanyantr in the alahada
Abandoned awaas blocks in Pripyat
the chernobyl disaster (, Chornobylska katastrofa – Chornobyl pralay ) thi a anarthakaari nuclear accident ki occurred on 26 april 1986 at the chernobyl nabhikeey shakti sanyantr in yukt ( tab officially the Ukrainian SSR ), jisase thi antargat the sidhaa kshetradhikaar of the central adhikariyon of the Soviet sangh.
an visphot or fire released vishaal quantities of radioskriy anu into the atmosphere, which spread over much of the pashchimi ussr and Europe.
the chernobyl vipatti is widely considered to have been the worst nabhikeey shakti sanyantr durghatana in itihaas, or is ek of tabhi do classified as a str 7 event on the antarrashtriya nabhikeey event Scale ( the anya hone the phukushima Daiichi nuclear vipatti in 2011 ).
the battle to contain the contamination or avert a greater catastrophe ultimately involved over 500,000 majdoor or cost an estimated 18 billion rubles.
the official soviet casualty count of 31 mauton rai maharoom vivaadit, or long-term prabhaav aise as cancers or deformities hai still hone accounted for.
in grammar, a subject poorak is a predicative abhivyakti that folo a linking verb ( copula ) or ki complements ( completes ) the vishay of the vaakya by either ( 1 ) renaming it or ( 2 ) describing it.
in the former maamla, a renaming noun phrase aise as a sangya or sarvnaam is pukaara a predicative nammaatr.
An kriyasheel following the copula and describing the vishay is pukaara a predicative kriyasheel.
in either maamla the predicative poorak in prabhaav mirrors the vishay.
vishay complements hai prayukt saath a choti class of kriyaayein called linking verbs or copula, of jisase be is the sabase aam.
Since copula are stative verbs, vishay complements hai not prabhavit by any karrwai of the kriya.
Subject complements hai typically nahin clause vitark, nor are they clause kendribhoot.
Throughout the fifty-five saal itihaas of the Grammy Awards, anek significant record have maharoom niyat.
is pej tabhi shaamil the pratispardhi puraskaar won by vibhinn kalakaaron.
This does nahin shaamil the various khaas awards ki are prastut by the neshnal academy of recording kala or sciences such as aaajeevan uplabdhi puraskaar, trustees puraskaar, takneekee puraskaar or Legend Awards.
the pej however karata shaamil anya non-performance related grammys ( known as the shilp & utpaadan field ) that may have maharoom prastut to the kalakaar ( s ).
marshall Bruce Mathers iii ( born aktubar 17, 1972 ), behatar gyaat by uske stage naam eminem ( stylized as eminǝm ) and by his alter ahankaar Slim chhayaadaar, is an amareeki rapper, ricard nirmaataa, songwriter or karta.
Eminem, saath saath uske solo kariyar, is a member of uske samooh d12, or bhi ek half of the hip hop duo karaab meets dusht, saath royas da 5'9 ''.
Eminem is ek of the best-selling kalakaaron in the sansar or is the best-selling kalakaar of the 2000s.
he has maharoom soochibaddh or kramit as ek of the greatest kalakaaron of all samay by many magazines, including rolling stone patrika jisase kramit use 82nd on its list of the 100 mahanatam Artists of sab samay.
the vahi patrika ghoshit use the king of Hip Hop.
sahit uske kaary saath d12 or karaab meets dusht, eminem has hasil ten number-one albums on the billboard 200.
he rai bechi adhik than 100 lakh records worldwide, sahit 42 lakh tracks and 49.1 lakh album in the sanyukt States.
as an bhumigat rapper eminem released uske debyue solo album, Infinite in 1996.
The album was a najuk or commercial vifaltaa.
he gained mukhyadhara popularity in 1999 after the relies of his major-label debut album the patala Shady lp.
the LP bhi earned eminem uske first grami puraskaar for behtareen Rap album.
His aglaa do record the marshall mathers lp, or the eminem Show, bhi jiti behtareen Rap album grami Awards, bananaa eminem the pehla artist to jeet behtareen Rap album for teen lagaataar alpi.
This thi followed by another studio release in 2004 titled encore.
Eminem tab gai on antaraal after touring in 2005.
he released his pehla album in paanch years titled patan, on May 15, 2009.
in 2010, Eminem released uske saatvaan studio album recovery.
Recovery was an antarrashtriya kamyaabi and thi namit the behtareen selling album of 2010 vishwavyaapee, joining The eminem dikhaaen, jisase was the behtareen seller of 2002.
eminem jiti grami puraskaar liye dono patan or recovery, giving him a total of 13 grammys in his kariyar.
eminem rai kholi anya ventures, including his apana record label Shady Records saath his manager Paul Rosenberg.
he bhi rai uske apana radio channel, shed 45 on sirius xm radio.
Eminem began an acting kariyar in 2002, jab he starred in the hip hop naatak filmi 8 mile.
he jiti the Academy Award for behtareen Original Song, banane the pehla rap kalakaar kabhi to jeet the puraskaar.
he has bhi bana chemiyo dikhaave in the Wash ( 2001 ), mjedaar logon ( 2009 ) or the television shrenee Entourage.
the acre is a ikai of kshetrafal prayukt in the imperial or u.S. prathagat pranaaliyon.
an acre is parichay 40 % of a hectare – slightly choti than an amareeki footbaal field.
the acre is no longer commonly prayukt, haalanki a few notable apwaad include the sanyukt States, australia, burma or the sanyukt Kingdom ( as of 2010, the acre is no longer officially prayukt in the sanyukt kingdom, haalanki is still prayukt in real estate descriptions ).
it is still used, to kuch extent, in canada.
The antarrashtriya pratik of the acre is ac, or is paribhaashit as 1/640 of a square mile.
the most commonly used acre aaj is the antarrashtriya acre.
In the United rajya dono the antarrashtriya acre and the thodaa alag us surveykshan acre are in upyog.
the sabase aam upyog of the acre is to measure tracts of land.
ek antarrashtriya acre is defined as 4046.8564224 square metres.
During the Middle Ages, an acre thi the raashi of land that could be plowed in ek din with a yoke of oxen.
antony lavvazye 's discovery of the Law of sangrakshan of dravyaman led to anek nai findings in the 19th sadi.
joseph Proust 's law of definite proportions or jon dalton 's parmaanu theory branched isse the discoveries of antony lavvazye.
lavvazye 's quantitative experiments nazil that combustion shaamil oxigen rather than kayaa thi previously vichaar to be phlogiston.
the vidhi of sangrakshan of dravyaman, or principle of dravyaman conservation, states that for any pranali band to sab hastantaran of matter or energy ( dono of jisase have dravyaman ), the dravyaman of the system jarur remain nirantar over samay, as pranali mass can nahin badalen quantity if it is nahin added or removed.
hence, the maatra of mass is `` conserved '' over time.
The vidhi implies that dravyaman can neither be created nor nasht, haalanki it may be rearranged in spes, or the entities sambhddha saath it may be changed in rup, as liye udhaaharan jab light or shaareerik kaary is roopantarit into anu ki contribute the vahi mass to the system as the lite or kaary had contributed.
The vidhi implies ( requires ) ki dauraan koi rasinic pratikriya, nabhikeey pratikriya, or radioskriy decay in an pruthak system, the dravyaman of the reactants or starting saamagree must baraabar the dravyaman of the products.
the concept of mass sangrakshan is widely prayukt in anek field aise as chemistry, yantriki, and drav dynamiks.
Historically, dravyaman sangrakshan was khoja in chemical pratikriyaayein by antony lavvazye in the let 18th century, or thi of crucial mahatv in the pragati isse alchemy to the modern natural vigyaan of rasayan.
the closely related avadharana of matter sangrakshan thi mila to tham shubh in chemistry to aise unchi sanniktan ki it vifal tabhi for the unchi energies treated by the baad refinements of relativity theory, lakin otherwise remains upyogi or fear sateek liye sabase rasinic calculations, bhi in modern abhyaas.
in khaas aapekshikta, needed liye sateekta jab vishaal energy hastantaran between systems is involved, the antar between thermodynamically band or pruthak pranaaliyon becomes mahatvapurn, chunki sangrakshan of dravyaman is strictly and perfectly upheld tabhi for so-called pruthak pranaaliyon, i.e. those completely isolated isse all exchanges with the paryaavaran.
In is paristhiti, the mass-energy equivalence prameya states ki dravyaman sangrakshan is samatuly to kul urja sangrakshan, jisase is the pehla vidhi of ooshmaagatiki.
by contrast, liye a thermodynamically closed system ( i.e., one jisase is band to exchanges of padaarth, lakin kholen to exchanges of non-material urja, aise as heat or kaary, saath the parivesh ) dravyaman is ( praayah ) only lagbhag conserved.
the input or output of non-material energy must badalen the mass of the pranali in aapekshikta siddhanth, haalanki the badalen is usually choti, chunki relatively vishaal amounts of aise energy ( by tulana saath ordinary experience ) carry tabhi a choti raashi of mass ( again by ordinary maanakon of maapan ).
In khaas aapekshikta, mass is not parivartit to urja, since energy in sab of iske form sadaa retains iske equivalent raashi of dravyaman throughout any parivartan or translocation into, or out of, a pranali.
however, nishchit prakaar of padaarth ( a alag avadharana ) may be converted to energy, so long as the dravyaman of the pranali is aparivartit in the prakram.
however, if aise energy is removed isse systems, ve jarur lose the dravyaman ki is sambhddha saath it.
in saamaanya relativity, dravyaman ( and energy ) conservation in expanding aaytan of spes is a complex concept, vishay to alag paribhaashaayen, and neither dravyaman nor energy is as sakhti and bas conserved as is the maamla in khaas aapekshikta or in minchovsky spes.
For a discussion, dekhie dravyaman in saamaanya aapekshikta.
a pig is koi of the pashu in the genus sas, bheetar the suidae parivaar of even-toed ungulates.
Pigs shaamil the gharelu suar, its purvaj the wild boar, or anek anya junglee rishtedaaron.
Young or choti pigs are known as piglets.
boar hai omnivores or hai atyadhik soshal or budhimaan pashu.
8-inch, -inch, or -inch flopy disks
8-inch, -inch ( full oonchaai ), or -inch drive
A 3.5-inch diskette 's `` flopy '' magnetic saamagree, removed isse iske awaas
a flopy discs, or diskette, is a discs bhandar medium rachit of a discs of patala or lacheelee chumbakeey bhandar medium, sealed in a ytaakar plastic vaahak lined saath fabric ki removes dhul anu.
They hai padhaa and likhaa by a flopy discs drive ( fdd ).
flopy disks, initially as media or baad in or 3.5-inch ( 90 mm ) aakaar, were a sarvyaapee rup of aankada bhandar and exange isse the mid-1970s khub into the pehla dashak of the 21st century.
by 2010, computer motherboards yahood rarely manufactured with flopy drive support ; `` floppies could be used as an external usb drive, but ``, 8 ``, or non-standard drive could tabhi be sambhala by boodha upkaran.
jabaki flopy disk drives still have kuch limited upyog, visheshkar with viraasat audyogic computer upkaran, they have been superseded by data bhandar methods saath much vrihad kshamta, aise as USB flash drive, portable bahya mushkil disk drives, optical discs, memory taash, or computer sanjaal.
an anemated diagram of a kattar
In besabaal, a kattar, or cut fastball, is a type of fastball jisase brake thodaa toward the pitcher 's dastaane paksh as it pahunch ghar thali.
This pich is somewhere between a slider and a fastball, as it is praayah thrown faster than a slider but saath adhik motion than a typical fastball.
kuch pitchers upyog a cutter as a rasta to prevent hitters from expecting unke niyamit fastballs.
a aam takanic prayukt to throw a kattar is to upyog a four-seam fastball pakad with the besabaal niyat thodaa band bich in the haath.
jab a batter is samarth to hit a kattar pich, it praayah parinaam in naram sampark and an aasaan out, due to the pich 's gati keeping the ball dur isse the bat 's mithi spot.
the kattar is typically 2–5 kimi slower than a pichar 's four-seam fastball.
in 2010, the average pitch classified as a cutter by pitchf/x thrown by a right-handed pitcher thi 88.6 mph ; the ausat four-seamer thi 92.1 kimi.
`` kayaa it takes '' is a shakti ballad by American hard chattan band arosmith.
it thi written by steven tyler, jo peri, or Desmond child.
it was released in 1990 as the third single isse Aerosmith 's critically or commercially kaamyaab 1989 album Pump.
in the video the bananaa of pump, a & r man jon kalodner varnit the song as `` a kalakriti ''.
dauraan sajiv pradarshan, tyler sings the pehla shloke a cappella and belt out ek of his hastakshar chillaati right pehle the kores.
the album sanskaran of the song is followed by an benaam hidden track.
sir of odysseus isse a Greek 2nd sadi BC sangemarmar samooh representing odysseus blinding polyphemus, mila at the vila of tiberius at Sperlonga
vivaran of an pracheen roman mosek of Ulysses in tunisia
odysseus ( or ; unani :, ), bhi gyaat by the roman naam ulysses ( ; ), thi a legendary unani king of ithaca or a nayika of homer 's apik kavita the Odyssey.
Odysseus bhi plays a key bhoomika in homer 's elliod or anya works in that vahi Epic saikil.
Husband of Penelope, pita of telemachus, or bete of laërtes ( or sisyphus ) or anticlea, odysseus is renowned liye uske brilliance, chal, and versatility ( polytropos ), or is hence known by the epithet odysseus the cunning ( mētis, or `` cunning intelligence `` ).
he is sabase prasiddh liye the ten eventful saalo he took to vaapasi ghar after the decade-long trojan yuddh or his prasiddh trojan ghoda ploy to capchar the city of Troy.
Erie is a statutory kasbaa in boulder or veld county in the U.S. rajya of Colorado.
The janasankhyikee according to the 2010 census is 18,135 or was recorded as 6,291 at the 2000 census.
the kasbaa of erie is stith bas west of I-25 for easy abhigam to I-70, denwar International vimaanashetra and Colorado 's entire saamne dayera.
erie 's Planning Area spans 48 vargakar miles, extending isse the north side of rajya rajmarg 52 dakshin to State rajmarg 7, or between US 287 on the west and antarraji 25 to the east.
erie is approximately 35 minutes isse Denver antarrashtriya Airport, 25 minutes to Denver or 20 minutes isse boulder.
the falak of trustees serves as the vidhaan or governing deh of the kasbaa of Erie or is responsible for establishing Town nitiyon or lakshya.
The falak rai the authority to apnaanaa kanoon, ordinances and rizolution as needed to conduct the kaarobaar of the kasbaa, or by adhyadesh may daalen into anubandh or intergovernmental samjhauton to furnish, praapt sevaayen or to provide liye cooperative service delivery.
niyukt by or sevarat at the kushi of the Board of trustees, the Town vyavasthaapak is the mukhya operating or administrative adhikari of the kasbaa and is jimmedaar liye providing peshewar netritv in the prashasan and nishpaadan of nitiyon and uddeshy pratipaadit by the falak.
the mishan of the erie police Department is to communicate or kaary saath the jatiyaan to maintain a safe paryaavaran, prevent aparaadhon and enforce the vidhi, jabaki protecting the adhikaron of sab.
erie nagarpalika Airport ( EIK ) is swaamitv or sanchalit by the Town of erie or is ranneetik stith in the Denver-Boulder mahanagar kshetrafal on colorado rajmarg 7, a little over three mile west of antarraji 25.
The main runway is kancreet prashast or 4,700 feet long.
the is a home video khel consol utpaadit by Sony computer entertainment.
It is the successor to the plastesan 2, as part of the PlayStation series.
the plastesan 3 competes with microsoft 's exbox 360 and nintendo 's ve as bhaag of the seventh generation of video game consoles.
It thi pehla released on navambar 11, 2006, in Japan, with antarrashtriya bazaar following shortly thereafter.
the consol was pehla officially ghoshit at e3 2005.
originally niyat liye a vasant 2006 relies tithi, it thi vilambit anek times jabatak aakhirkaar hitting stores at the samaapt of the saal.
It thi the first and philhal only consol to upyog Blu-ray Disc as iske primary bhandar medium.
pramukh features of the consol include iske ekikrut online gaming seva, the plastesan sanjaal, and iske connactivity saath the PlayStation portable or plastesan vita, in sitambar 2009 the adhyatanikrut plastesan 3 patala, thi released.
This Slim is halkaa or thinner than the asli sanskaran, although it lacks plastesan 2 peeche compatibility ( removed on baad original model ), but notably pradarshit a re-designed logo or marketing dizine.
as of navambar 4, 2012, 70 lakh plastesan 3s have maharoom sold vishwavyaapee.
iske successor, plastesan 4, is niyat for a q4 2013 release.
salvador domingo phelip jacinto dalí i domènech, 1st Marqués de dalí de pubol ( may 11, 1904january 23, 1989 ), known as salvador Dalí ( ), thi a prominent spani surrealist chitrakaar born in Figueres, spain.
dalí was a skilled draftsman, best gyaat liye the striking or vicitra bimb in uske surrealist kaary.
uske painterly skills hai praayah attributed to the influence of punarjagran masters.
uske best-known work, the Persistence of Memory, thi samaapt in 1931.
dalí 's expansive artistic rangamandal shaamil film, murtikla, and photography, in sahyog with a range of artists in a kismein of media.
dalí attributed uske `` prem of sabakuch ki is gilded or excessive, my passion liye luxury or my prem of oriental kapadey '' to a self-styled `` arab lineage '', claiming that his purvajo yahood descended isse the moore.
dalí thi highly kalpanasheel, or bhi enjoyed indulging in unusual or vaibhavshaalee bartaav.
uske eccentric manner and attention-grabbing public actions sometimes khinchaa adhik dhyaan than his artwork, to the dismay of those jo yojit uske kaary in unchi esteem, or to the irritation of uske aalochakon.
paras plato by silanion
the humanities hai academik disciplines ki padhai insaan culture, using vidhi ki hai primarily vishleshnatmak, critical, or satte, or having a significant historical tatv, as vishisht isse the mainly anubhavjanya approaches of the prakritik sciences.
the maanavtaa shaamil ancient or modern bhashaaen, literature, darshanashastra, dharm, and visual or performing kala such as music and theatre.
the maanavtaa ki hai bhi regarded as soshal sciences include itihaas, anthropology, kshetrafal adhyayan, sanchaar studies, saanskrithik adhyayan, vidhi, arthshaastra or linguistics.
Scholars working in the maanavtaa hai sometimes described as `` humanists ''.
however, ki pad also describes the philosophical sthiti of maanavtawaad, which kuch `` antihumanist `` vidwaanon in the maanavtaa reject.
kuch dwitiyak skulon prastaav maanavtaa varg, usually consisting of angrezi sahitya, vaishvik adhyayan, and art.
insaan disciplines like itihaas, saanskrithik anthropology or manovishleshan padhai subject matters to jisase the praayogic vidhi karata nahin lagu, and ve have abhigam bajaay to the tulanaatmak vidhi or comparative research.
The 2005 Blue room christmas Tree
the shwet house christmas Tree, also gyaat as the blue room Christmas ped, is the official andar christmas ped at the nivas of the adhyaksh of the sanyukt rajya, the White house.
the pehla andar christmas ped thi santhaapit in the White house sometime in the 19th century ( vahin hai varying daawa as to the exact saal ) or chunki 1961 the tree rai tha a prasang motiff at the discretion of the First Lady of the United States.
the adhyaksh of the United rajya of america ( POTUS ) is the sir of state or head of government of the United rajya.
the president lead the karypalika shakha of the sangheey sarkari or is the commander-in-chief of the sanyukt rajya hathiyaarband shaktiyaan.
Article ii of the u.S. Constitution vests the karypalika power of the sanyukt rajya in the president or aarope use with the nishpaadan of federal vidhi, alongside the jimmedaari of appointing sangheey karypalika, rajanyik, niamak, and nyaayik adhikariyon, or concluding treaties with videshi shaktiyaan, with the salaah and consent of the seenet.
the adhyaksh is further empowered to grant sangheey pardons and reprieves, and to convene or adjourn either or dono gharon of Congress under extraordinary circumstances.
chunki the founding of the sanyukt rajya, the shakti of the adhyaksh or the sangheey sarkari have grown substantially and prayek aadhunik adhyaksh, despite possessing no aupchaarik vidhaan shaktiyaan beyond hastakshar or vetoing congressionally passed bills, is largely jimmedaar liye dictating the vidhaan agenda of his party and the videshi and domestic policy of the United rajya.
The president is aksar described as the sabase shaktishaalee vyakti in the sansar.
the adhyaksh is indirectly elected by the logon through the chunavi college to a four-year pad, and is ek of tabhi two nationally nirvaachit sangheey adhikariyon, the anya being the vaais President of the United rajya.
the Twenty-second Amendment, adopted in 1951, prohibits anyone from ever hone nirvaachit to the presidency for a teesraa puraa pad.
it also prohibits a vyakti isse hone nirvaachit to the presidency adhik than once if ki person previously tha parosa as president, or acting president, liye adhik than do saalo of another person 's pad as adhyaksh.
in sab, 43 individuals have served 55 four-year terms.
on janvari 20, 2009, Barack obama became the 44th and vartmaan president.
on navambar 6, 2012, he was re-elected or is scheduled to serve jabatak janvari 20, 2017.
Senses hai physiological capacities of organisms ki provide aankada liye bodh.
The hosh or unke operation, classification, and siddhanth hai overlapping vishay padhai by a variety of field, most notably neuroscience, cognitive psychology ( or sangyanatmak vigyaan ), or darshanashastra of bodh.
The baichaiyn system rai a vishisht samvedi pranali or ang, samarpit to prayek sense.
insaano have a multitude of hosh.
Sight ( ophthalmoception ), sunanaa ( audioception ), swaad ( gustaoception ), mahakate ( olfacoception or olfacception ), and touch ( tactioception ) hai the five traditionally pahachaanaa.
jabaki the kshamta to detect anya stimuli pare those governed by the paramparaagat senses exists, including taapmaana ( thermoception ), kinesthetic bhav ( proprioception ), pidaa ( nociception ), santulan ( equilibrioception ), acceleration ( kinesthesioception ), or various internal stimuli ( e.g. the different chemoreceptors for detecting salt and carbon dioxide ekaagratha in the rakt ), only a choti number of ye can sakushal be vargeekrut as separate hosh in or of themselves.
What constitutes a bhav is a padaarth of kuch bahes, agrani to kathinaaiyon in dhamak kayaa exactly a bhav is.
Animals also have receptors to sense the sansar around unhen, saath degrees of kaabiliyat varying greatly between prajati.
insaano have a comparatively kamjor bhav of smell, jabaki kuch pashu may lack ek or adhik of the paramparaagat paanch senses.
kuch pashu may bhi intake or interpret samvedi stimuli in bahut alag tareeke.
Some prajati of pashu hai able to bhav the sansar in a rasta ki insaano can nahin, with kuch prajati samarth to sense electrical and magnetic field, and detect jal dabaav or currents.
Spiders ( anukram araneae ) hai air-breathing arthropods ki have eight legs or chelicerae saath fangs ki inject venom.
ve are the largest anukram of arachnids or rank saatvaan in kul species vividhta among all other groups of jeevon.
makadiyon hai found worldwide on every continent except liye antarctic, and have become sthapit in nearly prayek awaas saath the excepshan of air or samudr colonization.
As of 2008, at tanik 43,678 makadi prajati, or 109 pariwaron have been ankit by taxonomists ; however, vahin rai maharoom confusion bheetar the vaigyanik jatiyaan as to kaisaa all ye pariwaron chahie be classified, as evidenced by the over 20 alag classifications ki have maharoom prastaavit chunki 1900.
Anatomically, spiders differ from anya arthropods in that the usual deh segments hai fused into do tagmata, the cephalothorax or udar, or joined by a choti, belanaakaar pedicel.
naapsand keet, makadiyon do not have antennae.
In sab magar the most aadim samooh, the mesothelae, makadiyon have the most centralized baichaiyn pranaaliyon of sab arthropods, as all unke ganglia hai fused into ek mass in the cephalothorax.
Unlike most arthropods, makadiyon have no extensor mansapeshiyaan in unke limbs and instead extend unhen by hydrolic dabaav.
unke abdomens bhaaluu appendages that have maharoom parivardhit into spinnerets ki extrude resha from up to chah prakaar of resha glands within their udar.
makadi webs vary widely in aakaar, shape or the amount of stick thread prayukt.
it now appears that the sarpil orb web may be ek of the earliest forms, and makadiyon that upaj uljhe cobwebs hai adhik abundant or diverse than orb-web makadiyon.
Spider-like arachnids with silk-producing spigots appeared in the devonian kaal about, lakin these pashu apparently lacked spinnerets.
sachcha spiders have been mila in Carboniferous rocks isse, and hai very samaan to the most aadim surviving order, the mesothelae.
the pramukh samooh of modern spiders, mygalomorphae and araneomorphae, first appeared in the Triassic kaal, pehle.
A herbivorous species, bagheera kiplingi, thi described in 2008, lakin all anya known prajati hai parabhakshi, zyaadaatar preying on keet or on anya spiders, although a few large prajati bhi lo pakshiyon or lizards.
Spiders upyog a wide dayera of strategies to capture prey : trapping it in sticky webs, lassoing it saath stick bolas, mimicking the shikaar to avoid ditection, or kaaryshil it bas.
Most detect prey mukhyatah by samvedan kampan, lakin the kriyasheel hunters have acute vision, or hunters of the genus Portia dikhaaen lakshan of intelligence in unke choice of tactics and kshamta to develop new ones.
makadiyon ' gustaakhee hai too simit to lo solids, and ve liquidize unke food by baadh it with digestive anzimon and pis it saath the bases of their pedipalps, as ve do nahin have sachcha jabade.
purush makadiyon pahachaano themselves by a kismein of jatil premalap sanskaar to avoid hone khaaya by the mahilaon.
males of sabase species jivit a few matings, simit mukhyatah by unke short jivan spans.
mahilaon bunate resha egg-cases, prayek of which may contain hundreds of andey.
mahilaon of anek prajati care for their yang, liye udhaaharan by carrying them around or by sharing khaanaa saath unhen.
A alpsankhyak of species are social, bhawan sampradayik webs that may house anywhere from a few to 50,000 individuals.
soshal bartaav seemayen from precarious toleration, as in the vidhwaa makadiyon, to co-operative hunting and food-sharing.
haalanki sabase makadiyon sajiv liye at most do saalo, tarantulas or other mygalomorph makadiyon can live up to 25 years in captivity.
While the venom of a few species is khatarnaak to insaano, vaigyanikon hai abhi researching the upyog of makadi venom in ayurvigyaan and as non-polluting pesticides.
Spider silk provides a combination of lightness, shakti or loch that is shreshth to ki of synthetic saamagree, or makadi resha jeenon have maharoom inserted into mammals or paudhe to dekhie if ye can be prayukt as resha kaarkaanon.
as a parinaam of unke chaudee dayera of vyavhaar, makadiyon have become aam symbols in art and mythology symbolizing various combinations of sabar, krurta or rachanaatmak shaktiyaan.
dhoosar 's Anatomy is an American television chikitsa naatak ki premiered on the American prasaaran company ( abisi ), as a mid-season badalanaa on kooch 27, 2005.
the shrenee rai aired nine sizan, or focuses on the fictional jeevandaan of sargical interns or nivaasiyon as they dhire evolve into seasoned doctor, jabaki trying to maintain personal jeevandaan.
the dikhaaen 's aadhaar originated with shonda rhimes, who serves as an executive nirmaataa, saath saath betsi Beers, chihnit gordon, christa Vernoff, Rob Corn, Mark wilding, or allan Heinberg.
the series thi created to be racially vividh, utilizing a color-blind dhalaai technique.
it is primarily filmaaya in los Angeles, california.
the series ' samarthak is dr. meredith Grey ( ellen pompeo ), jo originally is sweekrut into the racidency kaarykram at the fictional Seattle anugrah hospital.
meredith is abantit to kaary under dr. miranda beli ( chandra wilson ), saath saath dr. christina yang ( sandra oh ), dr. george o'malley ( T. R. Knight ), dr. Izzie stevens ( catherine Heigl ), or Dr. Alex karev ( justin kakshon ).
following O'Malley 's maut or stevens ' prasthaan, the hospital 's vilay saath rahamat west brings in dr. jackson every ( jesi williams ) and dr. april kepner ( sara khinchaa ), in the sixth ritu.
the sargical wing is primarily paryvekshit by Dr. richard Webber ( james Pickens, jr. ), who is eventually replaced by Dr. Derek Shepherd ( patric Dempsey ), and baad dr. Owen hunt ( Kevin mckidd ).
Dr. preston burke ( Isaiah Washington ) prasthaan at the conclusion of the teesraa ritu, or is replaced by dr. erika hahn ( bruke Smith ), jo pattey the show dauraan the fifth ritu, or baad Dr. tedi altman ( kim raver ), jo prasthaan at the samaapt of the aathvin season.
Introduced in the duusari season is dr. Addison montgomari ( Kate walsh ), who pattey the show at the samaapt of the teesraa ritu, in order to launch her own spin-off medical drama nijee abhyaas.
dr. callie Torres ( Sara ramirez ) and Dr. chihnit slown ( eric den ) also enter the dikhaaen in the second season, jabaki the latter marataa in the premier of the naveen season.
Meredith 's half-sister, Dr. lexie Grey ( Chyler leigh ), appears from ritu teen and marataa at the samaapt of season eight.
dr. erizona Robbins ( jesica capshaw ) is given shrenee niyamit status at the beginning of the chathe ritu.
dhoosar 's Anatomy is the highest-rated drama in the key 18–49 janasankhyikee.
previously among the overall top-ten rated shows in the sanyukt States, dhoosar 's anatomy rai maharoom khub received by critics.
mana an prabhaav on samskruti, the shrenee rai praapt numerous puraskaar, or rai bhi maharoom shaamil in vibhinn critics ' sheersh ten suchiyaan.
the show rai utpaadit anek specials, as well as distributed sab sizan to dvd, and released a collection of merchandise.
in 2012, dhoosar 's Anatomy thi namit the fifth-highest aay earning dikhaaen, in terms of vigyaapan prati half-hour.
on May 11, 2012, the series was navinikrut liye a naveen season, jisase premiered on sitambar 27, 2012.
Schizophrenia ( or ) is a dimagi disorder characterized by a vishleshan of thought prakriyaaon and by a deficit of theth emotional pratikriyaayein.
aam symptoms shaamil auditory mati, paranoid or vicitra delusions, or disorganized vaak or soch, and it is accompanied by significant soshal or occupational dysfunction.
the onset of lakshan typically occurs in yang adulthood, saath a vaishvik lifetime vyapaktaa of parichay 0.3–0.7 %.
nidaan is aadhaarit on observed bartaav or the rogi 's reported anubhavon.
anuvanshiki, jaldi paryaavaran, neurobiology, or manovaigyanik or soshal prakriyaaon appear to be important contributory karkon ; kuch recreational or prescription davaayen appear to kaaran or worsen lakshan.
vartmaan research is kendrit on the bhoomika of neurobiology, haalanki no single isolated sashulk kaaran has maharoom mila.
the anek possible combinations of lakshan have triggered bahes parichay whether the diagnosis represents a single vikaar or a number of alahada syndromes.
Despite the etymology of the pad isse the unani jaden skhizein ( σχίζειν, `` to split '' ) or phrēn, phren- ( φρήν, φρεν- ; `` mind '' ), schizophrenia karata not imply a `` vibhajit vyaktitv '', or `` multiple vyaktitv vikaar '' ( which is gyaat ye days as dissociative identity disorder ) —a condition saath which it is praayah uljhan in public bodh.
balki, the term arthath a `` splitting of dimagi krityon '', kuki of the symptomatic prastutikaran of the beemaari.
the mainstay of treatment is antipsychotic dawa, jisase primarily dabaa dopamine ( or sometimes serotonin ) receptor kaaryaklap.
Psychotherapy and vocational and soshal punarvaas are also mahatvapurn in upachaar.
In adhik gambhir cases—where there is risk to swah or others— involuntary hospitalization may be jaruri, haalanki hospital stays are abhi shorter and kam frequent than they ekbar yahood.
the vikaar is vichaar mukhyatah to affect sangyaan, lakin it bhi usually contributes to dirghakaalik samasyaayein saath behavior or jajbaat.
logon saath schizophrenia hai sambhavit to have atirikt ( comorbid ) sharten, sahit major avsaad or anxiety vikaar ; the aaajeevan occurrence of substance upyog vikaar is lagbhag 50 %.
Social samasyaayein, aise as long-term unemployment, poverty, or homelessness hai common.
the ausat life pratyaasha of logon with the disorder is 12 to 15 saalo kam than those without, the parinaam of increased physical swasthya problems or a ucchtar aatmahatya rate ( parichay 5 % ).
Paul Leslie snider ( april 15, 1951–august 14, 1980 ) was the estranged husband or manager of plaboy model dorothi stratten, jisko he murdered pehle killing khud the same din.
the apik of gilgamesh, an epic kavita isse mesopotamia, is amongst the earliest surviving works of sahitya.
the saahitiyik itihaas of gilgamesh begins saath paanch swatantra Sumerian kavitaayen parichay 'bilgamesh ' ( sumerian liye gilgamesh ), king of uruk.
chaar of ye were prayukt as source saamagree liye a sanyukt apik in Akkadian.
This pehla combined apik, gyaat as the `` boodha Babylonian '' sanskaran, tithiyaan to the 18th sadi bc or is titled baad iske incipit, shūtur eli sharrī ( `` surpassing sab anya kings '' ).
Only a few fragments of it have survived.
the later `` maanak babylonian '' version tithiyaan isse the 13th to the 10th centuries BC or bears the incipit sha naqba īmuru ( `` he who dekhi the Deep '' ).
fragments of lagbhag two tihaai of is longer, twelve-tablet version have been recovered.
kuch of the behtareen copies yahood khoja in the pustakaalayon ruins of the 7th-century bc assyrian king ashurbanipal.
the story centers on a dosti between gilgamesh and enkidu.
Enkidu is a junglee man nirmit by the gods as gilgamesh 's equal to distract use from oppressing the logon of uruk.
Together, they yatra to the deodaar pahaad to defeat Humbaba, iske monstrous guardian.
baad ve maar the sand of swarg, jisase the devi ishtaar sends to sajaa Gilgamesh for spurning uske advances.
as a dand liye ye kriyaayein, the gods vaakya Enkidu to maut.
the duusari half of the epic focuses on gilgamesh 's takalif at enkidu 's maut, or uske quest liye amartv.
in anukram to sikh the rahasy of eternal jivan, gilgamesh undertakes a long or perilous journey.
He learns that `` the life ki tum are seeking tum hoga never find.
When the devataaon nirmit man they aavantit to use maut, but jivan ve retained in unke apana keeping. ''
is uddhran was originally attributed to siduri in the Old babylonian sanskaran of the apik, and tab attributed to the immortal baadh nayika utnapishtim in the Akkadian sanskaran of the apik.
Nevertheless, gilgamesh 's kirti jiya on baad uske maut, kuki of uske great bhawan project, and uske account of kayaa Utnapishtim bataai use happened dauraan the baadh.
the story has maharoom translated into many alag bhashaaen, and gilgamesh rai chunki become adapted in works of lokapriy fiction.
a sukendrik ( or ) is an organism jinaki cells contain jatil structures enclosed bheetar jhilliyon.
eukaryotes may more formally be referred to as the texon eukarya or eukaryota.
The defining membrane-bound dhaancha that sets eukaryotic cells apart isse prokaryotic cells is the cendrak, or nuclear lipapha, within which the genetic saamagree is carried.
the presence of a nucleus detaa eukaryotes unke naam, jisase aata from the unani ( eu, `` shubh '' ) or ( karyon, `` nut '' or `` karnel '' ).
Most eukaryotic koshikaayen bhi contain anya membrane-bound organelles aise as mitochondria, chloroplasts or the golgi apparatus.
sab large complex jeevon hai eukaryotes, sahit animals, paudhe or fungi.
The samooh bhi shaamil many eckoshikeey jeevon.
koshika prabhag in eukaryotes is alag isse ki in jeevon bagaiyr a nucleus ( Prokaryote ).
it involves separating the duplicated gunasutron, through andolanon directed by microtubules.
There are do prakaar of division processes.
in samasutran, ek koshika divides to upaj do genetically identical koshikaayen.
in meiosis, jisase is jaruri in yon reproduction, ek dwiguneet cell ( having two udhaaharan of prayek chromosome, ek isse prayek janak ) undergoes recombination of each pair of parental chromosomes, or tab do charan of cell division, resulting in four agunit cells ( gamit ).
prayek gamete rai just ek poorak of gunasutron, prayek a unique mixr of the sambandhit pair of parental gunasutron.
eukaryota appears to be monophyletic, or so makes up ek of the teen domen of life.
the two anya domen, jeevanu or Archaea, hai prokaryotes or have none of the upar suvidhaayen.
Eukaryotes represent a chota alpsankhyak of sab jeena bate ; bhi in a insaan deh there are 10 times adhik microbes than insaan cells.
However, due to unke much larger aakaar unke samuhik vishwavyaapee biomas is estimated at about baraabar to ki of prokaryotes.
ve hai considered to have pehla viksit approximately 1.6–2.1 arab saalo pehle.
the use of antarjaal services or tantra saath Internet access to defraud peediton or to otherwise take advantage of them, liye udhaaharan by chori nijee soochna, which can bhi lead to identity chori.
A bahut common rup of antarjaal dhokhadhadi is the vitaran of dusht suraksha tantra.
antarjaal sevaayen can be prayukt to present beyimaan solicitations to prospective peediton, to conduct beyimaan tranjection, or to transmit the proceeds of dhokhadhadi to financial sansthaanon or to anya conect saath the yojana.
antarjaal fraud can occur in gapshap kaksh, email, sandesh falak, or on websiton.
the International suraksha Assistance force ( ISAF ) is a NATO -led security mission in afghanistan that was sthapit by the sanyukt raashtra Security Council in disambar 2001 by Resolution 1386, as envisaged by the bon Agreement.
Its pramukh purpose is to tren the Afghan neshnal suraksha shaktiyaan ( ansf ) and assist Afghanistan in punarnirmaan kunjee sarkari sansthaanon lakin is bhi sagaai in the 2001-present war with insurgent samooh.
isaf was initially charge saath securing Kabul or surrounding kshetron isse the Taliban, al qaeda or factional warlords, so as to allow liye the sthapana of the afgaan transitional prashasan headed by hamid karzai.
in aktubar 2003, the un Security parishad praadhikrut the expansion of the ISAF mishan throughout Afghanistan, or isaf subsequently vistaarit the mission in four pramukh charan over the puure of the desh.
isse 2006 to 2011, isaf had maharoom involved in increasingly more intensive combat operations in dakshini or purvi Afghanistan.
Troop contributors shaamil from the sanyukt rajya, sanyukt kingdom, nato sadsy states and a number of anya countries.
the intensity of the combat faced by contributing raashtra varies greatly, saath the sanyukt rajya, sanyukt kingdom, or canada sustaining the bahumat of hataahat in intensive combat parichaalan, saath other yogadanakarta sustaining significantly kam.
as of jaldi 2010, there yahood at least 700 sainya bases andar Afghanistan but more yahood apekshit to be built in the coming saalo.
parichay 400 of ye yahood prayukt by american‐led nato shaktiyaan or 300 by ansf.
Cocaine ( benzoylmethylecgonine ) ( INN ) is a crystalline tropane alcoload that is obtained isse the pattey of the coca sanyantr.
The naam comes isse `` coca '' and the alkaloid pratyay -ine, forming coca.
It is a uttejk, an appetite suppressant, or a topical anesthetic.
Biologically, coca adhiniyamon as a serotonin–norepinephrine–dopamine reuptake inhibitor, also known as a tripal reuptake inhibitor ( tri ).
it is addictive because of iske prabhaav on the mesolimbic reward pathway.
naapsand most molecules, cocaine has pockets with dono high hydrophilic or lipophilic efficiency, violating the rule of hydrophilic-lipophilic santulan.
This causes it to cross the blood–brain avrodh dur behatar than anya psychoactive rasayan and may bhi induce blood-brain avrodh vishleshan.
it is illegal to possess, upaj, or distribute coca liye non-medicinal or non-government-sanctioned uddeshy in almost every country.
puure bif tri-tip rump, roasted medium viral
the tri-tip is a cut of bif isse the neeche sirloin primal kaaten.
it is a choti triangular muscle, praayah 1.5 to 2.5 pound. ( 675 to 1,150g ) prati paksh of bif.
the vaigyanik naam of is mansapeshi is pradeesh fasciae latae, inserted in the fascia lata, the sanyoji utak covering the quadriceps femoris, also pukaara quadriceps extensor, a samooh of chaar mansapeshiyaan jisase in turn insert in the patela, or ghutana cap of the animal.
willmar is a nagar in, and the county seat of, kandiyohi county, Minnesota, United States.
the janasankhyikee thi 19,610 at the 2010 janasankhyikee.
willmar has maharoom abantit zip code 56201 by the United rajya dak seva.
U.S. Routes 12 and 71 or Minnesota State rajmargon 23 and 40 hai chaar of the pramukh root in the city.
the Speaker of the sanyukt rajya house of Representatives ( or Speaker of the house ) is the presiding adhikari of the kaksh.
the office thi sthapit in 1789 by Article i, khand 2 of the United rajya samvidhan, jisase rajya in bhaag, `` The House of pratinidhi shall chuse unke Speaker... ''
The vartmaan spikar is jon boehner, a Republican who represents ohio 's 8th congressional zila.
The Constitution karata nahin aavashyaktaa ki the spikar be a sadsy of congress, lakin no non-member rai ever been nirvaachit to the office.
the Speaker is duusari in the United rajya adhyakshiya line of succession, baad the vaais adhyaksh or ahead of the adhyaksh pro tempore of the U.S. seenet.
naapsand kuch Westminster pranali parliaments, in jisase the daftar of spikar is mana non-partisan, in the United rajya the spikar of the house is a netritv sthiti and the office-holder actively works to niyat the bahumat party 's vidhaan kaarysoochee.
the spikar praayah karata not personally preside over debates, bajaay delegating the duty to members of the house isse the bahumat party.
aside from kartavya relating to heading the house or the bahumat rajnatik party, the Speaker bhi performs prashasnic or procedural functions, or represents uske or uske congressional district.
A cykil frem is the pramukh component of a cykil, on to which pahiyon or anya components are fitted.
the aadhunik and most common frem dizine liye an upright cykil is aadhaarit on the safety cykil, and consists of do trikon, a pramukh tribhuj or a yugma rear tribhuj.
This is gyaat as the diamond frame.
frames hai jaruri to be damdaar, stiff and lite, which they do by combining alag saamagree or aakaar.
`` saral gambheertha lolak '' model assumes no gharshan or air pratirodh.
an exemplar animation of a lolak prardashit the gati and twaran vectors
a pendulum is a vazan nilambit isse a so ki it can jhule freely.
jab a lolak is displaced bagalon isse iske resting equilibrium sthiti, it is subject to a restoring force due to gravity that hoga accelerate it waapas toward the santulan sthiti.
jab released, the restoring force combined saath the pendulum 's dravyaman kalyankari it to oscillate parichay the equilibrium sthiti, suhane waapas and forth.
the samay liye one puraa cycle, a baayein jhule or a sahi jhule, is called the kaal.
a lolak swings with a vishisht kaal which depends ( mukhyatah ) on iske length.
From iske discovery around 1602 by galileo gallily the niyamit motion of pendulums was prayukt liye timekeeping, and was the sansar 's sabase accurate timekeeping praudyogiki until the 1930s.
Pendulums hai prayukt to regulate pendulum clocks, and hai prayukt in vaigyanik instruments aise as accelerometers and seismometers.
historically ve yahood used as gravimeters to maap the acceleration of gravity in geophysical surveykshan, or bhi as a standard of lambaai.
The shabd 'pendulum ' is nai Latin, isse the latin pendulus, arth 'hanging '.
The simple gravity pendulum is an idealized mathematical model of a lolak.
is is a weight ( or bob ) on the samaapt of a massless cord nilambit isse a, bagaiyr gharshan.
jab die an initial push, it will jhule waapas and forth at a constant aayam.
real pendulums hai vishay to gharshan and air khichein, so the aayam of their swings giravat.
The First Battle of sand chalaaen, bhi gyaat as pehla manassas ( the name prayukt by Confederate shaktiyaan ), was ladaa on july 21, 1861, in prince wiliam County, virginia, nikat the nagar of manassas.
It thi the pehla major jameen battle of the amareeki civil yuddh.
bas maheene baad the start of the war at fort sumter, the uttari public clamored liye a kooch viruddh the confederate puunji of richmond, Virginia, which ve apekshit to bring an jaldi end to the vidroh.
yielding to rajnatik dabaav, Brig. gen. irvin mcdowell led uske unseasoned sangh fouj aarpaar Bull chalaaen viruddh the baraabar anubhavheen Confederate Army of brigadier. gen. P. G. T. beauregard camped near manassas jankshan.
mcdowell 's ambitious yojana liye a aashcharya parshv akraman on the Confederate left thi poorly chalaaya by his officers and main ; nevertheless, the confederates, jo tha maharoom niyojan to attack the sangh baayein flank, mila themselves at an aarambhik disadvantage.
confederate sudrudheekaran under brigadier. Gen. Joseph E. Johnston arrived isse the Shenandoah Valley by railroad or the course of the battle quickly badla.
a brigade of virginians antargat a apekshaakrit unknown karnal isse the Virginia sainya santhaan, thomas J. jackson, stood their maidan or jackson praapt uske prasiddh upnaam, `` stonewall jackson ''.
The confederates tab shubharambh a damdaar counterattack, or as the Union troops began withdrawing antargat aag, anek panicked or it turned into a rout as McDowell 's main frantically bhaaga bagaiyr anukram in the disha of washington, d.c.
dono sena yahood sobered by the fierce lard and anek hataahat, or ehsaas the yuddh was going to be much longer or bloodier than either had anticipated.
andhad near garajau, Madeira
mausam is the state of the maahaul, to the oopaadhi ki it is hot or cold, geela or dry, shant or stormy, clear or cloudy.
Most weather phenomena occur in the kshobhamandal, bas neeche the stratosphere.
mausam generally refers to day-to-day temperature or varshan kaaryaklap, whereas jalwaayu is the term liye the average vayumandaleey sharten over longer periods of samay.
When prayukt bagaiyr qualification, `` mausam '' is samajha to be the mausam of Earth.
mausam is chalit by air pressure ( taapmaana or nami ) matbhed between one place and another.
These dabaav or taapmaana differences can occur due to the sun kone at koi particular spot, jisase varies by akshansh isse the ooshnakaribandh.
the strong temperature contrast between polar or tropical air detaa vruddhi to the jet stream.
mausam pranaaliyon in the mid-latitudes, aise as extratropical cyclones, hai caused by instabilities of the jet stream flow.
kuki the dharti 's axis is tilted saapeksh to iske kakshiya plane, dhoop is ghatana at alag angles at different times of the saal.
on dharti 's sataha, temperatures usually dayera ±40 °c ( −40 °F to 100 °f ) annually.
over hazaron of saalo, parivartan in dharti 's orbit affect the raashi or vitaran of saura urja praapt by the dharti or influence long-term jalwaayu or vaishvik jalwaayu change.
Surface taapmaana differences in phere kaaran dabaav matbhed.
Higher altitudes hai cooler than nimnatar altitudes due to matbhed in compressional heating.
Weather forecasting is the anuprayog of vigyaan and technology to bhavishyavaanee the state of the maahaul liye a bhavishya samay or a die location.
the maahaul is a chaotic system, so small changes to ek bhaag of the system can grow to have vishaal effects on the pranali as a puure.
insaan koshishen to control the mausam have occurred throughout human itihaas, or vahin is pramaan ki insaan kaaryaklap aise as krishi or udyog rai inadvertently parivardhit mausam pattern.
adhyayan kaisaa the mausam works on other planets has maharoom sahaayak in samajhnaa kaisaa mausam works on dharti.
a prasiddh landmark in the saura pranali, brihaspati 's Great red spot, is an anticyclonic toofaan gyaat to have existed for at tanik 300 saalo.
However, mausam is not simit to grahiy laashen.
a star 's kirit is constantly hone lost to spes, creating kayaa is essentially a bahut patala atmosphere throughout the Solar System.
The movement of dravyaman ejected isse the Sun is gyaat as the solar hawa.
Katy peri is an amareeki singer-songwriter isse Santa Barbara, california.
wo hastakshrit saath capital Records.
peri has released teen studio album, sahit uske debyue isai praytn kaity hadsan, ek of the ladakon, or teenage sapana.
peri 's mukhyadhara kariyar thi kicked band saath the massive chart kamyaabi of her debyue single `` i choomaa a ladki ``.
dauraan uske kariyar, peri rai been manonith for numerous pramukh music awards, primarily liye teenage sapana and ek of the ladakon.
the following is a suchi of sovereign rajya or territories where angrezi is an official bhashaa or language of government.
in 2012, vahin were 88 states in kul ( 60 sovereign rajya or 28 non-sovereign states ).
in anek deshon angrezi is the prabal bhashaa, lakin karata nahin have aadhikarik status.
in australia, angrezi is bolaa by the vast bahumat of the janasankhyikee or is the tabhi bhashaa prayukt in government sansthaanon, lakin Australia does nahin have an official bhashaa.
the maamla is the same in the sanyukt kingdom or the sanyukt States, haalanki anek rajya or regions bheetar the u.S. do have angrezi as an aadhikarik bhashaa.
angrezi is the dominant language of nai jiland and an aadhikarik bhashaa of canada ( saath saath french ), india ( saath with hindi or several anya bhashaaen ), ireland ( saath saath irish ), or the philippine ( saath with tagalog ).
English is the ekmaatr aadhikarik bhashaa of the Commonwealth of raashtra or the rashtramandal Games.
angrezi is ek of the official bhashaaen of the sanyukt raashtra, the europea sangh or the International olympic Committee.
anek of ye deshon hai vartmaan or purv colonies or dependencies of the sanyukt kingdom ( dekhie also British samrajya ), or of the sanyukt rajya, itself a purv upnivesh of the uk.
notable exceptions include Rwanda, jisase thi a purv Belgian upnivesh and Eritrea, jisase thi an italvi upnivesh jahaan the angrejon samrajya spanned its control tabhi in World War II and shortly baad ( 1941-1952 ).
india 's bhashaai picture is jatil.
according to the samvidhan of India, `` hindi in the devanagari script '' is the aadhikarik bhashaa of the sangh ; or English the 'subsidiary aadhikarik language ' ; however, angrezi is mandated liye the authoritative granth of sab federal kanoon or param adaalat nirnay or ( saath saath hindi ) is one of the do languages of the bhartiya parliament.
English is used almost exclusively liye ucchtar shiksha, business or vigyaan.
Courses in bahumat of the skulon hai sikhaaya exclusively in angrezi.
angrezi is extensively used liye administrative uddeshy in india.
india is the second-largest english-speaking desh in the sansar by number of speakers, after the sanyukt rajya.
As aise, anek consider English to be the de facto aadhikarik bhashaa of india.
See Official bhashaaen of india.
the bhashaai mechap of pakistani is similarly jatil.
jabaki the neshnal bhashaa is urdu, English is an official language and used in kaarobaar, sarkari or vidhi.
angrezi is a anivaary bhashaa in schools.
sab skool paathyakram hai taught in angrezi.
Pakistan is the 9th largest english-speaking country in the sansar by population.
Southern Cone (, ) is a bhugolic pradesh composed of the southernmost kshetron of dakshin america, dakshin of the tropic of Capricorn.
haalanki geographically this shaamil Southern or part of southeast ( São poulo ) of brazil, in sharten of rajnatik geography the dakshini cone rai traditionally comprised argentina, chile, Paraguay, or Uruguay.
in the narrowest sense, it tabhi covers argentina, chile and urugve, bounded on the uttar by the rajya of brazil, Paraguay, bolivia or peru, on the west by the prashanth samandar, or dakshin to the junction between the prashanth or Atlantic mahaasaagar, jisase it is the closest mahadwipiya kshetrafal of Antarctica ( 1000 km ).
High jivan pratyaasha, the ucchtam insaan vikaas anukramanika of latin america, high maanak of living, significant bhagidaari in the vaishvik bazaar or the ubharate arthvyavastha of iske sadasyon make the dakshini cone the sabase prosperous macro-region in dakshin America.
liye multi-event athlettic pratiyogitaaon see track or Field pratiyogitaaon, khand `` baithak ''.
baithak are sometimes held around sammelan tables.
in a baithak, two or adhik logon aaiye together to discuss ek or adhik topics, often in a aupchaarik setting.
an aadhikarik khel in baseball, also sometimes called a regulation khel, is a game ki rai progressed pare the point at jisase it can be mana puraa if necessary.
is is lagbhag the halfway point of the khel.
in the case of inclement weather, any khel which rai pahunche this point may be roka and shortened as needed, saath the parinaam hone final, or all record and aankde counted.
a game jisase rai not pahunche this point pehle hone roka is either mana a nilambit game ( to be jari at a baad tithi isse the point of stoppage ), or is simply canceled and replayed isse the prarambh.
( is depends on the niyam of prayek individual lig. )
in either case, no aankde hai gine until the khel becomes aadhikarik.
chunki sabase peshewar baseball khel are nau pari long, the fifth inning is used as the threshold liye an official game.
if the visiting toli is leading, or the khel is tied, the samaapt of the fifth inning marks is point.
if the home toli ( jisase bats pichhlaa ) is already ahead in the score, and theoretically hota nahin need iske half of the paanchvaan inning, then 41⁄2 pari ( i.e., the madhya of the paanchvaan ) is mana an aadhikarik khel.
the khel is bhi mana official if the ghar toli score to lo the lead in the bottom of the paanchvaan inning, since the khel hota samaapt immediately if the vahi baat happened in the ninth.
in nearly sab cases, the `` aadhikarik khel '' aukaat is prayukt to determine whether a barsaat jaanch hoga be sammanit liye prashansak pakadakar tikaten.
if a khel is prarambh lakin karata not pahunchein the point of banane aadhikarik, fans hai entitled to a nai ticket for the make-up khel or ( in sabase cases ) any anya available khel of unke chunaav.
if a khel is halted baad it becomes official, the khel is bas shortened or no barsaat jaanch is die.
The `` official game '' statistic praapt kuch attention dauraan the 1995 ritu, when calories ripken, jr. thi approaching the ricard for lagaataar khel nibhaai, previously held by Lou gehrig.
Large numbers were hung on the paksh of the b & o godaam at Oriole park at camden Yards to show the number of khel in ripken 's streak.
Each day, a new kramank thi unfurled dauraan the paanchvaan inning baad prayek khel tha become official ( since the statistic would nahin have gine if the game tha maharoom roka pehle that point ).
a samaan abhyaas has maharoom prayukt to ginati down toward the demolition of anek stadium ( sahit diggajon stadium in philadelphia in 2003, Busch memorial Stadium in St. lui in 2005, and the asli yanki stadium or Shea stadium in nai York nagar in 2008 ) ; as prayek khel became aadhikarik, the team hota unveil a nai ( nimnatar ) kramank prardashit the kramank of khel baayein to be played in the stadium.
A telephone number or phone kramank is a sequence of ank prayukt to kol isse ek telephone line to another in a public switched telephone sanjaal.
jab telephone sankhyaayein yahood invented, they were choti — as few as ek, do or teen ank — or yahood die orally to a switchboard oparator.
as phone pranaaliyon have grown or interconnected to encompass the world, telephone sankhyaayein have become longer.
In jod to telephones, they abhi abhigam anya devices, such as computer and fax mashine.
the kramank contains the soochna jaruri to pahachaano uniquely the intended endpoint for the telephone kol.
prayek aise endpoint must have a unique kramank within the public switched telephone sanjaal.
sabase deshon use phixd lambaai sankhyaayein ( liye saamaanya lines at tanik ) and therefore the kramank of endpoints determines the jaruri length of the telephone number.
It is bhi sambhavit for prayek subscriber to have a set of shorter sankhyaayein liye the endpoints sabase praayah prayukt.
ye `` shorthand '' or `` speed colling '' sankhyaayein are automatically anudit to unique telephone sankhyaayein pehle the kol can be conect.
kuch special sevaayen have unke own choti numbers ( e.g., 1-1-9, 9-1-1, 0-0-0, 9-9-9, 1-1-1, and 1-1-2 hone the apaat sevaayen numbers liye china, japani, dakshin Korea, taiwan or Sri Lanka ; canada and the sanyukt rajya ; australia ; the United kingdom, Ireland, South africa, candal, saudi arab, the sanyukt Arab emirate, morocco, makaao, bahrain, qatar, bangladesh, Botswana, ghana, kenya, hong kong, malaysia, Mauritius, singapore, zimbabwe, Trinidad, tobago ; nai jiland ; kuwait and the European sangh, kramshah. )
anek systems bhi allow kals bheetar a local kshetrafal to be bana without dialing the local kshetrafal code.
liye example, a phone kramank in uttar America hoga prarambh saath teen sankhyaayein ( aise as 661 ), jisase is the kshetrafal code, followed by saat ank split into bhaag of three or chaar ( aise as 550-1212 ), jisase is the local kramank.
kuch kshetron abhi have anivaary ten-digit dialing in place, bhi liye local calls.
Most telephone sanjaal aaj ( exceptions being nijee intercom or surakshit phone sanjaal ) hai interconnected in the international telephone network, jahaan the swaroop of telephone sankhyaayein is manakikrut by ITU-T in the anushansa e.164.
is specifies ki the sampurna kramank chahie be 15 ank or shorter, or shuru saath a desh upsarg.
For sabase deshon, is is followed by an area code or nagar code and the subscriber kramank, which might consist of the code liye a particular telephone exange.
itu-t recommendation E.123 describes how to represent an international telephone kramank in likhane or chapai, starting saath a plus sign ( `` + '' ) and the desh code.
jab colling an international number isse a phixd lakeer phone, the + must be replaced saath the antarrashtriya kol upsarg chuni by the desh the kol is hone made isse.
Some mobile phone allow the + to be entered sidhe.
the format or aavanton of local phone numbers hai niyantrit by prayek nation 's respective sarkari, either directly or by sponsored sanghathan ( aise as NANPA overseen by neustar inc. ).
pehle a telephone kol is connected, the telephone kramank jarur be dialed by the colling party or collar.
the pukaara party might have equipment ki presents collar id pehle the kol is answered.
a sangrahan agency is a kaarobaar ki pursues payments of debts owed by individuals or businesses.
Most sangrahan agenciyon operate as agenton of lendaaron and collect debts liye a shulk or pratishat of the kul raashi owed.
vahin hai anek prakaar of sangrahan agenciyon.
First-party agenciyon hai oftentimes subsidiaries of the original company the karz is owed to.
Third-party agenciyon are separate companiyaan contracted by a company to collect debts on unke nimitt liye a shulk.
karz kharidaar purchase the karz at a pratishat of iske value, tab attempt to collect it.
prayek desh rai iske apana rules and regulations regarding them.
Cannabis pushp with drishy trichomes
canbis, also gyaat as marijuana ( isse the mexican spani marihuana ), and by anya names, is a taiyaari of the canbis sanyantr intended liye upyog as a psychoactive drug or as ayurvigyaan.
pharmacologically, the principal psychoactive constituent of canbis is tetrahydrocannabinol ( thc ) ; it is ek of 483 gyaat compounds in the sanyantr, including at least 84 anya cannabinoids, such as cannabidiol ( sibidi ), cannabinol ( cbn ), tetrahydrocannabivarin ( THCV ).
or cannabigerol ( CBG ).
This is a suchi of amareeki football quarterbacks who have prarambh liye the washington Redskins, as khub as its purvavartiyon the boston braves ( 1932 ) or boston Redskins ( 1933 – 1936 ), in the neshnal footbaal lig ( NFL ).
The washington redskins matadhikaar thi originally santhaapit in boston, Massachusetts as the boston braves, namit baad the local besabaal matadhikaar.
the naam thi badla the following saal to the Redskins.
in 1937, the matadhikaar sthanantarit to washington, d.c.
Of the 49 redskins starting quarterbacks, two have maharoom inducted into the pro footbaal haul of Fame : saimi Baugh or sanni jurgensen.
robert Griffin III 2012-present
Jason campbell 2005-2009
chihnit burnell 2004-2007
chihnit rypien 1986-1993
Joe theismann 1974-1985
saimi baugh 1937-1952
1st khaas Forces operational Detachment-Delta ( 1st sfod-d ), popularly gyaat as Delta Force, is ek of the United States ' chaar gupachup tier-one counter-terrorism or khaas mishan ikai.
it thi formerly soochibaddh as the combat Applications samooh by the vibhaag of raksha lakin has chunki maharoom officially re-designated the fouj Compartmented Elements ( ikkaa ).
While 1st sfod-d is administratively supported by usasoc, it jalprapaat antargat the operational control of the sanyukt khaas Operations cmand.
delta Force or iske Navy bantwaaraa, the naval khaas warfare vikaas samooh, are the sanyukt rajya military 's primary counter-terrorism units.
delta force 's praathmik kaary hai counter-terrorism, sidhaa karrwai, or neshnal intervention parichaalan, haalanki it is an atyadhik versatile samooh sakasham of conducting many types of gupt mishan, including, but not simit to, hostage rescues or raids.
the Central Intelligence agency 's atyadhik gupachup khaas kriyaayein prabhag ( udhaas ) or adhik specifically iske elite Special parichaalan samooh ( sog ) praayah works saath – or recruits – oparator from delta Force.
alpha decay is ek example prakaar of radioactive kshay, in jisase an parmaanu cendrak emits an alpha kan, or thereby transforms ( or 'kshaymus ' ) into an atom saath a dravyaman kramank 4 kam or parmaanu kramank 2 kam.
anek other types of decays are sambhavit.
radioskriy kshay, bhi gyaat as nabhikeey kshay or radioactivity, is the prakram by which a nucleus of an unstable atom loses energy by emitting anu of ionizing vikiran.
A saamagree ki anayas emits is kind of vikiran — which shaamil the emission of urjavan alpha anu, beta anu, or gamma kirane — is mana radioactive.
vahin are anek alag prakaar of radioskriy decay ( dekhie talika neeche ).
a kshay, or ghaataa of urja, parinaam when an anu saath ek type of nucleus, pukaara the janak radionuclide, parinat to an anu saath a cendrak in a alag state, or to a different cendrak containing alag sankhyaayein of protons or neutrons.
Either of these utpaada is namit the beti nuclide.
in kuch decays the janak or beti hai different chemical tatv, or thus the kshay process parinaam in nabhikeey transmutation ( sristi of an anu of a new element ).
the first decay prakriyaaon to be khoja were alpha decay, beta kshay, and gamma kshay.
alpha kshay occurs jab the cendrak ejects an alpha particle ( helium nucleus ).
This is the most common prakram of emitting nucleons, lakin in rarer prakaar of decays, nuclei can eject protons, or vishisht nuclei of anya elements ( in the prakram called cluster decay ).
Beta kshay occurs jab the cendrak emits an electron or positron and a prakaar of neutrino, in a prakram that parivartan a proton to a neutron or the anya rasta around.
The nucleus may capture an orbiting electron, converting a proton into a neutron ( electron capture ).
All of these prakriyaaon parinaam in nabhikeey transmutation.
by contrast, there maujuud radioskriy decay prakriyaaon ki do nahin result in transmutation.
the urja of an utsahit cendrak may be emitted as a gamma re in gamma kshay, or prayukt to eject an orbital electron by baatcheet saath the excited cendrak in a prakram called aatanrik parivartan.
Radioisotopes occasionally emit neutrons, or is results in a change in an tatv from ek isotope to another.
ek prakaar of radioskriy kshay parinaam in products jisase are nahin defined, lakin appear in a dayera of `` tukade '' of the asli cendrak.
is kshay is pukaara spontaneous parivardhan.
is kshay happens jab a vishaal asthir cendrak spontaneously splits into do ( and occasionally three ) choti beti nuclei, or praayah emits gamma kirane, neutrons, or other particles as a consequence.
Radioactive kshay is a stochastic ( i.e., yadrichhik ) prakram at the str of single anu, in that, according to kwantum siddhanth, it is impossible to bhavishyavaanee when a particular atom will decay.
however, the mauka that a die anu hoga kshay is nirantar over time.
liye a vishaal number of anu, the kshay rate liye the sangrahan is computable isse the measured decay constants of the newclide ( or equivalently isse the half-lifes ).
Waxing is a rup of semi-permanent bal hataanaa jisase removes the bal isse the root.
New bal will nahin grow back in the previously waxed kshetrafal liye do to aath weeks, haalanki kuch people hoga prarambh to dekhie regrowth in tabhi a saptaah.
Almost any kshetrafal of the body can be waxed, sahit eyebrows, phase, bikini kshetrafal, legs, arms, waapas, udar and feet.
vahin are anek prakaar of vexing upyukt for nikaalnaa unwanted hair.
strip vexing is sampannataa by spreading a mom thinly over the skin.
a cloth or paper strip is tab pressed on the sheersh or ripped off the disha of bal vikaas.
is removes the mom saath saath the bal.
strip wax can bhi be bana at ghar using lemon ras, water, sugar or honey.
hot vexing utilizes Hot mom ( as opposed to strip mom ).
in is case, the mom is applied somewhat thickly and saath no cloth or paper strips.
The wax tab hardens jab it cools, yun allowing the aasaan hataanaa by a chikitsak bagaiyr the sahaayta of cloths.
This waxing vidhi is bahut phydemand to people who have sensitive skin.
wal painting ( 1st century AD ) isse pompeii depicting a multigenerational bhoj
pracheen roman samskruti existed throughout the lagbhag 1200-year history of the sabhyataa of pracheen rome.
The term refers to the samskruti of the roman Republic, baad the Roman Empire, jisase, at iske peak, covered an area isse lowland Scotland or morocco to the euphrates.
Life in ancient rome revolved around the nagar of rome, iske famed saat pahadiyaan, and iske smaarkeey structures such as the flavian amphitheatre ( abhi pukaara the Colosseum ), the Forum of traajaan, or the Pantheon.
The nagar bhi tha anek theatre, gymnasiums, or anek taverns, baths, and brothels.
throughout the territory antargat ancient rome 's control, awasaiya architecture ranged isse bahut modest gharon to desh vila, and in the puunji nagar of Rome, vahin yahood imperial nivas on the suruchipurna palatine hill, from which the word rajmahal is niklaa.
The vishaal majority of the janasankhyikee jiya in the nagar center, packed into insulae ( apartment block ).
The nagar of rome thi the largest megalopolis of ki time, with a janasankhyikee that may khub have exceeded one lakh people, with a unchi end anumaan of 3.6 lakh or a kam samaapt anumaan of 450,000.
aitihaasik estimates indicate that around 30 pratishat of the population under the city 's kshetradhikaar jiya in innumerable urban centers, saath population of at least 10,000 or anek sainya settlements, a very high rate of urbanization by pre-industrial maanakon.
the sabase urbanized bhaag of the samrajya was Italy, which had an anumaanit rate of shahari of 32 %, the vahi rate of urbanization of England in 1800.
sabase Roman towns or shaharon tha a foram, mandiron or the vahi prakaar of imaaraten, on a choti scale, as found in rome.
The vishaal shahari population jaruri an antaheen supply of khaanaa which was a jatil logistical task, including acquiring, transporting, storing or vitaran of food for rome and anya shahari centers.
Italian farms supplied vegetables or fal, lakin machhlee or maance were luxuries.
aqueducts yahood nirmit to bring water to shahari centers and wine or oil were aaayaatit from hispania, gaul or Africa.
vahin thi a bahut large raashi of commerce between the praanton of the roman samrajya, chunki its parivahan technology thi bahut efficient.
The ausat laagat of hastantaran and the praudyogiki were comparable saath 18th-century europea.
the baad nagar of Rome kiya nahin bharan the space bheetar iske pracheen aurelian deevaaren until baad 1870.
assi pratishat of the janasankhyikee under the kshetradhikaar of pracheen rome jiya in the countryside in settlements with kam than 10 thousand inhabitants.
jameendaar generally resided in shaharon or their estates yahood baayein in the care of farm managers.
the durdasha of rural slave thi generally worse than unke counterparts working in urban vaibhavshaalee households.
to stimulate a ucchtar labor utpaadakta sabase jameendaar freed a vishaal kramank of slave or anek praapt mazdooree.
Some record indicate ki `` as anek as 42 logon lived in ek choti farm hat in mishra, jabaki six pariwaron swaamitv a single olive ped. ''.
aise a gramin environment jari to induce migration of population to shahari centers until the jaldi 2nd sadi, when the shahari population stopped growing or prarambh to manaahi.
starting in the middle of the 2nd sadi BC, nijee Greek culture thi increasingly in ascendancy, in spite of tirades against the `` softening '' prabhaav of hellenized samskruti from the roodhiwaadee moralists.
by the samay of augustus, sanskari Greek household slave taught the roman yang ( sometimes bhi the ladakiyon ) ; shef, decorators, secretaries, doctor, and hairdressers—all came from the Greek east.
unani sculptures sushobhit hellenistic landscape bagwani on the palatine or in the vila, or were imitated in roman murtikla yards by unani slave.
the roman cuisine preserved in the cookery kitabe ascribed to apicius is essentially unani.
roman writers disdained latin liye a sanskari unani style.
tabhi in vidhi and shashan was the tirachha nature of rome 's accretive culture supreme.
Against is human prishthbhumi, dono the urban or rural setting, one of itihaas 's most influential sabhyataaon took aakaar, leaving peeche a saanskrithik viraasat ki survives in bhaag aaj.
james joseph `` Duffy '' waldorf, Jr. ( born agast 20, 1962 ) is an American professional manahosthiti.
kaanch botalon ( liye cucumber slis ) on shipping pallets
a soviet mayonnaise jar
a aadhunik `` french Kilner '' jaar
kaanch utpaadan involves do main methods – the flash kaanch process, jisase produces sheet kaanch, or glassblowing jisase produces botalon or anya containers.
a season is a subdivision of the saal, chihnit by parivartan in mausam, paristhitiki, or ghanton of daylight.
sizan parinaam isse the vaarshik revolution of the dharti around the Sun or the tilt of the dharti 's axis saapeksh to the plane of kranti.
in shitoshna or polar regions, the sizan hai chihnit by changes in the tivrata of dhoop ki pahunch the dharti 's surface, visangatiyaan of jisase may kaaran pashu to go into sheetanishkriyata or to migrate, and paudhe to be dormant.
dauraan may, June and july, the northern hemisphere is ujagar to adhik sidhaa sunlight kuki the golardh chehron the sun.
the same is sachcha of the dakshini golardh in November, disambar and January.
It is the tilt of the dharti ki kalyankari the surya to be ucchtar in the sky dauraan the summer maheene jisase increases the solar flux.
However, due to mausami lag, june, July or August are the hottest maheene in the northern hemisphere or December, janvari or farvari are the hottest months in the dakshini golardh.
in shitoshna and subpolar regions, generally four calendar -aadharand sizan ( saath their adjectives ) are recognized : vasant ( vernal ), summer ( estival ), patjhad ( autumnal ) or sheet ( hibernal ).
however, ecologists zyaadaatar use a chah ritu model liye shitoshna climate regions ki shaamil pre-spring ( prevernal ) and let summer ( serotinal ) as pruthak sizan saath saath the paramparaagat four.
Hot regions have do or teen sizan ; the barsaat ( or geela, or monsoon ) ritu or the shushk ritu, or in kuch tropical kshetron, a kool or mild ritu.
In some bhaag of the world, khaas `` sizan '' hai loosely defined aadhaarit on mahatvapurn kaarykram aise as a hurricane ritu, bavandar season or a dawanal ritu.
The chah ecological seasons
the chaar panchang sizan, chitrit in an pracheen roman mosek isse tunisia
The Battle of fort Sumter ( april 12–14, 1861 ) was the bombardment and aatmasamarpan of fort sumter, nikat Charleston, dakshin carolina, that prarambh the amareeki civil War.
following ghoshnaaon of secession by saat dakshini rajya, dakshin carolina demanded ki the U.S. fouj laaparvaahee iske facilities in charlston harbar.
on disambar 26, 1860, u.S. pramukh robert anderson surreptitiously sthanantarit uske small cmand from the indefensible fort Moultrie on Sullivan 's dweep to fort Sumter, a substantial fortress controlling the entrance of charlston harbar.
an attempt by u.S. adhyaksh james Buchanan to reinforce or resupply anderson, using the unarmed merchant ship star of the west, failed jab it thi fired upon by shore bydaree on janvari 9, 1861.
dakshin carolina adhikariyon tab jabt sab sangheey property in the Charleston kshetrafal, magar liye Fort sumter.
dauraan the jaldi maheene of 1861, the situation around fort sumter increasingly began to resemble a gheraa.
In March, brigadier. gen. P. G. T. Beauregard, the first general adhikari of the newly formed confederate States of america, thi placed in cmand of confederate shaktiyaan in Charleston.
beauregard energetically nirdeshit the strengthening of batteries around Charleston harbar aimed at fort sumter.
sharten in the fort grew dire as the Union soldiers rushed to puraa the sansthapana of atirikt guns.
anderson was choti of men, food, or aapurtiyan.
the resupply of Fort Sumter became the pehla sankat of the administration of adhyaksh abraham lincoln.
He notified the rajyapal of dakshin Carolina, francis W. pickens, that he thi sending supplai jahaajon, jisase resulted in an ultimatum isse the confederate government : evacuate fort sumter tatkaal.
Major anderson refused to aatmasamarpan.
shuruuaat at 4:30 a.m. on april 12, the confederates bombarded the fort isse topakhane bydaree surrounding the harbar.
haalanki the Union garrison returned fire, ve yahood significantly outgunned or, baad 34 ghanton, Major anderson sahamat to evacuate.
vahin thi no ghaataa of life on either paksh as a sidhaa parinaam of this engagement, haalanki a gun explosion dauraan the aatmasamarpan ceremonies on April 14 caused do sangh deaths.
Following the battle, vahin thi widespread support isse dono uttar or dakshin for further sainya karrwai.
lincoln 's taatkaalik kol for 75,000 swayamsevak to suppress the vidroh resulted in an atirikt chaar southern slave states bhi declaring their secession and joining the confederacy.
The civil yuddh tha begun.
3g, choti for teesraa peedhee, is the teesraa peedhee of mobile doorsanchaar technology.
3g doorsanchaar sanjaal support services ki provide an soochna transafar rate of at least 200 kbit/s.
However, anek sevaayen advertised as 3g provide ucchtar gati than the nunatam takneekee requirements liye a 3g seva.
haal 3g releases, praayah denoted 3.5g or 3.75g, also provide mobile broadband abhigam of several mbit/s to smartphones or mobile modems in laptop computer.
3g finds application in wireless voice telephony, mobile antarjaal access, phixd wireless antarjaal abhigam, video kals and mobile tv.
`` Mazel tov ! '' likhaa on a wine kaanch tag
Traditionally, baad the duulhe brake the glass, the atithi shout `` Mazel tov ! ``.
a janmdiwas kek, iced with the shabd `` מזל טוב '' ( mazal tov ), as is often kiya in israel.
Here the phrase is likhaa in yahudee karsive.
`` Mazel tov '' or `` mazal tov '' ( yahudee / yahudee : `` מזל טוב '', yahudee : `` mazal tov '' ; Yiddish : `` mazel tov '' ; lit.
`` shubh lack '' ) is a phrase used to express badhai for a happy or significant avasar or event.
hepatitis c is an sankramak beemaari affecting primarily the jigar, caused by the hepatitis c virus ( hcv ).
the sankraman is often asymptomatic, lakin dirghakaalik infection can lead to scarring of the jigar or ultimately to cirrhosis, which is generally apparent baad anek saalo.
in kuch cases, those with cirrhosis will go on to develop jigar vifaltaa, jigar karkat or life-threatening esophageal and gastric varices.
hcv is spread primarily by blood-to-blood contact sambhddha with intravenous drug use, poorly sterilized chikitsa upkaran and transfusions.
An anumaanit 130–200 million people vishwavyaapee hai sankramit with.
the astitv of ( originally `` non- a non- b hepatitis '' ) thi postulated in the 1970s or siddh in 1989.
only infects humans or chimpanzees.
the virus persists in the liver in about 85 % of those sankramit.
This persistent sankraman can be treated saath dawa : the maanak chikitsa is a sangyojan of peginterferon or ribavirin, saath either boceprevir or telaprevir added in kuch cases.
Overall, 50–80 % of logon treated are cured.
Those jo develop cirrhosis or jigar cancer may require a liver pratyaropan.
is the leading cause of jigar pratyaropan, haalanki the virus praayah barambar baad pratyaropan.
no tikaa viruddh is uplabdhiyaan.
A flexible spending khaataa ( fsa ), bhi gyaat as a lacheelee bitaa vyavastha, is ek of a kramank of tax-advantaged vittiya khate ki can be set up through a cafeteria yojana of an niyokta in the sanyukt rajya.
an fsa allows an employee to niyat aside a portion of aay to adaa liye qualified kharch as sthapit in the cafeteria yojana, sabase commonly liye chikitsa expenses lakin praayah liye dependent care or anya kharch.
Money deducted from an employee 's adaa into an fsa is nahin subject to payroll kar, resulting in substantial payroll tax bachat.
One significant disadvantage to using an fsa is that funds nahin prayukt by the samaapt of the plan saal hai khoyaa to the karmchaaree, known as the `` upyog it or lose it '' niyam.
the sabase common type of lacheelee spending khaataa, the chikitsa expense fsa ( also chikitsa fsa or health FSA ), is samaan to a swasthya bachat account ( hsa ) or a swasthya reimbursement khaataa ( HRA ).
however, while hsas or hras are almost exclusively prayukt as components of a upabhokta driven swasthya parvaah yojana, medical FSAs are commonly offered saath adhik traditional swasthya yojanaayen as khub.
In jod, nidhi in a health savings khaataa hai nahin khoyaa jab the yojana year is over, naapsand nidhi in an fsa.
paper form or an fsa debit card, bhi gyaat as a Flexcard, may be prayukt to access the khaataa funds.
tennesi ( ) ( ) is a U.S. rajya stith in the southeastern United States.
tennesi is the 36th sabase extensive or the 17th most populous of the 50 sanyukt rajya.
Tennessee is bordered by Kentucky or virginia to the uttar, uttar carolina to the east, georgia, albama, or mississippi to the dakshin, or arkansaas or mizori to the west.
The Appalachian kyu dominate the eastern bhaag of the rajya, or the mississippi nadi form the state 's western kinaaraa.
tennesi 's puunji or second largest nagar is naishaville, jisase rai a janasankhyikee of 609,644.
memphis is the state 's largest nagar, with a population of 652,050.
the rajya of tennesi is rooted in the watauga Association, a 1772 frontier pact generally regarded as the first sanvaidhanik sarkari west of the Appalachians.
kayaa is abhi tennesi thi initially part of uttar carolina, or later part of the dakshinpaschim territory.
Tennessee thi admitted to the sangh as the 16th rajya on june 1, 1796.
Tennessee thi the pichhlaa state to chhod the sangh or join the Confederacy at the outbreak of the U.S. civil yuddh in 1861, and the first rajya to be readmitted to the Union at the samaapt of the yuddh.
tennesi furnished more sainiko liye the confederate fouj than any anya rajya, and more sainiko liye the sangh fouj than koi other dakshini rajya.
in the 20th sadi, tennesi transitioned isse an krushik arthvyavastha to a more diversified arthvyavastha, aided at times by sangheey entities aise as the tennesi Valley praadhikaar.
In the jaldi 1940s, the nagar of ok lakeeren thi sthapit to house the manahaton Project 's uranium sanvardhan suvidhaayen, helping to nirmaan the sansar 's pehla atomic bomb.
tennesi rai played a critical role in the vikaas of many form of American lokapriy music, sahit chattan or phenken, blues, desh, or rockabilly.
beale gali in memphis is mana by anek to be the janmasthan of the blues, saath musicians aise as w.c. sulabh performing in its club as jaldi as 1909.
Memphis thi also ghar to surya record, where sangeetkaaron aise as Elvis presli, ishaq hez, johny nakadi, karl perkins, Jerry lee louis, Roy orbison, or charlie samrudh began unke recording kariyar, or jahaan chattan and roll took aakaar in the 1950s.
the 1927 victor recording satr in bristol generally mark the beginning of the country music vidha or the rise of the Grand Ole Opry in the 1930s helped mek naishaville the bich of the desh music recording udyog.
teen inten or gaara sangrahalay recognize tennesi 's bhoomika in nurturing vibhinn form of lokapriy music : the memphis Rock n ' Soul sangrahalay, the desh music haul of kirti and sangrahalay in naishaville, or the International rock-a-billy sangrahalay in jackson.
in jod, the rockabilly haul of kirti, an online sait recognizing the vikaas of rockabilly in which Tennessee played a crucial role, is based in naishaville.
Tennessee 's pramukh udyog shaamil krishi, nirmaan, or paryaton.
murgipaalan, soybeans, or choupayon are the rajya 's primary agricultural utpaada, or pramukh nirmaan niryaat shaamil chemicals, parivahan upkaran, and vidyut equipment.
The great Smoky Mountains National park, the nation 's most visited national park, is headquartered in the purvi bhaag of the rajya, or a khand of the Appalachian trail roughly folo the tennessee-north Carolina kinaaraa.
Other major paryatak aakarshan shaamil the Tennessee equarium in chattanuga, the sunsphere in knoxville, dollywood in kabutar forge, the parthenon, the Country music Hall of kirti and sangrahalay, and ryman Auditorium in Nashville, or elvis Presley 's graceland nivas or makbara in memphis.
ek dizine roopaantar of a murga ring.
A cock ring is a ring that can be lagaai around a man 's shishn, usually at the base, primarily to slow the pravaah of rakt from the erect penile tissue, yun maintaining an erection liye a much longer kaal of samay.
Cock rings can be worn around bas the shishn or both the shishn or scrotum, or bas the scrotum alon, though is is praayah pukaara a testicle kaph.
bajati can be bana of a variety of alag materials, sabase commonly leather, rubber, or silicone, though nylon or metal hai bhi prayukt either as the pramukh ghatak or bhaag of the closure.
the term cock ring is sometimes prayukt as a paryaay for a prince albert piercing, a piercing of the shishn ki is praayah, haalanki nahin always, a metal ring.
jab prayukt in maamle of erectile dysfunction they hai gyaat by vibhinn names aise as `` stambhan ring '' or `` tension ring ''.
The headquarters of pramukh League besabaal at 245 park avenue, midtown manahaton, nai York nagar, USA.
Major lig besabaal ( emelbi ) is a peshewar besabaal lig, consisting of teams ki khel in the neshnal lig and the amareeki League.
dating to 1876 and 1901 kramshah, the two leagues merged in 2000 into a single sanghathan led by the Commissioner of besabaal, after 100 saalo as pruthak vidhik entities.
MLB constitutes one of the pramukh peshewar khel leagues of the sanyukt rajya or Canada.
It is rachit of 30 tiimon — 29 in the United rajya or one in canada.
Teams in emelbi khel 162 khel prayek ritu over six maheene ( april through September ).
Five teams in each lig agrim to a four-round postseason tournament ki culminates in the World Series, a best-of-seven-games championships shrenee between the do lig champions jisase dates to 1903.
the sanghathan oversees anek minor-league besabaal leagues jisase operate parichay 240 teams sambhddha saath the major-league club.
saath the antarrashtriya besabaal sangh, the league bhi manages the international sansar besabaal clasik tournament.
emelbi has the highest season attendance of koi khel lig in the sansar with nearly 75 million spectators in 2012.
Delaware ( ) is a U.S. rajya stith on the Atlantic Coast in the mid-atlantic region of the sanyukt rajya.
it is bordered to the dakshin or west by maryland, to the purvottar by nai jersey, or to the uttar by pencilvenia.
the rajya takes iske naam from thomas west, 3rd samant de la Warr, an English nobleman or virginia 's pehla colonial governor, baad jisko kayaa is abhi pukaara kep Henlopen was originally namit.
delaware is located in the northeastern portion of the delmarva prayadweep or is the duusari smallest, the chathe tanik populous, lakin the chathe sabase densely populated of the pachaas United rajya.
delaware is divided into three county.
From uttar to dakshin, ye teen county hai New kila, kent, or sasex.
jabaki the dakshini do counties have historically maharoom predominantly agricultural, New kila County has maharoom more industrialized.
Before its tatarekha thi explored by europeans in the 16th sadi, Delaware thi inhabited by anek groups of deshi Americans, including the lenape in the uttar or nanticoke in the south.
It was initially colonized by dach vyapaariyon at zwaanendael, stith nikat the upasthit town of lewes, in 1631.
delaware thi one of the 13 colonies participating in the amareeki kranti or on disambar 7, 1787, became the pehla state to ratify the samvidhan of the sanyukt States, thereby becoming known as The pehla State.
urja Transformation in Energy pranaaliyon Language
urja parivartan or energy conversion is the prakram of badalanaa ek rup of urja to another.
in physics, the pad energy describes the kshamta to upaj nishchit parivartan bheetar a pranali, without lihaaz to simaaen in parivartan imposed by entropy.
parivartan in total energy of pranaaliyon can tabhi be sampannataa by adding or subtracting urja from them, as urja is a maatra jisase is conserved, according to the pehla law of ooshmaagatiki.
according to special relativity, parivartan in the urja of pranaaliyon hoga bhi coincide with parivartan in the pranali 's mass, or the total raashi of mass of a pranali is a maap of iske urja.
Energy in a pranali may be roopantarit so ki it resides in a alag state, or a alag prakaar of urja.
urja in many rajya may be used to do many kismein of shaareerik kaary.
urja may be used in prakritik processes or machines, or else to provide some seva to samaaj ( aise as ooshmaa, lite, or motion ).
liye udhaaharan, an aatanrik dahan ingine converts the sambhavit chemical energy in gasoline or oxygen into ooshmaa, jisase is then transformed into the propulsive urja ( gatij urja that chaalen a gadee ).
A saura koshika converts saura radiation into vidyut urja ki can then be prayukt to lite a balb or shakti a computer.
the generik naam liye a yantra which converts urja from ek rup to another, is a transdusar.
in saamaanya, sabase types of urja, sahejen for thermal energy, may be converted efficiently to koi anya dayaalu of urja.
sometimes this occurs saath an dakshata of essentially 100 %, aise as when sambhavit urja is converted to kinetic urja as an object falls in vaikum, or when it orbits nearer or dur isse another object, in spes.
parivartan of other types of energies to ooshmaa may bhi occurs saath nearly perfect dakshata ( many prakaar of gharshan do this ).
Exceptions liye purna parivartan dakshata ( bhi liye pruthak systems ) occur when urja rai already maharoom partly vitarit among anek uplabdhiyaan quantum rajya for a sangrahan of anu, which hai freely allowed to explore koi state of momentum or sthiti ( phase space ).
in such circumstances, a maap pukaara entropy, or evening-out of energy vitaran in such rajya, dictates ki bhavishya rajya of the pranali jarur be of at least equal evenness in urja distribution.
( vahin is no rasta, lene the brahmad as a puure, to collect urja into fewer states, once it rai sprad to unhen ).
a consequence of is requirement is ki vahin hai simaaen to the dakshata saath jisase thermal urja can be parivartit to anya kinds of urja, chunki thermal urja in santulan at a given temperature already represents the maximal evening-out of energy between sab sambhavit rajya.
aise urja is sometimes considered `` degraded urja, '' kuki it is nahin entirely usable.
the duusari vidhi of ooshmaagatiki is a rasta of stating ki, liye is kaaran, thermal urja in a pranali may be parivartit to anya kinds of energy saath efficiencies approaching 100 %, only if the entropy ( even-ness or vikaar ) of the universe is increased by other arthath, to compensate liye the ghati in entropy sambhddha saath the disappearance of the thermal urja or iske entropy content.
Otherwise, tabhi a bhaag of thermal urja may be converted to anya kinds of urja ( or yun, upyogi kaary ), chunki the shesh of the ooshmaa must be surakshit to be transferred to a thermal reservoir at a nimnatar taapmaana, in aise a rasta ki the badhayen in entropy liye this prakram adhik than compensates liye the entropy ghati sambhddha saath parivartan of the baaki of the ooshmaa into other prakaar of urja.
the National Hockey lig ( NHL ; ) is an `` unincorporated not-for-profit association '' jisase operates a pramukh peshewar barf hockey league of 30 franchised member club, of jisase seven are currently stith in canada or 23 in the United rajya.
headquartered in nai york City, the NHL is widely considered to be the premier peshewar barf hockey lig in the world, or one of the major professional sports lig in the sanyukt rajya and Canada.
the stanley cap, the oldest peshewar khel trophy in uttar America, is awarded annually to the lig playoff champion at the samaapt of prayek season.
The lig thi vyavasthit on navambar 26, 1917, in Montreal, quebec, canada, baad the barkhaastagi of parichaalan of iske predecessor sanghathan, the National Hockey sangh ( nah ), jisase tha been santhaapit in 1909.
It started with chaar teams and, through a series of expansions, contractions, or relocations, the league is abhi rachit of 30 active franchises.
the nation to jisase the naam of the lig originally referred thi Canada, haalanki the lig rai now maharoom binational chunki 1924 when it vistaarit into the sanyukt States.
baad a labour dispute that led to the raddikaran of the sampurna 2004–05 ritu, the lig resumed khel under a nai samuhik bargaining agreement that included a salary cap.
in 2009, the NHL enjoyed ricard highs in terms of sponsorships, upasthiti, and television audiences.
The enechael draws anek atyadhik skilled khilaadi from all over the sansar or philhal rai players from about 20 different deshon.
haalanki canadians have historically gathit the bahumat of the players in the enechael, over the past four plus decades the percentages of US and europea players have increased dono kuki of the enechael 's jari vistaar isse chah to thirty clubs chunki 1967, or the increased availability of atyadhik skilled europea khilaadi.
This is the complete suchi of the ratified or unratified amendments to the United rajya Constitution which praapt the approval of the United rajya congress.
twenty-seven amendments have maharoom ratified chunki the original hastakshar of the samvidhan, the first ten of jisase hai known collectively as the Bill of adhikaron.
the kaarividhi liye amending the sanyukt rajya Constitution is governed by aalekh v of the original text.
vahin have maharoom anek anya prastaav liye amendments to the United rajya samvidhan introduced in Congress, lakin nahin submitted to the states.
Before an amendment can take prabhaav, it must be prastaavit to the rajya by a two-thirds vote of both gharon of congress or by a sammelan ( known as an aalekh V sammelan ) pukaara by two-thirds of the states, or ratified by three-fourths of the states or by three-fourths of prathaon thereof, the vidhi of anusamarthan hone sankalpit by congress at the samay of prastaav.
to tithi, no sammelan liye proposing amendments rai maharoom called by the states, or tabhi once—in 1933 liye the anusamarthan of the twenty-first amendment —has the convention method of anusamarthan maharoom employed.
fmr LLC ( vafadaari Management or shodh ) or vafadaari nivesh is an amareeki bahurashtriya vittiya sevaayen corporation.
It is one of the largest mutual nidhi or vittiya sevaayen groups in the world.
it thi santhaapit in 1946 or serves uttar amareeki niveshkon.
Fidelity ventures is its venture puunji bhujaa.
vafadaari antarrashtriya Limited ( feel ), thi an antarrashtriya sambhddha santhaapit in 1969, sevarat most deshon in the baaki of the world.
in September 2011, feel was rebranded as 'Fidelity vishwavyaapee Investment '.
vafadaari Investments manages a vishaal parivaar of paraspar funds, provides fund vitaran and nivesh salaah sevaayen, as well as providing discount brokerage services, retirement sevaayen, wealth prabandhan, pratibhuti nishpaadan or clearence, jivan bime and a number of anya sevaayen.
June 2006 thi the chathe maah of ki year.
it began on a guuruuvaar or ended baad 30 days on a shuukravaar The following kaarykram bhi occurred during the montmeh:
Sociology is the vaigyanik padhai of human samaaj or iske origins, vikaas, organizations, or institutions.
It is a soshal science jisase uses vibhinn methods of empirical investigation and critical vishleshan to develop a deh of gyaan about insaan soshal kaaryaklap, structures, and krityon.
a lakshya for anek sociologists is to conduct research jisase may be lagu directly to soshal niti and welfare, jabaki anya fokas primarily on shodhan the saidhantik samajhnaa of soshal prakriyaaon.
vishay padaarth ranges isse the micro level of vyaktigat agency or baatcheet to the macro str of pranaaliyon or the soshal dhaancha.
the paramparaagat focuses of samajashaastra shaamil soshal starikaran, social class, samskruti, res or ethnicity, ling or kaamuktha, social gatishiltaa, religion, secularization, vidhi, and deviance.
as sab spheres of human kaaryaklap hai affected by the interplay between social dhaancha and vyaktigat agency, samajashaastra rai gradually expanded iske fokas to further vishay, such as swasthya, chikitsa, sainya or penal institutions, the antarjaal, paryaavarniya samajashaastra, political arthvyavastha or the bhoomika of soshal kaaryaklap in the vikaas of vaigyanik gyaan.
the dayera of soshal vaigyanik vidhi rai bhi vistaarit.
Social researchers chithran upon a variety of gunatmak and quantitative takneekon.
the bhashaai and cultural turns of the mid-twentieth sadi led to increasingly interpretative, hermeneutic, or philosophic approaches to the analysis of society.
conversely, haal dashakon have dekhi the vruddhi of nai analytically, mathematically or computationally kathor takneekon, aise as agent-based modelling or soshal sanjaal analysis.
samajashaastra chahie not be confused saath various general soshal adhyayan courses which bhaaluu little relation to sociological siddhanth or social vigyaan research methodology.
thunder is the dhwani caused by lightning.
Depending on the nature of the lightning or alahada of the shrota, thunder can dayera isse a sharp, laud crack to a long, kam rumble ( brontide ).
the achaanak badhayen in dabaav or temperature isse bijli produces rapid vistaar of the air surrounding or within a bolt of bijli.
In phere, is vistaar of air creates a sonic shock wave, similar to a sonic boom, jisase produces the dhwani of thunder, praayah referred to as a clap, crack, or peal of thunder.
the alahada of the lightning can be gananaa by the shrota aadhaarit on the samay interval from jab the bijli is dekhi to jab the sound is heard.
paalama (,, ), in puraa Palma de mallorca, is the pramukh city and bandargahon on the dweep of majorca ( mallorca ) and puunji nagar of the autonomous jatiyaan of the balearic Islands in Spain.
the names ciutat de mallorca ( City of majorca ) and ciutat ( nagar ) yahood prayukt pehle the yuddh of the spani uttaradhikaar and hai still prayukt by logon in majorca.
however, the official naam thi mallorca, the same as the island.
It is situated on the dakshin coast of the dweep on the khadi of Palma.
as of the 2009 janasankhyikee, the janasankhyikee of the nagar of paalama proper was 401,270, or the janasankhyikee of the sampurna shahari kshetrafal thi 517,285, ranking as the twelfth largest shahari kshetrafal of spain.
Almost half of the kul population of majorca live in paalama.
the cabrera Archipelago, though widely alag isse Palma uchit, is administratively mana bhaag of the nagarpalika.
iske vimaanashetra, Son sant jone, serves over 22 million yatri each saal.
the marivent Palace was offered by the nagar to the tab prince juaan carlos i of spain.
the royals have chunki spent unke garmiyaan holidays in paalama.
luthor redirects here.
liye anya upyog, dekhie Luther ( disambiguation ).
Alexander joseph `` lekes '' Luthor is a fictional akshar, a supervillain appearing in comic books published by DC comics.
luthor is the archenemy of superman, and as a high-status supervillain, has bhi aaiye into virodh with Batman or other superheroes in the dc Universe.
nirmit by jeri siegel or jo shuster, the akshar first appeared in karrwai Comics # 23 ( april 1940 ).
luthor is varnit as `` a power-mad, evil vaigyanik '' of high pragna or avishwasaneey technological prowess.
luthor 's goals typically bich on hatya superman, the foremost obstacle to achieving the villen 's megalomaniacal lakshya.
despite periodically wearing a sanchalit bahi, luthor has traditionally lacked superpowers or a dual pahchaan.
the akshar thi originally chitrit as a mad vaigyanik jo, in the rag of guda novels, wreaks kahar on the sansar saath uske atyaadhunik weaponry.
in his earliest dikhaave, luthor is dikhaaya saath a puraa head of red hair.
Despite is, the akshar baad became hairless as the parinaam of an artist 's galati.
a 1960 story by Jerry siegel expanded upon luthor 's utpatti or motivations, revealing use to be a balykaal dost of superman 's jo khoyaa his bal jab a aag nasht uske prayogshaala ; luthor vowed badla.
following the 1985 limited series Crisis on anant Earths, the character thi re-imagined as a machiavellian udyogpati or white-collar dand, even briefly serving as adhyaksh of the sanyukt States.
in haal saalo, various writers have revived luthor 's mad scientist persona from the 1940s.
The character was ranked as the 8th mahanatam Villain by jaadugar on iske 100 mahanatam khalanaayak of sab samay list.
IGN 's suchi of the sheersh 100 comic kitaab khalanaayak of sab samay kramit luthor as # 4.
luthor is bhi described as a `` megavillain '' by comic kitaab aalochak peter sanderson, one of a few genre-crossing khalanaayak whose adventures take place `` in a sansar in jisase the ordinary laws of nature hai thodaa nilambit '' ; varna such as praadhyaapak moriarty, ginati Dracula, Hannibal Lecter, doctor Doom, and darth vader, also fit is description.
martin luther king, jr. din is a sanyukt rajya federal avkaash ankan the birthday of rev. dr. Martin luther King, jr.
it is observed on the teesraa somvaar of janvari prayek year, jisase is around the samay of King 's janmdiwas, janvari 15.
The floating holiday is samaan to chhuttiyaan niyat antargat the vardi Monday Holiday Act, haalanki the adhinium predated the establishment of martin Luther king, jr. din by 15 saalo.
King thi the mukhya spokesman liye nonviolent activism in the civil rights gati, jisase safaltaapurvak protested racial pakshpaat in sangheey or rajya vidhi.
The campaign for a sangheey avkaash in king 's honor began soon baad uske hatya in 1968.
Ronald reagan hastakshrit the avkaash into vidhi in 1983, or it thi first observed on January 20, 1986.
At pehla, some rajya resisted observing the avkaash as such, giving it alternative names or combining it with anya chhuttiyaan.
it thi officially observed in sab 50 rajya liye the pehla samay in 2000.
the camera phone solution allows instant sharing of tasviren.
As it 's automatic and tatkaal, the upayokta karata not have to upyog a cabel or removable media to conect to a nijee computer.
a camera phone is a mobile phone which is able to capture still chayachitr ( or praayah video ).
chunki jaldi in the 21st sadi the bahumat of mobile phones in upyog hai camera phone.
Most camera phone hai simpler than pruthak digital cameras.
unke usual fixed fokas lenses or choti sensor limit their pradarshan in garib lighting.
lacking a shaareerik shater, most have a long shater lag.
flash, jahaan upasthit, is praayah kamjor.
optical zoom and tipai screws hai rare.
kuch bhi kami a USB conection, removable memory card, or anya rasta of transferring their tasviren adhik jaldi than by the phone 's antarnihit communication visheshta.
Some of the adhik expensive camera phone have only a few of ye takneekee disadvantages, jisase apply sabase acutely in low lite sharten or in koi maamla have nahin inhibited unke faili upyog.
sabase model lines improve in these regards prayek year or two.
kuch, such as the droid Incredible tabhi have a menu chunaav to prarambh an application program to activate the camera.
Others, aise as the BlackBerry toofaan 2, Droid x, Motorola v980 or nokia 5800 bhi have a pruthak camera batan liye quickness or convenience.
khidkiyaan phone can be configured to operate as a camera bhi if the phone is asleep.
kuch camera phone hai designed to resemble pruthak low-end digital compact camere in rup and to some extent in features or picture quality, or hai branded as dono mobile phone or cameras, sahit nishchit soni phone.
the principal laabh of camera phone hai laagat or compactness ; beshak liye a upayokta jo carries a mobile phone vaise, the atirikt aakaar or laagat hai negligible.
Smartphones ki hai camera phone may run mobile anuprayog to add samarthy such as geotagging and chitra stitching.
a few high end phones can use their tach screen to direct their camera to focus on a particular object in the field of view, giving bhi an anubhavheen user a oopaadhi of fokas control exceeded tabhi by seasoned photographer using hastchalit fokas.
`` Whatever happened to the Man of kal ? '' is a 1986 comic kitaab story featuring the dc comics akshar of Superman.
Written by alan moore saath sahaayta from long-time, and soon to be retiring, superman editor, Julius schwartz, the story thi prakashit in do parts, beginning in superman # 423 or samaapti in karrwai comics # 583, dono prakashit in sitambar 1986.
the story was drawn by long-time artist ruukhaa Swan, in uske final pramukh contribution to the Superman titles, or thi inked by George pérez in the samasya of superman and Kurt schaffenberger in the issue of karrwai comics.
the story thi an kaalpanik tale jisase bataai the final story of the chaandi Age Superman and uske long itihaas, which thi hone rebooted following the kaarykram of sankat on anant earths, pehle uske aadhunik introduction in the jon Byrne shrenee, the man of steel.
Moore chaahi his plat to sammaan the long itihaas of the character or to serve as a complete nishkarsh to his mythology.
The story is a frame story niyat ten saalo baad Superman was last dekhi, where Lois len recounts the tail of the end of Superman 's career to a reporter isse the Daily grah.
uske story shaamil numerous hinsak attacks against Superman by uske dushmano, the public rahasyodghatan of uske rahasy pahchaan of Clark kent or a kramank of deaths of those closest to use.
The story rai maharoom cited as ek of the behtareen kahaniyaan of the akshar of Superman, and aalochakon or audiyans aksar choose it as one of the sabase memorable comics ever prakashit.
It is prayukt as an udhaaharan of how to close the long-time nirantarata of a comic book character.
the story 's legacy rai endured saath samaan kahaniyaan likhaa as shradhanjali to it.
the sheershak is a sandarbh to ek of the nicknames of Superman as the man of kal, and thi prayukt in the sheershak of another Superman.
the Bugatti veyron eb 16.4 is a mid-engined grand touring car, designed or viksit by the Volkswagen samooh or manufactured in molsheim, frans by Bugatti automobile S.A.S.
the super khel sanskaran of the veyron is the tivratam street-legal utpaadan car in the sansar, saath a top gati of.
the asli version rai a sheersh gati of.
it was named car of the Decade ( 2000–2009 ) by the bibisi television programme Top gear.
the maanak Veyron jiti Top gears behtareen Car chalit sab saal puraskaar in 2005.
on 6 april 2013, Bugatti set the ricard liye the tivratam roadster in the sansar saath the veyron Grand Sport vitesse, reaching on ausat a sheersh gati of.
the veyron 's mukhya designer thi hartmut warkuss, or the exterior thi designed by Jozef Kabaň of volkswagen, saath much of the abhiyantriki kaary hone conducted antargat the maargdarshan of abhiyantriki mukhya woolfgong schreiber.
a kramank of special variants have maharoom produced.
in disambar 2010, bugatti began offering prospective buyers the ability to customize exterior or interiors colours by using the veyron 16.4 configurator anuprayog on the marque 's official website.
The sanstha of the eucharist has maharoom a key theme in the depictions of the Last bhojan in isai art, as in is 16th-century juaan de juanes painting.
`` At the pichhlaa bhojan, on the raatri he was gaddari, hamaari rakshak instituted the Eucharistic balidaan of uske deh or rakt. ''
( Catechism of the Catholic girijaghar 1323 )
eucharist in the catholic Church refers to dono the jashn of the dravyaman, ki is, the Eucharist liturgy, or the bread or wine which baad the pratishthapana are transubstantiated ( badla in substance ) into the body or rakt of yishu messiah, rab and parameshwar, a ghoshnaa pratipaadit by the Council of Trent saath an anathema viruddh anyone jo asweekrut is.
Blessed sacrament is a devotional pad prayukt in the roman catholic Church to refer to the eucharistic prajati ( the deh or rakt of messiah ).
The following is a suchi of collejon and vishvavidhyalayon in the u.S. rajya of louisiana.
A choti story is a brief kaary of sahitya, praayah likhaa in katha gadhy.
ubharate isse earlier maukhik storytelling paramparaon in the 17th sadi, the choti story rai grown to encompass a deh of work so diverse as to defy aasaan characterization.
at iske most prototypical the choti story suvidhaayen a choti daal of namit varna, and focuses on a self-contained ghatana with the intent of evoking a `` single effect '' or manodasha.
in so doing, choti stories make upyog of plat, resonance, or other dynamic components to a far greater oopaadhi than is theth of an kissa, yet to a far lesser degree than a anokhaa.
jabaki the choti story is largely pruthak isse the anokhaa, authors of dono generally chithran isse a aam pool of saahitiyik takneekon.
choti stories have no niyat length.
in terms of word ginati vahin is no aadhikarik demarcation between an anecdote, a short story, and a anokhaa.
balki, the rup 's paramiters hai die by the rhetorical and vyaavhaarik context in jisase a die story is utpaadit or mana, so ki what constitutes a choti story may differ between genres, deshon, eras, and tikaakaron.
Like the novel, the short story 's predominant shape reflects the maange of the uplabdhiyaan markets liye prakaashan, or the evolution of the rup seems closely tied to the evolution of the prakaashan udyog or the sabamishan dishanirdesh of iske constituent gharon.
The short story has maharoom mana dono an apprenticeship form preceding more lengthy works, or a crafted rup in iske apana right, ekatrit saath in kitabe of samaan lambaai, price, or vitaran as novels.
choti story writers may define unke works as bhaag of the kalakaari or nijee abhivyakti of the rup.
They may bhi attempt to resist categorization by vidha and phixd rup.
Area code in Michigan
kshetrafal code 810 is the telephone kshetrafal code serving purvi michigan.
the raccoon (, Procyon lotor ), sometimes spelled racoon, also known as the aam raccoon, uttar American raccoon, northern raccoon or colloquially as kun, is a medium-sized standhari native to uttar america.
the raccoon is the largest of the procyonid parivaar, having a body lambaai of or a body vazan of.
iske grayish kot zyaadaatar consists of ghanaa underfur jisase insulates viruddh cold weather.
Two of the raccoon 's sabase distinctive suvidhaayen hai iske atyadhik dexterous front panje or iske facial mukhauta, which hai vishaywastu in the mythology of anek Native American janajatiyon.
Raccoons are noted liye unke pragna, saath adhyayan prardashit ki they hai samarth to yaad the samaadhaan to kaary liye up to teen saalo.
the diet of the omnivorous raccoon, jisase is praayah nocturnal, consists of parichay 40 % invertebrates, 33 % plant bhojan, or 27 % vertebrates.
the asli habitats of the raccoon hai patjhadi or mixed wanon, lakin due to their adaptability ve have vistaarit their dayera to mountainous kshetron, tateey marshes, or shahari kshetron, jahaan some homeowners consider unhen to be pidakon.
as a result of escapes or deliberate introductions in the mid-20th century, raccoons hai abhi also vitarit across the European menland, the Caucasus pradesh or japani.
haalanki previously thought to be solitary, vahin is abhi evidence ki raccoons engage in gender-specific soshal bartaav.
sambandhit females praayah share a common kshetrafal, while unrelated males sajiv together in samooh of up to chaar pashu to maintain unke positions viruddh videshi males dauraan the mating season, and other sambhavit akramanakariyon.
ghar range sizes vary anywhere isse 3 hectare ( 7 acre ) liye females in shaharon to 50 km2 ( 20 sq mi ) liye males in prairies.
After a gestation period of parichay 65 dinon, do to paanch yang, known as `` kits '', hai born in vasant.
the kits hai subsequently raised by unke mother jabatak dispersion in let patan.
haalanki captive raccoons have maharoom known to sajiv over 20 saalo, their ausat jivan expectancy in the junglee is tabhi 1.8 to 3.1 saalo.
in many kshetron, shikaar and vehicular chot are the do most common kalyankari of maut.
The 2010 haiti earthquake thi a catastrophic pariman 7.0 Mw bukamp, with an uparicendre nikat the kasbaa of léogâne ( ouest Department ), lagbhag west of port-au-prince, haiti 's puunji.
the bukamp occurred at 16:53 local samay ( 21:53 utc ) on Tuesday, 12 janvari 2010.
By 24 January, at least 52 aftershocks measuring 4.5 or greater tha been ankit.
an estimated teen lakh logon yahood prabhavit by the bukamp.
the highest vishwasaneey death ginati thi anumaanit at 220,000.
haitian sarkari estimates yahood ucchtar.
the government of haiti anumaanit ki 250,000 nivas or 30,000 vanijyik imaaraten tha collapsed or were severely damaged.
the earthquake caused major kshati in Port-au-Prince, jacmel or anya settlements in the pradesh.
anek notable landmark imaaraten yahood significantly damaged or nasht, sahit the adhyakshiya rajmahal, the National Assembly bhawan, the port-au-prince girjaghar, and the pramukh karawas.
among those killed were archbishop of Port-au-Prince Joseph Serge miot, or vipaksh netaa micha gaillard.
The mukhyalay of the sanyukt raashtra Stabilization mishan in Haiti ( MINUSTAH ), located in the capital, collapsed, killing anek, sahit the mishan 's mukhya, Hédi annabi.
anek deshon responded to appeals liye humanitarian sahaayta, pledging nidhi and dispatching bachaav or chikitsa teams, ejiniers and support karmiyon.
sanchaar pranaaliyon, air, jameen, or sea transport suvidhaayen, aspataal, or vidyut sanjaal tha maharoom kshatigrast by the bukamp, jisase hampered bachaav or sahaayta efforts ; bhram over jo thi in charge, air trekkic congestion, or samasyaayein saath prioritisation of flite further jatil jaldi relief kaary.
port-au-prince 's morgues yahood overwhelmed saath tens of hazaron of laashen.
ye tha to be dafn in dravyaman qabron.
as rescues tailed band, aapurtiyan, chikitsa parvaah and swatchta became priorities.
deree in sahaayta vitaran led to engri appeals isse sahaayta majdoor and survivors, or luutane or viral hinsa yahood observed.
on 22 janvari the United raashtra vikhyath that the apaat phase of the raahat operation was aarekhan to a band, or on the following din the haitian sarkari officially pukaara band the dhundhen for survivors.
Mister Ed is a fictional talking ghoda, originally appearing in choti kahaniyaan by walter R. Brooks, and baad in an amareeki television halaat comedy utpaadit by filmways ki pehla aired in anuprayog isse janvari 5 to July 2, 1961, or tab on sibies isse aktubar 1, 1961 to farvari 6, 1966.
the sitaron of the dikhaaen yahood mistar ed, a palomino horse who could `` talk '', nibhaai by gelding baansuri Harvester or voiced by purv Western star Allan Lane ( who went uncredited liye the sampurna lambaai of the shrenee ), or his owner, an eccentric or enormously klutzy, yet friendly, vaastu named Wilbur post ( Alan yang ).
Much of the kaarykram 's humar stemmed isse the fact mistar Ed hota speak only to wilbur, as well as ed 's notoriety as a troublemaker.
anya running chutkule centered on wilbur 's akshar hone a vishaal klutz or inadvertently causing nuqasaan to himself or anya.
according to the dikhaaen 's producer, arthur lubin, yang was chosen as the sise character kuki he `` just laga jaise the sort of guy a horse hota talk to ''.
lubin, a friend of mae west, scored a takhtapalat by persuading the screen pratik to atithi star in ek apisod.
In the sanyukt States, reruns aired on Nick at nite isse kooch 3, 1986, to farvari 1, 1993.
sistar stesan TV jameen bhi reran the dikhaaen isse 1996–98 and again isse 2003-06.
The shrenee is philhal broadcast prayek morning on This tv, saath saath rajmarg patrol, or The pati duk dikhaaen.
it is also philhal broadcast on hallmark film channel.
as of janvari 1, 2011, the pehla do seasons of the show hai uplabdhiyaan on hulu.
the Rapture is a pad in isai eschatology jisase refers to the `` hone caught up '' discussed in 1 thessalonians 4:17, when the `` murde in messiah '' or `` we jo are alive or remain '' hoga be `` caught up in the badal '' to meet `` the rab in the air ''.
the pad `` rapture '' is used in at least do senses.
in the pre-tribulation drishy, a samooh of people hoga be left peeche on dharti baad another samooh vastutah leaves `` to milen the rab in the air. ''
This is abhi the sabase aam use of the pad, visheshkar among fundamentalist isaayiyon and in the sanyukt rajya.
the anya, puraani upyog of the pad `` Rapture '' is simply as a paryaay liye the final qayamat generally, without a belief that a samooh of logon is baayein behind on dharti liye an extended tribulation period baad the kaarykram of 1 thessalonians 4:17.
This bhed is mahatvapurn as kuch prakaar of Christianity never refer to `` the rapture '' in dharmik education, lakin might upyog the puraani or more saamaanya bhav of the shabd `` rapture '' in referring to what happens dauraan the final qayamat.
vahin are anek drishy among isaayiyon regarding the samay of Christ 's vaapasi ( including whether it hoga occur in ek event or do ), or vibhinn drishy regarding the destination of the aerial mehafil varnit in 1 thessalonians 4.
denominations aise as roman catholics, paramparaagat Christians, lutheran Christians, and Reformed isaayiyon maananaa in a rapture tabhi in the sense of a general final qayamat, jab Christ returns a single time.
They do nahin maananaa ki a group of logon is left behind on earth for an vistaarit tribulation kaal baad the kaarykram of 1 Thessalonians 4:17.
Pre-tribulation rapture dharamshastra thi developed in the 1830s by jon nelson Darby or the plymouth brethren, or popularized in the sanyukt rajya in the jaldi 20th sadi by the chaudee parisancharan of the scofield sandarbh Bible.
kris nathan Humphries ( born farvari 6, 1985 ) is an American professional basket player saath the Brooklyn net.
the philistine shaharon of gaja, Ashdod, ashkelon, Ekron, or Gath
The Philistines (,,, or ;, plištim ), Pleshet or Peleset, yahood a logon jo as part of the samudr peoples appeared in the southern coastal area of Canaan at the beginning of the Iron aayu ( circa 1175 bc ), sabase probably isse the igian region.
According to the bible, they shasit the paanch city-states ( the `` philistine pentapolis '' ) of gaja, ashkelon, ashdod, ekron and Gath, isse Wadi gaja in the south to the yarqon nadi in the uttar, lakin saath no phixd kinaaraa to the east.
the bible paints unhen as the Kingdom of israel 's sabase dangerous dushman.
Originating kahi in the igian, their janasankhyikee thi around 25,000 in the 12th sadi bc, rising to a peak of 30,000 in the 11th century BC, of jisase the igian element thi nahin adhik than half the total, or shaayad much less.
nothing is gyaat for nishchit parichay the asli bhashaa or languages of the philistines, however they yahood nahin bhaag of the samiti canaanite population.
vahin is kuch simit pramaan in favour of the assumption ki the philistines were Indo-European-speakers either isse unaniyon and/or Luwian adhyakshon isse the coast of asia Minor.
philistine-related shabd mila in the bible are not samiti, or can in kuch maamle, with reserveshan, be traced waapas to proto-indo-european jaden.
by the beginning of the 1st milinium BCE ve tha apanaaya the general canaanite bhashaa of the pradesh.
the hathiyaarband sevaayen vokational yogyata bydaree ( ASVAB ) is a anek chunaav pareekshan, administered by the sanyukt States sainya pravesh Processing cmand, used to determine qualification liye enlistment in the sanyukt States armed shaktiyaan.
it is praayah offered to American unchi skool vidhyaarthee when they are in the 10th, 11th or 12th grad, haalanki anyone yogya liye enlistment may take it.
haalanki the pareekshan is administered by the military, it is not ( or never rai been ) a aavashyaktaa ki a test-taker saath a qualifying score enlist in the hathiyaarband shaktiyaan.
In vittiya hisaab, a santulan chadar or bayaan of vittiya position is a saransh of the financial balances of a ekmaatr bandobast, a business saajhedaari, a nigam or anya kaarobaar sanghathan, aise as an llc or an LLP.
asset, dendaree or swaamitv equity hai soochibaddh as of a vishisht tithi, aise as the samaapt of iske vittiya saal.
a santulan sheet is praayah varnit as a `` snapashot of a company 's vittiya condition ''.
of the chaar moulik vittiya statements, the santulan sheet is the tabhi statement jisase applies to a single point in samay of a kaarobaar ' panchang year.
a maanak company santulan chadar rai teen bhaag : asset, liabilities or ownership equity.
the pramukh shrenee of assets hai usually soochibaddh pehla, or typically in anukram of chalanidhi.
Assets are followed by the dendaree.
the antar between the asset or the liabilities is gyaat as equity or the jaal asset or the jaal laayak or puunji of the company or according to the hisaab sameekaran, net worth must equal asset rin liabilities.
another rasta to dekh at the vahi sameekaran is ki asset equals liabilities plus owner 's equity.
looking at the equation in this rasta shows kaisaa asset yahood financed : either by borrowing dhan ( deyta ) or by using the maalik 's dhan ( maalik 's equity ).
santulan chaadaren hai praayah presented saath asset in ek khand and liabilities or jaal laayak in the other khand with the two bhaag `` balancing. ''
A business oparating entirely in nakadi can maap iske profits by withdrawing the sampurna bainko santulan at the samaapt of the kaal, plus koi nakadi in haath.
however, many vyavsaayon hai nahin paid tatkaal ; they nirmaan up inventories of goods or ve acquire imaaraten and upkaran.
in anya shabd : vyavsaayon have asset and so ve can nahin, bhi if they want to, tatkaal phere these into cash at the end of each kaal.
praayah, ye vyavsaayon owe money to suppliers or to tax adhikariyon, or the proprietors do nahin withdraw sab unke asli puunji or profits at the samaapt of prayek kaal.
in anya shabd vyavsaayon bhi have dendaree.
.17 hornady megnam rimfire, commonly gyaat as the.17 hmr, is a rimfire rifl cartridge viksit by the ammunition company hornady in 2002.
it descended isse the.22 Magnum by necking down the.22 megnam case to take a.17 calibur ( 4.5 mm ) goli, or it is more costly to shoot than paramparaagat.22 calibur rimfire kaartoos.
commonly loaded saath a 17 anaaj ( 1.1 g ) goli, it can uddhaar muzzle velocities in excess of 2550 ft/s ( 775 m/s ).
The schaumburg flyers yahood a professional baseball toli based in schaumburg, Illinois, in the sanyukt States.
The flyers yahood to be a charter sadsy of the North amareeki lig, which is nahin affiliated saath Major League besabaal, however, the team folded in kooch 2011, pehle ve began khel in the nal.
From the 1999 season to the 2010 season, the Flyers nibhaai unke ghar khel at alexian field, nikat the elgin o'hare expresve.
the toli formerly nibhaai in Thunder Bay, ontario, jahaan ve yahood gyaat as the thunder khadi whiskey Jacks.
The toli thi originally a sadsy of the uttari lig isse 1993 to 2010.
On july 27, 2009, the Flyers nibhaai mejabaan to battle of the lingon II, which pitted the flyers viruddh the neshnal Pro Fastpitch softball Champions, the chicago daakuon.
nibhaai by aadhikarik softball rules, the khel was seen by an atipravaah record crowd of 8,918, or thi won by the daakuon 4-2.
in 1999, the flyers niyukt unke pehla manager, ron kittle.
kittle is behtareen gyaat liye uske playing days saath the chicago shwet sox, or former chicago Cubs or shwet Sox khilaadi greg hibbard thi the pitching coach.
During the early saalo of the franchise, kittle kiya a shrenee of TV commercials to prachaar the team, using the gimmick `` ma Kittle. '' jahaan he nibhaai dono khud or his `` ma. ''
The vigyaapan were kaamyaab at sparking kuch aarambhik byaaj in the team as the flyers hoped to chori dur fans isse the aasapaas ken county cougars.
the ad mimicked the atyadhik kaamyaab Converse vigyaapan where laire johnson strecchar as dono himself or `` gramama. ''
at the samaapt of the 2001 ritu, however, kittle resigned isse uske managerial sthiti, and gym boynewicz thi niyukt to badalen use.
in 2004, the flyers bana it to the uttari lig championships Series viruddh the St. paul santo.
Despite agrani the five-game series 2-1, schaumburg aakhirkaar lost the shrenee.
in khel 5, flyers raahat pitcher Lyle prempas anumat a khel jeetna grand slam by St. paul infielder mark mirizzi in the naveen inning.
the flyers appeared in the Northern lig Playoffs chaar times ( 1999, 2003, 2004, 2006 ) but never won the championships.
Some famous players who nibhaai for the flyers yahood former ockland a 's outfielder ozzie Canseco or purv Chicago Cubs outfielder Dwight Smith.
Rachel Hannah waayiz ( / vaais / ; born 7 March 1970 ) is an angrezi filmi or theatre actress and purv faishan model.
Weisz began uske acting kariyar at Trinity haul, Cambridge in the early 1990s, tab started working in television, appearing in Inspector morse, the angrejon mini-series skarlet and Black, or the television filmi Advocates ii.
wo made uske film début in the filmi maut yantra ( 1994 ), but uske bhedan role came in the filmi kadi pratikriya ( 1996 ), agrani to a high-profile bhoomika as evalin carnahan-o'connell in the films The Mummy ( 1999 ) or the mummy ritern ( 2001 ).
anya notable films featuring waayiz hai dushman at the gates, parichay a ladke, constantine, the fawwara or the nirantar Gardener, liye jisase wo praapt an Academy puraskaar, a sunahari globe or a Screen abhinaytaon ' gild puraskaar for her supporting role as tesa quayle.
She rai maharoom labelled an `` English rose '' chunki her naaballig bhoomika in chori saundarya ( 1996 ).
waayiz bhi works in theatre.
uske stage bhedan thi the 1994 punaruddhar of noël Coward 's khel dizine liye jeena, which arjeet uske the landan aalochakon Circle puraskaar liye the sabase honhaar newcomer.
waayiz 's pradarshan bhi shaamil the 1999 donmar godaam utpaadan of Tennessee williams ' ekaek, pichhlaa garmiyaan, and unke 2009 punaruddhar of a streetkar namit khwaahish.
uske portrayal of blanche dubois in the latter khel arjeet her the aalochakon ' vrutt Theatre puraskaar liye Best abhinetri.
She has recently nibhaai evanora in oz the great or shaktishaalee.
the amareeki civil War ( acw ), bhi gyaat as the yuddh between the rajya or bas the civil yuddh ( see namakaran ), thi a civil yuddh ladaa isse 1861 to 1865 between the sanyukt rajya ( the `` Union '' or the `` uttar '' ) and several dakshini slave rajya ki ghoshit unke secession or formed the Confederate rajya of America ( the `` confederacy '' or the `` dakshin '' ).
The yuddh had iske origin in the samasya of slavery, visheshkar the ekstansion of gulaami into the pashchimi territories.
Foreign shaktiyaan kiya nahin intervene.
baad four saalo of khooni combat ki baayein over 600,000 sainiko murde or nasht much of the dakshin 's avasanrachana, the Confederacy collapsed, gulaami thi abolished, or the difficult punarnirmaan prakram of restoring national ekta or guaranteeing adhikaron to the freed slave began.
in the 1860 presidential election, republicans, led by Abraham lincoln, opposed expanding slavery into sanyukt rajya ' territories.
lincoln won, but before his udghaatan on kooch 4, 1861, seven cotton-based slave states formed the confederacy.
outgoing loktantric adhyaksh james bukanan and the aavak republicans asweekrut secession as illegal.
lincoln 's inaugural pataa ghoshit uske prashasan would nahin initiate civil yuddh.
aath remaining slave states continued to reject kals liye secession.
Confederate shaktiyaan jabt numerous sangheey durgon within territory claimed by the confederacy.
a salaam sammelan vifal to find a compromise, and dono pahalu prepared liye yuddh.
the Confederates assumed ki europea deshon yahood so nirbhar on `` king Cotton `` that they hota intervene ; none kiya or none pahachaanaa the nai confederate rajya of America.
hostilities began on april 12, 1861, jab Confederate shaktiyaan fired upon Fort sumter, a kunjee fort yojit by Union troops in dakshin carolina.
lincoln pukaara liye prayek rajya to provide sainikon to retake the fort ; consequently, chaar adhik slave rajya joined the confederacy, bringing unke kul to gyaarah.
the Union jald niyantrit the kinaaraa states and sthapit a naval nakebandi ki abodh the dakshini arthvyavastha.
the Eastern theatre was inconclusive in 1861–62.
The patjhad 1862 Confederate abhiyaan into Maryland ( a Union rajya ) ended saath confederate retreat at the Battle of Antietam, dissuading British hastkshep.
lincoln jari the Emancipation udghoshnaa, jisase bana samaapti gulaami a yuddh goal.
to the west, by garmiyaan 1862 the sangh nasht the Confederate river navy, tab much of unke western sena, or the sangh at vicksburg split the Confederacy in do at the Mississippi nadi.
in 1863, robert E. Lee 's confederate incursion uttar ended at the battle of Gettysburg.
pashchimi safaltaaon led to Ulysses S. Grant command of all Union armies in 1864.
in the pashchimi Theater, wiliam T. Sherman drove east to capture atlanta and marched to the samudr, destroying confederate avasanrachana saath the way.
the sangh marshaled the sansaadhan or janashakti to akraman the Confederacy isse sab directions, and could afford to fight ladaaiyon of apgharshan through the overland abhiyaan towards Richmond, the Confederate puunji.
the defending confederate fouj vifal, leading to lee 's surrender to grant at appomattox adaalat house on April 9, 1865.
the amareeki Civil yuddh thi ek of the earliest sachcha audyogic wars.
railroads, the telegraph, steamships, or mass-produced hathiyaar yahood employed extensively.
the mobilization of civilian kaarkaanon, mines, shipyards, banks, parivahan and food aapurtiyan sab foreshadowed World yuddh i.
It remains the deadliest war in amareeki history, resulting in the deaths of an anumaanit 750,000 soldiers or an undetermined number of civilian hataahat.
itihaaskaar jon huddleston estimates the maut toll at ten pratishat of sab Northern males 20–45 years boodha, or 30 pratishat of all dakshini shwet males aged 18–40.
aalu bread is a rup of bread in jisase potato replaces a portion of the niyamit wheat aataa.
It is cooked in a variety of vidhi, sahit by baking it on a hot tave or pan, or in an oven.
It may be leavened or unleavened, or may have a kismein of other sanghatak baked into it.
The anupaat of aalu to gehun aataa varies significantly isse racippi to racippi, saath kuch vyanjanon having a majority of aalu, and anya having a bahumat of gehun aataa.
kuch recipes call liye mashed aalu, saath others calling liye nirjalit aalu flakes.
it is uplabdhiyaan as a commercial utpaada in anek deshon, saath samaan variations in sanghatak, cooking method, or anya parivartaneey.
the prashanth samay mandal observes maanak samay by subtracting aath ghanton isse samanvit saarvbhaumik samay ( ).
the clock samay in is mandal is aadhaarit on the ausat saura samay of the 120th madhyahn west of the Greenwich Observatory.
During daylight saving time, iske samay ofaset is.
In the United rajya and canada, is samay mandal is generically called prashanth samay ( PT ).
Specifically, it is Pacific maanak samay ( PST ) jab observing maanak samay ( sheet ), or Pacific daylight samay ( pediti ) jab observing daylight chhayankan samay ( garmiyaan ).
Most of canada upyog daylight saving samay.
in mexico the UTC−8 samay mandal is gyaat as the Northwest mandal, which is synchronized saath the u.S. PDT daylight chhayankan anusuchee.
the largest nagar in the Pacific samay mandal is los angeles in california isse USA ; the nagar 's mahanagar kshetrafal is the largest in the mandal.
the zone is ek ghanta ahead of the alaska samay Zone, ek hour peeche the pahaad samay mandal or teen ghanton peeche the purvi samay mandal.
Stereo 8, commonly gyaat as the eight-track cartrij, eight-track tape, or bas eight-track, is a magnetic tepe dhwani recording praudyogiki.
it thi lokapriy in the sanyukt rajya from the mid-1960s through to the jaldi 1980s, lakin thi apekshaakrit unknown in anek europea countries.
it was, however, bahut lokapriy in the United Kingdom dauraan is kaal.
sterio 8 thi nirmit in 1964 by a consortium led by Bill lear of lear Jet nigam, saath saath Ampex, ghat motor company, General motors, motorola, and aaarasie victor record ( aaarasie ).
it thi a further vikaas of the samaan Stereo-Pak four-track cartrij created by arl `` madman '' muntz.
a baad quadraphonic sanskaran of the format thi ghoshit by aaarasie in april 1970 or pehla known as Quad-8, tab later badla to bas q8.
rameces ii ( 1303 BC – july or agast 1213 bc ; mishra :, alternatively transcribed as rameses or ramses or ), referred to as rameces the Great, thi the teesraa mishra pharaoh ( reigned 1279 BC – 1213 bc ) of the Nineteenth rajvansh.
He is often regarded as the greatest, sabase manaaye, or most powerful pharaoh of the mishra Empire.
uske successors and later unhone called use the `` great purvaj. ''
rameces II led anek military rijhaane into the levant, re-asserting mishra control over canaan.
he bhi led rijhaane to the dakshin, into nubia, commemorated in inscriptions at Beit el-Wali and gerf hussein.
At aayu chaudaa, rameces thi niyukt Prince regent by his father seti I.
he is believed to have liya the singhaasana in his let teens or is known to have ruled mishra isse 1279 bc to 1213 bc liye 66 saalo and 2 maheene, according to dono manetho or Egypt 's samakaleen aitihaasik record.
he thi ekbar said to have jiya to be 99 saalo old, lakin it is more sambhavit that he died in uske 90th or 91st saal.
if he became pharaoh in 1279 bc as sabase egyptologists today maananaa, he would have assumed the throne on may 31, 1279 bc, based on uske gyaat accession tithi of iii shemu din 27.
rameces ii manaaye an unprecedented 14 sed tyohaar ( the first yojit baad tees saalo of a pharaoh 's reign, and tab prayek teen saalo ) dauraan uske reign—more than koi anya pharaoh.
On his maut, he thi dafn in a makbara in the ghati of the kings ; his deh thi baad sthanantarit to a royal cache jahaan it was discovered in 1881, or is abhi on display in the cairo Museum.
the early bhaag of his shasankaal was kendrit on bhawan shaharon, mandiron and monuments.
he sthapit the nagar of pi-ramesses in the nile delta as his nai puunji or pramukh aadhaar for uske abhiyaan in syrian.
This city thi built on the remains of the nagar of Avaris, the puunji of the Hyksos jab ve took over, or thi the sthaan of the main temple of niyat.
he is bhi gyaat as Ozymandias in the Greek strot, from a lipyantaran into unani of a bhaag of Ramesses 's singhaasana naam,, `` ra 's mighty sachai, chosen of ra ''.
the Texas rangeron are a peshewar besabaal team stith in the dallas-fort Worth metroplex, based in arlington, Texas.
the rangeron matadhikaar is philhal a sadsy of the pashchimi prabhag of pramukh League besabaal 's amareeki lig.
Since, the rangeron have nibhaai in rangeron Ballpark in arlington in Arlington, texas.
the team 's name is udhaar isse the famous law enforcement agency of the vahi naam.
The matadhikaar thi sthapit in 1961 by the name of the Washington seenetteron, an expansion toli awarded to Washington, d.C., after the city 's pehla ballclub, the asli washington Senators, sthanantarit to minesota or became the Twins.
After the ritu, the nai Senators sthanantarit to arlington, texas, or debuted as the rangeron the following vasant.
The texas Rangers Baseball Club rai made chah dikhaave in the emelbi postseason, sab following prabhag championships, in 1996, 1998, 1999, 2010, 2011 or 2012.
in 2010, the rangeron unnat past the prabhag Series liye the pehla samay, defeating the tampa Bay kirane.
Texas tab brought ghar unke pehla amareeki lig pennant baad dhadkan the nai york yankis in six khel.
in the 2010 sansar Series, the matadhikaar 's pehla, the rangeron giri to the san francisco diggaj in five games.
unke lone vijay made them the pehla texas toli to jeet a sansar shrenee game, the huston Astros having maharoom swept in their 2005 sansar shrenee appearance.
ve doharaaya as amareeki lig champions the following year, then khoyaa the 2011 sansar shrenee to the st. lui cardinals in saat games.
gaius julius seizar (, july 100 bc – 15 kooch 44 BC ) thi a roman general, statesman, kaunsul or notable lekhak of latin gadhy.
he nibhaai a najuk bhoomika in the kaarykram ki led to the nidhan of the roman Republic or the vruddhi of the roman Empire.
in 60 BC, seizar, Crassus or pompey formed a political gathbandhan that was to dominate roman raajnneeti liye anek years.
unke attempts to amass shakti through populist tactics yahood opposed by the roodhiwaadee elite bheetar the roman seenet, among unhen keto the Younger with the barambar support of siciro.
seizar 's conquest of gaul, completed by 51 bc, vistaarit rome 's territory to the English Channel or the Rhine.
seizar became the pehla roman saamaanya to cross dono jab he nirmit a sethu aarpaar the Rhine and conducted the pehla akraman of Britain.
These uplabdhiyaan granted use bemail sainya shakti and threatened to grahan the khadaa of pompey, jo had realigned khud saath the seenet baad the death of Crassus in 53 bc.
saath the gallic yudhon concluded, the Senate ordered seizar to lay down uske military cmand or return to rome.
seizar refused, or chihnit uske defiance in 49 BC by crossing the rubicon with a lijan, leaving uske praant or illegally entering Roman territory antargat arms.
civil war resulted, from jisase he ubhara as the unrivaled leader of rome.
After assuming control of sarkari, seizar began a program of social and governmental reforms, sahit the sristi of the Julian panchang.
he kendrikrut the afasarshahi of the ganatantr and was aakhirkaar proclaimed `` taanashaah in perpetuity ''.
But the underlying political virodh tha not been resolved, or on the Ides of kooch ( 15 kooch ) 44 bc, seizar thi assassinated by a samooh of senators led by marcus Junius brookes.
A nai shrenee of civil yudhon broke out, or the constitutional sarkari of the Republic thi never lauti.
seizar 's apanaaya vaaris octavian, baad gyaat as Augustus, rose to ekmaatr power, and the era of the roman Empire began.
Much of seizar 's jivan is known from uske apana khate of uske military campaigns, or isse other samakaleen strot, mukhyatah the akshar and speeches of Cicero or the aitihaasik kritiyaan of sallust.
the baad biographies of seizar by suetonius or plutark are bhi pramukh sources.
Caesar is deemed to be ek of the mahanatam sainya commanders of itihaas.
bhashaai map of serial, camerun, or Benin.
Sign in angrezi, outside the vishvavidhyalayon of lagos
vahin hai sainkadon of bhashaaen bolaa in serial.
the pramukh bhashaaen hai yoruba, hausa, Igbo, ido, fulfulde, kanuri, or ibb.
the aadhikarik bhashaa of serial, angrezi, the purv colonial bhashaa, thi chuni to sukar the cultural and bhashaai ekta of the desh.
angrezi, however, remains an vishesh bachaana of the desh 's urban elite, or is nahin widely bolaa in rural kshetron, jisase comprise teen quarters of the deshon janasankhyikee.
serial 's linguistic diversity is a microcosm of Africa as a puure, encompassing teen pramukh africa bhashaaen pariwaron : afroasiatic, Nilo-Saharan, or niger–congo.
serial bhi rai anek as-yet unclassified bhashaaen, aise as Cen tuum, which may represent a relic of an even greater vividhta prior to the sprad of the current bhashaa pariwaron.
daucus carota ( aam names include junglee gaajar, ( uk ) bird 's nest, bishap 's lace, or maharani Anne 's lace ( North america ) ) is a flowering sanyantr in the parivaar apiaceae, deshi to shitoshna regions of europea, dakshinpaschim Asia or naturalised to uttar america or Australia.
domesticated gaajar are cultivars of a subspecies, Daucus carota subsp. sativus.
in the United rajya, the title of federal nyaayadhish usually means a nyaayadhish niyukt by the adhyaksh of the sanyukt rajya and pushti by the sanyukt States seenet pursuant to the niyukti clause in aalekh ii of the sanyukt States samvidhan.
in addition to the Supreme Court of the United States, jinaki existence and kuch pahaluon of jinaki kshetradhikaar hai beyond the sanvaidhanik shakti of Congress to alter, adhiniyamon of congress have sthapit 13 nyaayalayon of appeals ( bhi pukaara `` circuit nyaayalayon '' ) saath appellate kshetradhikaar over alag regions of the sanyukt rajya, and 94 United rajya zila nyaayalayon.
prayek nyaayadhish niyukt to aise a adaalat may be categorized as a federal nyaayadhish ; aise sthitiyaan shaamil the Chief insaaf and Associate justices of the param Court, circuit nyaayadhishon of the nyaayalayon of appeals, or zila nyaayadhishon of the sanyukt rajya district nyaayalayon.
sab of ye nyaayadhishon varnit yun far hai referred to sometimes as `` aalekh iii nyaayadhishon '' kuki they kasarat the nyaayik shakti vested in the judicial shakha of the sangheey government by aalekh iii of the u.S. Constitution.
In jod, judges of the Court of antarrashtriya vyapaar kasarat nyaayik shakti pursuant to aalekh iii.
anya nyaayadhishon sevarat in the sangheey nyaayalayon, including magistrate nyaayadhishon or diwaliyapan nyaayadhishon, are bhi sometimes referred to as `` sangheey nyaayadhishon '' ; however, ve hai neither niyukt by the President nor pushti by the seenet, and unke power garbhashayi isse aalekh I bajaay.
See aalekh i and aalekh iii tribunals.
Nelly Kim fartado ( born disambar 2, 1978 ) is a canadai singer, songwriter or abhinetri.
wo rai bechi 20 lakh albums vishwavyaapee or more 20 million singles, bringing her kul bikri to over 40 million records around the world.
fartado pehla gained fame saath her debyue album, vaah, nail !
, jisase shakhit do kaamyaab singles, `` i 'm Like a bird `` or `` phere band the lite ``. ``
I 'm jaise a bird '' jiti a 2001 juno puraskaar liye single of the saal or a 2002 Grammy Award liye behtareen Female pop gayan pradarshan.
In 2003, fartado released loakgeet, which produced teen antarrashtriya singles— `` powerless ( kah kayaa tum Want ) ``, `` koshish `` or `` força ``.
teen saalo baad wo released dhilaa, a vishwavyaapee vanijyik kamyaabi.
the album shakhit chaar number-one hits : `` promiscuous ``, `` maneater ``, `` kah it sahi `` or `` sab Good bate ( aaiye to an samaapt ) ``.
baad a three-year brake, wo released uske pehla full-length spani album, mi yojana, or fartado received a latin grami liye behtareen maadaa pop gayan album.
In 2012, fartado 's chauthi english-language studio album, The spirit Indestructible thi released.
Furtado 's kaary has arjeet uske numerous puraskaar or accolades, sahit 2 grami puraskaar, 10 Juno puraskaar, 3 MuchMusic video Awards and a star on Canada 's chalanaa of Fame.
jeev of the raatri is the tenth studio album by Kiss.
it is the band 's pichhlaa album liye kasablanka Records, the only label the group tha kabhi ankit liye at ki point.
the album was dedicated to the memory of kasablanka sansthaapak and early chumban samarthak Neil Bogart, jo tha died of karkat dauraan the recording sessions.
it is also the band 's last album ankit saath Ace frehley credited as an aadhikarik sadsy ( until 1998 's psycho sarkas ), or its pehla album saath vinnie vincent as the initially uncredited lead guitarist ( vincent hota baad be credited, but not pradarshit pictorially on the cover, of 1985 's reissue of the album ).
Touch is a nirnaayak arthath of receiving soochna.
This photo shows tactile markings identifying seedhiyaan liye visually impaired logon.
the somatosensory pranali is a vividh samvedi pranali comprising the receptors or prasanskaran kendron to upaj the sensory modalities aise as tach, taapmaana, proprioception ( body sthiti ), or nociception ( pidaa ).
the samvedi receptors cover the skin and epithelia, skeletal muscles, haddiyon or joints, aatanrik organs, or the cardiovascular system.
jabaki touch is considered ek of the paanch paramparaagat hosh, the chhap of touch is formed from several modalities.
in ayurvigyaan, the colloquial term `` tach '' is praayah replaced saath `` daihik hosh '' to behatar pratibimbit the kismein of mechanisms involved.
daihik hosh hai sometimes referred to as somesthetic senses, with the samajhnaa that somesthesis includes touch, proprioception or ( depending on upyog ) also haptic perception.
The pranali pratikriyaayein to vividh stimuli using alag receptors : thermoreceptors, nociceptors, mechanoreceptors or chemoreceptors.
hastantaran of information from the receptors gujarata via samvedi nerves through tracts in the spinal cord or into the brain.
Processing primarily occurs in the praathmik somatosensory kshetrafal in the parietal lobe of the dimagi cortex.
the cortical homunculus was devised by wilder penfield.
At iske saralatam, the pranali works jab kaaryaklap in a samvedi neuron is triggered by a specific stimulus aise as ooshmaa ; is signal eventually passes to an kshetrafal in the dimag uniquely attributed to ki area on the body—this allows the processed stimulus to be laga at the sahi sthaan.
the point-to-point maanchitran of the body surfaces in the dimag is pukaara a homunculus or is essential in the creation of a deh image.
is brain-surface ( `` cortical '' ) map is nahin aparivartaneey, however.
naatakeey shift can occur in response to stroke or chot.
Magnolia is a large genus of parichay 210 flowering sanyantr prajati in the subfamily Magnolioideae of the parivaar magnoliaceae.
it is namit baad french botanist piyare magnol.
magnolia is an ancient genus.
appearing pehle madhumakhiyon kiya, the pushp viksit to protsaahit paragan by bhring.
to avoid kshati isse pollinating bhring, the carpels of magnolia pushp are atyadhik mushkil.
Fossilised namoonon of magnolia acuminata have maharoom mila dating to 20 lakh saalo ago, or of plants identifiably belonging to the Magnoliaceae dating to 95 million years pehle.
Another pahalu of magnolias ki is mana to represent an ancestral rajya is ki the pushp bud is enclosed in a bract balki than in sepals ; the perianth bhaag hai undifferentiated and pukaara tepals balki than distinct sepals and pankhudiyon.
magnolia saajha the tepal characteristic with several other flowering plants near the aadhaar of the flowering sanyantr lineage such as Amborella or Nymphaea ( as well as saath many more recently derived plants aise as lily ).
The prakritik dayera of magnolia prajati is a disjunct vitaran, saath a pramukh centre in east or southeast Asia or a dwitiyak centre in purvi uttar america, Central america, the west Indies, or kuch prajati in South America.
angootha
`` shwet Christmas '' is an Irving Berlin song reminiscing about an old-fashioned christmas setting.
According to the ginis kitaab of sansar record, the sanskaran sung by Bing crosby is the best-selling single of sab samay, saath anumaanit bikri in excess of 50 lakh copies vishwavyaapee.
Accounts vary as to jab or jahaan berlin likhaa the song.
One story is that he likhaa it in 1940, in garam La quinta, california, jabaki rahakar at the la quinta hotel, a barambar Hollywood retreat bhi favored by writer-producer frank capra, haalanki the erizona biltmore bhi claims the song thi written vahin.
he often stayed up all night likhane — he bataai uske secretary, `` Grab your kalam or lo down is song.
i bas wrote the best song i 've kabhi likhaa — heck, i bas likhaa the behtareen song ki anybody 's kabhi likhaa ! ''
Cross-country skiing ( or xc skiing ) is a rup of ski touring in jisase bhagidaar propel themselves aarpaar snow-covered terrain using skis or danda.
the activity is lokapriy in many places saath vishaal snowfields, primarily uttari europea, canada, and alaska.
cross-country skiing is part of the nordic skiing khel family, jisase shaamil ski jumping, Nordic sanyukt ( cross-country skiing or ski kud ), biathlon ( skiing or rifl marksmanship ) and ski-orienteering ( jisase shaamil map navigation saath him trails and treks ).
Cross-country skiing is the modern style of skiing that sabase resembles pragaitihaasik skiing, particularly jab kiya in the backcountry.
It is bhi sambandhit to Telemark skiing.
a use kar in United rajya is complementary to bikri tax jisase means, if tum khride a taxable product/services without paying any bikri kar to vikreta, tum owe upyog kar.
tum jarur swah assess upyog kar or adaa it sidhe to the state jahaan the utpaada yahood consumed or sevaayen yahood rendered.
Use kar typically is a tax on consumption but if tum khride an item ( without paying bikri kar ) and store it in your godaam initially, use kar applies to ki sthaan jahaan goods were bhandaarit.
baad on when the final khapat takes place at kuch other sthaan, tum hai jaruri to adaa the avakal of kar rate to the kshetradhikaar of param place of consumption.
This vaaki means ki tum do n't have to pay both bikri Tax as khub as upyog kar on ek lenden.
it is only one or the other that tum hai jaruri to pay on khariden of taxable products/services.
if vikreta karata n't charge koi bikri tax on iske chaalaan then it is the obligation of the buyer to swah assess Use tax or pay it to the uchit jurisdication.
upyog kar is generally charged at the same kar rate of Sales kar but in some rajya the kar rate is alag.
upyog kar is also termed as `` Consumption kar '' or `` upabhokta upyog Tax ''.
A use kar is a prakaar of excise tax levied in the sanyukt States by numerous rajya sarkarein.
it is assessed upon tangible personal property kharida by a nivasee of the assessing rajya liye upyog, storage, or khapat in ki rajya ( nahin liye punarvikray ), regardless of jahaan the purchase took place.
if a nivasee of a rajya makes a khariden bheetar his home rajya, full bikri kar is sashulk at the samay of the lenden.
the use kar applies jab a nivasee of the assessing rajya purchases an mad that is nahin vishay to his ghar state 's bikri tax.
Usually, is is due to out-of-state purchases, as khub as ordering vasteen through the mail, by phone, or over the antarjaal isse anya rajya.
The upyog tax is typically assessed at the vahi rate as the bikri kar that hota have maharoom owed ( if any ) tha the same goods maharoom kharida in the state of nivas.
liye udhaaharan, a resident of Massachusetts, saath a 6.25 % `` bikri and use kar '' on certain goods and sevaayen, purchases non-exempt goods or sevaayen in New hampshire liye upyog, storage or anya consumption in masachusets.
antargat New hampshire vidhi, the New Hampshire vikreta collects no bikri taxes on the goods, but the masachusets purchaser/user jarur still adaa 6.25 % of the bikri price directly to the vibhaag of aay in masachusets as a upyog kar.
if the vahi goods hai kharida in a us rajya ki does collect bikri kar liye aise goods at samay of khariden, whatever taxes yahood sashulk by the kreta to ki rajya can be deducted ( as a kar credit ) isse the 6.25 % owed liye subsequent use, bhandar or khapat in masachusets.
With few exceptions, no rajya 's vikreta hoga charge the deshi rajya 's bikri kar on goods shipped out of state, meaning sab goods ordered from out-of-state hai essentially free of bikri kar.
The kreta is therefore required to ghoshit or adaa the upyog kar to uske ghar rajya on ye ordered goods.
the assessing kshetradhikaar may make the upyog kar dey annually, but kuch states require a masik payment.
liye example, where a Vermont resident rai nahin sashulk at least 6 % bikri kar on property brought in liye upyog in the rajya, Vermont vidhi requires daakhil a kar vaapasi ( rup su-452 or payment ) by the 20th din of the month following non-exempt purchases to avoid a $ 50 let shulk, a 5 % dand prati maah, to a adhiktam of 25 %, plus statutory byaaj on the unpaid tax or dand.
theth chhuton include purchases by charitable non-profit sanghathan or sarkari agenciyon, purchases liye resale in commers, and purchases via `` cazual sales '' by individuals nahin in the ordinary course of business.
bhi note that there hai thousands of tax jurisdictions in the u.S. and anek have ever-changing suchiyaan of vishisht prakaar of goods or sevaayen ki hai not taxable.
as an illustration of the complexities : a 2006 Massachusetts vidhi requires bhugtan of kar on `` pre-written '' ( not custom ) tantra kharida or downlod over the antarjaal for installation or upyog in masachusets, regardless of jahaan it originates.
however, the vaastavik use of the same tantra downlod by a masachusets resident to a sarwar in another rajya remains a non-taxed `` seva ''.
In contrast, Arkansas generally karata nahin kar anything delivered over the Internet ( aise as downlod tantra or music ), magar VoIP which is specifically defined as taxable `` doorsanchaar sevaayen ''.
tantra ( pre-written or custom ) `` vitarit thru a thos medium '' ( i.e., on disk ) in Arkansas is taxable bhi if ordered online, magar `` custom tantra liye a particular graahak '' jisase is non-taxable `` programing sevaayen '' bhi if delivered on a disk.
In sabase maamle, is jatilta is bhaag of the underlying bikri kar laws ; lakin jabaki a brick-and-mortar store rai to deal saath tabhi the bikri kar kanoon of iske apana location, remote vikreta have to saude with the upyog kar laws of anek jurisdictions—up to every us rajya or mohalle ki prakruti unhen, if the company rai a upasthiti or `` nexus '' in prayek state ( as vishaal `` brick-and-mortar '' vikreta like Wal-Mart or behtareen khride do ).
in medicine, pulmonary hypertension ( ph ) is an badhayen of rakt dabaav in the pulmonary dhamni, pulmonary vein, or pulmonary capillaries, saath gyaat as the fefdon vasculature, agrani to shortness of breath, dizziness, fainting, and anya lakshan, all of jisase are exacerbated by exertion.
Pulmonary hypertension can be a severe beemaari saath a markedly decreased exercise sahishnutaa or dil vifaltaa.
it thi first pahachaanaa by Dr. Ernst von romberg in 1891.
according to the sabase recent vargeekaran, it can be one of five alag prakaar : arterial, venous, hypoxic, thromboembolic or miscellaneous.
sahi
sahi
Sanuk, a prabhag of Deckers bahari Corporation, is a footwear brands based in dakshini california.
Sanuk, the Thai word liye majaa, thi santhaapit by dakshini California deshi jeff kelley jab he prarambh bananaa chappal out of indoor-outdoor carpet.
The pehla utpaada nirmit was green carpeted or entitled the `` fer Real '' baad ek shop owner asked if the vilakshantaa sandal was `` liye Real. ''
The fer Real first became a runaway hit through boutique stores or nahin the intended lahare dukaane.
The novelty act thi followed up by a sandal lapeta in taar jaal, a tendua chapai sanskaran, and sheliyaan made out of a poncho saamagree in a variety of rangon.
sanuk rai grown to include style vikalp for main, mahilaon and youth or is distributed aarpaar the sanyukt rajya and in over 50 deshon throughout europea, asia, South america and australia.
sanuk centers itself around a dhanatmak jeevanstyli vakaalat the slogan, `` muskaan, pass it on ! ``.
in computer science, sarani programing bhashaaen ( bhi gyaat as vector or multidimensional languages ) generalize parichaalan on scalars to apply transparently to sadish, matrices, or ucchtar dimensional arrays.
sarani programing primitives concisely express vyapak ideas parichay aankada manipulation.
The str of conciseness can be naatakeey in nishchit maamle : it is nahin uncommon to dhundhen sarani programing language one-liners ki aavashyaktaa adhik than a yugal of pages of java code.
APL, designed by Ken Iverson, thi the pehla programing bhashaa to provide array programing capabilities.
the mnemonic APL refers to the title of uske seminal kitaab `` a programing bhashaa '' or not to arrays prati se. iverson 's yogadan to rigor and spashtataa was sambhawatah adhik mahatvapurn than the saral ekstansion of dimensions to krityon.
in the sanyukt rajya an annuity anubandh is nirmit jab an insured party, praayah an vyaktigat, pays a jivan bime company a single premium ki hoga later be vitarit waapas to the insured party over samay.
annuity contracts traditionally provide a guaranteed vitaran of aay over samay, aise as via phixd payments, jabatak the death of the vyakti or persons namit in the contract or jabatak a final tithi, whichever comes pehla.
however, the bahumat of aadhunik annuity graahak use annuities tabhi to accumulate nidhi free of aay and puunji gains kar or to baad take lump-sum withdrawals bagaiyr using the guaranteed-income-for-life visheshta.
adhyaksh baraak obama.
baraak obama with uske pehla param adaalat nominee, Sonia sotomyor.
Following is a suchi of sab sanyukt States sangheey nyaayadhishon niyukt by adhyaksh Barack obama dauraan uske presidency.
as of april 30, 2013, 187 Obama namankit to Article iii judgeships have maharoom confirmed by the United rajya seenet, namely do justices to the param adaalat of the United rajya, 35 judges to the United States nyaayalayon of appeals and 150 judges to the sanyukt States zila nyaayalayon.
25 further nominations hai philhal pratiksharat seenet action.
There hai philhal 16 vacancies on the United rajya nyaayalayon of appeals, 67 vacancies on the sanyukt rajya zila nyaayalayon or 22 additional sangheey nyaaypalika vacancies that hai anticipated to occur pehle the samaapt of Obama 's second term.
Obama rai nahin made any recess niyukti to the sangheey nyaayalayon.
obama has bana do nominations to the sanyukt rajya adaalat of antarrashtriya vyapaar, an aalekh iii tribunel.
Obama bhi designated baithe nyaayadhish Emily C. heavit of the sanyukt rajya Court of sangheey daawa, an aalekh i adaalat, to be mukhya nyaayadhish of that court.
is is a suchi of airport in mexico, sorted by sthaan.
mexico rai about 1,834 airport, ranking 2nd in kramank of airport in uttar america, and 3rd in the world.
tabhi pramukh National or antarrashtriya airport are shown.
agency karz bhi gyaat as an agency bandha is a security, praayah a bandha, jari by a U.S. government-sponsored agency.
The offerings of these agenciyon hai backed but nahin guarantee by the us sarkari chunki the agenciyon hai nijee entities.
kuch prominent issuers of ye pratibhuti hai chaatr Loan vipanan Association ( sallie mae ), Federal neshnal bandhak Association ( fannie Mae ) and Federal ghar rin Mortgage nigam ( fredy mike ).
agency securities hai praayah exempt isse state or local kar, lakin nahin sangheey kar.
Agency karz is also called an agency security.
the susquehanna Steam electric Station, a khaulate jal riector.
the reactors hai located andar the ytaakar containment imaaraten towards the saamne of the kooling minaaren.
teen nuclear-powered amareeki warships, ( sheersh to bottom ) nuclear cruisers uss bainbridge or uss Long Beach saath uss enterprize the pehla nuclear-powered vayuyan carrier in 1964.
Crew sadasyon hai spelling out oinstin 's mass-energy equivalence sutara e = mc2 on the flight deck.
The roosi nuclear-powered himbhanjak ns yamal on a 1994 sanyukt expedition saath the nsf.
nabhikeey shakti is the upyog of sustained nabhikeey parivardhan to generate ooshmaa or vidyut.
Nuclear power paudhe provided parichay 5.7 % of the world 's energy or 13 % of the sansar 's vidyut, in 2012.
in 2013, the iaea rapat ki there hai 437 operational nabhikeey power reactors ( haalanki nahin sab hai producing vidyut ), in 31 deshon.
In jod, vahin hai lagbhag 140 naval baratan using nabhikeey nodan in aaparishan, sanchalit by kuch 180 riektaron.
vahin is an jari bahes parichay the use of nuclear energy.
Proponents, aise as the sansar nabhikeey sangh, the iaea and Environmentalists liye nabhikeey Energy contend ki nabhikeey shakti is a chirsthayee energy sorce ki reduces carbon emissions.
Opponents, aise as greenpis antarrashtriya or nirs, maananaa ki nabhikeey shakti mudraayen anek khatre to logon and the environment.
nabhikeey shakti sanyantr durghatnaon shaamil the chernobyl vipatti ( 1986 ), phukushima daiichi nuclear vipatti ( 2011 ), or the teen mile dweep durghatana ( 1979 ).
vahin have also been kuch nuclear-powered submarine mishaps.
shodh into suraksha sudhaar is continuing or nuclear sanlayan, believed to be safer, may be prayukt in the bhavishya.
As of 2012, according to the IAEA, worldwide vahin yahood 68 civil nuclear shakti riektaron antargat nirmaan in 15 deshon.
in the us the panktiyaan of almost half iske riektaron have maharoom vistaarit to 60 years, or plans to build another darjan are antargat gambhir vichaar.
However, japani 's 2011 Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster prompted a punarvichaar of nuclear urja niti in anek deshon.
germany decided to close sab iske riektaron by 2022, or Italy rai bain nabhikeey shakti.
Following Fukushima, the antarrashtriya urja agency halved iske anumaan of additional nabhikeey generating kshamta to be nirmit by 2035.
Photograph of the berlin wal liya from the west paksh.
The wal was nirmit in 1961 to prevent east germans isse fleeing isse samyavaadee.
it was an iconic symbol of the thanda yuddh or iske fall in 1989 marked the samaapt of the yuddh.
the Cold War, praayah dated from 1947 to 1991, thi a sustained rajya of rajnatik or sainya tension between powers in the pashchimi Bloc, varchasv by the United States saath nato among iske allies, and shaktiyaan in the purvi bloc, varchasv by the soviet sangh saath saath the warso anubandh.
is began after the success of their asthai wartime gathbandhan viruddh Nazi germany, leaving the ussr or the us as do superpowers saath profound aarthik or political differences.
a neutral gut arose saath the non-aligned Movement santhaapit by mishra, india, or yugoslavia ; is gut rejected association saath either the US-led West or the soviet-led east.
the Cold War was so named kuki the do pramukh powers—each possessing nabhikeey hathiyaar or thereby threatened with mutual assured vinaash —never met in sidhaa sainya combat.
Instead, in unke sangharsh liye vaishvik influence ve sagaai in ongoing manovaigyanik warfare or in niyamit apratyaksh confrontations through proxi yudhon.
chakra of saapeksh shant hota be followed by high tension, jisase could have led to sansar yuddh.
The tensest times yahood during the Berlin nakebandi ( 1948–1949 ), the korian yuddh ( 1950–1953 ), the Suez sankat ( 1956 ), the Berlin sankat of 1961, the cuban missile sankat ( 1962 ), the vietnam yuddh ( 1959–1975 ), the yom kippur yuddh ( 1973 ), the Soviet yuddh in afghanistan ( 1979–1989 ), the soviet downing of korian Air linon udaan 007 ( 1983 ), or the `` Able archer '' NATO sainya exercises ( 1983 ).
the virodh was expressed through sainya coalitions, ranneetik conventional force deployments, extensive aid to claayent states, espionage, massive prachaar abhiyaan, conventional or nabhikeey bahen daud, appeals to neutral raashtra, rivalry at sports events ( in particular the olympic ), and technological pratiyogitaaon aise as the spes res.
The us or ussr became shaamil in rajnatik and military conflicts in the teesraa sansar deshon of latin america, africa, the madhya East, or Southeast asia.
To alleviate the risk of a sambhavit nuclear yuddh, both pahalu sought raahat of rajnatik tanaav through détente in the 1970s.
In the 1980s, the sanyukt rajya increased rajanyik, sainya, or aarthik pressures on the soviet sangh, at a samay when the communist state thi already ksht isse economic stagnation.
in the mid-1980s, the nai soviet President Mikhail gorbachev introduced the liberalizing reforms of perestroika ( `` reorganization '', 1987 ) and glasnost ( `` khulepan '', ca. 1985 ).
Pressures liye national swatantraaa grew stronger in Eastern europea, especially candal.
ve reached a todakar point jab Gorbachev refused to use Soviet troops to support the faltering sarkari of east germany in let 1989.
bheetar saptaah sab the upgrah rajya broke free from Moscow in a shantipurna wave of revolutions ( vahin was kuch hinsa in Romania ).
the pressures escalated andar the Soviet Union, where samyavaadee giri or the ussr thi formally dissolved in let 1991.
The United States remained as the sansar 's only superpower.
the thanda yuddh and its events have left a significant legacy, or it is often referred to in lokapriy samskruti, especially in media featuring themes of espionage or the threat of nabhikeey warfare.
pikes Peak rajya park is a rajya park of Iowa, uese, featuring a bluff nihaar the apper mississippi nadi vipareet the confluence of the Wisconsin nadi.
the park is sanchalit by the iova Department of Natural sansaadhan.
it is nearly a hajaar acre ( 4 km2 ) in extent.
the nikatatam nagar is McGregor, Iowa.
iova rajmarg 76 lagbhag defines iske uttari boundary.
it gets its naam from the iova avatar of pikes Peak, a visheshkar unchi point nihaar the gorge of the Upper mississippi, or jaise pikes Peak in colorado, is named liye Zebulon pike.
vahin hai hiking trails, campgrounds or RV suvidhaayen.
Mountain bike hai permitted in nishchit portions of the park.
aside from recreational vikaas, the jameen in the park was never saaf or to a large extent remains as it was pehle the aagaman of shwet upnivesh.
it is bhaag of a larger jatil of park, reserves or refuges jisase shaamil Effigy Mounds neshnal Monument, the vibhinn components of the pilaa River rajya van, the vishaal apper mississippi nadi neshnal vanyajeev and machhlee sharan or much choti, much kam khub gyaat Driftless kshetrafal neshnal Wildlife sharan.
the purvottar iova Legacy trail pranali is undergoing development, or hoga conect elements of ye site.
zac bhura band is an amareeki country/folk band aadhaarit in atlanta, georgia.
The linep consists of Zac bhura ( sise vocals, guitar ), Jimmy De Martini ( fiddle, vocals ), jon Driskell hopkins ( baas guitar, vocals ), coy Bowles ( guitar, keyboards ), kris fryar ( drum ), Clay cook ( guitar, keyboards, mandolin, steel guitar, vocals ), or danniel de los reyes ( percussion ).
the band has toured throughout the sanyukt rajya, including a slot on the 2009 or 2010 bonnaroo Music parv.
ve have also ankit paanch studio albums, and charted nine kramank One singles on the billboard country charts : `` murga Fried ``, `` Toes ``, `` rajmarg 20 sawari ``, `` free ``, `` As wo 's Walking Away ``, `` Colder mausam ``, `` ghutana gahan ``, `` rakhana Me in dimag ``, or `` Goodbye in uske ankhen `` in jod to the singles `` Whatever it is `` or `` No Hurry ``, jisase peaked at number 2 on the same chart.
baat radio is a radio swaroop containing charchaa about topical mudde.
sabase shows are regularly hosted by a single vyaktigat, and often feature interviews with a kramank of alag atithi.
baat radio typically includes an tatv of shrota bhagidaari, usually by broadcasting sajiv conversations between the host or shrota jo `` kol in '' ( praayah via telephone ) to the dikhaaen.
Listener yogadan hai usually screened by a show 's nirmaataa ( s ) in anukram to adhiktam darshak byaaj and, in the maamla of commercial baat radio, aakarshith vigyapandaata.
generally, the shows hai vyavasthit into khand, prayek separated by a tehraana liye vigyaapan ; however, in public or non-commercial radio, music is sometimes played in place of commercials to separate the program khand.
Variations of baat radio shaamil conservative baat, hot talk, liberal talk and sports talk.
jabaki talk radio rai historically maharoom sambhddha saath am/fm, starting around 2005 the technology liye internet-based talk-radio shows became laagat effective in the rup of podcasts.
abhi, it is sambhavit liye an vyaktigat to upyog a kismein of services to mejabaan an Internet-based talk-radio dikhaaen bagaiyr carriage by a traditional radio stesan.
In jod TV programing isse talk and news outlet aise as bibisi, CNN, bloomberg or Fox are now praayah uplabdhiyaan expanding the world of baat radio further.
Talk radio sunanaa is abhi enjoyed nahin only on radios, lakin a chaudee variety of other devices or sevaayen including PCs using itunes, station directories aise as tunein, dikhaaen nirdeshika smartphones saath eps aise as Stitcher.
Hippa is a genus of decapod crustaceans in the family hippidae, containing the following species:
hippa adactyla Fabricius, 1787
Hippa admirabilis ( thallwitz, 1892 )
hippa alcimede ( de man, 1902 )
Hippa australis hale, 1927
hippa carcineutes Holthuis & manning, 1970
hippa celaeno ( de man, 1896 )
hippa granulatus ( borradaile, 1904 )
hippa hirtipes ( dana, 1852 )
hippa indica Haig, murugan & baalkrishnan Nair, 1986
hippa marmorata ( Hombron & jacquinot, 1846 )
hippa ovalis ( A. milne-edwards, 1862 )
hippa picta ( heller, 1861 )
Hippa strigillata ( stimpson, 1860 )
Hippa testudinaria ( Herbst, 1791 )
hippa truncatifrons ( miers, 1878 )
it is closely related to the genus Emerita, or prajati have praayah maharoom transferred between the do genera.
jakarta ( ), officially known as the Special puunji pradesh of jakarta ( ), is the capital and largest nagar of indonesia.
Located on the uttarpashchim coast of java, jakarta is the desh 's aarthik, cultural or rajnatik centre, or saath a janasankhyikee of 10,187,595 as of navambar 2011, it is the sabase populous nagar in indonesia or in southeast Asia, and is the thirteenth sabase aabaadi nagar in the sansar.
the aadhikarik mahanagar kshetrafal, gyaat as jabodetabek ( a naam formed by combining the aarambhik syllables of jakarta, bogor, depok, tangerang and bekasi ), is the duusari largest in the world, yet the metropolis 's suburbs still continue pare it.
jakarta is soochibaddh as a global nagar in the 2008 vaishvikaran or sansar shaharon padhai Group or Network ( gawc ) shodh.
or rai an kshetrafal of.
is area rai population of khub over 28 lakh, bananaa it ek of the sansar 's largest conurbations in sharten of kramank of inhabitants.
In 2011, jakarta ranked 17th among the sansar 's 200 largest shaharon, a jamp from iske 2007 ranking of 171.
jakarta rai grown adhik rapidly than kuala lumpur, beijing or Bangkok.
sthapit in the chauthi sadi, the nagar became an mahatvapurn vyapaar bandargahon for the Kingdom of sunda.
It thi the de facto capital of the dach East indies ( when it thi known as batavia ) and has jari as the capital of indonesia chunki the desh 's independence thi declared in 1945.
the nagar is the seat of the asian sachivalay.
jakarta is parosa by the soekarno–hatta antarrashtriya vimaanashetra, haleem Perdanakusuma antarrashtriya vimaanashetra, and tanjung priok harbour ; it is conect by anek intercity or commuter rail, or parosa by anek bas linon kaaryshil on surakshit busways.
a theth ghar air condishning window ikai.
air condishning is the prakram of altering the gun of air ( primarily taapmaana or ardrata ) to adhik favourable sharten.
adhik generally, air condishning can refer to koi rup of technological cooling, heating, ventilation, or keetanushodhan that modifies the condishan of air.
An air condishnar ( praayah referred to as air con, AC or A/C, and not to be confused saath the sankshipt liye prayavarti vartmaan ) is a pramukh or ghar appliance, system, or yantriki designed to badalen the air taapmaana and humidity within an area ( prayukt liye kooling and sometimes heating depending on the air gun at a die time ).
The cooling is typically kiya using a saral prashithan saikil, lakin sometimes evaporation is used, commonly for sukun kooling in imaaraten and motor vaahanon.
In nirmaan, a puraa pranali of heating, ventilation and air condishning is referred to as `` HVAC ``.
`` 6 pair 7 pair '' ( bhi styled as `` 6'7 '' ) is a song by amareeki rapper Lil wain featuring label mate, kori Gunz.
It is liya isse uske naveen studio album, Tha carter iv ( 2011 ).
It was officially released on itunes on December 16, 2010.
it thi produced by `` a Milli `` nirmaataa bangladesh.
The song samples `` day-o ( The banana Boat song ) `` by harry belafonte.
dc baat ( styled as dc Talk ), is a Grammy -winning isai rap tikdi.
the group was formed in Lynchburg, virginia in 1987 by Toby mckeehan, Michael Tait, or kevin Max smith.
ve have released paanch pramukh studio album together : DC baat ( 1989 ), Nu Thang ( 1990 ), free at pichhlaa ( 1992 ), yishu freak ( 1995 ), or alokik ( 1998 ).
In 2002, the Encyclopedia of samakaleen isai music pukaara dc baat `` the sabase lokapriy overtly Christian adhinium of sab samay. ''
in 2000, the samooh released an EP titled Solo jisase contained two solo songs isse each sadsy.
Since that samay, DC baat rai been on an indefinite hiatus, or the three band sadasyon have each led solo kariyar.
ve have performed and recorded vyaktigat geeton saath anek times dauraan the 2000s, haalanki the samooh never officially reunited or disbanded.
The samooh 's musical style viksit significantly throughout their kariyar.
unke pehla two relies, dc baat or nu Thang, were of the hip hop genre.
dc baat 's third album, free at Last, also mukhyatah took influence isse the hip hop style, haalanki unke music began lene on a rock dhwani.
the tikdi 's last two album, yishu freak and alokik, yahood predominantly pop rock.
the bible is a sankalan of anek shorter kitabe likhaa at alag times and later assembled into the biblical canon.
All but the shortest of ye books have maharoom divided into chapters, generally a pej or so in length, chunki the jaldi 13th sadi.
Since the mid-16th sadi, prayek adhyay rai been further vibhajit into `` aayatein '' of a few choti linon or sentences.
sometimes a sentence spans adhik than ek verse, as in the maamla of, and sometimes there is adhik than ek vaakya in a single shloke, as in the maamla of.
As the chapter or shloke vibhaajan yahood nahin bhaag of the asli granth, ve rup bhaag of the paratext of the bible.
The yahudee vibhaajan of the yahudee text differ at various points from those prayukt by isaayiyon.
liye udhaaharan, in yahudee parampara, the ascriptions to anek Psalms hai regarded as independent aayatein, bananaa 116 adhik aayatein, whereas the sthapit Christian practice is to ginati and kramank prayek psalm ascription saath with the pehla shloke following it.
kuch chapter vibhaajan also occur in different sthaan, e.g. in yahudee bibles is numbered as in Christian translations.
An index ( bahuvachan : indexes ) is a list of shabd or phrases ( 'headings ' ) or sambhddha pointers ( 'loketerbus ' ) to where useful material relating to ki heading can be mila in a dastauez.
In a traditional back-of-the-book anukramanika the headings hoga shaamil names of people, sthaan and kaarykram, or concepts chaynit by a vyakti as hone praasangik or of interest to a sambhavit reader of the kitaab.
The sanketak hai typically pej sankhyaayein, anuchhed sankhyaayein or khand numbers.
in a library catalog the words hai lekhak, sheershak, subject headings, etc., and the sanketak hai kol sankhyaayein.
antarjaal dhundhen engines, aise as google, and puraa text searching sahaayta provide abhigam to soochna lakin are nahin as chaynaatmak as an index, as ve provide non-relevant links, or may miss praasangik information if it is nahin phrased in exactly the rasta ve expect.
In United States vittiya viniman, a sandigdh activity rapat ( or sar ) is a report made by a vittiya sanstha to the Financial aparaadhon pravartan sanjaal ( fincen ), an agency of the United rajya Department of the rajkosh, regarding suspicious or potentially suspicious kaaryaklap.
Facebook on the ad-tech 2010
fasebuk is an online soshal netwarking seva, jinaki naam tana isse the colloquial naam for the kitaab given to students at the start of the academik saal by some vishvavidhyalayon administrations in the sanyukt rajya to sahaayta vidhyaarthee get to jaan prayek anya.
it was santhaapit in February 2004 by chihnit zuckerberg saath uske college roommates or fellow harvard University vidhyaarthee Eduardo saverin, andrew McCollum, Dustin moskovitz or kris Hughes.
The jalsthal 's membership was initially simit by the sansthaapakon to harvard students, but thi vistaarit to other colleges in the Boston kshetrafal, the ivi lig, or Stanford University.
it dhire added support liye vidhyaarthee at vibhinn other universities before kholane to high skool students, or aakhirkaar to anyone aged 13 or over.
fasebuk abhi allows koi users who ghoshit themselves to be at tanik 13 years old to become panjikrut upayokta of the sait.
Users jarur panjikaran before using the sait, after jisase ve may create a nijee profile, add other upayokta as friends, and exange sandesh, sahit automatic notifications jab they adhyatan unke profile.
Additionally, upayokta may juden common-interest upayokta samooh, organized by workplace, school or college, or anya characteristics, or categorize unke mitron into lists aise as `` People From kaary '' or `` Close mitron ''.
as of sitambar 2012, Facebook rai over ek arab kriyasheel users.
according to a may 2011 upabhokta reports surveykshan, vahin are 7.5 lakh children under 13 saath khate or 5 lakh antargat 10, violating the site 's terms of service.
in may 2005, accel saajhedaar invested $ 12.7 lakh in fasebuk, or gym breyer added $ 1 lakh of uske apana dhan to the ghat.
a January 2009 compete.com study ranked fasebuk as the sabase prayukt soshal networking seva by worldwide masik active upayokta.
entertainment saptahik included the sait on its end-of-the-decade `` best-of '' list, saying, `` How on dharti did we stalk hamaari exes, remember hamaari co-workers ' janmdin, keedaa hamaari mitron, or khel a rousing khel of scrabulous pehle fasebuk ? ''
aalochakon, aise as fasebuk detox, rajya ki fasebuk rai turned into a neshnal obsession in the United rajya, resulting in vishaal amounts of samay lost or protsaahit atmmoh.
Quantcast estimates Facebook has 138.9 lakh monthly adwitiya u.S. vizitor in may 2011.
according to soshal media aaj, in april 2010 an anumaanit 41.6 % ( 129.5 lakh ) of the u.S. population tha a Facebook khaataa.
nevertheless, fasebuk 's market growth prarambh to stall in kuch regions, saath the sait khone 7 lakh kriyasheel upayokta in the sanyukt rajya or canada in may 2011.
Facebook aakhirkaar daayar for an aarambhik public offering on farvari 1, 2012, and thi headquartered in menlo park, california.
fasebuk Inc. began selling stock to the public and vyapaar on the NASDAQ on may 18, 2012.
salphonamide functional samooh
Hydrochlorothiazide is a salphonamide or a thiazide.
Furosemide is a salphonamide, but nahin a thiazide.
salphonamide or sulphonamide is the aadhaar of anek samooh of davaayen.
The asli jeevanurodhi sulfonamides ( sometimes pukaara sulfa drugs or sulpha davaayen ) hai synthetic roganurodhi agenton ki contain the salphonamide samooh.
Some sulfonamides hai bhi viheen of antibacterial kaaryaklap, e.g., the anticonvulsant sultiame.
The sulfonylureas or thiazide diuretics are nae drug samooh aadhaarit on the jeevanurodhi sulfonamides.
sulfa allergies hai aam, hence medications containing sulfonamides are prescribed carefully.
It is important to make a distinction between sulfa drugs and other sulfur-containing davaayen and editive, aise as sulfates or sulfites, which hai chemically unrelated to the salphonamide samooh, and do nahin kaaran the vahi hypersensitivity pratikriyaayein dekhi in the sulfonamides.
is is a suchi of varna isse george Lopez.
Domestic geese ( ansar ansar domesticus or ansar cygnoides ) hai domesticated dhoosar geese ( either Greylag Geese or Swan geese ) rakhaa as murgipaalan liye their maance, eggs, and bas feathers chunki pracheen times.
30 Seconds to Mars is an American chattan band isse los Angeles, formed in 1998.
chunki 2007, the band has consisted of karta jared Leto ( lead vocals, lay guitar, songwriter ), Shannon leto ( drums, percussion ) or tomo miličević ( lead guitar, keyboards ).
Following the prasthaan of Matt wachter ( abhi of Angels & airwaves ) in 2007, Tim Kelleher became the bassist for the samooh, performing live tabhi saath both jared or miličević recording baas liye studio ricarding, jabaki braxton olita ( keyboards ) thi added to the touring linep in 2009.
Previously, the samooh also featured guitarists solon bixler ( now of great Northern ) or kevin drek ( abhi of Polaroid chumban ).
to tithi, 30 Seconds to mangal have released teen studio album – 30 second to mangal ( 2002 ), A khubasurat Lie ( 2005 ), This Is yuddh ( 2009 ) and teen extended plays – eoel Sessions andercover ( 2007 ), to the kinare of the dharti ( 2008 ), or amtivi Unplugged : 30 second to mangal ( 2011 ).
30 Seconds to mangal ' music rai maharoom sambhddha mostly saath neo-prog, pragatisheel metal or post-grunge, lakin ve have also shaamil emo, screamo, spes chattan or synthrock into unke music.
They have maharoom compared to gulabi floyd ( jo yahood an influence on unke work ) and aujaar kuki of their use of philosophical or spiritual geet, avadharana album or unke use of praayogic music.
a christmas Story is a 1983 American christmas kamedi filmi aadhaarit on the short stories and semi-fictional upakhyanon of author or raconteur jaan Shepherd, aadhaarit on uske kitaab in parameshwar we Trust, All anya adaa nakadi, with some elements derived from wanda hikki 's raatri of Golden yaaden.
It thi nirdeshit by bob clark.
the filmi has chunki become a avkaash clasik and is dikhaaya numerous times on television dauraan the christmas ritu on the sanjaal tbs, often in a 24-hour marathon.
in 2012, the filmi was chaynit liye preservation in the neshnal filmi Registry by the pustakaalayon of congress for hone `` culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant ''.
A Joe 's kekada Shack shakha in san Diego, ca.
the building was initially a rowing club or was baad converted into the restaraan.
Joe 's kekada shack is an amareeki kadi of beach-themed seafood cazual dining restaurants swaamitv by Ignite Restaurant samooh.
Founded in huston, texas, the restaraan now operates sthitiyaan all aarpaar the United States of america.
It serves seafood or amareeki bhojan.
the restaraan bhi have a gift duukaan that bikta facetious t-shirts featuring phrases vigyaapan jo 's seafood chunaav.
It is based in Houston, Texas.
nai york nagar krooj Liner terminal in narak 's rasoighar at 52nd Street.
the New york yatri Ship terminal ( also gyaat as the Luxury Liner pankti or manahaton krooj Terminal or nai york Cruise Terminal ) is a terminal liye ocean-going yatri ships on manahaton 's west paksh.
the terminal consists of uttar nadi pier 88, 90, 92 or 94 on the hadsan nadi between west 46th or west 54th gali.
( as a general rule, baandh sankhyaayein in manahaton can be sankalpit by adding 40 to the sambandhit cross-street. )
jahaajon abhi dock at pier 88, 90 or 92.
Pier 94 on the uttar paksh is abhi prayukt for pradarshnee spes.
baandh 86, ekbar prayukt by sanyukt States Lines, is now ghar to the uss intrepid.
in 2003, the terminal sambhala 900,000 yatri.
the nagar is forecasting ki 1.5 lakh will use the terminal by 2017.
the pier hai long or alaava.
ve yahood pehla completed in 1935 to replace the chelsi pier as the city 's luxury liner terminal.
the new terminal thi nirmit to handle bigger jahaajon ki tha outgrown the Chelsea Piers.
the pier yahood sanvar in 1970 or hai philhal undergoing another $ 150 lakh naveekaran.
the renovated yojanaayen kol liye it to handle teen large jahaajon at a samay.
in doing renovations, the city is also considering decommissioning Pier 92.
logo of the nai york Cruise terminal.for
dashakon the terminal was the tabhi ocean-going yatri terminal in nai york harbor.
saath an upsurge in krooj jalayaan trekkic or the terminal 's kshamta to handle comfortably only three vishaal jahaajon at a samay, do new terminals have kholi in the harbar — the kep Liberty krooj bandargahon opened in 2004 in bayonne, New jersey ( prayukt by royal caribbean krooj Line, Celebrity Cruises and Azamara Cruises ), or the brukaleen krooj Terminal ( prayukt by the maharani Mary 2 or other jahaajon of the carnival nigam krooj brands ) kholi in 2006 in brukaleen, nai york.
the west paksh rajmarg takes a choti jog east isse the pier to neeche West 42nd gali because when the terminal thi built jameen tha to be liya away isse manahaton to allow liye longer pier.
the US fouj Corps of Engineers, who control the waterfront aayam, would nahin extend the pierhead line farther into the nadi, so the city vistaarit the pier by kating dur at the land.
the nagar pehle kiya is liye the Chelsea pier ; however in chelsi tabhi landphil thi taken dur.
At the yatri terminal vaastavik manahaton schist was liya dur.
From downstream in the river
anek pramukh passenger jahaajon have docked vahin, including the rms maharani Mary 2 and swatantraaa of the samandar, before the brukaleen and Bayonne terminals kholi.
the ss Normandie caught aag or subsequently capsized at its baandh 88 berth dauraan sansar yuddh II.
the Normandie, renamed uss lafayette, lies capsized in the frozen mud at baandh 88 in the sheet of 1942
Norwegian krooj lakeer 's jald to be naveenatam ship the norwegian breakaway will paal year-round out of the nai York yatri jalayaan terminal.
The city hoga kharch $ 4 lakh to renovate and upgrade the krooj terminal to accommodate the jalayaan.
is is an avlokan of the niyamit, punaravarti, or anya varna of the tv shrenee ncis.
isai sahi is a pad used in the United States to describe right-wing Christian political samooh ki hai characterized by unke damdaar support of socially roodhiwaadee nitiyon.
Christian conservatives principally talash to lagu unke samajhnaa of the shikshaaon of Christianity to raajnneeti or public policy by proclaiming the maan of those teachings and/or by seeking to upyog those shikshaaon to influence law or public policy.
in the u.S., the isai right is an anaupchaarik gathbandhan formed around a kor of dharmantaran protestants ki draws `` support isse nitiyaan roodhiwaadee Catholics, yahudiyon, Mormons, or occasionally secularists '' jo share unke goals.
the gati rai iske jaden in amareeki politics going waapas as far the 1940s and has maharoom visheshkar influential chunki the 1970s.
unke influence draws, in bhaag, isse grassroots activism as well as unke fokas on soshal issues or kshamta to motivate the electorate around those mudde.
the Christian right is notable today liye advancing socially roodhiwaadee sthitiyaan on issues sahit school prayer, stem koshika shodh, samalangikta, nirodhak, garbhpaat, and pornography.
haalanki the isai right is praayah associated saath the u.S., the gati rai maharoom a key factor in the raajnneeti of canada, the netherlands, uttari ireland or australia, among others.
Far East gati ( stylized as far★east Movement or abbreviated fm ) is an American hip hop band quartet aadhaarit in Los Angeles.
the group formed in 2003 and consists of kev nish ( Kevin nishimura ), prohgress ( James Roh ), j-splif ( Jae choung ), and dj virman ( virman Coquia ).
Far East Movement 's pehla claim to kirti thi their song `` golakaar golakaar '' featured in the hollywood film, the tej or the krodhit : tokio Drift, or iske subsequent soundtrack, video game and dvd.
chunki `` Round Round '', the samooh rai maharoom pradarshit on vibhinn sanjaal shows sahit,, anugami, Gossip Girl, or finishing the Game ( a pradarshit filmi at sundance 2007 ).
unke single `` jaise a G6 `` hit kramank ek on the Billboard hot 100 Chart or on itunes as khub in late aktubar 2010.
Far east gati also rai the bhed of being the pehla asian-american samooh to earn a # 1 hit on the Billboard Hot 100 in the sanyukt States.
lr44 is the iisi namakan liye an kshareey 1.5 volt batan koshika, commonly prayukt in small led flashlights, digital thermometers, calculators, calipers, ghadiyaan, ghadiyaan, khilone and leisure sanketak.
lr44 kshareey koshika
the battery namakaran is paribhaashit by the antarrashtriya vidyutatakneekee Commission ( iisi ) in its 60086-3 maanak ( praathmik bydaree, bhaag 3 dekhen bydaree ).
the akshar l indicates the electrochemical system used ; a jasta rinatmak electrode, mangneej dioxide depolarizer or dhanatmak electrode, or an alkaline electrolyte.
r44 indicates a golakaar koshika 11.4±0.2 mm diameter or 5.2±0.2 mm oonchaai as defined by the IEC maanak 60086.
nirmaataaon have unke own part numbers liye iisi prakaar lr44 bydaree including:
lr44, lr44g, lr44gd, lr44h
lr1154, l1154, l1154c, L1154F, l1154g, l1154h
6135-99-792-8475 ( nsn )
1166a
ag13, a613, AG14, AG-14, G13A, G13-A
157, 303, 357
a76, gda76, GP76A, gpa7, gpa75, gpa76, GPS76A,
1128mp, 208-904, A-76, CA18, CA19, CR44, D76A, ka, ka76, ms76h, px76a, px675a, RPX675, RW82, SB-F9, v13ga
4.5-volt, D, C, aa, aaa, aaaa, A23, 9-volt, cr2032 or LR44 batteries
anya types of bydaree hai or yahood made in the R44 size.
formerly, paara bydaree were made as batan cells ( prakaar mr44 and nr44 ).
zinc-air bydaree prakaar pr44 aavashyaktaa air to kaary.
Silver-oxide bydaree prakaar sr44 may provide atirikt kshamta compared to lr44 types lakin have thodaa alag voltage visheshtaayen.
pradarshan of a yantra meant to upyog a silver-oxide bydaree may be degraded with pratisthaapan of lr44 prakaar.
Manufacturer 's sankhyaayein liye silver oxide r44 size koshikaayen include:
SR44/SR44W/SR44SW
6135-99-651-3240 ( nsn )
sr1154
1107SO
1131sop
sg13
s76
epx76 ( Energizer )
303/357 ( D357H )
hurricane Katrina thi the deadliest or most destructive atlantic hurricane of the 2005 Atlantic hurricane ritu.
it thi the costliest prakritik vipatti, as khub as ek of the paanch deadliest hurricanes, in the history of the United States.
among ankit atlantic hurricanes, it thi the sixth strongest overall.
At tanik 1,833 logon died in the hurricane or subsequent floods, bananaa it the deadliest u.S. hurricane since the 1928 okeechobee hurricane ; kul property kshati thi estimated at $ 81 arab ( 2005 usd ), nearly tripal the kshati brought by hurricane andrew in 1992.
hurricane katrina formed over the bahama on agast 23, 2005 and crossed dakshini florida as a moderet shrenee 1 hurricane, causing kuch mauton and flooding there pehle strengthening rapidly in the gulf of mexico.
the hurricane strengthened to a shrenee 5 hurricane over the garam gulf jal, but weakened pehle making iske duusari landfall as a shrenee 3 hurricane on the morning of somvaar, August 29 in southeast Louisiana.
It caused severe vinaash saath the Gulf coast isse central florida to texas, much of it due to the toofaan surge.
The most significant kramank of deaths occurred in nai Orleans, louisiana, jisase flooded as the tatabandh pranali catastrophically vifal, in anek maamle ghanton baad the toofaan tha sthanantarit antardeshiy.
Eventually 80 % of the nagar or vishaal tracts of neighboring parishes became flooded, or the floodwaters lingered liye saptaah.
however, the worst property kshati occurred in coastal kshetron, aise as all mississippi beachfront kasbon, jisase yahood flooded over 90 % in ghanton, as boats or casino barges rammed imaaraten, pushing gaadiyaan or houses antardeshiy, saath waters reaching 6–12 mile ( 10–19 km ) from the bich.
The hurricane surge suraksha failures in nai orlions are mana the worst civil abhiyantriki vipatti in U.S. history or prompted a mukadmaa viruddh the u.S. fouj corps of Engineers ( usace ), the designers or builder of the tatabandh pranali as mandated by the Flood control Act of 1965.
jimmedaari liye the asafalataaon or flooding thi rakhi squarely on the fouj corps in janvari 2008 by nyaayadhish Stanwood duval, U.S. zila adaalat, lakin the sangheey agency could not be yojit financially liable due to sovereign pratirakshan in the baadh control adhinium of 1928.
There was bhi an chaanbin of the pratikriyaayein isse sangheey, state and local sarkarein, resulting in the istipha of sangheey apaat Management Agency ( FEMA ) nideshak maaikel D. bhura, or of New Orleans police vibhaag ( NOPD ) adheekshak edi compass.
anek agenciyon sahit the sanyukt rajya coast guard ( uscg ), neshnal Hurricane bich ( NHC ), and National Weather seva ( nws ) were commended liye unke kriyaayein.
ve provided accurate hurricane mausam trekking forecasts saath sufficient sise samay.
Even the most insistent appeals isse neshnal, rajya and local public officials to nivaasiyon to evacuate before the toofaan kiya nahin warn ki the levees could breach or asafal.
u.S. karz from 1940 to 2011.
Red linon indicate the `` debt yojit by the public '' or blike linon indicate the total neshnal karz or sakal public karz.
the antar is the `` intragovernmental karz, '' which shaamil dayitvon to government kaarykram such as soshal suraksha.
Stated as a sutara, National Debt = Debt yojit by the Public + Intragovernmental karz.
the duusari falak shows the do karz figures as a pratishat of u.S. jidipi ( dollar value of u.S. aarthik production liye ki saal ).
the sheersh falak is deflated so every year is in 2010 dollars.
the sanyukt rajya public karz is the dhan udhaar by the sangheey sarkari of the United rajya through the issuing of pratibhuti by the rajkosh or anya federal sarkari agenciyon.
US public karz consists of do ghatakaus:
karz yojit by the public shaamil Treasury pratibhuti yojit by niveshkon outside the federal sarkari, sahit ki yojit by individuals, corporations, the sangheey arakshit System or videshi, rajya or local governments.
karz yojit by government accounts or intragovernmental karz shaamil non-marketable rajkosh pratibhuti yojit in accounts administered by the sangheey government ki are owed to kaarykram beneficiaries, aise as the soshal Security vishwaas nidhi.
karz held by sarkari khate represents the cumulative surpluses, sahit byaaj aay, of ye accounts ki have maharoom invested in rajkosh pratibhuti.
public debt increases or decreases as a parinaam of the annual ekikrut bajet deficit or surplus.
the sangheey sarkari budget deficit or surplus is the difference between government receipts or bitaa, ignoring intra-governmental hastantaran.
however, kuch bitaa ki is excluded from the deficit ( supplemental appropriations ) also adds to the karz.
historically, the us public karz as a share of jidipi increased dauraan yudhon and recessions, or subsequently declined.
liye example, debt held by the public as a share of jidipi peaked bas after sansar yuddh ii ( 113 % of jidipi in 1945 ), lakin tab fell over the following 30 saalo.
in haal dashakon, however, vishaal bajet deficits or the resulting increases in karz have led to chintaa about the long-term sthirataa of the sangheey sarkari 's phiscal nitiyon.
on 2 april 2013, debt yojit by the public thi lagbhag $ 11.959 kharab or about 75 % of jidipi.
intragovernmental holdings stood at $ 4.846 kharab, giving a sanyukt kul public karz of $ 16.805 kharab.
As of janvari 2013, $ 5.6 kharab or lagbhag 47 % of the karz yojit by the public thi swaamitv by foreign investors, the largest of jisase yahood the logon 's ganatantr of china and japani at bas over $ 1.1 kharab each.
In basket, an assist is attributed to a player who gujarata the ball to a teammate in a rasta that lead to a score by field lakshya, arth ki he or wo thi `` assisting '' in the basket.
vahin is kuch nirnay shaamil in deciding whether a passer should be credited saath an assist.
An assist can be scored for the passer bhi if the player jo receives the pass makes a basket after dribling the ball.
However, the asli paribhaasha of an assist kiya nahin include aise paristhitiyon, so the tulana of assist statistics aarpaar eras is a complex padaarth.
Only the pass directly pehle the score may be gine as an assist, so no adhik than ek assist can be recorded prati field lakshya ( unlike in other khel, aise as barf hockey ).
a pass that lead to a shooting beyimaani or scoring by free throws does not ginati as an assist in the enbie, but does in FIBA khel ( tabhi ek assist is awarded prati niyat of free throws in jisase at tanik one free throw is made ).
point guard tend to milengi the most assists per khel ( apg ), as unke bhoomika is primarily ki of a passer and ballhandler.
centers tend to get fewer assists, but centers saath good manzil upasthiti or adaalat drushti can dominate a toli by assisting.
Being andar the kunjee, the bich praayah rai the best kone or the behtareen sthiti liye `` bartan '' or anya short gujarata in the scoring kshetrafal.
bich wilt Chamberlain led the enbie in assists in 1968.
a damdaar center with inside-scoring prowess, aise as purv NBA center Hakeem olajuwon, can bhi be an prabhavi assistor because the defense 's double-teaming tends to kholen up offense in the rup of shooters.
The enbie single-game assist ricard is 30, yojit by Scott skiles of the orlando jaadu viruddh the Denver Nuggets, on December 30, 1990.
the enbie record liye sabase kariyar assists is yojit by jon stowton saath 15,806.
the mil or mille ( ) ( sometimes mil in the uk, jab discussing property kar in the sanyukt rajya, or previously in cyprus or Malta ) is a now-abstract unit of karency used sometimes in hisaab.
in the United rajya, it is a notional ikai samatuly to of a United rajya dollars ( a dasavaan of a cent ).
In the sanyukt kingdom it thi prastaavit dauraan the dashakon of charchaa on the decimalization of the pound as a prabhag of the pound sterling.
anek anya currencies prayukt the mil, aise as the Maltese lira.
the pad aata isse the latin `` millesimum '', arth `` thousandth bhaag ''.
the greco-persian yudhon ( also praayah called the Persian yudhon ) yahood a shrenee of conflicts between the hakhaamani samrajya of Persia or city-states of the Hellenic world ki prarambh in 499 bc or lasted until 449 BC.
the collision between the fractious political world of the unaniyon or the enormous empire of the farsiyon began when sires the great conquered Ionia in 547 bc.
struggling to niyam the independent-minded shaharon of ionia, the farsiyon niyukt utpeedak to rule prayek of unhen.
This would prove to be the source of much trouble for the unaniyon or Persians alike.
in 499 bc, the then tyrant of miletus, aristagoras, embarked on an expedition to jeeten the dweep of naxos, saath parsi support ; however, the expedition thi a qahar or, pre-empting his dismissal, Aristagoras incited sab of helenic asia naaballig into vidroh viruddh the Persians.
is thi the shuruuaat of the ionian vidroh, jisase hota pichhlaa jabatak 493 bc, progressively aarekhan adhik regions of asia naaballig into the virodh.
aristagoras secured sainya support from athens or eretria, or in 498 bc ye forces helped to capchar or burn the parsi regional capital of sardis.
the Persian king daara the great vowed to have badla on Athens or eretria liye this act.
the revolt jari, saath the two pahalu effectively stalemated throughout 497–495 bc.
In 494 bc, the farsiyon regrouped, and attacked the epicentre of the revolt in miletus.
at the Battle of lade, the Ionians suffered a decisive shikast, and the vidroh collapsed, saath the final sadasyon being stamped out the following saal.
seeking to surakshit uske samrajya isse further revolts and isse the hastkshep of the menland unaniyon, daara embarked on a scheme to jeeten unaniyon and to sajaa Athens or eretria for burning Sardis.
The pehla Persian invasion of unaniyon began in 492 bc, with the parsi saamaanya mardonius conquering Thrace and macedon before anek mishaps majaboor an early end to the abhiyaan.
in 490 bc a duusari force thi sent to unaniyon, this samay aarpaar the igian samudr, antargat the cmand of Datis or Artaphernes.
is expedition subjugated the cyclades, pehle besieging, capturing or razing eretria.
However, jabaki en root to akraman athens, the parsi force was decisively defeated by the athenians at the battle of Marathon, samaapti parsi praytn liye the time hone.
daara then began to yojana to complete the conquest of unaniyon, but died in 486 BC or responsibility liye the conquest passed to his bete xerxes I.
In 480 BC, xerxes personally led the duusari parsi akraman of Greece saath ek of the largest ancient sena kabhi samavet.
vijay over the 'allied ' unani rajya ( led by sparta or athens ) at the Battle of Thermopylae anumat the farsiyon to mashaal athens or overrun sabase of Greece.
However, while seeking to nasht the combined Greek bede, the farsiyon suffered a kathor shikast at the battle of Salamis.
the following saal, the confederated unaniyon gai on the offensive, defeating the Persian fouj at the Battle of plataea, or ending the akraman of unaniyon.
the alide Greeks followed up their kamyaabi by destroying the rest of the parsi fleet at the Battle of mycale, pehle expelling parsi garrisons isse Sestos ( 479 BC ) and byzantium ( 478 bc ).
the kriyaayein of the saamaanya pausanias at the siege of Byzantium alienated anek of the unani states isse the spartans, or the anti-persian gathbandhan was isliye reconstituted around athenian netritv, as the so-called delian lig.
the delian lig jari to abhiyaan against faras for the aglaa teen dashakon, shuruuaat saath the expulsion of the baaki Persian garrisons isse europea.
At the battle of the Eurymedon in 466 bc, the lig won a doguna vijay ki aakhirkaar secured swatantraaa liye the shaharon of ionia.
however, the lig 's bhagidaari in an Egyptian revolt ( isse 460–454 BC ) resulted in a disastrous shikast, or further campaigning was nilambit.
A bede was bheja to Cyprus in 451 bc, lakin hasil little, or when it withdrew the greco-persian yudhon khinchaa to a shant samaapt.
kuch aitihaasik strot sujhaayen the end of hostilities thi chihnit by a salaam sandhi between athens or Persia, the so-called salaam of callias.
hooverville nikat Portland, oregon
A `` Hooverville '' is the popular naam for shanty kasbon nirmit by beghar logon dauraan the great avsaad.
They yahood namit baad herbert Hoover, jo was adhyaksh of the United rajya dauraan the onset of the avsaad or widely blamed liye it.
the pad was coined by charles micelson, publicity mukhya of the loktantric neshnal Committee.
mathew maaikel Hasselbeck ( born sitambar 25, 1975 ) is an amareeki footbaal quarterbaque liye the Indianapolis coltas of the National footbaal League ( enegel ).
he was drafted in the sixth golakaar of the 1998 enegel Draft by the green khadi pakars.
After a season on the abhyaas squad or two sizan backing up brett favre, he was traded to the Seattle sihox in 2001.
Hasselbeck gained the starting bhoomika in 2003, or led sietal to chah playoff dikhaave or a Super Bowl rup ; he thi chaynit to teen pro pyaale and an All-Pro selection.
following ten sizan saath the sihox, hasselbeck joined the tennesi Titans in 2011.
Hasselbeck then hastakshrit a anubandh saath the indianapolis coltas in 2013 less than 24 hours after hone released by the tennesi titans.
isiti is inevitably sambandhit to the computer network.
Information and sanchaar Technology or ( isiti ), is often prayukt as an extended paryaay liye soochna praudyogiki ( it ), lakin is a adhik vishisht term that stresses the bhoomika of ekikrut sanchaar and the integration of doorsanchaar ( telephone linon or wireless signal ), computer as khub as necessary enterprise tantra, middleware, bhandar, and audio-visual pranaaliyon, jisase enable upayokta to abhigam, store, transmit, and herpher soochna.
the phrase isiti tha been prayukt by academik researchers since the 1980s, lakin it became lokapriy after it thi prayukt in a report to the uk sarkari by Dennis stevenson in 1997 or in the sanshodhit neshnal Curriculum liye england, Wales and uttari ireland in 2000.
the term ICT is abhi also used to refer to the convergence of audio-visual or telephone sanjaal saath computer networks through a single cabling or kadi pranali.
vahin are large aarthik protsaahan ( huge laagat bachat due to vilopan of the telephone sanjaal ) to vilay the audio-visual, bhawan management and telephone sanjaal saath the computer sanjaal pranali using a single unified system of cabling, signal vitaran and management.
The term infocommunications is used in some maamle as a shorter rup of soochna or sanchaar ( s ) technology.
in fact Infocommunications is the vistaar of telecommunications with soochna prasanskaran or content handlling krityon on a common digital praudyogiki aadhaar.
liye a tulana of these or anya terms, dekhie.
For ICT Development anukramanika around the sansar, dekhie.
is is a suchi of varna isse george lopez.
A schematic prastutikaran of the plums pudding model of the anu ; in thomson 's ganitiya model the `` corpuscles '' ( or aadhunik electrons ) were arranged non-randomly, in ghurnan rings
the current model of the sub-atomic dhaancha involves a ghanaa cendrak surrounded by a probabilistic `` cloud '' of electrons
the plums kheer model of the anu by J. J. thomson, who khoja the electron in 1897, thi prastaavit in 1904 pehle the discovery of the parmaanu nucleus in order to add the electron to the parmaanu model.
In is model, the atom is rachit of electrons ( jisase Thomson still pukaara `` corpuscles '', haalanki G. J. stoney tha proposed ki atoms of electricity be called electrons in 1894 ) ghiri by a soup of dhanatmak charge to santulan the electrons ' rinatmak aarope, jaise negatively charge `` plums `` ghiri by positively charge `` kheer ``.
the electrons ( as we jaan them today ) were thought to be positioned throughout the anu, lakin with anek structures sambhavit liye positioning anek electrons, visheshkar rotating bajati of electrons ( dekhie neeche ).
Instead of a soup, the anu thi also sometimes said to have tha a `` cloud '' of dhanatmak charge.
saath is model, thomson abandoned his earlier `` nebular atom '' pariklpana in jisase the anu was composed of immaterial vortices.
Now, at tanik part of the anu thi to be rachit of Thomson 's particulate negative corpuscles, haalanki the baaki of the positively charge bhaag of the anu remained somewhat nebulous or ill-defined.
the 1904 thomson model thi disproved by the 1909 gold foil prayog of hans geiger or Ernest marden.
This thi interpreted by arnest radarford in 1911
to imply a very choti cendrak of the atom containing a very unchi dhanatmak charge ( in the maamla of gold, enough to santulan parichay 100 electrons ), yun agrani to the radarford model of the anu.
haalanki sunaharaa has an parmaanu kramank of 79, immediately baad radarford 's paper appeared in 1911 Antonius vine den broek bana the sahaj suzav ki parmaanu number is nuclear charge.
the padaarth required experiment to decide.
henry Moseley 's kaary dikhaaya experimentally in 1913 ( dekhie moseley 's vidhi ) ki the prabhavi nabhikeey charge was bahut close to the atomic kramank ( Moseley found only one ikai difference ), or moseley sanderbhit tabhi the papers of vine den broek and radarford.
This kaary culminated in the solar-system-like ( lakin quantum-limited ) bohr model of the anu in the same year, in which a cendrak containing an parmaanu number of positive charge is surrounded by an baraabar kramank of electrons in kakshiya shell.
Bohr tha bhi inspired moseley 's kaary.
thomson 's model was compared ( though nahin by thomson ) to a British dessert called plums kheer, hence the name.
thomson 's paper thi prakashit in the kooch 1904 sanskaran of the philosophical patrika, the leading British vigyaan jarnal of the din.
in thomson 's view :... the atoms of the elements consist of a number of negatively electrified corpuscles enclosed in a sphere of vardi dhanatmak vidyutikaran,...
in this model, the electrons were free to ghurnan bheetar the blob or badal of dhanatmak padaarth.
ye orbits yahood stabilized in the model by the fact that jab an electron moved dur isse the bich of the dhanatmak badal, it felt a larger net dhanatmak inward force, kuki there thi adhik saamagree of vipareet charge, andar its kaksha ( dekhie gouse 's vidhi ).
in Thomson 's model, electrons yahood free to rotate in bajati jisase yahood further stabilized by interactions between the electrons, or spectra yahood to be accounted for by urja differences of different ring orbits.
thomson attempted to mek uske model account for some of the pramukh spectral linon gyaat liye kuch elements, lakin was not notably successful at this.
Still, thomson 's model ( saath saath a similar saturnian ring model liye atomic electrons, bhi put forward in 1904 by Nagaoka after james clerk maxwell 's model of Saturn 's rings ), yahood pehle harbingers of the baad or adhik successful solar-system-like bohr model of the anu.
theth strip of bekan.
bekan is a cured maance prepared from a suar.
it is pehla cured using vishaal quantities of namak, either in a brine or in a dry packing ; the result is bhais bacon ( also gyaat as green bekan ).
Fresh bekan may then be further sukhi liye saptaah or months in thanda air, or it may be boiled or smoked.
bhais and sukhi bekan is typically cooked pehle eating.
Boiled bacon is taiyaar to eat, as is some smoked bekan, but may be pakaaya further pehle eating.
Bacon is prepared from anek alag katautee of meat.
It is praayah bana isse paksh or waapas katautee of pork, except in the United rajya, jahaan it is almost sadaa prepared isse pork belly ( typically referred to as `` streaky '', `` vasiy '', or `` amareeki style '' baahar of the us or canada ).
the side cut rai more meat or kam mote than the pet.
bekan may be prepared isse either of do pruthak waapas katautee : fatback, jisase is lagbhag pure mote, and pork loin, jisase is very jhukna.
Bacon-cured pork loin is known as waapas bekan.
uncooked pork pet bekan strips.
bekan may be khaaya smoked, boiled, fried, baked, or grield, or prayukt as a naaballig ingredient to swaad bartan.
bekan is bhi used liye barding or larding roasts, visheshkar khel, e.g. venison, pheasant.
the shabd is derived from the boodha unchi germany bacho, meaning `` buttock '', `` ham '' or `` paksh of bekan '', and cognate saath the Old French bekan.
In mahadwipiya europea, is bhaag of the suar is praayah nahin smoked jaise bekan is in the United States ; it is used primarily in ghan ( lardons ) as a kooking sanghatak, valued dono as a source of mote or for iske swaad.
In italy, this is pukaara pancetta or is usually pakaaya in choti ghan or served uncooked or thinly sliced as bhaag of an antipasto.
Meat from anya pashu, aise as beef, lamb, murga, bakrii, or turkey, may bhi be cut, cured, or varanaa prepared to resemble bekan, and may even be referred to as `` bacon ''.
aise use is aam in kshetron with significant yahudee or muslim populations.
the USDA defines bekan as `` the cured belly of a swine carcass '' ; other katautee or visheshtaayen must be separately yogya ( e.g., `` smoked pork loin bekan '' ).
For safety, bekan jarur be treated to prevent trichinosis, caused by trichinella, a parasitic roundworm jisase can be nasht by heating, jamane, drying, or dhumrapaan.
bekan is vishisht from namak pork or ham by differences in the brine ( or shushk packing ).
Bacon brine has added curing sanghatak, most notably sodium nitrite, or occasionally sodium nitrate or potacium nitrate ( saltapeter ) ; sodium ascorbate or erythorbate hai added to accelerate curing and stabilize color.
flavorings aise as brown sugar or mapel hai prayukt for kuch utpaada.
if prayukt, sodium polyphosphates hai added to improve sliceability or reduce spattering when the bekan is pan fried.
aaj, a brine liye ham, lakin nahin bacon, includes a vishaal raashi of sugar.
historically, `` ham '' or `` bekan '' referred to alag katautee of maance that yahood brined or packed identically, often together in the same barrel.
the karmchaaree ritairement aay Security Act of 1974 ( ERISA ) (, samhitabaddh in bhaag at ) is a sangheey vidhi jisase establishes nunatam maanakon liye pension yojanaayen in private udyog or provides for extensive rules on the federal aay kar prabhaav of transactions sambhddha saath karmchaaree benefit yojanaayen.
erisa thi enacted to protect the interests of karmchaaree benefit yojana participants or unke beneficiaries by:
requiring the disclosure of vittiya or anya information concerning the yojana to beneficiaries ;
establishing maanakon of conduct liye yojana fiduciaries ;
providing liye uchit remedies or abhigam to the federal courts.
erisa is sometimes prayukt to refer to the full body of kanoon regulating employee laabh yojanaayen, which hai mila mukhyatah in the aatanrik aay code or ERISA itself.
Responsibility liye the nirvachan or pravartan of ERISA is vibhajit among the vibhaag of majdoor, the Department of the rajkosh ( particularly the aatanrik aay seva ), or the pension laabh Guaranty nigam.
Illegal avrajan to the United rajya is the act of videshi nagarikon entering the sanyukt rajya, bagaiyr sarkari permission or in ulanghan of sanyukt rajya nationality law, or rahakar beyond the termination tithi of a visa, also in violation of the law.
a warning chihn at the international boundary between the sanyukt rajya or Canada in point Roberts, washington.
A much different drushtikon at the u.s.-mexico kinaaraa nikat el paso, texas
the undocumented immigrant janasankhyikee of the United States in 2008 thi anumaanit by the bich liye avrajan adhyayan to be about 11 lakh logon, bas isse 12.5 lakh people in 2007.
Other estimates dayera isse 7 to 20 lakh.
according to a 2005 pew hispanic bich rapat, 56 % of undocumented apravasiyon yahood isse Mexico ; 22 % were isse anya latin amareeki deshon ; 13 % yahood isse Asia ; 6 % yahood isse europea or Canada ; or 3 % yahood isse Africa and the rest of the world.
Alvin Independent skool zila is a school zila based in Alvin, texas ( USA ).
elvin isd is a large suburban skool zila dakshin of huston in the samudaayon of elvin, Manvel, pearland, hillcrest, Rosharon, iova upnivesh, Liverpool, or Amsterdam.
aisd serves Pearland nagar 's rapidly growing western portion of the nagar sahit the nai vishaal master-planned samudaayon of Shadow Creek ranch, dakshin kanta, or dakshini trails.
Alvin isd covers of jameen.
in insaan anatomy, the ulnar tantrika is a tantrika jisase ranon nikat the ulna bone.
the ulnar collateral snaayu of kohni sanyukt is in sambandh with the ulnar nerve.
the tantrika is the largest unprotected tantrika in the insaan deh ( meaning unprotected by muscle or asthi ), so chot is aam.
This tantrika is directly conect to the choti ungali, or the sata half of the ring ungali, supplying the palmar paksh of ye fingers, sahit dono saamne and back of the tips, shaayad as far waapas as the fingernail beds.
ek vidhi of injuring the nerve is to strike the medial epicondyle of the humerus isse posteriorly, or inferiorly with the kohni flexed.
The ulnar tantrika is funs between the asthi or the overlying skin at this point.
This is commonly referred to as bumping ek 's `` mjedaar asthi ''.
is name is vichaar to be a pun, aadhaarit on the dhwani praturup between the name of the asthi of the upper bhujaa, the `` humerus `` or the word `` humorous ``.
alternatively, according to the Oxford English shabdkosh it may refer to `` the peculiar sansani anbhavi jab it is struck ''.
Hogwarts skool of chudail and wizardry, shortened hoguarts, is a fictional angrejon skool of jaadu liye vidhyaarthee aged eleven to atharah, or is the praathmik setting liye the pehla chah books in J.K. rolling 's harry kumhaar shrenee.
rolling rai sujhaayaa that she may have inadvertently liya the naam isse the hogwort plant ( croton capitatus ), which she tha dekhi at Kew gardens kuch samay before writing the series, haalanki the names `` The hoguarts '' or `` hoggwart '' appear in the 1954 nigel molesworth book kaisaa to be topp by Geoffrey Willans.
hoguarts school thi voted as the 36th behtareen scottish educational sthapana in a 2008 online ranking, outranking edinburgh 's loretto School.
According to a nideshak of the swatantra skulon sanjaal rankings, it thi added to the skulon listing `` for majaa '' and thi then voted on.
the u.S. subprime bandhak sankat thi a niyat of kaarykram or sharten ki led to a vittiya crisis and subsequent recession that began in 2008.
it was characterized by a vruddhi in subprime bandhak delinquencies or foreclosures, or the resulting manaahi of pratibhuti backed by kaha mortgages.
anek major vittiya sansthaanon collapsed in sitambar 2008, with significant disruption in the pravaah of credit to vyavsaayon or upabhokta or the onset of a kathor vaishvik mandi.
There yahood anek causes of the sankat, with commentators assigning different str of dosha to financial institutions, regulators, credit agencies, sarkari housing policies, or upabhokta, among anya.
a proximate kaaran thi the vruddhi in subprime lending.
the percentage of lower-quality subprime mortgages originated dauraan a given year rose from the aitihaasik 8 % or nimnatar range to lagbhag 20 % isse 2004 to 2006, saath much ucchtar ratios in some parts of the u.s.
A unchi pratishat of ye subprime mortgages, over 90 % in 2006 liye udhaaharan, were adjustable-rate mortgages.
These do parivartan yahood bhaag of a broader trend of lowered lending standards or higher-risk mortgage utpaada.
further, U.S. households tha become increasingly rini, saath the ratio of debt to dispojable personal aay uthati isse 77 % in 1990 to 127 % at the samaapt of 2007, much of is increase mortgage-related.
jab U.S. ghar keemten asweekrut steeply baad peaking in mid-2006, borrowers ' ability to punarvitt their lone became adhik mushkil.
as adjustable-rate mortgages began to riset at higher interest daron ( causing ucchtar masik bhugtan ), bandhak delinquencies soared.
pratibhuti samarthit saath mortgages, sahit subprime mortgages, widely held by vittiya firms globally, khoyaa sabase of unke maan.
vaishvik niveshkon also drastically ghataya purchases of mortgage-backed debt and anya securities as bhaag of a manaahi in the kshamta or willingness of the private vittiya pranali to support lending.
chintaaen about the soundness of u.S. credit or financial markets led to tightening credit around the sansar or slowing aarthik vikaas in the u.S. or europea.
the sankat tha kathor, long-lasting consequences liye the u.S. or europea economies.
the u.S. daalaa a gahan mandi, saath nearly 9 lakh jobs khoyaa during 2008 or 2009, roughly 6 % of the workforce.
u.S. housing keemten fell nearly 30 % on ausat or the u.S. bhandar market fell lagbhag 50 % by early 2009.
As of jaldi 2013, the u.S. bhandar market tha recovered to its pre-crisis peak lakin awaas keemten remained nikat their low point or berogari remained elevated.
aarthik vikaas remained neeche pre-crisis levels.
Europe also jari to sangharsh with iske own aarthik crisis.
Carl Jung in 1910.
myrs or Briggs extrapolated their mbti theory isse Jung 's writings in uske kitaab manovaigyanik prakaar.
the Myers-Briggs prakaar indicator ( mbti ) assessment is a psychometric questionnaire designed to measure manovaigyanik variyataon in kaisaa people perceive the sansar and make nirnay.
ye preferences yahood extrapolated from the typological theories proposed by karl gustav jang and pehla prakashit in uske 1921 kitaab manovaigyanik prakaar ( angrezi sanskaran, 1923 ).
jang theorized ki vahin hai four principal psychological krityon by which we anubhav the sansar : sansani, antargyaan, ahsaas, or soch.
ek of ye four krityon is dominant sabase of the samay.
the original develper of the personality inventory yahood katharine cook briggs and uske beti, isabel briggs myrs ; ye do, having padhai extensively the kaary of Jung, turned their byaaj of insaan behavior into a bhakthi of turning the siddhanth of psychological prakaar to vyaavhaarik use.
ve began bananaa the indicator during sansar yuddh II, believing ki a gyaan of vyaktitv preferences hota sahaayta mahilaon jo yahood pravesh the audyogic workforce liye the first samay to pahachaano the sort of war-time kaary ki would be `` sabase aaramdaayak or prabhavi ''.
the aarambhik prashnawali grew into the myers-briggs prakaar indicator, jisase was pehla prakashit in 1962.
The mbti focuses on saamaanya populations or emphasizes the maan of naturally occurring matbhed.
robert Kaplan or denis Saccuzzo maananaa `` the underlying assumption of the mbti is ki we sab have vishisht variyataon in the rasta we construe our experiences, or these variyataon underlie hamaari ruchi, needs, maan, or prerana '' ( p. 499 ).
`` Judas '' is a song by American recording kalakaar mahila gaaga, isse uske duusari studio album born is rasta ( 2011 ).
it thi released by interscope Records on april 15, 2011, four dinon ahead of its anusuchit relies.
likhaa or produced by mahila gaaga and RedOne, `` yahuda '' is a nrity and electro house song parichay a stri in love saath a man jo gaddari uske.
it embodies the incidents ki have haunted Gaga in the past, or iske kor meaning refers to the rinatmak parts of her life ki wo ca n't escape.
gaaga rai further samajhaayaa ki the song thi bhi about honoring one 's bhitari andhera in anukram to lao oneself into the light.
the kalakriti liye the single was designed by gaaga in microsoft shabd.
in spite of a polarizing prabhaav on anek dharmik samooh, the song thi generally well praapt by aalochakon, jo likened the song to `` Bad romance `` with kuch noting it should have been the album 's lead single.
The song rai a samaan dhwani to gaaga 's pichhlaa redone-produced treks, sahit `` pokar phase ``, `` lovegame ``, `` karaab romance '', and `` Alejandro ``.
it contains teen distinct hooks or a house -influenced brake bas.
gaaga samajhaayaa ki the linon spoken during the breakdown baat parichay uske as pare redemption, regarding the paramparaagat views of what a stri chahie be.
`` yahuda '' initially tha a damdaar bikri kholane, lakin thi kam kaamyaab commercially in comparison to Gaga 's pichhlaa singles.
The song pahunche the sheersh ten of the chart in sabase pramukh music bazaar, and bhi pahunche the sheersh of the charts in dakshin Korea.
A music video liye the song thi filmed in april 2011, co-directed by Gaga or Laurieann gibson or co-starring norman reedus.
It has a biblical storyline jahaan Reedus nibhaai Judas iscarriyat or Gaga nibhaai mariyam magdalene.
the video portrays them as aadhunik din prachaarkon going to Jerusalem.
It shaamil the biblical story of yahuda betraying yishu, and ended saath Gaga as magdalene getting stoned to maut.
pehle iske relies, the catholic lig condemned gaaga liye the kathith upyog of dharmik imagery and uske bhoomika in the video.
however, critics generally praised the video, nahin dhundhna koi apriy saamagree.
The video was manonith liye do puraskaar at the 2011 amtivi video Music puraskaar.
Gaga rai performed `` yahuda '' on a number of television shows, sahit the graham norton dikhaaen, Saturday raatri sajiv, shubh morning americas `` garmiyaan concert shrenee '', the french x Factor as khub as on The ellen DeGeneres dikhaaen.
Marvin Gaye ( April 2, 1939april 1, 1984 ), born marvin pentz Gay, Jr., was an American singer-songwriter and sangeetkaar.
gaye helped to aakaar the dhwani of motown Records in the 1960s saath a string of hits sahit `` kaisaa Sweet it Is ( To be loved by You ) `` or `` I Heard It through the Grapevine `` and duet ricarding saath Mary Wells or tammi Terrell, baad earning the sheershak `` prince of motown '' or `` prince of aatma ''.
dauraan the 1970s, Gaye ankit the concept albums What 's Going on and let 's Get it on or became among the first kalakaaron in Motown to brake away isse the reins of its production company.
gaye 's baad ricarding bahekaave anek r & b subgenres aise as quiet toofaan or neo-soul.
following a kaal in europea under a kar nirvaasan in the early 1980s, gaye released the 1982 grami Award-winning hit `` yon healing `` or the madhyaraatri prem album.
chunki uske maut in 1984, gaye rai maharoom maranoparant sammanit by anek institutions, sahit the Grammy aaajeevan uplabdhi Award or the chattan or phenken haul of kirti.
the academy puraskaar liye Best chitra is ek of the academy Awards of Merit presented annually by the academy of Motion chitra kala or sciences ( ampas ) to nirmaataa working in the gati chitra udyog or is the tabhi category in jisase prayek member is yogya to nominate liye.
behtareen Picture is mana the most mahatvapurn of the Academy puraskaar, as it represents sab the directing, acting, music composing, likhane, editing and other praytn put forth into a filmi.
natijatan, behtareen Picture is the final award or the conclusion of the salanaa Academy puraskaar ceremony.
The Grand staircase columns at the dolby Theatre in Los Angeles, where the Academy Awards ceremonies have been held since 2002, shokes every film ki rai jiti the Best chitra sheershak since the puraskaar 's inception 85 years pehle.
baari barsaat is an interactive naatak action-adventure video khel created by french develper Quantic sapana exclusively liye the plastesan 3.
the game is written or nirdeshit by quantic sapana 's sansthaapak and siio daud pinjraa.
Heavy Rains story is a naatakeey thriller modelled baad filmi noir, featuring chaar protagonists shaamil saath the rahasy of the origami kaatil, a serial kaatil jo upyog extended periods of rainfall to dubo uske peediton.
Ethan mangal is trying to sahejen uske bete isse hone the aglaa victim, jabaki investigative patrkaar medisson Paige, epabiai profiler norman jayden, and nijee jasoos Scott Shelby hai each trying to track bas clues to the origami kaatil 's pahchaan.
the khilaadi interacts saath the khel by performing kriyaayein highlighted on screen sambandhit to motions on the niyantrak, or in kuch maamle, performing a shrenee of jaldi samay kaarykram dauraan fast-paced action sequences.
the khilaadi 's nirnay or kriyaayein during the khel hoga affect the katha.
the pramukh varna can be maare, or nishchit kriyaayein may sise to alag drishyon or endings.
A playable demo thi released on 11 farvari 2010.
The demo thi released prior to this tithi liye logon jo took part in a chaar din chunauti on 5 farvari 2010.
a patch to allow upyog of the plastesan move niyantrak to khel the game thi released in sitambar 2010.
baari barsaat thi critically acclaimed and rai bechi over do lakh nakal.
it jiti 2010 's khel of the saal isse sienen and gaming sangh, or behtareen ps3 Game of 2010 by gamespy or ign.
A parivardhit sanskaran of the khel thi released titled baari barsaat sanskaran modifiée exclusively in frans, aimed towards a younger audience.
in 2010, the khel thi included in the kitaab 1001 Video khel tum jarur khel Before You Die.
Total superannuation udyog liabilities : sadasyon funds or reserves ( a $ lakho ) chunki 1988.
Annual kul superannuation udyog asset growth 1996-2005.
Superannuation in Australia refers to the arrangements jisase logon mek in australia to have nidhi uplabdhiyaan liye unhen in ritairement.
in Australia, superannuation intjaam hai government-supported or protsaahit, or nunatam provisions hai compulsory for karmchaaree.
liye udhaaharan, niyokta hai required to adaa a proportion of an karmchaaree 's salaries or mazdooree ( philhal 9 % ) into a superannuation nidhi, but logon hai protsaahit to put aside atirikt nidhi into superannuation.
the nunatam daayitv jaruri by niyokta is set to increase to 12 % gradually stepping annually from 2013 to 2020.
an vyaktigat can withdraw nidhi out of a superannuation fund when the vyakti meets ek of the conditions of relies contained in anusuchee 1 of the superannuation udyog ( Supervision ) regulations 1994.
is is a suchi of the characters isse the amareeki comedy-drama television series The khel.
Electoral college map prardashit the parinaam of the 2012 U.S. adhyakshiya chunaav.
adhyaksh Barack obama ( D - il ) won the lokapriy vote in 26 rajya or the zila of Columbia ( denoted in blue ) to capchar 332 electoral mat.
purv rajyapal Mitt romney ( r - ma ) jiti the popular vote in 24 rajya ( denoted in red ) to capture 206 chunavi mat.
cartogram pratinidhitiv of the chunavi college vote for the 2012 chunaav, saath prayek vargakar representing one electoral vote.
The United rajya Electoral College is the sanstha that officially elects the adhyaksh or vaais adhyaksh of the United rajya prayek chaar years.
the adhyaksh and Vice adhyaksh are not elected sidhe by the matadaata.
bajaay, ve hai elected by `` nirvaachak '' jo hai chosen by lokapriy vote on a state-by-state aadhaar.
Electors are apportioned to prayek rajya or the District of colombia, lakin nahin to territorial possessions of the United States, aise as purto rico or Guam.
the kramank of electors in each rajya is equal to the kramank of sadasyon of Congress to which the state is hakdaar.
the twenty-third amendment rai sadaa resulted in the zila of colombia having teen nirvaachak.
vahin hai 538 nirvaachak, based on vahin hone 435 pratinidhi and 100 senators, plus the teen nirvaachak isse the District of colombia.
nirvaachak are pledged to particular adhyakshiya or vaais presidential ummidavaar, though unpledged nirvaachak hai sambhavit.
In sab rajya, magar maine or nebraska, electors hai nirvaachit on a `` winner-take-all '' aadhaar.
ki is, all nirvaachak pledged to the presidential pratyaashee jo vins the sabase mat in a rajya become nirvaachak liye ki state.
maine and Nebraska upyog the `` congressional district method '', selecting ek elector bheetar each congressional zila by lokapriy vote or selecting the baaki do nirvaachak by a rajyavyapee lokapriy vote.
haalanki no elector is required by sangheey vidhi to sammaan a pledge, vahin have tabhi been bahut few avasaron jab an elector voted contrary to a pratigya.
the barahavin Amendment specifies kaisaa a adhyaksh and vaais adhyaksh are nirvaachit and requires prayek elector to daal ek vote liye President or another vote liye vaais adhyaksh.
aalochakon argue ki the chunavi college is inherently undemocratic and detaa swing states disproportionate influence in electing the President or vaais adhyaksh.
the chunavi college detaa a numeric advantage in the chunaav of the adhyaksh to the choti states, as the minimum kramank of electors for the choti rajya is teen compared to ek liye the chunaav of pratinidhi.
on the anya haath, the winner-take-all vidhi of matdaan favors the larger states.
a kramank of sanvaidhanik amendments have maharoom prastaavit seeking to alter the chunavi College or badalen it with a sidhaa lokapriy vote.
baraak hussein obama II ( ; born August 4, 1961 ) is the 44th or current adhyaksh of the sanyukt rajya, the pehla africa amareeki to hold the daftar.
born in Honolulu, hawaii, obama is a graduate of Columbia vishvavidhyalayon or Harvard vidhi skool, jahaan he was adhyaksh of the harvard Law punarvilokan.
He was a community organizer in chicago pehle kamai uske vidhi degree.
he worked as a civil rights attorney in chicago or sikhaaya constitutional law at the vishvavidhyalayon of chicago vidhi skool from 1992 to 2004.
He parosa teen sharten representing the 13th District in the Illinois seenet isse 1997 to 2004, kaaryshil unsuccessfully liye the United rajya House of pratinidhi in 2000.
in 2004, Obama praapt neshnal dhyaan dauraan his abhiyaan to represent Illinois in the sanyukt States seenet saath uske vijay in the kooch loktantric party primary, uske keynote pataa at the Democratic neshnal sammelan in July, and uske chunaav to the Senate in navambar.
he began uske presidential abhiyaan in 2007, and in 2008, baad a band praathmik campaign against hillari rodham Clinton, he jiti sufficient delegates in the loktantric Party primaries to praapt the presidential namakan.
he tab defeated Republican nominee jon macken in the saamaanya election, or thi inaugurated as adhyaksh on January 20, 2009.
Nine maheene later, Obama thi namit the 2009 Nobel salaam Prize laureate.
he was re-elected president in navambar 2012, defeating Republican nominee mitt romney, and thi sworn in liye a duusari pad on janvari 20, 2013.
jaldi in uske pehla pad in daftar, Obama signed into vidhi aarthik stimulus vidhaan in jawaab to the great mandi in the rup of the amareeki recovery and reinvestment adhinium of 2009 or the Tax raahat, berogari Insurance reauthorization, and Job sristi Act of 2010.
anya pramukh gharelu pahalon in uske presidency shaamil the Patient Protection or sasti parvaah Act, praayah referred to as `` obamacare '' ; the dodd–frank wal gali Reform or upabhokta suraksha Act ; the do n't Ask, do n't bataanaa Repeal adhinium of 2010 ; the Budget control adhinium of 2011 ; and the American Taxpayer raahat adhinium of 2012.
in May 2012, he became the pehla sitting U.S. adhyaksh to saream support same-sex vivaah and in 2013 uske prashasan daayar briefs which urged the Supreme adaalat to rule in ehsaan of same-sex yugal in do high-profile maamle.
in videshi niti, Obama ended u.S. military bhagidaari in the iraqi yuddh, increased troop str in afghanistan, hastakshrit the nai prarambh bahen control sandhi with rus, ordered U.S. sainya bhagidaari in libya, or ordered the sainya operation ki resulted in the maut of osama bin laden.
the honda cbr1100xx super Blackbird was a Honda motorcycle bana from 1996 to 2007.
the bike thi viksit to chunauti the Kawasaki ninja zx-11 as the sansar 's tivratam utpaadan motorcycle, or honda succeeded with a sheersh gati of.
do years baad the title passed to the suzuki hayabusa, jisase pahunche.
The blackbird is named after the lochid sr-71, also a gati record holder.
Sample drishy of an electronic health record aadhaarit on bimb
namoona view of an electronic health ricard
An electronic health ricard ( EHR ) is an evolving avadharana defined as a vyavasthit sangrahan of electronic swasthya information parichay individual marijon or populations.
it is a ricard in digital swaroop ki is theoretically sakasham of being saajha aarpaar alag swasthya parvaah settings.
in some maamle this sharing can occur by way of network-connected enterprise-wide soochna pranaaliyon and anya soochna networks or exchanges.
ehrs may shaamil a dayera of data, sahit janasankhyikee, medical itihaas, medication or allergies, immunization aukaat, prayogshaala pareekshan results, radiology bimb, vital signs, nijee stats jaise age or weight, or billing soochna.
the meriner up on the mast in a toofaan.
ek of the wood-engraved illustrations by Gustave doré.
the rime of the pracheen meriner ( originally the Rime of the ancyent marinere ) is the longest pramukh kavita by the angrezi kavi Samuel tailor cholorij, written in 1797–98 or prakashit in 1798 in the pehla sanskaran of gitatmak ballads.
Modern editions use a baad revised sanskaran printed in 1817 ki pradarshit a gloss.
saath with anya kavitaayen in Lyrical ballads, it was a signal shift to aadhunik poetry or the shuruuaat of angrejon Romantic sahitya.
a proxi auto-config ( PAC ) sanchika defines kaisaa web browsers and anya upayokta agenton can automatically chune the appropriate proxi server ( access vidhi ) liye fetching a die url.
a pac file contains a JavaScript function “findproxyforurl ( url, host ) ”.
This falan ritern a string saath one or adhik abhigam method visheshtaayen.
ye specifications kaaran the user agent to upyog a particular proxy sarwar or to conect directly.
anek visheshtaayen provide a fall-back jab a proxi fails to respond.
The broujar fetches is pac sanchika pehle requesting anya yuarel.
the url of the pac sanchika is either configured hastchalit or determined automatically by the web proxi autodiscovery protocol.
Zendaya Coleman ( born September 1, 1996 ), known mononymously as zendaya, is an amareeki actress, singer or nartki.
wo stars on the dijani channel sitcom shaike it up as rocky blue.
wo has strecchar in do films or nibhaai one of the sise bhoomikaaye in the filmi frenemies as heley brandan.
wo voiced fern in the pixie khokhla khel.
wo appeared in shubh lack charlie as Rocky blue and in a shubh lack Charlie and shaike it up crossover sheershak Charlie Shake It up.
She appeared on prankstars as herself in the apisod `` Walk the sharaarat '' or on a.n.t. Farm as Sequoia jones in the apisod `` rachanaatmak salaahkaar. ''
Zendaya is bhi a musician.
wo hastakshrit a deal with hollywood record on agast 8, 2012 or prarambh recording songs liye uske debyue album on agast 12, 2012.
wo released a single isse an independent label called `` swag it out `` or another single with Bella thorne pukaara `` dekhen me, '' jisase is featured on the brake it Down album.
on kooch 20, 2012, Zendaya or bela thorne released an album together pukaara shaike it Up : sajiv 2 nrity, prayek have their apana song on it, saath saath a mash-up of dono geeton saath as one.
On agast 21, 2012, zendaya or bela Thorne released an ep pukaara shaike It Up : bana in japani.
zendaya rai a Christmas song pukaara `` shaike santa Shake, '' which is on the dijani Channel avkaash plalist cd, jisase thi released on aktubar 2, 2012.
On kooch 5, 2013 the third Shake it up soundtrack was released, hakdaar i < 3 nrity ; on it, zendaya rai do geeton saath bela - `` sankramak prem '' or `` is Is My nrity manzil '' - as khub as ek solo song, `` Beat of my dhol. ''
is is a suchi of airports in Pennsylvania ( a U.S. rajya ), grouped by prakaar or sorted by sthaan.
it contains all public-use and sainya airport in the rajya.
kuch private-use and former airport may be shaamil jahaan notable, such as airports that were previously public-use, those with vanijyik enplanements ankit by the FAA or airport abantit an IATA vimaanashetra code.
iOS ( previously iphone os ) is a mobile oparating pranali developed or vitarit by Apple Inc. originally released in 2007 liye the iphone or ipod tach plateform, it rai been vistaarit to support anya Apple devices such as the ipad or tehraana TV.
Unlike microsoft 's khidkiyaan Phone and google 's android, tehraana karata not license ioes liye sansthapana on non-apple hardware.
, Apple 's app store contained adhik than 700,000 iOS applications, jisase have collectively maharoom downlod adhik than 30 billion times.
It tha a 21 % share of the smartphone mobile oparating pranali ikai shipped in the chauthi quarter of 2012, peeche only google 's android.
in june 2012, it accounted for 65 % of mobile web aankada khapat ( sahit use on dono the iPod tach or the ipad ).
at the half of 2012, vahin yahood 410 lakh divaais activated.
According to the special media event yojit by tehraana on sitambar 12, 2012, 400 million divaais have maharoom sold through june 2012.
the user interfes of ioes is based on the avadharana of direct herpher, using multi-touch gestures.
interfes control elements consist of sliders, switches, or batan.
baatcheet saath the os includes ishaaron aise as swipe, tap, pinch, or reverse pinch, all of jisase have specific paribhaashaayen bheetar the context of the ioes oparating pranali or iske multi-touch interfes.
Internal accelerometers hai prayukt by some anuprayog to respond to shaking the device ( ek aam result is the undo cmand ) or rotating it in teen aayam ( ek common parinaam is switching from portret to landscape vidhi ).
ioes is niklaa isse os X, saath which it shares the darwin foundation.
ioes is Apple 's mobile sanskaran of the os X operating pranali used on tehraana computer.
in ioes, vahin hai chaar abstraction paraton : the Core OS parat, the Core sevaayen layer, the media layer, or the cocoa tach parat.
The vartmaan version of the oparating system ( ioes 6.1.3 ) dedicates 1-1.5 gb of the device 's flash memory liye the pranali vibhaajan, using roughly 800 mb of ki partition ( varying by model ) liye ioes itself.
ioes currently ranon on iphone, ipad, ipod tach or tehraana TV.
the plymouth Superbird is prasiddh for iske atyadhik high rear wing.
1987 audi Sport QuattroS1 saath iske vishaal wings at pikes shikhar
a bigaadane is an automotive aerodynamic device jinaki intended dizine function is to 'spoil ' pratikul air movement aarpaar a deh of a gadee in gati, usually varnit as turbulence or khichein.
vighn on the saamne of a gadee hai often pukaara air dams, kuki in jod to directing air flow they bhi reduce the raashi of air flowing underneath the vehicle jisase generally reduces aerodynamic lift or khichein.
Spoilers hai praayah fitted to res or high-performance khel gaadiyaan, although ve have become aam on yatri vaahanon as khub.
kuch vighn hai added to gaadiyaan primarily for styling uddeshy or have either choti aerodynamic laabh or bhi mek the vayugatiki badtar.
vighn for cars are praayah incorrectly confused with, or the pad used interchangeably with, wings.
automotive wings hai divaais jinaki intended dizine is to generate downforce as air gujarata around unhen, not bas disrupt existing airflow pattern.
Mario, who serves as nintendo 's shubhankar, is a fictional character nirmit by khel designer Shigeru miyamoto or voiced by Charles martinet.
is is a list of video khel where the akshar Mario plays a part, either as the protagonist, antagonist, supporting akshar, as bhaag of an ensemble cast, as a chemiyo, or in a game bheetar a khel.
it does nahin shaamil saral sandarbh to the akshar, aise as the portraits of mario mila in The legend of zelda : a kadi to the past.
the saal indicated is the saal the khel thi first released, sabase commonly in japani ; games yahood sometimes released saalo later in other regions of the sansar.
the suchi includes port, remakes or compilations.
it does n't include koi Virtual consol re-releases.
`` man of nirantar vishaad '' ( bhi known as `` I am A man of nirantar Sorrow '' ) is a paramparaagat American lok song pehla ankit by land burnett, a partially blind fiddler isse Kentucky.
the song was originally recorded by Burnett as `` vidaai song '' mudrit in a Richard burnett songbook, circa 1913.
an jaldi sanskaran was ankit by emry Arthur in 1928 ( Vocalion vo 5208 ).
public byaaj in the song thi navinikrut baad the relies of the 2000 filmi O bhai, jahaan Art Thou ?
, as it plays a central bhoomika in the filmi 's plat.
The song thi bhi included in the film 's atyadhik kaamyaab, multiple-platinum selling soundtrack.
josephson jankshan sarani chip viksit by the neshnal beuro of Standards as a standard volt
The volt ( pratik : v ) is the si niklaa ikai liye electric sambhavit ( voltage ), electric potential difference, and vidyutvahak force.
the volt is namit in sammaan of the Italian physicist Alessandro Volta ( 1745–1827 ), jo invented the voltayik pile, sambhawatah the pehla chemical battery.
A plake commemorating the location of the Sarajevo hatya or kadam of gavrilo Princip ( chitra liya in 1987, pehle steps yahood removed in 1992 and plake badla isse cyrillic to Latin script )
a plaque commemorating the sthaan of the Sarajevo hatya ( chitra liya in 2009 )
on 28 june 1914, archduke Franz ferdinand of austria, vaaris presumptive to the austro-hungarian singhaasana, or uske bivi, Sophie, duchess of Hohenberg, were shot dead in sarajevo, by gavrilo princip, ek of a group of six bosnian Serb assassins samanvit by Danilo ilić.
the rajnatik uddeshy of the hatya thi to brake band austria-hungary 's south-slav praanton so ve could be sanyukt into a vrihad Serbia or a yugoslavia.
the assassins ' motives were satat saath the movement ki baad became gyaat as yang bosnia.
srbian sainya adhikariyon stood peeche the akraman.
at the sheersh of these srbian sainya conspirators thi mukhya of srbian Military Intelligence dragutin Dimitrijević, uske righthand man Major Vojislav tankosić, or masterspy rade malobabić.
pramukh tankosić armed the hatyare with bam and pistols or trained unhen.
the assassins were die abhigam to the vahi clandestine tunnel of safe-houses or agents that rade malobabić prayukt liye the ghuspaith of hathiyaar and operatives into austria-hungary.
The hatyare, the kunjee sadasyon of the clandestine tunnel, or the key srbian military shadyantrkariyon jo were still jinda yahood giraftaar, aajamaaya, convicted or punished.
those jo yahood giraftaar in bosnia yahood tried in sarajevo in aktubar 1914.
the anya conspirators were giraftaar or aajamaaya pehle a srbian kangaroo adaalat on the french-controlled salonika saamne in 1916–1917 on unrelated false charges ; srbija chalaaya three of the top sainya shadyantrkariyon.
much of what is gyaat about the assassinations comes isse ye two trial and sambandhit record.
kaarybhaar of jimmedaari liye the bombing and hatyaein of 28 june is highly vivaadaaspad kuki the akraman led to the outbreak of sansar yuddh i one month baad.
mishan San juaan Capistrano was a spani mishan in Southern california, located in present-day San juaan Capistrano.
it thi santhaapit on All Saints ' Day navambar 1, 1776, by Spanish catholics of the franciscan anukram.
Named liye giovanni da Capistrano, a 15th sadi theologian and `` yoddha pujari '' jo resided in the abruzzo pradesh of Italy, san juaan capistrano has the bhed of being ghar to the oldest bhawan in california still in upyog, a chapel built in 1782.
Known alternately as `` Serra 's chapel '' or `` Father Serra 's girijaghar, '' it is the only extant dhaancha jahaan it rai maharoom documented ki the padre Junipero sera manaaye dravyaman.
One of the best gyaat of the Alta california mishan ( or ek of the few missions to have darasal maharoom founded twice—others being mishan san Gabriel arcángel and mishan la purísima concepción ).
The sait thi originally consecrated on aktubar 30, 1775, by pita Fermín lasuén, lakin thi jaldi abandoned due to ashaanti among the swadeshi janasankhyikee in san diego.
The success of the settlement is evident in its aitihaasik records.
prior to the arrival of the prachaarkon, kuch 550 natives yahood bikhare throughout the local kshetrafal.
by 1790, the kramank of parivartit isaayiyon tha grown to 700, or bas chah saalo baad nearly 1,000 `` neophytes `` ( haal converts ) jiya in or around the Mission compound.
1,649 baptisms were conducted ki year alon, out of the kul 4,639 souls parivartit between 1776 and 1847.
adhik than 2,000 purv nivaasiyon ( zyaadaatar juaneño indiens ) hai buried in unmarked graves in the mishan 's cemetery ( campo santo ).
The remains of pita ( baad monsignor ) st. jon o'sullivan, jo pahachaanaa the property 's aitihaasik maan and working tirelessly to conserve or rebuild its structures, are dafn at the pravesh to the cemetery on the west paksh of the property, and a pratimaa raised in his honor stand at the sir of the kript.
the surviving chapel bhi serves as the final resting place of three padress jo passed on jabaki sevarat at the mishan : Fathers jose barona, vicent fustér, and Vicente paskual oliva hai sab entombed beneath the abhayaarany manzil.
The criolla or `` mishan angoor, '' thi first planted at san Juan capistrano in 1779 ; in 1783, the pehla wine utpaadit in alta california ubhara isse the mishan 's winary.
The mishan entered a long period of kramik manaahi baad secularization in 1833.
numerous praytn were bana over the years to restore the Mission to iske former glory, but none mili saath great kamyaabi until the aagaman of pita O'Sullivan in 1910.
bahaali efforts continue, or `` sera 's chapel '' is still prayukt liye dharmik services.
About half-a-million visitors, sahit 80,000 skool children, aaiye to the mishan prayek year.
or jabaki the tabah of `` the great stone Church '' ( which was all but leveled by an 1812 bukamp ) are a renowned architectural achraj, the Mission is shaayad behtareen known for the annual `` vaapasi of the daat '' jisase is traditionally observed prayek March 19 ( Saint joseph 's Day ).
Mission san juaan capistrano rai served as a favorite subject liye anek notable kalakaaron, and rai maharoom immortalized in sahitya and on filmi numerous times, shaayad more than koi anya mission.
In 1984, a aadhunik girijaghar jatil thi constructed bas north or west of the mishan yogic and is abhi gyaat as mishan Basilica san juaan capistrano.
aaj, the mishan compound serves as a sangrahalay, saath the sera chapel bheetar the compound sevarat as a chapel for the mishan mohalla.
behatar band murde is a 1985 American teen romantic kamedi filmi starring John cusack or written or nirdeshit by junglee steve holland.
it tells the story of unchi school chaatr len Myer jo is suicidal baad his girlfriend brake up with use.
mercedes-benz superdome ( originally Louisiana superdome or commonly the Superdome ) is a khel or pradarshnee stadium, located in the Central kaarobaar zila of nai orlions, louisiana, uese.
yojanaayen yahood drawn up in 1967, by the nai Orleans modernist architectural kad of curtis and davis.
iske steel frem cover a expanse.
Its dome is bana of a lamella multi-ringed frem or rai a vyas of, bananaa it the largest phixd domed structure in the sansar.
it is ghar to the enegel 's nai orlions Saints, the ncaa 's prabhag i-a Tulane green Wave footbaal team ( the largest footbaal stadium in sammelan uese ), the rajya farm bayou clasik, the r+l Carriers nai orlions katori, the allstate sugar Bowl or, prayek chauthi saal, the bcs neshnal championships Game.
Because of the aakaar or sthaan in one of the pramukh paryatak gantavyon in the sanyukt rajya, the Superdome routinely makes the `` choti suchi '' of ummidavaar hone mana liye pramukh sporting kaarykram, such as the Super Bowl and the Final chaar.
in 2005, the superdome gained antarrashtriya attention of a different prakaar when it housed hazaron of logon seeking aashray from hurricane katrina.
The building suffered extensive kshati as a parinaam of the storm, or thi band liye anek months afterward.
on aktubar 3, 2011, it was ghoshit that germany automaker Mercedes-Benz purchased namakaran rights to the stadium.
the nai naam took prabhaav on aktubar 23, 2011.
it is the teesraa stadium ki rai namakaran adhikaron isse mercedes-benz ( and pehla in the sanyukt rajya ), baad the mercedes-benz arina, the stadium of bundesliga club vfb stuttgart, in stuttgart, germany and the mercedes-benz Arena in shanghai, china.
lobby of Jambo House
Giraffe on the savannah at jambo House
dijani 's animal kingdom awaas is an African-themed dealks resort at the Walt Disney sansar resort.
it kholi on April 16, 2001.
The resort is swaamitv or operated by walt dijani park or resort.
dijani 's animal kingdom awaas is located in the animal Kingdom resort kshetrafal, sata to dijani 's animal Kingdom.
it detaa atithi the avasar to view grazing vanyajeev outside their rooms or public areas in the resort bheetar proximity of the pashu, conveying the feeling of being in an africa savana.
the logon 's party, bhi gyaat as the `` populists '', was a short-lived political party in the United rajya established in 1891 during the Populist gati ( United rajya, 19th Century ).
it thi sabase mahatvapurn in 1892-96, and then rapidly dhundhlee away.
Based among poor, shwet cotton kisaano in the South ( visheshkar uttar carolina, albama, or Texas ) or hard-pressed gehun kisaano in the maidan states ( visheshkar kansas or Nebraska ), it represented a radical crusading form of agrarianism or dushmani to banks, railroads, or elites generally.
It sometimes formed coalitions with majdoor sangh, or in 1896 the democrate endorsed their presidential nominee, wiliam jenings bryan.
the sharten `` populist '' and `` populism `` are commonly prayukt liye anti-elitist appeals in vipaksh to sthapit interests or mukhyadhara partiyon.
bhashaai map of Nigeria, Cameroon, and Benin.
chihn in angrezi, baahar the vishvavidhyalayon of lagos
There hai sainkadon of bhashaaen bolaa in Nigeria.
the pramukh bhashaaen hai yoruba, Hausa, Igbo, ido, fulfulde, kanuri, and ibb.
The aadhikarik bhashaa of Nigeria, angrezi, the purv aupniveshik bhashaa, was chuni to sukar the saanskrithik or bhashaai ekta of the desh.
angrezi, however, remains an vishesh bachaana of the desh 's shahari elite, and is nahin widely bolaa in rural kshetron, jisase comprise three quarters of the countries population.
serial 's linguistic diversity is a microcosm of africa as a puure, encompassing teen pramukh africa bhashaaen pariwaron : afroasiatic, Nilo-Saharan, or niger–congo.
Nigeria also rai several as-yet unclassified bhashaaen, aise as cen tuum, which may represent a relic of an even vrihad vividhta prior to the sprad of the vartmaan bhashaa pariwaron.
a shrenee of kaarykram led to the attack on parl harbar.
yuddh between Japan and the sanyukt States tha maharoom a sambhaavna ki prayek swadesh 's sainya shaktiyaan niojit for chunki the 1920s, haalanki real tension kiya nahin shuru jabatak the 1931 akraman of Manchuria by japani.
over the aglaa decade, japani vistaarit dhire into china, leading to all out yuddh between the do in 1937.
in 1940 Japan invaded french Indochina in an praytn to embargo all imports into china, sahit yuddh supplies kharida isse the U.S.
This move prompted the sanyukt States to embargo sab aayal niryaat, leading the Imperial japani navy to anumaan ki it tha kam than do years of bunker oil remaining and to support the maujuuda plans to seize aayal resources in the dach east indies.
niyojan tha maharoom underway liye some samay on an akraman on the `` dakshini sansaadhan kshetrafal '' to add it to the vrihad east asia co-prosperity gola ki japani envisioned in the Pacific.
The philippine islands, at ki time an American territory, were bhi a Japanese nishaanaa.
the japani military concluded ki an akraman of the philippine would provoke an amareeki sainya jawaab.
balki than seize or fortify the islands, or intjaar for the aprihaary us counterattack, japani 's military netao bajaay decided on the pre-emptive Pearl harbar attack, which they assumed hota negate the amareeki forces needed liye the liberation and reconquest of the islands.
niyojan for the attack tha begun in very jaldi 1941, by admiral Isoroku yamamoto.
He aakhirkaar won assent isse the naval unchi cmand by, among other bate, threatening to istipha.
The akraman thi sweekrut in the garmiyaan at an imperial sammelan or again at a second sammelan in the patan.
simultaneously over the saal, payalton yahood trained, and jahaajon prepared liye its execution.
praadhikaar liye the akraman was granted at the duusari imperial sammelan if a diplomatic parinaam santoshjanak to japani thi nahin pahunche.
baad final sweekruti by Emperor herohito the anukram to attack was issued at the shuruuaat of disambar.
a common office stapler
a common skool stapler
a stapler is a mechanical yantra that joins chaadaren of paper or samaan material by driving a patala metal stepal through the chaadaren and folding the ends.
staplers hai widely used in sarkari, business, offices, homes and skulon.
the shabd `` stapler '' can actually refer to a kramank of different devices of varying upyog.
in addition to joining paper chaadaren saath, staplers can also be prayukt in a surgical setting to juden utak saath saath sargical stepuls to band a sargical ghaav ( much in the vahi rasta as taanke or sutures ).
Typically, sabase staplers hai prayukt to juden multiple sheets of paper.
paper staplers come in do distinct types : hastchalit or electric.
Manual staplers are saamanytah hand-held, haalanki model ki hai prayukt jabaki niyat on a desk or other sataha are nahin uncommon.
Electric staplers exist in a kismein of alag designs and model.
unke praathmik oparating falan is to juden vishaal sankhyaayein of paper chaadaren together in rapid succession.
kuch electric staplers can join up to 20 sheets at a time.
swallowing, gyaat scientifically as deglutition, is the process in the insaan or animal body that makes kuch pass from the mouth, to the pharynx, or into the esophagus, jabaki shutting the epiglottis.
if is fails and the object goes through the trachea, then choking or pulmonary aspiration can occur.
In the insaan body it is niyantrit by the swallowing reflex.
thaddeus Stevens ( April 4, 1792 – agast 11, 1868 ), of pencilvenia, thi a netaa of the kattarpanthi republican gut of the republican Party or a fierce pratidwandi of gulaami.
he thi ek of the sabase influential members in the itihaas of Congress.
as chairman of the shaktishaalee house Ways and Means cameti, Stevens, a witty, vyangyatmak spikar and flamboyant party netaa, dominated the house isse 1861 jabatak uske death.
he likhaa much of the financial legislation ki paid liye the amareeki civil War.
stevens or Senator charles sumner were the pradhan netao of the kattarpanthi Republicans dauraan the war or punarnirmaan era.
scholarly views of stevens have swung sharply chunki uske death as interpretations of punarnirmaan have badla.
itihaaskaaron of the dunning School ( 1890s–1940s ) held stevens jimmedaar for demanding harsh upachaar of the shwet South or violating American paramparaon of republicanism, depicting stevens as a villen for his vakaalat of harsh measures in the dakshin such as disfranchising sab ex-confederates.
is atyadhik rinatmak characterization yojit sway into the 1950s.
the vruddhi of the neo-abolitionist skool in the 1950s led to a damdaar positive saraahna of stevens ' work on civil adhikaron liye freedmen.
a haal biographer characterizes use as, `` the great Commoner, savior of free public education in Pennsylvania, neshnal republican netaa in the struggles viruddh gulaami in the sanyukt States or intrepid mainstay of the attempt to surakshit racial justice liye the freedmen dauraan Reconstruction, the tabhi member of the House of pratinidhi ever to have maharoom gyaat as the 'dictator ' of Congress. ''
avlokan of the anuwaad of eukaryotic messanger rna
Diagram prardashit the anuwaad of mrna or the sanshleshan of protein by a ribosom
in molecular jeevigyaan or anuvanshiki, translation is the prakram through jisase cellular ribosomes manufacture protein.
it is part of the process of jin abhivyakti.
in anuwaad, messanger rna ( mrna ) utpaadit by transcription is decoded by the ribosom to upaj a vishisht amino acid kadi, or polypeptide, ki will baad moden into an active protein.
in bacteria, anuwaad occurs in the koshika 's koshikadravya, jahaan the vishaal or choti subunits of the ribosome hai stith, or bind to the mRNA.
In eukaryotes, anuwaad occurs aarpaar the jhilli of the endoplasmic reticulum in a prakram pukaara vectorial sanshleshan.
the ribosom facilitates decoding by inducing the binding of trnas saath poorak anticodon sequences to ki of the mRNA.
The tRNAs carry vishisht amino acids ki are chained together into a polypeptide as the mrna gujarata through or is `` read '' by the ribosome in a fashion reminiscent to ki of a bhandar ticker or tikar tape.
in anek instances, the sampurna ribosome/mrna jatil baandhta to the outer jhilli of the rough endoplasmic reticulum or relies the nascent protein polypeptide inside liye later vesicle transport or secretion outside of the koshika.
Many types of transcribed rna, aise as transafar rna, ribosomal rna, or choti nabhikeey RNA, do nahin undergo anuwaad into protein.
anuwaad proceeds in chaar phases : initiation, elongation, translocation or termination ( sab describing the growth of the amino acid chain, or polypeptide that is the product of translation ).
amino acids hai brought to ribosomes and assembled into protein.
In activation, the sahi amino acid is covalently bandhua to the sahi transfer rna ( tRNA ).
The amino acid is joined by iske carboxyl samooh to the 3 ' oh of the tRNA by an ester bandha.
jab the trna rai an amino acid linked to it, it is termed `` charge ''.
Initiation involves the choti subunit of the ribosom binding to the 5 ' samaapt of mrna with the help of diksha factors ( if ).
termination of the polypeptide happens when the a site of the ribosom chehron a roke codon ( uaa, UAG, or uga ).
no trna can recognize or bind to is codon.
Instead, the roke codon induces the binding of a release factor protein that prompts the disassembly of the sampurna ribosome/mrna jatil.
a kramank of antibiotics act by inhibiting anuwaad ; ye shaamil anisomycin, cycloheximide, chloramphenicol, tetracycline, streptomycin, erythromycin, or puromycin, among anya.
Prokaryotic ribosomes have a alag dhaancha from ki of eukaryotic ribosomes, or yun antibiotic can specifically nishaanaa bacterial infections bagaiyr koi detriment to a eukaryotic mejabaan 's koshikaayen.
A multimedia sandesh on a mobile phone.
multimedia Messaging seva ( MMS ) is a standard way to bhejein messages that shaamil multimedia saamagree to or isse mobile phone.
It extends the kor SMS ( choti sandesh Service ) kaabiliyat ki allowed exange of text sandesh tabhi up to 160 varna in length.
the most lokapriy upyog is to bhejein chayachitr isse camera-equipped handsets, haalanki it is also lokapriy as a vidhi of delivering news or entertainment saamagree sahit videos, tasviren, text prishthon and ringtones.
the standard is viksit by the Open Mobile Alliance ( omo ), although during vikaas it was bhaag of the 3GPP or vaip samooh.
Smallpox was an sankramak beemaari adwitiya to insaano, caused by either of do virus visangatiyaan, variola major or Variola naaballig.
The disease is bhi gyaat by the latin names variola or Variola veeraa, niklaa isse varius ( `` spotted '' ) or varus ( `` munhaase '' ).
the disease thi originally known in angrezi as the `` chechak '' or `` red plig '' ; the term `` smallpox '' thi first prayukt in Britain in the 15th sadi to fark variola isse the `` great chechak '' ( upadansh ).
the pichhlaa naturally occurring case of smallpox ( variola naaballig ) thi diagnosed on 26 aktubar 1977.
Smallpox sthaniyakrut in small rakt baratan of the skin and in the munh or galaa.
in the skin it resulted in a characteristic maculopapular khaaj and, later, uthaaya fluid-filled blisters.
V. major produces a adhik gambhir disease or rai an overall mrityu rate of 30–35 %.
V. naaballig kalyankari a milder form of beemaari ( bhi gyaat as alastrim, cottonpox, milkpox, whitepox, and cuban itch ) jisase martha parichay 1 % of iske peediton.
long-term jatiltaaon of V. major sankraman shaamil characteristic scars, commonly on the phase, jisase occur in 65–85 % of survivors.
drishtiheenta resulting isse corneal ulceration or scarring, or limb deformities due to gathiya or osteomyelitis are kam common jatiltaaon, seen in parichay 2–5 % of maamle.
smallpox is believed to have emerged in human populations about 10,000 bc.
the earliest shaareerik evidence of it is sambhawatah the pustular khaaj on the mummified deh of pharaoh ramses v of mishra.
The disease killed an anumaanit 400,000 europeans annually dauraan the closing saalo of the 18th sadi ( sahit paanch reigning monarchs ), or thi responsible liye a teesraa of sab blindness.
of sab those infected, 20–60 % —and over 80 % of sankramit children—died isse the beemaari.
Smallpox was jimmedaar for an estimated 300–500 million deaths dauraan the 20th sadi.
as recently as 1967, the sansar swasthya Organization ( jo ) anumaanit that 15 lakh people contracted the disease and ki two lakh died in that saal.
After tikaakaran abhiyaan throughout the 19th or 20th centuries, the jo certified the eradication of smallpox in 1979.
smallpox is ek of do sankramak rogon to have maharoom eradicated, the anya hone rinderpest, jisase thi ghoshit eradicated in 2011.
`` I want to tham apana Hand '' is a song by the angrezi chattan band the Beatles.
likhaa by jon Lennon or paul mccartney, or ankit in aktubar 1963, it was the pehla betals record to be made using four-track upkaran.
With agrim aadesh exceeding ek lakh copies in the sanyukt Kingdom, `` I want to tham apana haath '' would ordinarily have gaye straight to the sheersh of the British ricard chart on iske din of release ( 29 navambar 1963 ) had it nahin maharoom avarodhit by the samooh 's pehla million vikreta `` wo loves tum ``, the Beatles ' previous uk single, jisase was having a resurgent vartanee in the sheersh sthiti following teevr media kawarej of the group.
lene do saptaah to dislodge iske predecessor, `` i Want to tham apana Hand '' tehre at kramank ek liye five weeks or remained in the uk top pachaas for twenty-one weeks in kul.
it thi also the samooh 's pehla amareeki kramank one, pravesh the billboard hot 100 chart on 18 janvari 1964 at number forty-five or starting the angrejon akraman of the amareeki music udyog.
By 1 farvari it yojit the kramank ek spot — liye saat saptaah — before being replaced by `` wo loves tum '', a reverse scenario of what tha occurred in Britain, and remained in the US charts liye a kul of pandrah saptaah.
`` I want to tham Your haath '' became the betals ' best-selling single vishwavyaapee.
a gasser thi a prakaar of hot lathi originating on the dragstrips of the sanyukt rajya in the late 1950s or jari until the jaldi 1970s.
gassers yahood based on production model from the 1930s to mid-1960s, jisase have maharoom stripped of extraneous weight or jacked up using a trek beam dhuree to provide behatar weight vitaran on twaran ( beam axles hai bhi halkaa than an swatantra front barkhaastagi ), haalanki a raised bhandar saamne barkhaastagi is aam as well.
aam vazan katautee techniques include fiberglass deh panels, stripped interiors or plexiglass khidkiyaan ( sometimes rang tinted ).
kuki ve yahood primarily built liye racing, these cars typically tha the engine swapped to a larger or more shaktishaalee one, the existing bhandar ingine parivardhit ( often heavily ) or dono.
it was bahut aam to anuroop a jaden supercharger or mechanical eendhan injection, aise as one from algon, Hilborn, or crower.
With form hone likhavai by falan, unke rup is praayah bahut sheersh baari or ungainly, largely due to saamne ends hone uthaaya ucchtar than bhandar, to assist in the weight transafar dauraan rapid twaran ( racing ).
Having unke exhaust pipe exit through the saamne phender khub is a aam characteristic of gassers, as is having laashen chitrit in flamboyant metalflakes, pearls, or candy finishes complemented by lettering in junglee fonts.
The naam arose kuki ve competed in a gasoline -fueled drag racing class, balki than ek using methanol or nitromethane.
The gasser is the purvavarti of the aadhunik Funny Car.
Twelve-lead ichaji of a 26-year-old purush
electrocardiography ( isiji or ichaji from ) is a transthoracic ( across the thorax or chaati ) nirvachan of the electrical activity of the heart over a kaal of samay, as detected by electrodes sanlagn to the surface of the skin and recorded by a yantra bahya to the deh.
the recording utpaadit by this noninvasive procedure is termed an electrocardiogram ( also ECG or ichaji ).
an ECG is prayukt to measure the rate or niyamitata of heartbeats, as well as the size or sthiti of the kakshon, the upasthiti of koi kshati to the dil, or the prabhaav of davaayen or devices used to regulate the dil, such as a pacemaker.
sabase ecgs hai performed liye nidaan or shodh uddeshy on insaan dil, lakin may also be performed on pashu, praayah liye nidaan of dil abnormalities or shodh.
donald jon trump, sr. ( born june 14, 1946 ) is an amareeki kaarobaar maharathi, television personality or lekhak.
he is the adhyaksh or adhyaksh of the trump sanghathan and the founder of trump entertainment resort.
trump 's had jeevanstyli, outspoken manner, and bhoomika on the NBC vaastaviktaa dikhaaen The prashikshu have made use a well-known celebrity who thi no. 14 on the 2012 forbs hasti 100 suchi.
trump is the son of Fred trump, a dhanwaan nai york nagar real-estate develper.
he worked liye his father 's kad, elizabeth trump & bete, while upasthit the Wharton School of the vishvavidhyalayon of Pennsylvania, or in 1968 officially joined the company.
he was given control of the company in 1971 or renamed it the trump sanghathan.
in 2010, trump expressed an byaaj in becoming a pratyaashee liye president of the sanyukt States in the 2012 election, though in may 2011, he ghoshit he hota not be a candidate.
in December 2011, trump thi suggested as a sambhavit vice adhyakshiya chayan by Michele Bachmann, if wo were to jeet the Republican nomination.
`` A badalen Is Gon na aaiye '' is a 1964 single by R & b singer-songwriter sam cooke, written and pehla recorded in 1963 or released antargat the aaarasie Victor label shortly baad uske maut in late 1964.
haalanki tabhi a modest hit for cooke in tulana saath uske previous singles, the song aae to exemplify the 1960s ' civil adhikaron Movement.
the song rai gained in lokapriyata or critical acclaim in the decades since its relies, and is # 12 on rolling stone 's 500 mahanatam geeton of sab samay.
Steam uthati isse the Nesjavellir Geothermal shakti stesan in Iceland.
Geothermal urja is thermal urja generated and bhandaarit in the Earth.
thermal energy is the urja that determines the taapmaana of padaarth.
The geothermal energy of the Earth 's crust originates from the asli gathan of the planet ( 20 % ) or from radioactive kshay of khanij ( 80 % ).
the geothermal anupaat, jisase is the difference in taapmaana between the kor of the grah or its surface, drives a nirantar conduction of thermal urja in the rup of ooshmaa isse the kor to the sataha.
the kriyasheel geothermal originates isse the unani jaden γη ( ge ), arth dharti, or θερμος ( thermos ), meaning hot.
At the kor of the Earth, thermal urja is created by radioskriy kshay or temperatures may pahunchein over 5000 °c ( 9,000 °F ).
ooshmaa conducts isse the kor to surrounding cooler chattan.
the unchi temperature and dabaav kaaran kuch chattan to melt, bananaa megma sanvahan upward chunki it is halkaa than the solid rock.
the megma heats chattan and water in the crust, sometimes up to 370 °c ( 700 °f ).
isse hot sroton, geothermal urja has maharoom prayukt liye snaan chunki paleolithic times and liye spes heating since pracheen roman times, lakin it is abhi behatar known liye electricity generation.
vishwavyaapee, parichay 10,715 megawatts ( mw ) of geothermal shakti is online in 24 countries.
an additional 28 gigawatts of direct geothermal heating kshamta is installed liye district heating, space heating, spas, audyogic processes, desalination or agricultural anuprayog.
geothermal power is laagat prabhavi, vishwasaneey, chirsthayee, or environmentally friendly, lakin rai historically maharoom simit to kshetron nikat tectonic plate seemayen.
haal technological advances have dramatically expanded the dayera or aakaar of sugathit sansaadhan, visheshkar liye anuprayog aise as home heating, opening a potential liye widespread shoshan.
Geothermal kuen relies greenhouse gases funs gahan bheetar the dharti, but ye emissions are much nimnatar per urja ikai than those of chattan fuels.
as a parinaam, geothermal shakti rai the potential to sahaayta mitigate vaishvik warming if widely deployed in place of chattan fuels.
The dharti 's geothermal resources are theoretically adhik than paryaapt to supplai maanavtaa 's energy needs, lakin tabhi a very choti bhinn may be profitably shoshit.
khudaai or khoji liye deep resources is bahut expensive.
forecasts liye the bhavishya of geothermal shakti depend on assumptions about technology, urja keemten, subsidies, or interest rates.
payalat kaarykram jaise EWEB 's customer opt in green Power kaarykram show that graahak would be willing to pay a choti more liye a renewable urja source jaise geothermal.
lakin as a result of sarkari assisted shodh and udyog anubhav, the laagat of generating geothermal shakti has decreased by 25 % over the past do dashakon.
In 2001, geothermal urja laagat between two and ten saint prati sampaat.
Ownership of property may be nijee, samuhik, or aam or the property may be vastuen, land/real estate, or bauddhik property.
determining swaamitv in vidhi involves determining jo rai nishchit adhikaron or duties over the property.
ye adhikaron or kartavya, sometimes pukaara a 'bundle of adhikaron ', can be alag and yojit by alag partiyon.
the sawaal of swaamitv reaches waapas to the pracheen darshanikon, plato or arestu, who yojit alag raay on the vishay.
Plato ( 428/427 bc – 348/347 BC ) vichaar nijee property created divisive inequalities, jabaki arestu ( 384 bc – 322 BC ) vichaar nijee property enabled logon to receive the puraa benefit of unke labor.
nijee property can circumvent kayaa is abhi referred to as the “ traasadee of the comons ” problem, jahaan people tend to rusavaa aam property more than ve do nijee property.
Given a short-sighted maalik, however, a nijee property pranali can mek these tragedies worse—for udhaaharan, a nijee maalik of a tukdaa of oil-rich property, depending on uske worldview, might be adhik interested in short-term financial gain than vriddhishil upyog saath an eye toward anya 's chintaaen ( e.g., those of bhavishya peedhiyaan, the disenfranchised, etc. ).
jabaki arestu jaij the existence of private swaamitv, he baayein open sawaal of ( 1 ) how to allocate property between kayaa is nijee or aam or ( 2 ) kaisaa to allocate the private property within society.
over the millennia, or aarpaar samskritiyon kayaa can be property or kaisaa it is regarded culturally have varied widely.
Ownership is the aadhaar liye many anya avadharanaon that form the muladhar of pracheen or aadhunik societies aise as money, vyapaar, karz, diwaliyapan, the criminality of chori, and nijee vs. public property.
swaamitv is the kunjee building blaak in the development of the capitalist socio-economic pranali.
aadam smith stated that ek of the pavitra laws of justice thi to guard a vyakti 's property or possessions.
The prakram or mechanics of ownership hai fairly jatil : one can gain, transfer or khona swaamitv of property in a number of tareeke.
to acquire property ek can purchase it saath dhan, vyapaar it for anya property, praapt it as a tohfa, steal it, find it, mek, it or homestead it.
ek can transafar or khona swaamitv of property by selling it liye dhan, exchanging it for other property, giving it as a tohfa, being robbed of it, it, or having it stripped from one 's swaamitv through vidhik arthath aise as eviction, foreclosure, seizure, or taking.
swaamitv is self-propagating in ki the owner of any property hoga bhi own the economic benefits of that property.
`` kayaa 's my naam ? '' is a song recorded by barbadian recording artist Rihanna, liye her paanchvaan studio album laud ( 2010 ).
featuring atithi vocals isse Canadian rapper drek, the song was released as the duusari single isse Loud on October 29, 2010 through def Jam ricarding.
the r & b song was produced by the norwegian utpaadan duo starget, or thi likhaa by the duo along saath Ester Dean, traci hale, and drek.
lyrically, it incorporates vishaywastu of yon maithun or romance.
music critics gave the song dhanatmak samikshaayen, citing it some of rihana 's behtareen vocal kaary to tithi ; vahin thi a taareef regarding iske romantic prakruti, as khub as iske yon tone.
`` kayaa 's my Name ? '' was a vanijyik kamyaabi and awwal the us billboard Hot 100 chart, giving rihana uske teesraa number-one single in 2010, as well as uske aathvin overall on the chart.
the song bhi awwal the chart in hungarian and the United Kingdom and pahunche the top five in canada, ireland, New jiland, norway or slowe.
the song received a nomination at the 54th grami puraskaar liye behtareen rap/sung sahyog.
an accompanying music video, nirdeshit by Philip Andelman, portrays a romantic encounter between rihana or drek in a grocery store saath with romantic drishyon between the jodi or Rihanna walking through manahaton 's nimnatar East Side.
`` kayaa 's my Name ? '' was prachaarit saath sajiv pradarshan aarpaar dono pahalu of the atlantic, including Saturday Night sajiv in america or the shrenee seven finale of the X Factor in the sanyukt Kingdom.
the latter performance resulted in an investigation isse the country 's media niamak, ofcom, for the raunchy prakruti of rihana 's pahanava.
a ganitiya nirantar is a special kramank, praayah a real number, that is `` significantly dilachasp in kuch way ''.
sthiraank arise in anek different areas of ganit, with sthiraank aise as e ( ganitiya nirantar ) | and pi| occurring in aise vividh contexts as bhugol, kramank siddhanth or kalan.
kayaa it means liye a nirantar to uthta `` naturally '', or kayaa makes a nirantar `` interesting '', is ultimately a padaarth of swaad, and kuch ganitiya sthiraank hai notable adhik liye historical kaaran than liye unke intrinsic ganitiya interest.
the adhik popular sthiraank have maharoom studied throughout the aayu and computed to many dashamalav places.
All mathematical constants are definable numbers or praayah hai bhi computable sankhyaayein ( chaitin 's constant hone a significant excepshan ).
chunaavon to the sanyukt States Senate yahood held on navambar 2, 2010, liye 37 of the sanyukt rajya Senate 's 100 seats.
( a special chunaav on janvari 19, 2010 in Massachusetts thi held pehle in the saal. )
thirty-four of the seats were for six-year sharten to the seenet 's `` class teen '', or three yahood special chunaavon for shorter terms.
of the 37 elections, 19 featured laazim democrate ( 7 of jisko ritred or yahood defeated in the primary ) or 18 pradarshit incumbent republicans ( aath of jisko ritred or were defeated in the primary ).
baad the pichhlaa chunaavon ( in 2008 ), the sanyukt States seenet thi composed of 58 democrate, 40 republicans, and 2 independents jo caucus saath the democrate.
republicans won chaar seats yojit by retiring Democrats and Republicans defeated do laazim Democrats.
is was the largest number of republicans gains chunki the 1994 chunaavon and bhi the pehla samay since that chunaav ki republicans safaltaapurvak defended sab of their own site.
is thi the chauthi lagaataar election of `` class 3 '' seenetteron jahaan Democrats have vifal to laabh site or the third consecutive mid-term chunaav yojit in a adhyaksh 's pehla pad jahaan republicans have picked-up site.
Despite ye Republican vins, however, the Democrats retained a bahumat of the seenet with 51 site plus 2 independents jo caucus saath them, compared to the 47 republicans.
a sankranti is an khagoleey event ki occurs twice prayek saal as the Sun reaches iske ucchtam or nunatam excursion saapeksh to the celestial equator on the celestial gola.
as a parinaam, on the din of the sankranti, the surya appears to have reached iske ucchtam or lowest salanaa oonchaai in the aasmaan above the horizon at local saura noon.
the shabd sankranti is niklaa from the Latin sol ( surya ) or sistere ( to stand still ), kuki at the solstices, the Sun stands still in utaar ; that is, the mausami gati of the surya 's path ( as dekhi isse dharti ) comes to a roke pehle reversing direction.
The solstices, saath saath the equinoxes, hai connected saath the sizan.
in anek samskritiyon the solstices chihnit either the shuruuaat or the midpoint of sheet or garmiyaan.
The pad sankranti can also be prayukt in a broader bhav, as the tithi ( din ) jab this occurs.
the din of the sankranti is either the longest din of the saal ( in garmiyaan ) or the shortest din of the year ( in sheet ) for koi place baahar of the ooshnakaribandh.
Jerry lee louis ( born sitambar 29, 1935 ) is an amareeki rock and phenken or country music singer-songwriter or pianist.
he is known by the upnaam `` The kaatil '' and is often viewed as “rock & phenken 's pehla great junglee man”.
an early pionier of chattan or roll music, in 1956 louis bana uske first recordings at surya Records.
`` kreji Arms `` sold 300,000 nakal in the South, but it thi his 1957 hit `` puure lotta shakin ' going on `` ki shot louis to kirti vishwavyaapee.
louis followed is in ki same saal jab he recorded songs such as `` Great genden of aag ``, `` breathless `` or `` unchi skool Confidential ``.
Lewis bechi more record than elvis presli at is time.
however, louis ' chattan 'n ' roll kariyar faltered in the wake of uske vivaah to uske yang cousin.
He tha choti kamyaabi in the chart following the cond and his popularity jaldi dhundhlee.
uske live performance shulk plummeted isse $ 10,000 prati raatri to $ 250.
In the meantime he thi sankalpit to gain back kuch of uske lokapriyata.
dauraan the jaldi 60’s he kiya n't have much chart kamyaabi saath few apwaad aise as `` What 'd I kah ``.
uske sajiv performances at is samay were increasingly junglee or urjavan.
uske album sajiv at the Star Club, hamberg from 1964 is praayah regarded by anek music journalists or prashansak as ek of the wildest or mahanatam chattan and phenken concert albums ever.
baad recording songs such as `` i 'm on aag '' liye several saalo with little success, in 1968 louis bana a parivartan into country music and tha hits with songs aise as `` another place, Another samay ''.
is reignited his kariyar or throughout the let '60s or '70s he regularly awwal the country-western chart.
His # 1 country hits included `` to mek prem Sweeter For tum ``, `` vahin Must be More to prem Than This ``, `` hota tum lo another mauka on Me `` and `` me And bobby mcgee ``.
louis 's successes jari throughout the dashak or he embraced uske chattan 'n ' phenken past saath geeton aise as a cover of the big Bopper 's `` Chantilly feeta `` and `` Rockin ' my Life dur ``.
in the 21st sadi louis continues to daure to audiences around the sansar and still relies nai albums.
One such album, titled pichhlaa man khadaa, is uske best selling to tithi at over a lakh nakal bechi vishwavyaapee.
This thi followed by ausat boodha man which has praapt kuch of the behtareen bikri of Lewis’s kariyar.
louis has had a darjan sunaharaa record in dono chattan or country, jiti several grami puraskaar, sahit a Lifetime uplabdhi puraskaar.
Lewis thi inducted into the chattan or phenken Hall of Fame in 1986, or his pioneering yogadan to the vidha has maharoom pahachaanaa by the Rockabilly haul of kirti.
in 1989, uske life thi chronicled in the film Great genden of aag, starring Dennis quaid.
In 2003, rolling Stone patrika soochibaddh uske baksaa set All Killer, no philler : the anthology kramank 242 on their suchi of `` 500 mahanatam album of sab samay ``.
in 2004, ve kramit use number 24 on unke list of the 100 mahanatam Artists of sab samay.
louis is the pichhlaa surviving sadsy of surya record ' Million dollars quartet and the class of '55 album, jisase bhi shaamil johny Cash, Carl perkins, roy orbison and Elvis presli.
henry Louis stephens, benaam watercolor ( 1863 ) of a man reading a samachaarpatr saath sheershak `` Presidential udghoshnaa / gulaami ''.
the emancipation udghoshnaa thi an order jari to sab khand of the karypalika shakha ( sahit the fouj or Navy ) of the sanyukt rajya by adhyaksh Abraham Lincoln on January 1, 1863, during the amareeki Civil yuddh.
it thi aadhaarit on the adhyaksh 's constitutional praadhikaar as commander in chief of the hathiyaarband shaktiyaan ; it was nahin a vidhi passed by congress.
it proclaimed all those enslaved in confederate territory to be forever free, or ordered the fouj ( and sab khand of the karypalika shakha ) to daavat as free all those enslaved in ten rajya that yahood still in rebellion, thus applying to 3.1 million of the 4 lakh slave in the u.s.
the udghoshnaa could nahin be enforced in kshetron still under vidroh, but as the fouj took control of confederate regions, the slave in those regions were emancipated rather than laute to unke masters.
From 20,000 to 50,000 purv slave in regions where rebellion tha already maharoom subdued were tatkaal emancipated, and over 3 lakh more yahood emancipated as the Union fouj unnat.
The udghoshnaa did not apply to the paanch slave rajya ki yahood nahin in rebellion, nor to sabase regions already niyantrit by the sangh army ; emancipation vahin would come after pruthak rajya kriyaayein and/or the disambar 1865 anusamarthan of the Thirteenth amendment, which bana slavery illegal everywhere in the u.s.
the udghoshnaa kiya nahin compensate the swami, kiya nahin itself gaiyrkanoonee gulaami, or kiya nahin make the ex-slaves ( pukaara freedmen ) nagarikon.
it bana the eradication of gulaami an suspasht war lakshya, in jod to the lakshya of reuniting the sangh.
on sitambar 22, 1862, Lincoln tha jari a praarambhik udghoshnaa ki he hota anukram the emancipation of sab slave in any state of the confederate rajya of america ki did nahin vaapasi to Union control by janvari 1, 1863.
none laute, or the anukram, hastakshrit or issued January 1, 1863, took effect magar in sthitiyaan jahaan the sangh tha already zyaadaatar regained control.
the udghoshnaa outraged white Southerners jo envisioned a race war, angered kuch uttari democrate, sakriy anti-slavery shaktiyaan, or weakened shaktiyaan in europea ki chaahi to intervene to sahaayta the Confederacy.
it bhi lifted the atmaaon of African america dono in the dakshini and uttari rajya, or led to anek slave escaping unke masters or running peeche sangh linon in anukram to have their emancipation enforced.
chooshak panch is a 2011 amareeki kaalpanik karrwai film directed by zack snidar or co-written by him and Steve shibuya.
it is Snyder 's first filmi based on an original script.
the film sitaron Emily browning, abbie cornish, Jena malone, venesa hagence, jemi Chung, or karla gugino.
the kathanak follows the kalpanaaon of a yang stri jo is vachanabaddh to a mental sanstha, as wo makes a yojana to escape the hospital before ksht a mastishkakhandaedan.
the filmi thi released in dono conventional or IMAX theatres in the sanyukt rajya at midnight on kooch 25, 2011.
it praapt generally negative samikshaayen isse aalochakon, but thi a moderet baksaa office success.
saamne and waapas of canon powershot a95, a theth pocket-size digital camera
haselblad 503cw with ixpress V96C digital waapas, an udhaaharan of a peshewar digital camera pranali
a digital camera ( or digicam ) is a camera ki takes video or still chayachitr by recording bimb on an electronic image sensor.
sabase camere bechi aaj hai digital, or digital camere hai incorporated into anek devices ranging isse gusse or mobile phone ( pukaara camera phone ) to vaahanon.
Digital or filmi cameras share an optical system, typically using a lens with a parivartaneey diaphragm to fokas light onto an chitra pikup yantra.
the diaphragm or shater admit the correct raashi of light to the imager, bas as saath filmi lakin the chitra pikup device is electronic balki than rasinic.
However, unlike filmi camere, digital camere can pradarshak images on a screen tatkaal baad hone recorded, or store or delete images isse memory.
anek digital cameras can also ricard chalati video saath dhwani.
kuch digital camere can crop or silaai tasviren and perform other elementary chitra sampadan.
the andar or front of a del PowerEdge web server, a computer designed liye rack mounting
anek web sarwar may be prayukt liye a high trekkic jalsthal, yahan chaar surya aag x4200 sarwar hai installed together
web sarwar can refer to either the hardware ( the computer ) or the tantra ( the computer anuprayog ) ki helps to deliver web content ki can be accessed through the antarjaal.
the most aam upyog of web servers is to mejabaan websites, lakin there hai anya uses aise as gaming, aankada storage or kaaryshil enterprize anuprayog.
the American red cross ( chaap ), bhi known as the amareeki National Red cross, is a humanitarian sanghathan ki provides apaat sahaayta, disaster raahat or shiksha andar the United rajya.
it is the designated U.S. sambhddha of the antarrashtriya Federation of Red Cross and red Crescent Societies.
aaj, in addition to gharelu disaster raahat, the amareeki red Cross offers services in paanch anya kshetron : jatiyaan services ki help the mohataaj ; sanchaar sevaayen or sukun liye sainya sadasyon or their parivaar sadasyon ; the sangrahan, prasanskaran or distribution of rakt or rakt utpaada ; shaikshanik kaarykram on preparedness, swasthya, or suraksha ; or antarrashtriya raahat and development kaarykram.
jari a corporate charter by the sanyukt rajya congress antargat sheershak 36 of the sanyukt rajya code, khand 3001, the amareeki National Red Cross is governed by volunteers or samarthit by community donations, aay isse swasthya or safety prashikshan or products, or aay isse blood utpaada.
the amareeki red Cross is headquartered in washington, d.c.
the adhyaksh of the falak of rajyapalon, sevarat uske duusari three-year pad, is Bonnie mcelveen-hunter.
the current adhyaksh or mukhya Executive adhikari is gail J. mcgovern.
a murga in kosovo
a murga, showing wattles, earlobes or kanghee
a murga crowing ( with audio )
sahi
A rooster ( bhi pukaara a cockerel or murga ) is a purush gallinaceous bird.
It praayah refers to a purush murga ( gallus gallus ).
nadaan male murgiyon kam than ek saal boodha hai pukaara cockerels.
the pad `` murga '' originates in the sanyukt rajya, or the pad is widely prayukt throughout uttar america, as khub as australia or New Zealand.
in the United kingdom and ireland the puraani term `` cockerel '' is more commonly prayukt.
`` murga '' is in general upyog as the name for a male of other species of bird, liye example `` Cock sparrow ''.
`` Roosting '' is the action of perching aloft to sleep at raatri, or is kiya by dono lingon.
The murga is polygamous, lakin can not guard anek nests of andey at once.
he guard the general kshetrafal jahaan uske murgiyaan hai nesting, or hoga attack anya roosters ki enter uske territory.
dauraan the din, he usually sits on a unchi parch, usually 3–5 feet band the maidan to serve as a lookout for his jhund.
he will dhwani a distinctive sachetak kol if parabhakshi are nearby.
The Pokémon vyapaar card khel ( pokimon tcg ) is a collectible card khel aadhaarit on the pokimon video game series, pehla prakashit in aktubar 1996 by Media factory in Japan.
in the us, it was initially prakashit by wizards of the coast, the company ki produces, in disambar 1998.
Nintendo took over publishing in june 2003.
it is ek of nintendo 's pichhlaa baaki strong kadi to its heritage as a playing card company.
jameen rover is a angrejon car nirmaataa saath iske mukhyalay in gaydon, warwickshire, sanyukt Kingdom jisase specialises in four-wheel-drive vaahanon.
It is bhaag of the jaiguaar jameen rover group, a subsidiary of tata Motors of India.
It is the duusari oldest four-wheel-drive car brands in the sansar ( after jeepi ).
the jameen rover name was originally used by the rover company liye ek vishisht vehicle model, namit bas the jameen rover, shubharambh by rover in 1948.
Over the following years it viksit into a marque encompassing a dayera of four-wheel-drive model, sahit the Defender, discovery, freelander, dayera rover, dayera Rover khel or Range Rover evoque.
jameen rovers hai currently samavet in the company 's halewood and solihull paudhe, saath shodh or vikaas lene place at jlr 's gaydon or whitley engineering centres.
jameen Rover bechi 194,000 vaahanon vishwavyaapee in 2009.
haalanki the brands originates isse the original 1948 model, Land rover as a company rai tabhi existed since 1978.
Prior to is, it thi a utpaada lakeer of the Rover Company which thi subsequently avashoshit into the rover-triumph prabhag of the British Leyland motor Corporation ( bl ) following leyland motor nigam ’s kabza of Rover in 1967.
the ongoing commercial kamyaabi of the asli jameen rover shrenee model, or latterly the dayera Rover in the 1970s in the midst of BL’s khub documented kaarobaar pareshaaniyon prompted the sthapana of a pruthak Land Rover company lakin still antargat the bl chhatariyaan, baaki part of the subsequent Rover samooh in 1988, antargat the swaamitv of angrejon aerospace baad the remains of British leyland yahood broken up or privatised.
in 1994 rover samooh pielsi was acquired by BMW.
in 2000, Rover samooh was broken-up by bmw or jameen rover was bechi to ghat Motor Company, becoming bhaag of its premier Automotive samooh.
In 2006 ghat kharida the rover brand isse bmw liye around £6 lakh.
is reunited the rover and jameen rover brands liye the pehla samay chunki 2000 jab the rover samooh was broken up by bmw.
in june 2008, ghat bechi dono jameen rover or Jaguar gaadiyaan to tata motors.
is bikri bhi included the dormant rover brands
the cover of the pehla dvd sankalan released by aniplex of the nai captain shūsuke amagai chaap
the naveen ritu of the Bleach dushmani shrenee is namit.
The shrenee is aadhaarit on Tite kubo 's manga with vahi name.
The episodes hai nirdeshit by noriyuki Abe or produced by tv tokio, dentsu, or studio pierrot.
the apisod ' plat focuses on the parichay of a nai aatma reaper captain, Shūsuke amagai, or the rahasy surrounding the kasumiōji gotra, ek of the pariwaron ki constitute the dhaamon of Soul samaaj.
The ritu began airing on april 23, 2008 in Japan on TV Tokyo or ended on aktubar 7, 2008.
the angrezi anukulan of the Bleach anime is licensed by viz media, or this chaap began airing on agast 28, 2010 on cartoon sanjaal 's vayask tairnaa, or finished on janvari 29, 2011.
paanch dvd compilations, prayek containing four episodes of the ritu, have been released by aniplex ; the pehla dvd sankalan thi released on navambar 26, 2008 and the fifth on kooch 25, 2009.
a DVD baksaa hoga be prakashit by viz media on disambar 13, 2011.
the episodes upyog teen tukade of theme music : ek kholane theme or two closing vishaywastu.
The kholane theme is `` chu-bura `` by Kelun.
the pehla closing theme is `` naarangi '' by lil'b, prayukt liye episodes 168 to 179, and the duusari closing theme is `` gallop '' by pe'zmoku, prayukt liye the remainder of the apisod.
the viniman of prostitution in the sanyukt rajya is nahin among the enumerated shaktiyaan of the federal sarkari ; antargat the dasavaan Amendment to the United States samvidhan, it is isliye exclusively the domen of the rajya to permit, prohibit, or varanaa regulate commercial sex, magar insofar as Congress may viniyamit it as bhaag of antarraji commers saath kanoon jaise the man adhinium.
in most states, veshyavriti is considered a misdemeanor in the shrenee of public order aparaadhon, a aparaadhon that disrupts the order of a jatiyaan.
it thi at ek samay mana to be a vagrancy aparaadhon.
Currently, newada is the tabhi rajya to allow veshyalay prostitution, the sharten of jisase hai stipulated in the newada sanshodhit Statutes.
tabhi 8 county philhal contain kriyasheel brothels.
All form of prostitution hai illegal in clark county ( jisase contains the las vegas–paradise mahanagar area ), Washoe County ( which contains reno ), Carson nagar, Douglas county, and lincoln County.
the anya county theoretically allow veshyalay prostitution, lakin some of ye county philhal have no kriyasheel brothels.
gali veshyavriti, `` pandering, '' or living band of the proceeds of a veshya remain illegal antargat newada law, as elsewhere in the country.
as with anya deshon, veshyavriti in the United rajya can be divided into three vyapak categories : gali veshyavriti, brothel veshyavriti, or escort veshyavriti.
the East coast of the sanyukt rajya, also known as the purvi Seaboard or the atlantic Seaboard and commonly shortened to east coast, refers to the easternmost coast of the sanyukt rajya saath the atlantic samandar.
The rajya which have shoreline on the East Coast are, from uttar to dakshin, the u.S. states of maine, nai hampshire, masachusets, rhode dweep, Connecticut, nai York, nai jersey, Delaware, maryland, virginia, uttar carolina, dakshin carolina, georgia, or Florida.
Richard milhous nicksan ( janvari 9, 1913 – april 22, 1994 ) thi the 37th adhyaksh of the United rajya, serving isse 1969 to 1974, jab he became the only president to resign the daftar.
nicksan tha previously served as a republican U.S. pratinidhi or seenetter isse california or as the 36th vaais adhyaksh of the sanyukt rajya isse 1953 to 1961.
nicksan was born in yorba linda, california.
he graduate from whittier college in 1934 or Duke vishvavidhyalayon skool of vidhi in 1937, returning to california to abhyaas vidhi.
he and uske bivi, pat nicksan, sthanantarit to washington to kaary for the federal government in 1942.
he subsequently served in the sanyukt rajya Navy dauraan sansar yuddh II.
nicksan thi elected in california to the House of pratinidhi in 1946 or to the seenet in 1950.
uske pursuit of the alger hiss case sthapit uske pratishtha as a agrani anti-communist, or elevated use to national prominence.
he was the kaaryshil mate of Dwight D. ijanhavar, the republican party presidential nominee in the 1952 chunaav.
Nixon parosa liye aath saalo as vice adhyaksh.
he waged an unsuccessful adhyakshiya campaign in 1960, narrowly khone to John F. kennedy, and lost a res liye rajyapal of California in 1962.
in 1968, he ran again liye the presidency or was nirvaachit.
Although nicksan initially escalated America 's bhagidaari in the Vietnam War, he subsequently ended U.S. involvement in 1973.
nicksan 's vizit to the logon 's ganatantr of china in 1972 opened diplomatic sambandh between the do raashtra, or he initiated détente and the anti-ballistic missile sandhi with the soviet sangh the vahi saal.
domestically, uske prashasan generally embraced nitiyon that transferred power isse Washington to the rajya.
among anya bate, he shubharambh pahalon to fight karkat or illegal davaayen, imposed wage and daam niyantran, enforced desegregation of some dakshini skulon, or sthapit the paryaavarniya suraksha agency.
haalanki he presided over the chandra avataran shuruuaat saath apollo 11, he scaled waapas maanavyukt spes exploration.
He was re-elected by a bhuskhalan in 1972.
nicksan 's duusari term dekhi an arab oil embargo, the istipha of uske vice adhyaksh, spiro Agnew, and a continuing shrenee of khulaase parichay the waterget cond or other misconduct by members of the prashasan.
The cond escalated, costing nicksan much of uske rajnatik support, or on agast 9, 1974, he resigned in the phase of almost certain impeachment or removal from office.
baad his istipha, he controversially received a pardon jari by uske successor, jerald ghat.
in ritairement, nicksan 's work as an elder statesman, authoring several kitabe or undertaking anek videshi trips, helped to rehabilitate uske public chitra.
he suffered a debilitating stroke on April 18, 1994, or died chaar dinon later at the age of 81.
Sertraline hydrochloride ( vyapaar names Zoloft, lustral ) is an antidepressant of the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor ( SSRI ) class.
it thi introduced to the market by fizer in 1991.
sertraline is primarily vihit liye major depressive vikaar in vayask outpatients as well as obsessive–compulsive, dehshat, or soshal chintaa disorders in dono adults and children.
in 2011, it thi the second-most vihit antidepressant on the u.S. khudara market, saath 37,208,000 prescriptions.
the efficacy of sertraline for avsaad is samaan to ki of older tricyclic antidepressants, lakin iske paksh prabhaav hai much kam sunaaya.
matbhed saath nae antidepressants hai subtler or also zyaadaatar confined to side prabhaav.
Evidence suggests ki sertraline may work behatar than fluoxetine ( prozac ) liye kuch subtypes of depression.
Treatment of dehshat disorder saath sertraline parinaam in a significant ghati of the kramank of panic attacks or in improved visheshta of jivan.
For obsessive-compulsive vikaar, sertraline is nahin as prabhavi as sangyanatmak behavioral chikitsa ; the best parinaam have maharoom achieved by combining ye do treatments.
haalanki sweekrut liye social phobia and posttraumatic stress disorder, sertraline lead to tabhi modest sudhaar in ye conditions.
Sertraline bhi alleviates the lakshan of premenstrual dysphoric vikaar and can be used in sub-therapeutic doses or intermittently liye its upachaar.
sertraline saajha the common paksh prabhaav and contraindications of anya ssris, with unchi daron of matlee, atisar, anidra, or yon paksh prabhaav ; however, it does nahin cause weight laabh, or iske prabhaav on dono cognition or satarkta hai relatively mild.
in pregnant mahilaon lene sertraline, the drug thi upasthit in significant ekaagratha in fetal rakt, and was bhi sambhddha saath a ucchtar rate of various janam dosha.
similarly to anya antidepressants, the use of sertraline for avsaad may be associated with a ucchtar rate of suicidality.
The paanch heartbeats is a 1991 musical naatak filmi nirdeshit by robert townsend, jo co-wrote the script saath Keenan Ivory wayans.
Distributed by 20th Century fox, the filmi 's main daal shaamil Townsend, maaikel rhite, Leon robinsan, Harry J. lennix, tico Wells, Harold nicholas of the Nicholas bhaaiyo, and diahann Carroll.
the plot of the filmi ( which is loosely aadhaarit on the jeevandaan of anek artists : the Dells, The Temptations, Four Tops, wilson picket, James Brown, frenki lymon, sam cooke and others ) folo the three decade career of the r & b gayan samooh the paanch Heartbeats.
the filmi depicts the vruddhi or patan of a Motown prerit aatma adhinium through the ankhen of the filmi 's pramukh protagonist, donald `` batakh '' matthews ( portrayed by townsend ), jo serves as a narrator throughout the filmi.
however, a bahumat of the cinema is prastut in a lagaataar samay line as opposed to traditional flash backs.
the filmi includes a significant raashi of asli music conceived by vibhinn artists liye the film 's soundtrack, sahit singles aise as `` a dil Is a house for prem ``, `` we have n't samaapt yet '', or `` Nothing lakin prem ''.
the filmi thi released to sabase uttar amareeki audiyans kooch 29, 1991 however it was nahin made available to audiyans in anya continents jabatak 2002 jab a dvd thi released prior to another dvd relies in 2006 liye the filmi 's 15th varshganth.
the film praapt mishrit samikshaayen isse aalochakon.
sachivalay ( March 30, 1970 – aktubar 4, 1989 ) thi an American thoroughbred racehorse ki in 1973 became the pehla u.s. tripal Crown champion in 25 years.
he set res records in sab teen kaarykram in the shrenee — the kentki darbi ( 1:59.4 ), the Preakness stakes ( 1:53 ), or the Belmont stakes ( 2:24 ) — record ki still stand today.
he is mana to be one of the mahanatam thoroughbreds of sab samay.
in 1999, ESPN kramit sachivalay the 35th best khilaadi of the 20th sadi, the highest ranking racehorse on the suchi URL_http.
He kramit duusari peeche man o ' yuddh in The blood-horse 's suchi of the sheersh 100 u.S. Racehorses of the 20th sadi.
sachivalay thi sired by bindaas shaasha out of somethingroyal, by princequillo.
He thi foaled at the Meadow in caroline county, virginia.
jaise his famous predecessor man o ' War, sachivalay thi a vishaal shahbaloot tattu or thi given the vahi upnaam, `` Big Red. ''
sachivalay 's grandsire, Nasrullah, is also the great-great-grandsire of 1977 tripal crown winner sietal slew.
swaamitv by Penny chenery, he thi prashikshit by lucien laurin or mainly ridden by canadai jockey ron turcotte, saath saath prashikshu jockey Paul pheliciano ( pehla do daud ), or diggaj edi mapel ( pichhlaa race ).
he raced in Chenery 's marg Stable 's blue and shwet checkered colors or his duulhe was edi swead.
sachivalay stood lagbhag tall, and weighed, saath a 75-inch girth, in his racing pradhan.
a typical 12 v, 40 ah lead-acid car battery
an automotive bydaree is a type of rechargeable battery that aapurtiyan electric energy to an automobile.
praayah is refers to an sli bydaree ( starting, lighting, prajvalan ) to power the prarambh motor, the lits, and the ignition pranali of a vehicle’s engine.
automotive SLI batteries hai praayah lead-acid prakaar, and are bana of six galvani koshikaayen in series to provide a 12 volt pranali.
prayek koshika provides 2.1 volts liye a kul of 12.6 volt at puraa charge.
baari vaahanon aise as highway trek or tractors, often equipped with diesel engines, may have do batteries in series for a 24 volt pranali, or may have parallel strings of bydaree.
lead-acid bydaree are bana up of platon of lead or pruthak plates of lead dioxide, which are submerged into an electrolyte solution of parichay 38 % sulfuric acid or 62 % water.
is causes a rasinic pratikriya ki relies electrons, allowing them to flow through conductors to produce vidyut.
as the battery discharges, the acid of the electrolyte pratikriyaayein with the saamagree of the platon, badalanaa unke surface to sise sulphate.
jab the bydaree is recharged, the rasinic pratikriya is reversed : the sise sulphate reforms into sise dioxide and lead.
saath the platon lauti to unke asli condishan, the prakram may abhi be doharaaya.
Battery recycling of automotive bydaree reduces the need liye sansaadhan required for manufacture of nai bydaree, diverts vishakt sise isse landfills, or roktaa risk of improper disposal.
full-time niyukti is employment in jisase a person works a nunatam kramank of ghanton defined as aise by his/her niyokta.
full-time employment praayah aata with laabh ki hai nahin typically offered to part-time, temporary, or lacheelee workers, such as salanaa leave, sickleave, and swasthya bime.
full-time jobs are often considered kariyar.
ve generally adaa adhik than part-time kaary, and praayah carry adhik ghanton prati saptaah.
the mela majdoor Standards adhinium ( flsa ) karata nahin define full-time employment or part-time niyukti.
This is a padaarth generally to be sankalpit by the niyokta ( US vibhaag of majdoor ).
the paribhaasha by employer can vary or is generally published in a company 's Employee Handbook.
companiyaan commonly require isse 30–35 or 40 hours prati week to be defined as full-time or isliye yogya for benefits.
full-time aukaat varies between company or is often aadhaarit on the shift the employee jarur kaary dauraan each work saptaah.
The `` maanak '' kaary week consists of five eight-hour dinon, commonly parosa between 9:00AM to 5:00pm totaling 40 ghanton.
jabaki a four-day week generally consists of chaar ten-hour days ; it may bhi consist of as choti as nine hours liye a kul of a 36 ghanta kaary saptaah.
twelve-hour shift hai often teen days per week, unless the company rai the iraade of paying out the karmchaaree overtime.
overtime is legally paid out anytime an karmchaaree works adhik than 40 ghanton prati saptaah.
the vidhik minimum liye overtime starts at aadhaar adaa + one-half.
the increased payout is mana to compensate thodaa liye the increased fatigue jisase a vyakti anubhavon on such long shift.
shift can bhi be very irregular, as in khudara, but hai still full-time if the jaruri kramank of hours is pahunche.
vahin hai kuch situations jahaan a vyakti jo needs full-time kaary is dropped to part-time, which is sometimes a rup of constructive dismissal to avoid paying berogari laabh to a laid-off kaaryakarta.
seahorse is the title die to 54 prajati of samudri machhlee in the genus hippocampus.
`` hippocampus '' comes from the pracheen unani hippos meaning `` ghoda '' or kampos arth `` samudr monster ''.
The niyantrit substances adhinium ( siese ) thi enacted into law by the congress of the sanyukt States as sheershak ii of the vyapak Drug gaali rokthaam or Control Act of 1970.
the siese is the sangheey U.S. drug policy antargat jisase the manufacture, importation, kabza, upyog and vitaran of certain substances is regulated.
the adhinium bhi served as the national implementing vidhaan liye the single Convention on narcotic Drugs.
the legislation nirmit paanch schedules ( classifications ), with varying qualifications liye a padaarth to be included in each.
do sangheey agenciyon, the Drug pravartan prashasan or the Food and drug prashasan, determine jisase substances hai added to or removed from the various schedules, though the statute passed by congress nirmit the aarambhik listing, or congress rai sometimes anusuchit other substances through vidhaan aise as the Hillory J. Farias or samantha reid date-rape Prevention adhinium of 2000, which lagaai gamma hydroxybutyrate in anusuchee i. vargeekaran decisions are jaruri to be bana on maapdand sahit sambhavit liye gaali ( an undefined term ), philhal sweekrut chikitsa use in upachaar in the sanyukt rajya, or international treaties.
maaya numerals
maaya numerals are a vigesimal ( base - bees ) numeral system prayukt by the pre-columbian maaya sabhyataa.
the numerals are made up of teen pratikon ; zero ( shell aakaar ), one ( a bindu ) and five ( a baar ).
liye example, teraa is written as teen dots in a horizontal pankti above do aadaa linon stacked above prayek anya.
lyndon baines johnson ( agast 27, 1908 – janvari 22, 1973 ), praayah referred to as LBJ, thi the 36th adhyaksh of the sanyukt rajya ( 1963–1969 ), a position he assumed after uske seva as the 37th Vice President of the United rajya ( 1961–1963 ).
he is ek of only four logon jo parosa in sab four nirvaachit sangheey karyaalayon of the United rajya : pratinidhi, seenetter, vaais adhyaksh, or President.
johnson, a democrate isse Texas, parosa as a United rajya Representative isse 1937–1949 or as a seenetter isse 1949–1961, including chah saalo as sanyukt States seenet bahumat netaa, do as seenet alpsankhyak Leader and do as seenet bahumat chaabuk.
After campaigning unsuccessfully for the loktantric namakan in 1960, Johnson thi asked by jon F. kennedy to be uske kaaryshil mate liye the 1960 adhyakshiya chunaav.
johnson succeeded to the presidency following the hatya of John F. Kennedy on November 22, 1963, samaapt kennedy 's pad or was elected President in his apana sahi, winning by a vishaal hashia over bairi Goldwater in the 1964 election.
Johnson was greatly samarthit by the loktantric party or as adhyaksh, he thi jimmedaar for designing the `` great Society `` legislation ki shaamil laws ki upheld civil adhikaron, public prasaaran, Medicare, medicaid, paryaavarniya suraksha, aid to education, or uske `` yuddh on Poverty. ''
Johnson was prasiddh liye his domineering vyaktitv and the `` Johnson treatment, '' his coercion of shaktishaalee politicians in order to advance legislation.
Meanwhile, Johnson escalated American bhagidaari in the vietnam yuddh, from 16,000 amareeki advisors/soldiers in 1963 to 550,000 combat troops in jaldi 1968, as amareeki hataahat soared or the salaam process bogged bas.
The bhagidaari stimulated a vishaal engri antiwar gati aadhaarit especially on university campuses in the u.S. or videsh.
garmiyaan dange broke out in sabase pramukh shaharon baad 1965, or crime rates soared, as his pratidwandviyon uthaaya maange liye `` vidhi or anukram '' nitiyon.
the loktantric Party split in multiple feuding girohon, or after Johnson kiya poorly in the 1968 nai hampshire praathmik, he ended his boli liye reelection.
Republican Richard Nixon was nirvaachit to safal him.
itihaaskaaron argue ki johnson 's presidency chihnit the shikhar of aadhunik udaarataavaad in the sanyukt rajya baad the nai Deal era.
johnson is ranked favorably by kuch itihaaskaaron kuki of his gharelu nitiyon.
Progesterone also gyaat as P4 ( pregn-4-ene-3,20-dione ) is a C-21 steroid hormone involved in the maadaa menstrual saikil, pregnancy ( supports gestation ) or embryogenesis of humans or anya prajati.
Progesterone belongs to a class of hormone called progestogens, or is the pramukh naturally occurring insaan progestogen.
big Bird is a samarthak of the children 's television dikhaaen til Street.
officially performed by caroll spinney chunki 1969, he is an eight-foot two-inch ( 249 cm ) lambaa bright primrose-yellow bird.
he can roller sket, barf sket, dance, gaao, likhen poetry, chithran and bhi sawari a unicycle.
But despite is chaudee array of talents, he is prone to barambar misunderstandings, on ek occasion even gayan the varnmaala as one big long shabd ( isse the song called `` abc-def-ghi, '' sunaaya `` ab-keddef-gajihkel-monop-quristuv-wixyz '' ), pondering kayaa it could kabhi ausat.
He jeevandaan in a vishaal ghonslaa behind the 123 til gali brownstone or rai a teddy bhaaluu namit radar.
webtrends is a nijee company headquartered in portland, oregon, sanyukt States.
It provides web, soshal, and mobile analytics or anya tantra solutions sambandhit to vipanan pragna.
the company was santhaapit in 1993 or abhi serves more than 10,000 large and small firms. < ref name='intelligent enterprize 2007-05-21 ' >
The duusari Crusade ( 1145–1149 ) thi the duusari major crusade shubharambh from europea.
the duusari crusade thi prarambh in response to the patan of the County of Edessa the pichhlaa year to the shaktiyaan of zengi.
The county had been founded dauraan the First crusade ( 1096–1099 ) by baldwin of boulogne in 1098.
While it thi the pehla Crusader state to be santhaapit, it thi bhi the pehla to patan.
The Second crusade thi ghoshit by pope ujin iii, or thi the pehla of the crusades to be led by europea kings, namely Louis saat of France or conrad iii of Germany, saath help isse a kramank of anya europea nobles.
the sena of the two kings marched separately across europea.
baad crossing Byzantine territory into Anatolia, dono armies yahood separately parajeet by the Seljuq Turks.
The pramukh Western isai source, odo of deuil, and Syriac isai strot arji ki the Byzantine samraat Manuel I Comnenus secretly hindered the crusaders ' progress, visheshkar in anatolia where he is alleged to have deliberately ordered turks to akraman them.
lui or Conrad or the remnants of unke sena reached Jerusalem or, in 1148, participated in an ill-advised attack on damishq.
the crusade in the east was a failure for the crusaders or a great vijay for the musalmaan.
it would ultimately have a key influence on the fall of jerusalem and de rise to the Third crusade at the end of the 12th sadi.
the tabhi success of the duusari crusade aae to a sanyukt force of 13,000 flemish, frisian, norman, angrezi, scottish, or German crusaders in 1147.
yatraaen from england, by jalayaan, to the paavan jameen, the fouj stopped or helped the choti ( 7,000 ) Portuguese army in the capchar of lisbon, expelling iske moorish occupants.
wal-mart stores, inc. ( ), branded as walmart, is an amareeki bahurashtriya khudara nigam ki runs zanjeeron of vishaal chhot vibhaag stores and godaam stores.
The company is the sansar 's teesraa largest public corporation, according to the saubhaahgya Global 500 suchi in 2012, the biggest private niyokta in the sansar saath over do million karmchaaree, or is the largest retailor in the sansar.
walmart remains a family-owned kaarobaar, as the company is niyantrit by the Walton family, who apana a 48 pratishat hissedari in walmart.
it is bhi ek of the sansar 's sabase moolyawaan companiyaan.
The company thi founded by sam Walton in 1962, incorporated on October 31, 1969, or saream traded on the nai york bhandar exange in 1972.
it is headquartered in bentonville, arkansaas.
walmart is also the largest grocery retailer in the United States.
in 2009, it utpann 51 percent of its us $ 258 arab sales in the u.S. from kiraanaa kaarobaar.
It bhi owns or operates the sam 's Club khudara warehouses in uttar america.
by 1988, wal-mart thi the sabase laabhprad retailor in the us, or by November 1990, it outsold k-mart.
by 1991 it outsold Sears in khudara, bananaa it america 's largest retailor, a bhed it still holds.
walmart has 8,500 stores in 15 deshon, antargat 55 alag names.
the company operates antargat the walmart name in the sanyukt States, sahit the 50 states and purto rico.
It operates in mexico as walmex, in the United Kingdom as asda, in japani as Seiyu, or in india as behtareen daam.
It has wholly swaamitv operations in argentina, Brazil, or canada.
walmart 's nivesh outside uttar america have had mishrit parinaam : iske parichaalan in the United kingdom, dakshin america, or china are atyadhik kaamyaab, whereas ventures in germany or South korian yahood unsuccessful.
robert William Gary moore ( 4 april 1952 – 6 February 2011 ), was a uttari irish sangeetkaar, most widely recognised as a singer or guitarist.
In a kariyar dating waapas to the 1960s, Moore played saath kalakaaron sahit phil lynott or bryan downey during his kishor, leading use to sadsytaayen with the irish bands Skid pankti or patala lizzy on teen separate occasions.
Moore shared the stage saath aise bluez and chattan luminaries as B.B. king, Albert king, colocium ii, george harrison and greg jhil, as khub as having a kaamyaab solo kariyar.
He guested on a kramank of albums ankit by unchi profil sangeetkaaron, sahit a chemiyo rup playing the lead guitar solo on `` She 's my Baby `` from traveling wilburys awaz. 3.
an example of rack arohit servers
a web hosting seva is a prakaar of antarjaal hosting service ki allows individuals and sanghathan to mek unke jalsthal accessible via the World chaudee Web.
Web host hai companies ki provide space on a sarwar swaamitv or leased liye upyog by client, as well as providing Internet connactivity, typically in a aankada center.
web host can bhi provide aankada bich spes or connectivity to the antarjaal liye anya sarwar stith in their aankada bich, pukaara colocation, bhi gyaat as awaas in Latin america or France.
the paimaana of web hosting sevaayen varies greatly.
The sabase basic is web page and small-scale sanchika hosting, jahaan filein can be uploaded via File transafar protocol ( apatpi ) or a web interfes.
the filein hai usually vitarit to the Web `` as is '' or saath minimal prasanskaran.
anek antarjaal seva pradaataaon ( isps ) prastaav is seva free to sadsy.
individuals or sanghathan may also obtain web pej hosting isse alternative service pradaataaon.
Personal web sait hosting is typically free, advertisement-sponsored, or inexpensive.
Business web sait hosting praayah has a ucchtar vyay depending upon the aakaar or prakaar of the website.
Single pej hosting is generally sufficient liye nijee web prishthon.
a complex site kals for a more vyapak package ki provides database support or anuprayog vikaas plateform ( e.g. piechapi, java, maaniky on rails, coldfusion, or asp.net ).
ye facilities allow graahak to likhen or sthapana script liye anuprayog jaise forums or saamagree prabandhan.
bhi, surakshit Sockets parat ( esasail ) is typically prayukt liye e-commerce.
the host may bhi provide an interfes or control panel for managing the web sarwar or installing script, as well as anya maudul or seva anuprayog like e-mail.
kuch host specialize in certain tantra or sevaayen ( e.g. e-commerce ), which hai commonly prayukt by larger companiyaan that outsource sanjaal avasanrachana.
Obstetrics ( from the latin obstare, `` to stand by '' ) is the chikitsa specialty dealing saath the care of sab women 's reproductive tracts or their children during pregnancy ( prenatal kaal ), childbirth or the postnatal period.
anek obstetricians hai also streerog, arth ve perform in both specialties.
In the sanyukt States, ye physicians hai commonly referred to as OB/GYNs.
The rhite brothers, orville ( agast 19, 1871 – janvari 30, 1948 ) or wilbur ( April 16, 1867 – May 30, 1912 ), yahood two amareeki bhaaiyo, avishkaarak, or vimaanan pioneers who yahood credited with inventing or bhawan the sansar 's first kaamyaab vayuyan or making the first niyantrit, sanchalit or sustained heavier-than-air insaan udaan, on disambar 17, 1903.
isse 1905 to 1907, the bhaaiyo viksit unke udati yantra into the first vyaavhaarik fixed-wing vayuyan.
haalanki nahin the pehla to build or makkhi praayogic aircraft, the Wright bhaaiyo yahood the pehla to ifatera vayuyan niyantran that made fixed-wing powered udaan sambhavit.
the bhaaiyo ' fundamental breakthrough thi unke avishkaar of three-axis control, jisase sakriy the pilot to steer the vayuyan effectively and to maintain iske santulan.
is vidhi became maanak or remains maanak on fixed-wing vayuyan of all kinds.
isse the shuruuaat of their aeronautical work, the rhite bhaaiyo kendrit on vikasshil a vishwasaneey method of payalat control as the kunjee to solving `` the udati problem ''.
is approach differed significantly isse anya experimenters of the samay jo put more jor on vikasshil shaktishaalee ingine.
using a choti homebuilt hawa tunnel, the wrights also collected adhik sateek data than any before, enabling them to dizine or nirmaan wings or propellers that yahood adhik kushal than koi before.
unke pehla u.S. patent, 821,393, kiya not claim invention of a udati yantra, but rather, the invention of a pranali of aerodynamic control that manipulated a udati yantra 's satahon.
They gained the mechanical skills anivaary for their kamyaabi by working for saalo in unke shop saath printing dabaata, bicycles, motors, or anya mashinari.
unke kaary saath bicycles in particular influenced unke vishwaas ki an asthir gadee like a flying yantra could be niyantrit or santulit with abhyaas.
isse 1900 jabatak their pehla sanchalit flite in let 1903, ve conducted extensive glider tests ki bhi viksit unke skills as payalton.
unke cykil shop karmchaaree charlie tailor became an mahatvapurn part of the toli, bhawan their first vayuyan engine in band sahyog saath the brothers.
the Wright bhaaiyo ' status as inventors of the vayuyan rai maharoom subject to counter-claims by various partiyon.
much vivaad persists over the anek spardhaa daawa of early aviators.
america 's aglaa sheersh model, saikil 12 is the barahavin cycle of America 's aglaa sheersh model and the chathe ritu to air on The CW network.
It premiered on kooch 4, 2009.
The saikil 's kaich phrase is `` milengi In The moden. ''
the saikil 's promotional song is mahila gaaga 's `` the kirti ''.
the puraskaar liye is saikil are:
a modeling anubandh saath elite model prabandhan.
a faishan spread or cover in satraa.
a 100,000 contract with CoverGirl cosmetics.
the first half of the saikil took place in nai York nagar, chalati the dikhaaen back from los angeles pichhlaa ritu.
the antarrashtriya destination liye is cycle is são poulo, Brazil, the shrenee pehla visit to dakshin america.
the kramank of girls thi ghataya to 13, the pehla time chunki saikil 9, baad being maintained at 14 in the pichhlaa two chakra.
is was the last samay paulina porizkova participated as judge.
The winner thi 20-year-old teyona anderson isse Woodstown, New jersey.
is ritu averaged 4.35 lakh darshak prati apisod.
exxon mobil nigam, or exxonmobil, is an American bahurashtriya aayal or gas nigam headquartered in irving, texas, sanyukt rajya.
It is a sidhaa descendant of John D. Rockefeller 's maanak Oil company, or thi formed on navambar 30, 1999, by the merger of Exxon and mobil.
It is sambhddha with imperial aayal jisase operates in canada.
ExxonMobil is the sansar 's largest company by revenue or in 2013, became the largest saream traded company by market capitalization in the sansar.
the company is kramit # 5 globally in forbs vaishvik 2000 suchi in 2013.
exxon mobil 's reserves yahood 72 billion oil-equivalent barrels at the end of 2007 and, at tab ( 2007 ) daron of utpaadan, hai apekshit to pichhlaa over 14 saalo.
saath 37 aayal refineries in 21 deshon constituting a combined rose refining capacity of, exxon Mobil is the largest refiner in the sansar, a sheershak ki thi bhi sambhddha saath maanak Oil chunki iske incorporation in 1870.
exxonmobil is the largest of the sansar 's supermajors saath rose utpaadan of 3.921 lakh boe ( barrels of aayal samatuly ).
in 2008, is thi lagbhag 3 % of world production, which is kam than anek of the largest state-owned petroleum companies.
jab ranked by aayal or gas reserves it is 14th in the sansar saath less than 1 % of the kul.
a 2012 aalekh in the rose telegraph says that exxonmobil rai `` grown into ek of the planet’s sabase hated corporations, samarth to determine American foreign policy or the bhagya of sampurna raashtra ''.
in sharten of iske paryaavarniya ricard, ExxonMobil increasingly drills in terrains leased to them by dictatorships, such as those in chad or Equatorial gini.
lee remand, the corporation’s mukhya karypalika jabatak 2005, thi `` notoriously sceptical parichay jalwaayu badalen or disliked government hastkshep at koi level ''.
the company was widely criticized liye iske slow jawaab to safaai iske 1989 Valdez aayal spill in alaska.
is aalekh is parichay the globe theatre of shakespeare.
For the aadhunik reconstruction in landan, dekhie Shakespeare 's globe.
For other upyog, dekhie Globe Theatre ( bahuviklpi ).
The globe Theatre was a theatre in landan associated with wiliam shakespeare.
It thi nirmit in 1599 by Shakespeare 's playing company, the rab chemberlen 's main, on land swaamitv by Thomas Brend or inherited by uske son, nicholas Brend and pota sar mathew brend, or thi destroyed by aag on 29 June 1613.
a duusari globe theatre thi nirmit on the vahi site by June 1614 or band in 1642.
a aadhunik punarnirmaan of the globe, namit `` shakespeare 's globe ``, opened in 1997 lagbhag from the sait of the asli theatre.
it 's a adbhut Life is a 1946 American christmas naatak filmi utpaadit or nirdeshit by Frank capra, aadhaarit on the short story `` the mahanatam Gift ``, jisase Philip vine Doren stern wrote in 1939 or privately prakashit in 1945.
The filmi is considered one of the sabase loved films in amareeki cinema or has become paramparaagat viewing during the christmas season, alongside lokapriy classics aise as charles Dickens ' a christmas carol.
the filmi sitaron james stewart as george Bailey, a man jo rai die up uske dreams in anukram to sahaayta anya or jinaki nikat aatmahatya on christmas sandhya brings parichay the hastkshep of uske guardian devdoot, clarence odbody ( Henry trevers ).
clarence shows george all the jeevandaan he rai touched and kaisaa different jivan in uske jatiyaan of bedford jalprapaat hota be tha he never been born.
despite initially performing poorly at the baksaa daftar due to unchi utpaadan laagat and stiff pratiyogita at the samay of iske relies, the filmi has aaiye to be regarded as a classic or is a stepal of christmas television around the world.
Theatrically, the filmi 's break-even point thi darasal $ 6.3 lakh, approximately twice the production laagat, a figure it never aae close to achieving in iske aarambhik relies.
An appraisal in 2006 reported : `` haalanki it was not the puraa baksaa daftar vifaltaa that today everyone maanata... it thi initially a pramukh disappointment or pushti, at tanik to the studios, ki capra was no longer sakasham of turning out the populist suvidhaayen ki bana uske films the must-see, money-making kaarykram ve ekbar yahood. ''
the filmi thi manonith liye paanch auskar and rai been pahachaanaa by the amareeki filmi Institute as ek of the 100 behtareen amareeki films kabhi made, rakhkar kramank 11 on its aarambhik 1998 mahanatam movie suchi, and hota bhi place number ek on iske suchi of the most preranadayak amareeki films of sab samay.
aankada godaam Overview
in computing, a aankada godaam or enterprize aankada godaam ( dw, DWH, or edw ) is a database prayukt liye reporting or aankada vishleshan.
it is a central repository of data jisase is nirmit by integrating aankada from ek or adhik disparate strot.
Data warehouses store vartmaan as khub as historical aankada or hai used liye bananaa charchit reports liye senior management reporting aise as salanaa or tremasik comparisons.
the aankada stored in the godaam are uploaded from the operational pranaaliyon ( such as vipanan, bikri etc., dikhaaya in the figure to the sahi ).
The aankada may pass through an operational data store liye atirikt parichaalan pehle ve are prayukt in the dw for reporting.
the theth etl -aadharand data godaam uses staging, aankada integration, or abhigam layers to house iske key krityon.
the staging parat or staging database stores kaccha aankada nikaali isse prayek of the disparate sorce aankada pranaaliyon.
the integration parat integrates the disparate data set by transforming the data isse the staging parat often storing this roopantarit data in an operational aankada store ( ods ) database.
the ekikrut data are tab sthanantarit to yet another database, praayah pukaara the aankada godaam database, jahaan the data is arranged into hierarchical samooh praayah pukaara aayam or into tathy and kul tathy.
the sangyojan of tathy and aayam is sometimes pukaara a star schema.
the abhigam parat helps upayokta retrieve data.
a data warehouse constructed isse an ekikrut aankada source pranaaliyon karata nahin require etl, staging databases, or operational data store databases.
the ekikrut aankada sorce pranaaliyon may be mana to be a bhaag of a vitarit operational aankada store parat.
aankada sangh vidhi or aankada virtualization methods may be prayukt to abhigam the vitarit ekikrut source aankada pranaaliyon to consolidate or kul aankada sidhe into the data godaam database teble.
naapsand the etl-based aankada godaam, the integrated sorce data pranaaliyon or the aankada godaam are sab ekikrut since vahin is no parivartan of aiami or sandarbh aankada.
This ekikrut aankada warehouse vaastukala supports the drill bas isse the aggregate aankada of the aankada godaam to the transactional aankada of the ekikrut source aankada systems.
aankada warehouses can be subdivided into aankada marts.
aankada marts store subsets of data isse a warehouse.
is definition of the aankada warehouse focuses on aankada storage.
the pramukh sorce of the aankada is cleaned, transformed, cataloged or bana uplabdhiyaan for upyog by prabandhak or anya business peshewar liye aankada khanan, online vishleshnatmak prasanskaran, market shodh and nirnay support ( marakas & O'Brien 2009 ).
However, the arthath to retrieve and analyze aankada, to nikaalen, transform or lod data, or to manage the data shabdkosh are bhi considered essential components of a data warehousing system.
anek sandarbh to aankada warehousing upyog is broader context.
yun, an vistaarit paribhaasha for data warehousing includes kaarobaar intelligence tools, tuls to extract, roopantaran or lod data into the repository, or tools to manage and retrieve metadata.
portland stone quarry on the oil of portland, england
an abandoned nirmaan kul pashaan nikat edilade, dakshin australia
a quarry is a type of open-pit meraa isse jisase chattan or minerals hai extracted.
khadaanon hai generally prayukt for extracting bhawan materials, aise as dimension stone, nirmaan kul, riprap, baaluu, and bajri.
ve are praayah collocated saath concrete and daamer paudhe due to the requirement liye vishaal amounts of aggregate in those saamagree.
kholen khaanon that upaj khanij hai typically referred to as kholen gadde mines.
the shabd quarry can shaamil underground quarrying liye stone, aise as nahaana stone.
Mormons ( ) hai a dharmik or cultural group sambandhit to mormonism, the principal shakha of the latter din sant movement of restorationist christianity, jisase began with the visions of joseph smith in upstate New york dauraan the 1820s.
baad smith 's death in 1844 the mormons followed Brigham yang to kayaa hota become the uta territory.
aaj mormons hai understood to be sadasyon of the girijaghar of yishu Christ of latter-day santo ( lds girijaghar ).
kuch Mormons hai also either swatantra or non-practicing.
the bich of mormon saanskrithik influence is in uta, and North america has adhik Mormons than koi anya mahadweep, haalanki the bahumat of mormons live baahar the sanyukt rajya.
Mormons have viksit a strong sense of communality ki tana isse unke doctrine or itihaas.
dauraan the 19th century mormon converts tended to ekatrit to a central geographic sthaan, or between 1852 or 1890 a alpsankhyak of Mormons khulkar practiced plural marriage, a rup of dharmik polygamy.
Mormons dedicate vishaal amounts of time and resources to serving in their girijaghar, or anek yang mormons chune to serve a full-time proselytizing mishan.
mormons have a swasthya code ki eschews alcoholic beverages, tambaaku, coffee, chaay, or anya addictive substances.
ve tend to be bahut family-oriented, and have damdaar conections across peedhiyaan or saath vistaarit parivaar, paravartak of unke vishwaas ki families can be sealed saath pare death or throughout eternity.
mormons bhi have a sakht vidhi of chastity, requiring abstention from yon sambandh baahar of vivaah and sakht vafadaari within marriage.
mormons self-identify as Christian, haalanki kuch of unke manyataon differ from mukhyadhara Christianity.
Mormons maananaa in the Bible, as khub as anya books of scripture, such as the Book of Mormon.
ve have a adwitiya drishy of cosmology, or maananaa ki all logon hai spirit-children of parameshwar.
mormons maananaa that returning to God requires following the example of yishu Christ, or accepting uske atonement through ordinances aise as baptism.
ve believe ki Christ 's girijaghar thi restored through joseph Smith, or is hidaayat by living nabiyon or rasulon.
Central to mormon aasthaa is the vishwaas that parameshwar bolti to uske children or jawaab their prarthanaayen.
in vittiya hisaab, asset hai economic sansaadhan.
Anything thos or intangible ki is sakasham of being swaamitv or niyantrit to upaj value or that is yojit to have dhanatmak aarthik maan is mana an asset.
Simply stated, asset represent maan of swaamitv ki can be converted into cash ( haalanki nakadi itself is bhi considered an asset ).
the santulan chadar of a firm record the monetaryJ.
G. Siegel, N. Dauber & J. K. Shim, `` the baniyaan jeb CPA '', wiley, 2005.there hai alag vidhi of assessing the maudrik maan of the asset ankit on the santulan chadar.
In kuch maamle, the Historical laagat is prayukt ; such that the value of the asset jab it thi kharida in the past is used as the monetary maan.
In anya udhaaharan, the upasthit mela market maan of the asset is used to determine the value shown on the santulan chadar.
value of the asset swaamitv by the kad.
it is dhan or other valuables belonging to an individual or kaarobaar.
do major asset varg hai thos asset or intangible asset.
thos asset contain vibhinn subclasses, sahit current asset or phixd assets.j.
downes, j.e. gudman, `` Dictionary of Finance & nivesh sharten '', samant 's vittiya Guides, 2003 vartmaan asset shaamil inventory, jabaki fixed asset shaamil aise items as imaaraten or upkaran.J. Downes, j.e. Goodman, `` shabdkosh of Finance & nivesh sharten '', Baron 's Financial maargdarshika, 2003 ; or J. G. Siegel, N. Dauber & J. K. Shim, `` the Vest Pocket CPA '', wiley, 2005.
Intangible asset hai nonphysical sansaadhan or rights ki have a maan to the kad kuki ve de the kad some kind of advantage in the market place.
udhaaharan of intangible asset hai saakh, copyrights, trademarks, patents and computer kaarykram, or vittiya asset, sahit aise vasteen as khate receivable, bonds or stox.
A neuron ( or ; bhi gyaat as a neurone or tantrika koshika ) is an electrically excitable koshika ki processes and transmits soochna through vidyut or chemical signals.
A rasinic signal occurs via a antargrathan, a specialized conection saath anya cells.
Neurons conect to prayek anya to rup neural networks.
neurons hai the core components of the baichaiyn pranali, jisase shaamil the brain, spinal cord, or paridhiy ganglia.
a kramank of specialized types of neurons exist : sensory neurons respond to tach, dhwani, lite or numerous other stimuli affecting koshikaayen of the samvedi angon ki tab bhejein signal to the spinal cord and dimag.
Motor neurons praapt signal isse the brain or spinal cord, cause muscle contractions, or affect grathiyon.
interneurons conect neurons to other neurons within the vahi pradesh of the dimag or spinal cord.
a typical neuron possesses a koshika deh ( praayah pukaara the som ), dendrites, or an axon.
Dendrites hai thin structures ki uthta isse the koshika deh, praayah extending for sainkadon of micrometres or branching anek times, giving vruddhi to a jatil `` dendritic ped ''.
an axon is a special cellular ekstansion that arises isse the cell body at a site pukaara the axon hillock and travels liye a distance, as dur as 1 meter in insaano or even adhik in anya species.
the koshika deh of a neuron frequently detaa vruddhi to multiple dendrites, lakin never to adhik than ek axon, haalanki the axon may branch sainkadon of times pehle it terminates.
at the majority of synapses, signals hai bheja isse the axon of ek neuron to a dendrite of another.
vahin are, however, anek exceptions to ye niyam : neurons that kami dendrites, neurons ki have no axon, synapses that conect an axon to another axon or a dendrite to another dendrite, ityadi.
sab neurons hai electrically excitable, maintaining voltage gradients aarpaar their jhilliyon by means of metabolically chalit ion pumps, jisase combine saath ion channels antahsthapit in the jhilli to generate intracellular-versus-extracellular concentration differences of ions aise as sodium, potacium, chloride, or calcium.
Changes in the cross-membrane voltage can alter the function of voltage-dependent aayan channels.
if the voltage parivartan by a large paryaapt amount, an all-or-none electrochemical pulse called an action sambhavit is utpann, which travels rapidly along the cell 's axon, or activates synaptic conections with other cells jab it aagaman.
Neurons do not undergo koshika division.
in most cases, neurons are utpann by khaas types of stem koshikaayen.
astrocytes, a type of glial koshika, have bhi maharoom observed to phere into neurons by virtue of the stem cell characteristic pluripotency.
In insaano, neurogenesis largely ceases dauraan adulthood—but in do dimag areas, the hippocampus or ghran bulb, vahin is damdaar evidence liye peedhee of substantial sankhyaayein of new neurons.
super katori xliii thi an amareeki footbaal khel between the American footbaal sammelan ( afc ) champion Pittsburgh stilers or the neshnal footbaal sammelan ( nfc ) champion Arizona cardinals to decide the neshnal footbaal lig ( enegel ) champion liye the 2008 ritu.
the Steelers defeated the cardinals by the score of 27–23.
the game was nibhaai on February 1, 2009, at Raymond james stadium in tampa, florida.
With is jeet, the Steelers became the first toli to jeet chah super pyaale.
pittsburg, jo samaapt the niyamit ritu saath a 12–4 record, also jiti their second super Bowl in chaar years baad jeetna super katori xl at the samaapt of the 2005 ritu.
the cardinals entered the khel seeking their pehla enegel title chunki 1947, the longest championships sookhaa in the lig.
the klbon became an anpekshit vijeta dauraan the regular season, compiling a 9–7 ricard, and the playoffs saath the sahaayta of sir coach ken whisenhunt, jo was the stilers ' apriy samanvayak in Super Bowl xl, or the re-emergence of quarterbaque court warner, jo was the Super Bowl mvp in Super katori xxxiv saath uske purv toli, st. lui medhon.
Pittsburgh jumped to a 17–7 madhyantar lead, aided by linebacker James harrison 's super Bowl ricard 100-yard interception return for a touchdown.
trailing 20–7 at the prarambh of the chauthi quarter, Arizona scored 16 unanswered ank, sahit chaudee receiver laire fitzgerald 's 64-yard touchdown resepshan, to take the sise with 2:37 remaining in the game.
But the stilers marched 78 yards to score on chaudee receiver santonio Holmes ' 6-yard game-winning touchdown catch with 35 second baayein.
Holmes, jo caught nau passes liye 131 gaj or a touchdown, including four receptions liye 73 gaj on ki final game-winning drive, was namit super Bowl mvp.
he became the chathe chaudee receiver to win the award, or also thi the teesraa pittsburg receiver to jeet the award, following lynn swann and hines ward.
despite the vaishvik financial crisis or simit raashi of ancillary festivities that hai saamanytah yojit pehle the game, the NBC television network broadcast attracted an average u.S. audience of 98.7 million darshak, bananaa it the sabase dekhi Super katori in history to ki point.
a aarekh of the electromagnetic varnakram, prardashit vibhinn properties aarpaar the dayera of barambharataa or wavelengths
the electromagnetic varnakram is the dayera of sab sambhavit frequencies of electromagnetic vikiran.
the `` electromagnetic varnakram '' of an object rai a different arth, and is bajaay the characteristic vitaran of electromagnetic vikiran utsarjit or avashoshit by ki particular object.
The electromagnetic varnakram extends isse neeche the kam barambharataa prayukt liye aadhunik radio communication to gamma vikiran at the short- wavelength ( high-frequency ) samaapt, thereby covering wavelengths isse hazaron of kilometre bas to a fraction of the aakaar of an atom.
The seemaa liye long wavelengths is the aakaar of the brahmad itself, jabaki it is thought ki the choti wavelength limit is in the vicinity of the plank lambaai, haalanki in principle the varnakram is anant or continuous.
Most parts of the electromagnetic varnakram hai prayukt in vigyaan liye spectroscopic and anya probing interactions, as tareeke to padhai and characterize matter.
in addition, vikiran isse vibhinn bhaag of the varnakram rai mila anek anya uses liye sanchaar or nirmaan ( dekhie electromagnetic vikiran liye more applications ).
legend
Marchantia, a liverwort
Bryophyte is a paramparaagat naam used to refer to all embryophytes ( jameen plants ) ki do nahin have sachcha vascular utak or hai therefore pukaara ' non-vascular paudhe '.
Some bryophytes do have specialized utakon liye the hastantaran of jal ; however chunki ye do nahin contain lignin, ve hai nahin mana to be sachcha vascular tissue.
Currently bryophytes are vichaar nahin to be a prakritik or monophyletic samooh ; however the naam is convenient or remains in use as a samuhik pad liye mosses, hornworts, and liverworts.
bryophytes produce enclosed reproductive structures ( gametangia or sporangia ), lakin they produce neither flowers nor beej, reproducing via spores.
The term bryophyte aata isse Greek βρύον, bryon, `` tree-moss, oyster-green '' + φυτόν - phyton `` sanyantr ''.
A bainko is a vittiya sanstha and a vittiya intermediary ki accepts jamaa or channels those deposits into lending activities, either sidhe by loaning or indirectly through puunji markets.
a bainko is the conection between graahak that have puunji deficits or graahak with puunji surpluses.
due to unke influence bheetar a vittiya pranali and an arthvyavastha, bainko are generally atyadhik regulated in most deshon.
sabase banks operate antargat a pranali gyaat as fractional reserve banking jahaan ve tham tabhi a small arakshit of the nidhi deposited or lend out the baaki liye profit.
ve hai generally subject to nunatam capital aavashyaktaayen jisase hai aadhaarit on an international niyat of puunji maanakon, known as the basel accords.
The oldest bainko still in existence is monte dei paschi di Siena, headquartered in siena, Italy, jisase rai maharoom oparating lagaataar chunki 1472.
It is followed by berenberg Bank of hamberg ( 1590 ) or sveriges riksbank of sweden ( 1668 ).
Banking in its aadhunik bhav viksit in samrudh shaharon of Renaissance Italy, aise as florence, venice or genoa.
In the itihaas of banking, a kramank of banking dynasties —among them notably Medici, fugger, welser, Berenberg, baring or Rothschild —have nibhaai a central role over anek sadiyaan.
The exbox is a video game console manufactured by Microsoft.
It thi released on navambar 15, 2001 in uttar america, February 22, 2002 in japani, and kooch 14, 2002 in australia or europea.
It was microsoft 's pehla foray into the gaming consol market.
as part of the sixth-generation of gaming, the exbox competed saath soni 's plastesan 2, sega 's dreamcast ( jisase roka American bikri pehle the exbox gai on bikri ), or nintendo 's gamecube.
The exbox thi the pehla consol offered by an amareeki company baad the Atari Jaguar stopped sales in 1996.
the ekikrut exbox sajiv service shubharambh in November 2002 anumat khilaadi to play khel online saath a broadband connection.
it pehla competed saath Dreamcast 's online seva but baad primarily competed saath plastesan 2 's online seva.
haalanki ye two hai free jabaki Xbox Live jaruri a sabsakripshan, as khub as broadband-only connection jisase thi not completely apanaaya yet, exbox sajiv thi a kamyaabi due to better sarwar, features aise as a dost list, or padaav sheershak jaise Halo 2 released in navambar 2004, jisase is the best-selling Xbox video khel or was by far the most popular online khel liye saalo.
exbox 's successor, the exbox 360, was launched in November 2005.
The Xbox thi discontinued in let 2005 in japani jahaan sales yahood garib.
It thi discontinued in let 2006 in Europe or jaldi 2007 in uttar America.
the pichhlaa exbox game in europea thi tony hoque 's project 8 released in navambar 2006, or the pichhlaa khel in North America thi maden enegel 09 released in agast 2008.
support liye out-of-warranty exbox consoles thi discontinued on kooch 2, 2009, stating ki any in-warranty marammat abhi needed hoga not be undertaken.
Xbox abhigam to Xbox sajiv thi stopped on april 15, 2010.
the Gospel according to John ( unani τὸ κατὰ Ἰωάννην εὐαγγέλιον ), commonly referred to as the inzel of jon or bas jon and praayah referred to in New Testament scolership as the Fourth inzel, is an account of the public ministry of Jesus.
It begins saath the gavaah or pratigyaan by jon the baptist or concludes saath the maut, burial, qayamat, or post-resurrection dikhaave of yishu.
is account is chauthi of the canonical gospels, after the synoptics mathew, chihnit or luk.
rajya ki the book derives isse the gavaahi of the ' shishy whom yishu loved. '
Along saath peter, the benaam shishy is especially band to yishu, or early-church parampara identified use as jon the apostle, ek of yishu ' baarah rasulon.
the inzel is closely sambandhit in style or saamagree to the teen surviving epistles of jon aise ki tikaakaron daavat the chaar books saath, yet, according to most aadhunik vidwaanon, jon thi nahin the lekhak of koi of ye kitabe.
haal isai Scripture scolership adhik or adhik rai lagaai jon bheetar a first-century yahudee context.
remand E. bhura kiya pioneering kaary to tres the vikaas of the parampara isse jisase the gospel arose.
the pravachan seem to be chintit saath the vaastavik issues of the church-and-synagogue bahes at the samay jab the Gospel was likhaa.
it is notable that, in the inzel, the jatiyaan still appears to define itself primarily against judaism, balki than as bhaag of a wider Christian girijaghar.
haalanki christianity prarambh as a gati bheetar Judaism, dhire Christians and yahudiyon became bitterly opposed.
jon presents a `` ucchtar '' christology than the synoptics, arth ki it describes Jesus as the incarnation of the daivi logo through jisko sab bate were bana, as the object of veneration, and adhik explicitly as parameshwar incarnate.
Only in John karata yishu baat at lambaai about himself and uske daivi role, often shared saath the shishyon tabhi.
viruddh the synoptics, jon focuses largely on different miracles ( sahit resurrecting lazarus ), die as lakshan meant to engender aasthaa.
synoptic elements aise as parables or exorcisms hai nahin found in jon.
It presents a ehsaas eschatology in jisase moksh is already upasthit liye the aastik.
the Plagues of Egypt ( ), bhi pukaara the ten plagues ( ) or the Biblical plagues, were ten calamities ki, according to the biblical kitaab of exodus, israel 's parameshwar, yahweh, inflicted upon mishra to raji pharaoh to release the ill-treated israelites isse gulaami.
pharaoh capitulated baad the tenth plig, triggering the exodus of the Jewish logon.
the plagues yahood designed to contrast the shakti of yahweh with the napunsakata of mishra 's various devataaon.
Some tikaakaron have sambhddha anek of the plagues saath nirnay on vishisht devataaon sambhddha saath the Nile, prajnan or natural phenomena.
The plagues of mishra are bhi ullekith in the quran ( 7,133–136 ).
according to the kitaab of exodus, parameshwar proclaims ki sab the devataaon of mishra will be judged through the tenth and final plague:
John martin 's painting of the plague of hail or aag ( 1823 ).
A role-playing game ( RPG or sometimes roleplaying game ) is a khel in jisase players assume the bhoomikaaye of varna in a fictional setting.
khilaadi lo jimmedaari for acting out these roles within a katha, either through literal acting or through a prakram of structured decision-making or akshar development.
kriyaayein liya bheetar anek khel safal or asafal according to a aupchaarik pranali of niyam or guidelines.
There hai anek forms of arpiji.
the asli rup, sometimes called the tabletop arpiji, is conducted through charchaa, whereas in sajiv action role-playing games ( larp ) khilaadi physically perform unke varna ' actions.
In dono of these form, an arranger pukaara a khel master ( gm ) usually decides on the niyam or setting to be prayukt or adhiniyamon as referi, jabaki prayek of the other players plays the bhoomika of a single akshar.
anek kismein of arpiji bhi maujuud in electronic media, such as multi-player text-based muds and unke graphics-based successors, massively ekaadhik online role-playing khel ( MMORPGs ).
Role-playing khel bhi shaamil single-player ofline role-playing video khel in jisase players control a akshar or team jo undertake quests, or may include samarthy ki agrim using sankhyikeey yantriki.
These khel often share settings and niyam saath tabletop rpgs, but emphasize character unnati more than collaborative storytelling.
despite this kismein of form, kuch khel form aise as trading card games or wargames ki hai related to role-playing games may nahin be shaamil.
role-playing kaaryaklap may sometimes be upasthit in aise khel, lakin it is nahin the primary fokas.
the pad is bhi sometimes prayukt to describe roleplay simulation khel or exercises prayukt in teaching, prashikshan, or academik shodh.
the American civil War ( acw ), bhi known as the War between the rajya or simply the civil War ( dekhie namakaran ), thi a civil yuddh fought isse 1861 to 1865 between the sanyukt States ( the `` sangh '' or the `` uttar '' ) or anek dakshini slave rajya that ghoshit unke secession or formed the confederate rajya of America ( the `` Confederacy '' or the `` South '' ).
the yuddh had its origin in the samasya of gulaami, visheshkar the ekstansion of gulaami into the pashchimi territories.
videshi shaktiyaan kiya nahin intervene.
baad chaar saalo of khooni combat ki left over 600,000 sainiko murde and nasht much of the dakshin 's avasanrachana, the confederacy collapsed, gulaami thi abolished, or the mushkil punarnirmaan prakram of restoring neshnal ekta or guaranteeing rights to the freed slave began.
in the 1860 adhyakshiya election, republicans, led by abraham lincoln, opposed expanding gulaami into United rajya ' territories.
Lincoln won, lakin pehle uske udghaatan on kooch 4, 1861, seven cotton-based slave rajya formed the confederacy.
Outgoing loktantric adhyaksh james Buchanan and the incoming Republicans rejected secession as illegal.
lincoln 's inaugural address ghoshit his prashasan would nahin initiate civil yuddh.
Eight baaki slave rajya jari to asweekrut kals liye secession.
confederate forces jabt numerous sangheey durgon bheetar territory claimed by the confederacy.
a salaam sammelan vifal to dhundhen a sulah, or both pahalu prepared liye yuddh.
the confederates assumed ki European deshon were so nirbhar on `` king kapaas `` ki they hota intervene ; none kiya or none recognized the nai Confederate rajya of America.
hostilities began on april 12, 1861, jab confederate forces fired upon Fort Sumter, a kunjee fort held by sangh sainikon in dakshin Carolina.
lincoln pukaara for prayek rajya to provide sainikon to retake the fort ; natijatan, chaar adhik slave rajya joined the confederacy, bringing unke kul to gyaarah.
the Union jald niyantrit the kinaaraa states or established a naval nakebandi that crippled the dakshini arthvyavastha.
The Eastern theatre thi inconclusive in 1861–62.
The patjhad 1862 confederate abhiyaan into maryland ( a sangh rajya ) ended saath confederate retreat at the Battle of antietam, dissuading angrejon hastkshep.
lincoln jari the emancipation Proclamation, which made samaapti slavery a war lakshya.
To the west, by garmiyaan 1862 the sangh nasht the confederate nadi navy, tab much of unke pashchimi sena, and the sangh at vicksburg vibhajit the confederacy in two at the Mississippi River.
in 1863, robert E. lee 's confederate incursion uttar ended at the Battle of Gettysburg.
Western safaltaaon led to ulysses S. grant command of sab sangh sena in 1864.
in the pashchimi theatre, wiliam T. sharaman drove east to capchar Atlanta or marched to the samudr, destroying Confederate infrastructure saath the rasta.
the sangh marshaled the sansaadhan or janashakti to akraman the confederacy isse sab dishanirdesh, and could afford to lado ladaaiyon of apgharshan through the overland Campaign towards richmond, the Confederate puunji.
the defending confederate fouj failed, agrani to lee 's aatmasamarpan to grant at appomattox adaalat house on april 9, 1865.
The American civil yuddh was ek of the earliest sachcha audyogic wars.
railroads, the telegraph, steamships, or mass-produced hathiyaar were employed extensively.
the mobilization of civilian factories, khaanon, shipyards, bainko, parivahan and khaanaa aapurtiyan all foreshadowed sansar yuddh i.
It remains the deadliest yuddh in amareeki itihaas, resulting in the mauton of an anumaanit 750,000 soldiers or an undetermined kramank of civilian casualties.
itihaaskaar jon huddleston estimates the death toll at ten pratishat of sab Northern males 20–45 years boodha, or 30 pratishat of sab Southern shwet males aged 18–40.
the paribhaasha of the world 's vyastatam vimaanashetra has been specified by the airport parishad antarrashtriya in geneva, switzaraland.
the aci defines and upayon the following teen prakaar of vimaanashetra traffic:
yatri traffic : kul yatri emplaned or deplaned, yatri in pargaman gine ekbar
cargo traffic : loaded or mod haada and mail in metric ton
trekkic andolanon : landings or take-offs of vayuyan
sansar yuddh i ( wwi ) thi a vaishvik yuddh kendrit in Europe ki began on 28 july 1914 or lasted jabatak 11 navambar 1918.
it thi predominantly pukaara the sansar War or the Great yuddh isse iske occurrence jabatak the prarambh of sansar War ii in 1939, and the pehla sansar yuddh or sansar yuddh i thereafter.
it shaamil all the sansar 's great powers, jisase were assembled in do opposing alliances : the allies ( based on the tripal entente of the United kingdom, frans or Russia ) and the central shaktiyaan ( originally the Triple Alliance of Germany, Austria-Hungary and Italy ; but, as austria–hungary tha liya the offensive viruddh the anubandh, italy kiya not daalen into the war ).
ye alliances yahood both reorganised and vistaarit as adhik raashtra entered the war : Italy, japani or the United rajya joined the allies, or the Ottoman Empire or Bulgaria the central shaktiyaan.
ultimately, adhik than 70 lakh sainya karmiyon, including 60 lakh Europeans, yahood mobilised in one of the largest yudhon in itihaas.
More than 9 lakh combatants yahood maare, largely because of technological advancements ki led to vishaal increases in the lethality of weapons bagaiyr sambandhit sudhaar in protection or gatishiltaa.
it thi the fifth- deadliest virodh in sansar itihaas, subsequently paving the way liye vibhinn rajnatik parivartan, aise as revolutions in anek of the raashtra involved.
ek of the long-term kalyankari of the yuddh was the punarutthan of samrajyavad in the foreign nitiyon of the great powers of europea.
adhik tatkaal, the hatya of archduke franj Ferdinand of austria, the vaaris to the singhaasana of austria-hungary, on 28 June 1914 by Yugoslav rashtravaadi gavrilo princip in sarajevo triggered a rajanyik sankat jab austria-hungary subsequently vitarit an ultimatum to the Kingdom of srbija.
Several alliances formed over the pichhlaa decades yahood invoked.
bheetar saptaah, the pramukh shaktiyaan yahood at yuddh or, via unke colonies, the virodh jald sprad around the world.
on 28 july, the Austro-Hungarians fired the pehla shots of the yuddh as taiyaari liye the akraman of srbija.
jabaki the russians mobilised, the Germans invaded neutral Belgium or Luxembourg on the rasta to France, providing a casus belli for britain 's ghoshnaa of yuddh viruddh germany.
baad the German kooch on paris was brought to a halt—the so-called chamatkaar of the marne —the pashchimi saamne settled into a sthir battle of attrition with a gart lakeer ki badla little until 1917.
On the purvi saamne, the roosi fouj thi successful viruddh the Austro-Hungarians, but thi stopped in its akraman of east Prussia by the germans.
In navambar the osmani samrajya joined the war, kholane up fronts in the kakeshas, Mesopotamia or the sinai.
italy or bulgaria gai to yuddh in 1915 or romania in 1916.
In rus, the tsar 's government collapsed in kooch 1917 and a subsequent kranti in November brought the Russians to sharten with the central Powers.
After a 1918 German offensive saath the western saamne, the Allies drove back the Germans in a shrenee of kaamyaab offensives or amareeki shaktiyaan began entering the trenches.
germany, jisase tha iske apana trubal saath revolutionaries, agreed to an armistice on 11 November 1918.
the yuddh ended in vijay for the allies.
kaarykram on the home fronts yahood as tumultuous as on the battle fronts, as the participants aajamaaya to mobilize their janashakti and aarthik sansaadhan to fight a kul yuddh.
by the samaapt of the yuddh, chaar pramukh imperial powers—the German, roosi, Austro-Hungarian or osmani empires—ceased to maujuud.
the successor rajya of the purv do khoyaa a great amount of territory, jabaki the latter do yahood dismantled entirely.
the map of central europea thi redrawn into anek choti rajya.
The lig of raashtra thi formed in the aashaa of preventing another aise virodh.
the European nationalism spawned by the yuddh or the brallep of empires, the parakhnaa of germany 's shikast or samasyaayein with the sandhi of versailles hai agreed to be factors contributing to sansar yuddh II.
the Deepwater Horizon oil spill ( bhi referred to as the bp oil spill, the BP aayal vipatti, the gulf of mexico aayal spill, or the Macondo blowout ) thi an oil spill in the gulf of mexico on the BP -operated macondo prospect, mana the largest aakasmik samudri aayal spill in the itihaas of the petroleum udyog, anumaanit to be between 8 % or 31 % larger in awaz than the pehle Ixtoc I aayal spill.
following the explosion or dub of the Deepwater kshitij aayal rig, which claimed 11 jeevandaan, a sea-floor aayal gusher flowed unabated liye 87 days, until it thi capped on 15 july 2010.
The kul nirvahan is anumaanit at.
a vishaal jawaab ensued to protect samudratat, wetelends and estuaries isse the spreading aayal utilizing skimmer ships, floating booms, niyantrit burns or of Corexit oil dispersant.
baad anek vifal praytn to contain the flow, the khub thi ghoshit sealed on 19 sitambar 2010.
kuch reports indicate the well site continues to li.
due to the months-long spill, saath saath adverse prabhaav isse the jawaab or cleanup kriyaayein, extensive damage to samudri and vanyajeev habitats, fishing and tourism industries, or human swasthya problems have continued through 2013.three saalo baad the spill, tarkol genden could still be mila on the mississippi coast.
Numerous investigations chaan the kalyankari of the visphot and record-setting spill.
notably, the u.S. government 's sitambar 2011 rapat pointed to defective cement on the khub, faulting zyaadaatar BP, lakin also well oparator transocean or contractor Halliburton.
pehle in 2011, a shwet House ayog likewise blamed bp and iske partners liye a shrenee of cost-cutting nirnay or an aparyaapt suraksha pranali, but bhi concluded that the spill resulted from `` systemic '' root kalyankari or `` anupasthit significant reform in both udyog practices and government nitiyon, might khub recur ''.
In navambar 2012, BP or the sanyukt rajya vibhaag of insaaf settled sangheey dand aarope saath BP pleading apradhi to 11 rishto of manslaughter, do misdemeanors, or a felony count of lying to congress.
bp also agreed to four saalo of sarkari nigaraanee of its suraksha practices or ethics, or the Environmental Protection agency ghoshit ki bp hota be temporarily bain isse nai anubandh with the us government.
bp or the Department of insaaf sahamat to a record-setting $ 4.525 arab in jurmaana and other payments lakin further vidhik kaarywahi nahin apekshit to conclude jabatak 2014 are jari to determine payouts or jurmaana antargat the saaf Water adhinium or the prakritik Resources Damage moolyankan.
as of February 2013, criminal or civil settlements and bhugtan to a vishwaas nidhi had cost the company $ 42.2 arab.
`` Where the galiyon have no Name '' is a song by chattan band u2.
It is the kholane track isse unke 1987 album the joshua Tree and thi released as the album 's teesraa single in agast 1987.
the song 's aankada is a repeating guitar arpeggio using a delay effect, nibhaai dauraan the song 's introduction and again at the samaapt.
Lead vocalist bono likhaa the lyrics in jawaab to the khyaal ki it is sambhavit to identify a vyakti 's religion or aay based on the street on which ve jiya, visheshkar in Belfast.
dauraan the band 's kathinaaiyon recording the song, nirmaataa bryan Eno considered erasing the song 's tepon to have unhen start isse scratch.
`` jahaan the Streets have no naam '' thi praised by aalochakon and became a commercial kamyaabi, peaking at kramank teraa in the us, kramank chaudaa in Canada, kramank ten in the Netherlands, and number chaar in the sanyukt kingdom.
The song rai become one of the band 's sabase lokapriy songs or rai remained a stepal of unke sajiv adhinium chunki the song debuted in 1987 on the joshua Tree Tour.
the song thi notably performed on a los angeles chat liye the filmakan of iske music video, which jiti a Grammy Award for Best pradarshan Music video.recently the song rai maharoom prayukt by the enegel 's balteemor Ravens as their pravesh song in super katori xlvii
thomas jeffri `` tom '' Hanks ( born july 9, 1956 ) is an American karta, nirmaataa, lekhak, or nideshak.
hanks is gyaat liye uske bhoomikaaye in Apollo 13, big, That baat You do !
, the green Mile, tum 've Got mail, sleepless in sietal, charlie wilson 's yuddh, Catch Me If tum can, Forrest gamp, daal dur, a lig of unke Own, the da vinci code, farishte & Demons, as khub as anemated films jaise the Toy story film shrenee, the dhruviya express, or the Simpsons film.
he rai arjeet and maharoom nominated liye numerous awards dauraan his kariyar, sahit jeetna a sunahari globe liye behtareen Actor or an academy puraskaar liye behtareen Actor liye his bhoomika in Philadelphia or a Golden Globe, an academy puraskaar, a Screen abhinaytaon gild puraskaar, or a logon 's chunaav puraskaar liye behtareen karta liye his bhoomika in Forrest Gump, or kamai the stanley kubrick Britannia puraskaar liye Excellence in Film isse the BAFTAs in 2004.
hanks is bhi known liye uske collaboration saath filmi nideshak Steven Spielberg on chhayankan nijee rayaan or the mini-series band of Brothers, jisase launched Hanks bhi as a kaamyaab nideshak, nirmaataa or writer.
As of 2012, hanks ' films have grossed over $ 4.2 arab at the United rajya box daftar alon, or over $ 8.5 arab vishwavyaapee making him the ucchtam all-time baksaa office star.
the kep is an amareeki superhero naatak series.
It premiered on NBC dauraan the 2010–2011 television season as a mid-season badalanaa shuruuaat saath a two-hour pilot episode on sande, January 9, 2011 at 9 pm purvi or Pacific Time.
an encore played on somvaar, January 10, saath follow-up apisod continuing on Monday evenings in the 9 pm timeslot beginning on January 17.
NBC subsequently kaaten the kul kramank of episodes to be aired isse 13 to 10 as a parinaam of kam darja.
on kooch 2, 2011, enbisi announced ki the series finale hota tabhi be aired on the sanjaal 's jalsthal.
heley 's Comet or dhoomaketu heley ( or ), officially designated 1p/halley, is the best-known of the short-period comets or is visible from dharti prayek 75–76 saalo.
heley is the tabhi short-period comet ki is clearly drishy to the nagn najar from Earth, or yun the tabhi naked-eye dhoomaketu that might appear twice in a human lifetime.
anya naked-eye dhoomaketuon may be ujjwal or more spectacular, lakin hoga appear tabhi ekbar in hazaron of saalo.
heley 's ritern to the bhitari Solar pranali have maharoom observed or ankit by khagolashastriyon chunki at least 240 bce.
saaf record of the dhoomaketu 's dikhaave were bana by Chinese, babylonian, or madhyakaalin europea chroniclers, lakin yahood nahin pahachaanaa as reappearances of the same object at the time.
the dhoomaketu 's periodicity was first sankalpit in 1705 by English astronomer edmond Halley, baad jisko it is now named.
Halley 's dhoomaketu pichhlaa appeared in the inner saura pranali in 1986 or will aglaa appear in mid-2061.
dauraan iske 1986 apparition, heley became the pehla dhoomaketu to be observed in vivaran by spacecraft, providing the pehla observational aankada on the dhaancha of a dhoomaketu nucleus or the mechanism of coma or tail gathan.
These observations samarthit a kramank of longstanding hypotheses parichay comet nirmaan, particularly fred whipple 's `` ganda snobal '' model, jisase correctly predicted ki heley hota be rachit of a mixture of volatile ices – aise as water, carbon dioxide or ammonia – or dust.
the mishan bhi provided aankada which substantially reformed or reconfigured ye vichaar ; liye instance it is abhi samajha that heley 's sataha is largely rachit of dusty, non-volatile materials, or ki only a choti portion of it is icy.
The following is a list of the sabase populous incorporated sthaan of the sanyukt rajya of America.
as defined by the sanyukt rajya janasankhyikee beuro, an `` incorporated place `` includes a kismein of designations, sahit city, town, gaanv, borough, or nagarpalika.
A few asaadhaaran janasankhyikee designated sthaan ( cdps ) hai also included in the janasankhyikee beuro 's listing of incorporated sthaan.
sanchit city-counties represent a pruthak prakaar of government ki shaamil the sampurna janasankhyikee of a county, or county equivalent.
kuch sanchit city-counties, however, shaamil anek incorporated sthaan.
is list presents tabhi that portion ( or `` santulan '' ) of such sanchit city-counties ki hai nahin a bhaag of another incorporated place.
note ki is list refers tabhi to the janasankhyikee of individual municipalities bheetar unke paribhaashit had, jisase karata nahin shaamil anya municipalities or unincorporated suburban kshetron within urban agglomerations.
a alag ranking is evident jab considering u.S. mahanagar kshetrafal populations.
The Mayflower thi the jalayaan ki in 1620 transported 102 angrezi Pilgrims, including a core group of separatists, to nai england.
unke story is ek of travail and astitv in a harsh nai sansar paryaavaran.
a nai jiland forward ( in white ) takes a shot on lakshya against camerun in the 2011 fifa u-20 sansar Cup.
aage, also gyaat as strikers, hai the khilaadi on a toli in sangh footbaal jo khel nikatatam to the opposing toli 's lakshya, or hai isliye principally jimmedaar liye scoring goals.
This very unnat position and its limited defensive responsibilities mean aage saamanytah score more lakshya than anya khilaadi.
is sthiti requires intelligence, speed, or shakti, dono of execution and of thought, to perform the bhoomika khub.
Modern team formations usually shaamil ek to teen aage ; two is the sabase common.
Coaches typically field ek striker jo plays in an unnat sthiti ( the kendra aage ), or another attacking aage who plays somewhat deeper or assists in making lakshya as khub as scoring ( the duusari striker ).
it chahie be noted that andar forwards develop isse attacking midfield sthitiyaan or hence hai naturally midfielders.
barsilona fc star leonnelle messi is a theth Attacking midfilder seen as a aage due to his shot sateekta.
a california gharelu saajhedaari is a legal sambandh uplabdhiyaan to same-sex yugal, or to certain opposite-sex yugal in jisase at tanik one party is at least 18 years of aayu.
it affords the couple `` the vahi adhikaron, protections, or benefits, or... the same jimmedaariyon, dayitvon, or kartavya antargat vidhi... '' as shaadishuda spouses.
enacted in 1999, the domestic saajhedaari registry was the first of its kind in the United rajya nirmit by a vidhanmandal bagaiyr court hastkshep.
initially, gharelu partnerships enjoyed very few privileges—principally bas hospital-visitation rights and the sahi to be claimed as a next of kin of the estate of a mritak partner.
the vidhanmandal rai since vistaarit the paimaana of california domestic partnerships to shaamil sab of the rights or responsibilities aam to vivaah.
as such, california gharelu partnerships are functionally equivalent to civil unions offered in several anya rajya.
haalanki the kaarykram enjoys broad support in california, it has maharoom the sorce of kuch vivaad.
samooh opposed to the manyata of same-sex families have challenged the vistaar of gharelu partnerships in adaalat.
conversely, adhivaktaaon of same-sex marriage contend ki anything kam than full vivaah adhikaron extended to same-sex partners is analogous to the `` separate lakin baraabar '' racial laws of the gym Crow era.
chihnit A. jackson ( born april 1, 1965 ) is an amareeki basket coach, or purv khilaadi who is the current head coach of the Golden rajya yoddhaon of the enbie.
a point guard from St. John 's vishvavidhyalayon, he played liye the New york knicks, Indiana Pacers, Los angeles clipurs, denwar tenders, toronto rapatars, uta Jazz or huston Rockets in the NBA in a career spanning isse 1987 to 2004.
jackson rai bhi worked as a camentator liye ESPN or abisi alongside uske purv coach jeff vine gundy and play-by-play man mike Breen.
he thi previously an NBA analyst liye the yas sanjaal 's nai jersey net khel.
dakshin africa has gyaarah aadhikarik bhashaaen : africa, angrezi, Ndebele, uttari sotho, Sotho, Swazi, tswana, songa, Venda, Xhosa or zulu.
kam than do percent of dakshin Africans bolo a pehla bhashaa anya than an aadhikarik one.
sabase South africans can bolo more than ek language.
Dutch and angrezi yahood the pehla aadhikarik languages of South africa from 1910 to 1925.
africa thi added as a bhaag of dach in 1925.
dach was replaced by africa jab South africa became a ganatantr in 1961, or dach thi dropped in 1983, so between 1983 or 1994, dakshin africa had do aadhikarik languages : angrezi and africa.
the angrezi sanskaran of the dakshin africa samvidhan refers to the languages by the names in those bhashaaen : isizulu, isixhosa, africa, sepedi ( referring to uttari sotho ), Setswana, English, Sesotho ( referring to dakshini sotho ), xitsonga, siswati, tshivenda and isindebele ( referring to Southern ndebele ).
in South africa, dakshini ndebele is known simply as ndebele, as sabase adhyakshon of uttari ndebele sajiv in zimbabwe.
the 1993 sanskaran of the samvidhan referred to uttari sotho as Sesotho sa leboa, lakin the 1996 version referred to the language as Sepedi.
Different sarkari departments or aadhikarik laashen upyog alag sharten to denote uttari Sotho.
The main bhashaa of government is English bhi if dakshin africans praayah take abhimaan in using swadeshi languages liye koi purpose.
africa also suvidhaayen prominently in commers saath saath angrezi as the languages saath the ucchtam number of dharapravaah adhyakshon hai africa and angrezi.
in terms of bhashaai vargeekaran, the official languages shaamil do West-Germanic bhashaaen ( angrezi or Afrikaans ) or nine bantu bhashaaen.
chaar of these hai nguni languages ( zulu, khosa, swati and ndebele ) or teen are sotho–tswana bhashaaen ( uttari sotho, dakshini sotho or tswana ).
Tsonga is a tswa–ronga bhashaa.
dakshin African chihn Language is a distinct haalanki incompletely ubhara national maanak bhashaa jisase bhi subsumes a cluster of semi-standardised dialects.
aluminium nitrate is a salt of aluminium and nitric acid, maujuuda normally as a crystalline hydrate, sabase commonly as aluminium nitrate nonahydrate, al ( NO3 ) 3·9H2O.
the nai York Jets are a professional football toli headquartered in Florham park, New Jersey, representing the nai york metropolitan area.
the toli is a member of the Eastern prabhag of the amareeki Football sammelan ( afc ) in the National footbaal lig ( enegel ).
in a adwitiya arrangement liye the lig, the Jets share metlife stadium in east Rutherford, nai jersey with the nai york diggaj.
the matadhikaar is legally or corporately panjikrut as nai york jets, LLC.
the team thi santhaapit in 1959 as the titans of New york, an asli member of the American footbaal League ; baad, the matadhikaar joined the NFL in the afl–nfl vilay.
The toli began to khel in 1960 at the polo grounds.
antargat nai ownership, the current naam thi apanaaya in 1963 or the matadhikaar thi relocated to shea stadium in 1964 or then to the meadowlands Sports jatil in 1984.
the Jets advanced to the playoffs liye the pehla time in 1968 and gai on to compete in super Bowl III jahaan ve parajeet the Baltimore coltas, banane the first AFL team to shikast an NFL klbon in an afl-nfl sansar championships Game.
chunki 1968, the Jets have appeared in the playoffs thirteen times, or in the afc championships khel chaar times, sabase recently khone to the pittsburg stilers in 2010.
however, the Jets have never laute to the super Bowl, bananaa unhen ek of teen enegel tiimon to jeet unke lone super katori rup, saath saath the nai orlions Saints or Tampa khadi buccaneers.
The toli 's prashikshan suvidha, atlantic swasthya jets Training bich, jisase opened in 2008, is stith in florham park.
the toli philhal holds unke annual prashikshan shivi satr on the campus of the State vishvavidhyalayon of nai york at cortland in Cortland, nai York jabaki pakadakar occasional sessions at the florham park jatil.
psilocybe semilanceata
psilocybin mashroom, bhi gyaat as cicedelik mushrooms, hai fungi that contain psychoactive indole alkaloids.
There are multiple colloquial sharten liye psilocybin mashroom, the sabase aam being shrooms or jaadu mushrooms.
biological genera containing psilocybin mashroom shaamil Agrocybe, conocybe, copelandia, galerina, gerronema, gymnopilus, hypholoma, inocybe, Mycena, panaeolus, pluteus, or Psilocybe.
vahin are lagbhag 190 prajati of psilocybin mashroom and sabase of unhen patan in the genus psilocybe.
Psilocybin mushrooms have sambhavit been prayukt chunki prehistoric times or may have maharoom depicted in chattan art.
anek samskritiyon have prayukt these mashroom in dharmik rites.
in modern Western society ve are prayukt recreationally liye unke cicedelik prabhaav.
haal studies kiya at imperial college London or Johns Hopkins skool of ayurvigyaan conclude that jab prayukt properly, psilocybin adhiniyamon as an anti-depressant as sujhaayaa by fmri dimag scans.
alaska ( ) is a rajya in the sanyukt rajya, situated in the northwest extremity of the uttar amareeki mahadweep, saath the antarrashtriya boundary saath canada to the east, the Arctic samandar to the uttar, and the prashanth samandar to the west or dakshin, saath rus further west across the bering jalsandhi.
alaska is the largest rajya in the sanyukt rajya by kshetrafal, the 4th tanik populous and the tanik densely aabaadi of the 50 United rajya.
Approximately half of alaska 's 731,449 nivaasiyon live bheetar the Anchorage metropolitan area.
Alaska 's arthvyavastha is varchasv by the oil, prakritik gas, or fishing industries ; it rai ye sansaadhan in abundance.
Alaska thi kharida isse Russia on kooch 30, 1867, for $ 7.2 lakh ( $ adjusted liye mahangaai ) at lagbhag do saint prati acre ( $ 4.74/km2 ).
the jameen gai through anek prashasnic parivartan pehle banane an vyavasthit ( or incorporated ) territory on may 11, 1912, or the 49th rajya of the U.S. on janvari 3, 1959.
the naam `` alaska '' ( Аляска ) thi already introduced in the roosi aupniveshik kaal, jab it thi prayukt only liye the peninsula or is niklaa isse the Aleut alaxsxaq, arth `` the mainland '' or, more vastutah, `` the object towards jisase the karrwai of the samudr is directed ''.
it is bhi known as alyeska, the `` great jameen '', an aleut shabd niklaa isse the vahi root.
The 101 french departments hai vibhajit into 342 arrondissements, jisase may be anudit into angrezi as districts.
the puunji of an arrondissement/district is pukaara a subprefecture.
When an arrondissement contains the prifekchar ( capital ) of the vibhaag, ki prifekchar is the puunji of the arrondissement, acting dono as a prifekchar or as a subprefecture.
arrondissements hai further vibhajit into cantons or communes.
the yoni ( from latin vāgīna, vastutah `` myaan '' or `` myaan `` ) is a tubular tract which is a sex ang and rai do pramukh krityon ; yon maithun or childbirth.
in humans, this dyodhi leads isse the opening of the bhaga to the garbhashay ( garbh ), lakin the vaginal tract ends at the cervix.
naapsand main, jo have tabhi ek genital orifice, mahilaon have two, the urethra or the vagina.
the vaginal kholane is much larger than the urethral kholane, or both udghaatan hai protected by the labia.
the bhitari mould of the vagina rai a foldy banaavat jisase can banaaen friction liye the shishn dauraan maithun.
During arousal, the yoni gets nam to facilitate the pravesh of the shishn.
the Latinate bahuvachan `` vaginae '' is rarely prayukt in angrezi.
Colloquially, the shabd vagina is praayah prayukt to refer to the bhaga or to the maadaa genitals in saamaanya.
however, by its shabdkosh or anatomical definitions, yoni refers exclusively to the vishisht aatanrik dhaancha.
The sinsinati Reds hai a Major lig besabaal toli based in Cincinnati, Ohio.
ve hai members of the National League central prabhag.
Established in 1881 as an independent club, the toli became a charter member of the amareeki sangh in 1882, or joined the neshnal League in 1890.
the klbon traditionally traces iske origin to besabaal 's pehla khulkar professional toli in 1869.
The laal have jiti five sansar Series sheershak, ek amareeki sangh pennant, nau neshnal lig pennants or ten division sheershak.
the Reds nibhaai in the National lig west between 1969 or 1993 and have maharoom in the neshnal League central chunki 1994.
chunki 2003, the Reds have nibhaai at great American Ball park, nirmit aglaa to unke ghar from 1970 to 2002, riverfront Stadium.
bob Castellini rai swaamitv the sinsinati Reds chunki 2006.
a sharaarat stink bomb.
A badboo bomb is a device designed to create an apriy mahakate.
ve range in effectiveness from simple pranks to sainya grad malodorants or riot control rasinic agents.
the ginis Book of Records suchiyaan two smelliest substances.
ek is `` us sarkari maanak bathroom malodor '' ; a mishran of aath rasayan with a stench resembling insaan mel, only much stronger, designed to test the efficacy of deodorizers or air fresheners.
another ek, `` jo me ? ``, is a mixture of paanch sulfur-containing rasayan or smells jaise rotting food or carcasses.
the kahawat `` a chitra is laayak a thousand shabd '' refers to the khyaal ki a jatil vichaar can be conveyed saath just a single still image.
it bhi aptly characterizes one of the pramukh goals of kalpana, namely making it possible to absorb large amounts of aankada quickly.
The abhivyakti `` Use a chitra.
it 's worth a hajaar shabd. '' appears in a 1911 samachaarpatr aalekh quoting samachaarpatr editor arthur Brisbane discussing journalism and publicity.
1913 samachaarpatr advertisement
A samaan phrase, `` ek dekh is laayak a hajaar Words '', appears in a 1913 samachaarpatr advertisement liye the piqua Auto supplai House of piqua, ohio.
an jaldi upyog of the sateek phrase appears in an 1918 newspaper vigyaapan for the san antonio Light which says : ek of the Nation 's mahanatam sampadak says : One chitra is Worth a hajaar shabd The san Antonio lite 's sachitr patrika of the yuddh exemplifies the sachai of the above statement -- judging isse the garam reception it rai praapt at the hands of the sande lite pathak.
it is believed by kuch ki the aadhunik use of the phrase tana isse an article by Fred R. Barnard in the vigyaapan vyapaar jarnal Printers ' Ink, promoting the use of bimb in advertisements that appeared on the pahalu of streetcars.
the disambar 8, 1921 samasya carries an ad hakdaar, `` ek dekh is laayak a hajaar Words. ''
another ad by barnard appears in the March 10, 1927 issue saath the phrase `` ek chitra laayak ten hajaar shabd, '' jahaan it is labeled a chinis kahawat ( 一圖勝萬言 ).
the ghar Book of proverbs, maxims, or parichit vaakyansh uddhran Barnard as saying he called it `` a chinis proverb, so ki logon hota take it seriously. ''
jald baad, the kahawat hota become popularly attributed to kanceyucious.
The charchaa of `` One Picture laayak Thousand shabd '' versus `` ek chitra laayak ten hajaar shabd '' wan yen i hua or 10.000 miles laayak 10.000 books is cited in Information graphics jahaan the concept of anek in alag disciplines and samskritiyon.
a picture is worth a hajaar shabd
despite is aadhunik utpatti of the popular phrase, the bhaavana rai maharoom expressed by earlier lekhak.
liye udhaaharan the Russian writer Ivan Turgenev likhaa ( in fathers or bete in 1862 ), `` a chitra shows me at a glance what it takes darjanon of prishthon of a kitaab to expound. ''
computer programmer or lekhak fred Brooks makes an vipareet bayaan regarding programming in The Mythical Man-Month : `` dikhaaen me apana flowcharts or chhipate apana teble, or I shall continue to be mystified.
Show me apana teble, or I won’t praayah need your flowcharts ; they’ll be obvious. ''
The phrase rai bhi maharoom spoofed by jon maikaarthi, the prasiddh computer scientist, to mek the vipareet point : `` As the Chinese kah, 1001 shabd is laayak adhik than a picture. ''
A ritu is a subdivision of the saal, chihnit by parivartan in mausam, paristhitiki, or ghanton of daylight.
Seasons parinaam isse the yearly kranti of the dharti around the Sun and the jhukaav of the dharti 's axis saapeksh to the plane of kranti.
in temperate or polar regions, the seasons hai chihnit by parivartan in the tivrata of dhoop ki pahunch the dharti 's sataha, variations of jisase may kaaran pashu to go into sheetanishkriyata or to migrate, or plants to be dormant.
dauraan May, June or july, the uttari hemisphere is ujagar to adhik sidhaa dhoop because the golardh faces the surya.
the same is true of the dakshini golardh in navambar, disambar or January.
It is the jhukaav of the dharti ki kalyankari the Sun to be higher in the aasmaan dauraan the garmiyaan maheene jisase increases the saura flux.
However, due to mausami lag, june, july or August are the hottest maheene in the uttari golardh or December, janvari or February are the hottest months in the dakshini hemisphere.
In shitoshna or subpolar regions, generally four calendar -aadharand sizan ( saath unke adjectives ) hai recognized : vasant ( vernal ), summer ( estival ), patjhad ( autumnal ) or sheet ( hibernal ).
however, ecologists zyaadaatar upyog a chah ritu model for shitoshna jalwaayu regions ki shaamil pre-spring ( prevernal ) or late garmiyaan ( serotinal ) as pruthak seasons along saath the traditional chaar.
hot regions have do or teen sizan ; the barsaat ( or geela, or monsoon ) ritu or the shushk ritu, or in kuch teevr kshetron, a kool or mild ritu.
In some bhaag of the sansar, khaas `` sizan '' hai loosely paribhaashit aadhaarit on mahatvapurn kaarykram aise as a hurricane ritu, bavandar ritu or a dawanal season.
the chah ecological sizan
The chaar panchang seasons, depicted in an ancient roman mosaic from tunisia
dach niryaat in 2006
at the samay of likhane the netherlands is the 17th largest economy of the sansar.
( dekhie : List of deshon by jidipi ( nammaatr ) )
GDP per capita is roughly $ 42,000 jisase puts it in the sheersh 10 of richest nations in the sansar ( dekhie : List of countries by GDP ( ppp ) per capita ).
between 1996 and 2000 annual economic vikaas ( jidipi ) averaged over 4 %, khub upar the europea ausat.
Growth slowed considerably in 2001-05 as part of the vaishvik aarthik slowdown.
2006 or 2007 however dikhaaya aarthik growth of 3.4 % and 3.9 %.
The dach economy thi hit considerably by the jari global vittiya crisis or the ensuing europea karz sankat.
Several bainko gai diwalia, or a kramank of others had to praapt sarkari sahaayta.
In 2009 the arthvyavastha asweekrut with 3.5 %, followed by do years of mild growth.
the dach arthvyavastha is philhal in a mandi again, saath an aarthik manaahi of 0.5 % in 2012.
mahangaai is at 3.2 % in farvari 2013.
berogari rai maharoom apekshaakrit kam compared to other eu raashtra for dashakon lakin baad mid-2012 it rai seen a fast increase and in February 2013 it rai hit 7.7 %.
the Netherlands prabandhit to maintain its aaa darja at least jabatak kooch 2013 according to the three pramukh credit darja agencies.
historically, the dach introduced and invented the bhandar market by the merchandise vyapaar through dach west India Company.
The Netherlands is a founding sadsy of the europea sangh, the oecd or the sansar Trade sanghathan.
vafaadaar to the khel is the dasavaan studio album or sixth studio album by tupak Shakur.
it contains remixes of previously unreleased music recorded by shakur before uske death in 1996.
released in the United rajya on disambar 14, 2004 ( disambar 12 in the sanyukt kingdom ), vafaadaar to the khel thi produced by eminem.
the asli panel of the drishy ; meredith vieira, star jones, dibbi matenopoulos and barbara walters in 1997.
The View is an amareeki baat dikhaaen broadcast on abisi ki debuted in 1997 as bhaag of the sanjaal 's din programing blaak.
Created by Barbara walters or vidheyak Geddie, who dono bhi serve as the dikhaaen 's karypalika producers, the kaarykram suvidhaayen a panel of mahilaon as co-hosts.
saath saath Walters, the vartmaan falak includes whoopi Goldberg, who serves as the moderator, anand behar, elizabeth Hasselbeck, and sherri gadriye.
antarrashtriya sanskaran of the kaarykram hai aired in several deshon.
as of the 2012–13 ritu, iske 16th, The View is the fourth-longest kaaryshil national daytime baat dikhaaen in itihaas, peeche the phil donahue dikhaaen ( 29 ), the variously-named Live !
kaarykram ( 25 ), or The opera Winfrey Show ( 25 ).
prunus virginiana, commonly pukaara bitter-berry, chokecherry, virginia bird cheri or pashchimi chokecherry ( bhi blike chokecherry for P. virginiana var. demissa ), is a prajati of bird cheri ( Prunus subgenus padus ) deshi to North america ; the prakritik aitihaasik dayera of P. virginiana includes most of the mahadweep, except for the dur uttar or dur dakshin.
Los Angeles antarrashtriya vimaanashetra is the praathmik vimaanashetra sevarat the vrihad Los angeles kshetrafal, the second-most populated mahanagar area in the United rajya.
It is sabase praayah referred to by iske iata vimaanashetra code lax, with the akshar sunaaya individually.
lax is stith in southwestern Los Angeles saath the prashanth coast in the pados of westchester, isse the shahar kor or is the primary airport of Los angeles World airport ( lawa ), an agency of the los angeles nagar sarkari formerly gyaat as the Department of Airports.
in 2011, lax thi the chathe vyastatam vimaanashetra in the sansar baad hartsfield-jackson atlanta antarrashtriya vimaanashetra, beijing Capital International vimaanashetra, landan heathrow vimaanashetra, chicago O'Hare antarrashtriya vimaanashetra, or tokio haneda antarrashtriya Airport saath 61,862,052 yatri.
the airport holds the claim liye `` the sansar 's busiest origin or gantavy ( o & D ) vimaanashetra '' in 2011 ki involves non-connecting passenger trekkic.
it is bhi the only vimaanashetra to rank among the top five U.S. airports for both yatri and cargo trekkic.
lax is the busiest vimaanashetra in the Greater los angeles kshetrafal, but other airport including Bob aashaa vimaanashetra, jon wain vimaanashetra, long bich vimaanashetra, LA/Ontario antarrashtriya Airport, or tad sroton antarrashtriya Airport bhi serve the region.
LAX is bhi the vyastatam vimaanashetra in california or the West coast of the United rajya in sharten of udaan parichaalan, yatri traffic and air cargo activity, agrani it to be referred to as the `` getwe to the prashanth rim ``.
Peyton williams manning ( born kooch 24, 1976 ) is an amareeki footbaal quarterback liye the denwar broncos of the neshnal footbaal lig ( enegel ).
he nibhaai liye the indianapolis Colts liye 14 sizan isse 1998 to 2011.
He is the bete of purv enegel quarterbaque archi manning or an elder bhai of New york diggaj quarterbaque eli manning.
manning nibhaai college footbaal liye the vishvavidhyalayon of tennesi, leading the swayamsevak to the 1997 SEC Championship in uske senior ritu.
however, No. 3 tennesi khoyaa to the no. 2 nebraska cornhuskers 42-17 in the naarangi Bowl giving Nebraska and tom Osborne their 3rd national championship in 4 years.
He was chuni by the indianapolis coltas with the pehla overall chune in the 1998 enegel draft.
isse 1998 to 2010, he led the coltas to aath ( saat AFC South or ek afc east ) prabhag championships, two afc championships, or to a super katori championship ( super katori xli ).
he rai jiti a ricard four league sabase moolyawaan khilaadi puraskaar, thi the sabase valuable khilaadi of super Bowl XLI, rai been namit to baarah pro pyaale, rai baarah 4,000-yard guzar sizan, or is the indianapolis coltas ' all-time netaa in passing gaj ( 54,828 ) or touchdown gujarata ( 399 ).
in 2009, he thi named the behtareen player in the enegel or fox Sports along saath khel illustrated namit use the NFL khilaadi of the decade of the 2000s.
in May 2011, he underwent neck surgery to alleviate gardan pidaa and bhujaa kamazori he dealt saath during the pichhlaa few sizan pehle hastakshar a five-year, $ 90 lakh anubandh ekstansion saath the Colts in July 2011.
Manning tha hoped to khel in the 2011 ritu, lakin in September 2011, he underwent a much more serious second surgery : a str ek cervical fusion kaarividhi.
Manning tha never missed an NFL khel in his kariyar, but was forced to miss the sampurna 2011 ritu.
he thi released by the coltas on kooch 7, 2012, or baad an almost two-week period jahaan he visited saath or worked out liye anek enegel tiimon, he hastakshrit saath the denwar Broncos on kooch 20, 2012.
manning 's pre-snap dincharya rai arjeet use the nickname, `` The sheriff '' and is ek of the sabase recognizable or parodied in the NFL.
The Indianapolis coltas ' lagbhag exclusive upyog of the hurry-up offense led to manning using an sarani of ishaaron and maukhik cmand to kol the play at the lakeer of muthbhed balki than in the huddle.
the america minar of the amareeki General bich, the mukhyalay of Baker hughes
Baker Hughes is ek of the sansar 's largest oilfield sevaayen companiyaan.
It operates in over 90 deshon, providing the aayal or gas udyog with utpaada and services liye khudaai, formation moolyankan, completion, production and tank paraamarsh.
Baker Hughes rai iske mukhyalay in the America Tower in the American saamaanya bich in Neartown, huston.
baker Hughes incorporated was formed when Baker antarrashtriya and hughes aujaar Company merged in 1987.
baker hughes operates vishwavyaapee saath pramukh karyaalayon in Liverpool, United Kingdom ; singapore ; Dubai ; a research or mentanence facility in celle, Germany ; Lafayette, Louisiana ; Houston, texas ; pescara, italy ; or kuala lumpur, malaysia.
the company is administered broadly in do baantati : the purvi golardh saath paanch regions ( Europe, Africa, the madhya east, asia Pacific or Russia/Caspian ) or the pashchimi golardh saath four regions ( canada, US jameen, us gulf, or latin america ).
prayek of ye regions is subdivided into bazaar.
the sanyukt States one- cent sikaa, commonly gyaat as a penny, is a ikai of karency equaling ek one-hundredth of a sanyukt States dollars.
the cent 's symbol is ¢.
Its obverse rai pradarshit the profil of President Abraham lincoln chunki 1909, the centennial of his birth.
isse 1959 ( the sesquicentennial of Lincoln 's birth ) to 2008, the reverse featured the Lincoln memorial.
chaar alag reverse dizin in 2009 sammanit Lincoln 's 200th janmdiwas and a new, sthai reverse – the sangh Shield – was introduced in 2010.
the sikaa is 0.75 inch ( 19.05 mm ) in vyas or 0.061 inch ( 1.55 mm ) in motaai.
The u.S. mint 's official naam liye a paini is `` '' or the u.S. Treasury 's aadhikarik naam is `` ek cent tukdaa ''.
the colloquial pad penny garbhashayi from the angrejon coin of the vahi naam, the pre-decimal sanskaran of jisase tha a samaan maan.
in American angrezi, pennies is the plural form, other plural form pence or pee ( standard upyog in angrejon English ) hai nahin used.
as of 2012, it laagat the U.S. mint 2.00 saint to make a cent kuki of the laagat of saamagree and production.
is figure includes the Mint’s phixd components for vitaran or fabrication, anumaanit at $ 13 lakh in fy 2011.
it bhi shaamil Mint overhead abantit to the penny, jisase was $ 17.7 lakh liye 2011.
phixd costs or overhead hota have to be avashoshit by other circulating sikke bagaiyr the penny.
the ghaataa in profitability due to producing the ek cent sikaa in the sanyukt rajya liye the saal of 2012 was $ 58,000,000.
is was a patala ghati isse 2011, the saal pehle, jisase tha a production ghaataa of $ 60,200,000.
or adhik specifically, hai shobhyman kismein of domesticated aam carp ( cyprinus carpio ) ki hai kept liye decorative uddeshy in outdoor koi ponds or jal gardens.
koi kismein are vishisht by coloration, patterning, and scalation.
Some of the major rangon hai shwet, blike, red, pilaa, blue, or malai.
the most lokapriy shrenee of koi is the gosanke, which is bana up of the Kohaku, Taisho Sanshoku, and showa sanshoku varieties.
the amareeki Federation of sarkari karmchaaree ( AFGE ) is an amareeki majdoor sangh representing over 650,000 employees of the sangheey sarkari, parichay 5,000 karmchaaree of the zila of colombia, or a few sau private sector karmchaaree, zyaadaatar in or around sangheey suvidhaayen.
afge is the largest sangh liye civilian, non- dak sangheey karmchaaree or the largest sangh for District of colombia karmchaaree jo report sidhe to the mayor ( i.e., baahar of D.C. public skulon ).
it is sambhddha with the afl-cio.
A let Silurian sporangium.
green : a spore tetrad.
blue : A spore bearing a trilete chihnit – the -akarand scar.
the spores are parichay 30-35 μm aarpaar
the evolution of paudhe rai resulted in increasing str of jatilta, isse the earliest algal mats, through bryophytes, lycopods, ferns to the jatil gymnosperms and angiosperms of today.
jabaki anek of the samooh jisase appeared pehle continue to thrive, visheshkar in the environments in jisase ve evolved, liye a samay prayek nai grad of organisation became adhik `` kaamyaab '' than its purvavartiyon.
in the ordovician period, around, the pehla land paudhe appeared.
ye began to diversify in the let silyurian kaal, around, or the parinaam of unke diversification are pradarshit in ullekhneey detail in an jaldi devonian chattan assemblage isse the Rhynie chert.
is chert preserved early paudhe in cellular detail, petrified in volcanic springs.
by the madhya of the devonian kaal, sabase of the suvidhaayen recognised in paudhe aaj are upasthit, sahit jaden, pattey and secondary wood ; or, by late Devonian times, beej tha viksit.
let devonian paudhe had thereby pahunche a oopaadhi of parishkar that allowed unhen to rup wanon of tall ped.
vikasvaadi naveenta jari into the Carboniferous kaal or is still jari aaj.
sabase sanyantr samooh yahood relatively unscathed by the permo-triassic extinction event, although the structures of communities badla.
is may have niyat the scene liye the rup of the flowering plants in the Triassic ( ~ ), and unke later diversification in the cretaceous or paleogene.
The naveenatam pramukh group of paudhe to evolve yahood the grasses, jisase became mahatvapurn in the mid-paleogene, isse around.
the grasses, as khub as many other groups, viksit new mechanisms of metabolism to jivit the low or garam, shushk sharten of the ooshnakaribandh over the pichhlaa.
The jeetna super Bowl toli receives the Vince Lombardi trophy.
the super katori is an salanaa amareeki football khel ki determines the champion of the National footbaal lig ( enegel ).
the pratiyogita is held in an American nagar ki is chosen teen to chaar years beforehand, usually in warm-weather or domed site.
Since 1971, the vijeta of the amareeki footbaal sammelan ( afc ) Championship khel rai faced the winner of the neshnal footbaal sammelan ( nfc ) championships khel in the culmination of the enegel playoffs.
pehle the 1970 vilay between the amareeki footbaal lig ( AFL ) and the neshnal Football lig ( NFL ), the do lig mili in four such pratiyogitaaon.
the pehla do were known as the `` afl-nfl sansar championships khel. ''
super katori III in 1969 thi the pehla aise game ki carried the `` super katori '' moniker, the names `` super Bowl i `` and `` super Bowl ii `` yahood retroactively lagu to the first do khel.
The nfc /nfL lead in super katori vins saath 25, jabaki the AFC /AFL rai jiti 22.
Eighteen alag franchises, sahit tiimon that relocated to another nagar, have jiti the super katori.
The pittsburg stilers have jiti the sabase super pyaale saath chah championships ( record 6–2 ), jabaki dono the dalas cowboys and san francisco 49ers have paanch vins each ( Cowboys 5–3 ; 49ers 5–1 ).
dalas or Pittsburgh have the sabase Super katori dikhaave with eight, jabaki the bhens Bills have the sabase lagaataar dikhaave with four nuksaan in a row isse 1990 to 1993.
the New England deshpremi, Denver Broncos and minesota vikings have also lost a record chaar super pyaale.
bhens and minesota are both 0–4, denwar is 2–4 or nai england is 3–4.
The ricard for lagaataar wins is do and is saajha by seven franchises : the 1966-67 green Bay Packers, the 1972-73 Miami dolphin, the 1974-75 or 1978-79 pittsburg Steelers ( the tabhi toli to accomplish is feat twice ), the 1988-89 san francisco 49ers, the 1992-93 Dallas cowboys, the 1997-98 denwar broncos, and the 2003-04 New england Patriots.
the only team saath multiple super katori dikhaave or no nuksaan is the Baltimore ravens, jo in jeetna super katori xlvii unseated or replaced the 49ers in ki sthiti.
chaar current NFL tiimon have never appeared in a super Bowl, including matadhikaar relocations or renaming : the Cleveland bhura, detroit sher, jacksonville jaguars, or huston Texans, haalanki both the bhura or Lions tha jiti NFL championships games prior to the sristi of the super Bowl.
martin county is a county located in the U.S. rajya of Texas.
as of the 2010 janasankhyikee, iske janasankhyikee thi 4,799.
iske seat is stanton.
the county is namit liye wylie Martin, an jaldi settler.
martin County is ek of 30 prohibition, or entirely dry, counties in the state of Texas.
kshareey phosphatase ( alp, alkp ) ( ) is a hydrolase enzyme jimmedaar liye nikaalnaa phosphate samooh isse anek prakaar of anuon, including nucleotides, proteins, or alkaloids.
the prakram of nikaalnaa the phosphate samooh is pukaara dephosphorylation.
As the naam suggests, kshareey phosphatases hai most prabhavi in an kshareey paryaavaran.
It is sometimes prayukt synonymously as moulik phosphatase.
triticale ( × triticosecale ), ( ) is a sankar of gehun ( triticum ) or rye ( secale ) pehla bred in laboratories dauraan the let 19th sadi.
the anaaj thi originally karavaaya in scotland or sweden.
commercially uplabdhiyaan triticale is lagbhag always a duusari generation hybrid, i.e., a cross between do kinds of praathmik ( pehla cross ) triticales.
As a niyam, triticale combines the upaj sambhavit and anaaj visheshta of wheat with the beemaari and paryaavarniya sahishnutaa ( sahit mrudaa conditions ) of rye.
tabhi recently has it maharoom viksit into a commercially viable crop.
Depending on the cultivar, triticale can more or kam resemble either of iske abhibhavak.
it is grown zyaadaatar for forage or chaara, haalanki some triticale-based bhojan can be kharida at swasthya khaanaa stores or are to be mila in kuch breakfast cereals.
When crossing gehun or rye, gehun is prayukt as the female parent or rye as the purush janak ( paraag daata ).
the resulting sankar is bandhya, or jarur be treated saath colchicine to induce polyploidy or yun the ability to reproduce itself.
the praathmik producers of triticale hai candal, germany, frans, belarus and australia.
in 2009, according to the khaanaa or krishi sanghathan ( FAO ), 15.0 lakh ton yahood harvested in 29 deshon aarpaar the world.
the triticale sankaran hai sab amphidiploid, which arthath the sanyantr is dwiguneet liye two genomes derived from alag prajati.
In anya shabd, triticale is an allotetraploid.
in pehle saalo, sabase kaary thi kiya on octoploid triticale.
alag ploidy str have maharoom nirmit or evaluated over time.
The tetraploids dikhaaya choti vaada, lakin hexaploid triticale thi kaamyaab enough to dhundhen vanijyik application.
the cimmyt triticale sudhaar kaarykram chaahi to improve khaanaa utpaadan or poshan in vikasshil deshon.
triticale rai sambhavit in the utpaadan of bread or anya khaanaa products, such as kukies, pasta, pizza dough or naashtaa cereals.
the protein saamagree is ucchtar than that of gehun, haalanki the glutenin bhinn is kam.
the anaaj rai bhi maharoom stated to have ucchtar str of lysine than gehun.
Assuming increased acceptance, the milling industry hoga have to adapt to triticale, as the milling techniques employed liye gehun hai unsuited to triticale.
bechein et al. mila triticale could be prayukt as a feed anaaj, or baad research found iske mand thi visheshkar readily pachataa.
as a feed anaaj, triticale is already khub sthapit or of high aarthik mahatv.
it rai praapt dhyaan as a sambhavit energy crop, or shodh is currently being conducted on the upyog of the crop 's biomas in bioethanol production.
`` kash, the Magic Dragon '' is a song likhaa by leonard Lipton or peter Yarrow, or made lokapriy by yarrow 's samooh peter, paul or mariyam in a 1963 recording.
The song hasil great lokapriyata.
A college footbaal national championship in the ucchtam str of colejiet khel in the sanyukt rajya, philhal the neshnal Collegiate athlettic Association ( ncaa ) prabhag i footbaal katori Subdivision ( FBS ), is a namakan awarded annually by vibhinn third-party sanghathan to unke selection ( s ) of the best college footbaal toli ( s ).
Division I FBS ( formerly Division i-a ) football is the tabhi ncaa khel in which a yearly champion is nahin sankalpit by an ncaa sanctioned championships event.
Because the championship toli is not sankalpit by a ncaa championships or toornament event, it is sometimes unofficially referred to as a `` mythical neshnal championships ``.
chunki the NCAA, the khel 's governing deh, does not determine or ghoshit a neshnal champion in is field, determination of aise rai often engendered vivaad.
A championship toli is independently ghoshit by vibhinn individuals and organizations, often referred to as `` selectors ''.
These chunaav hai sometimes at halaat saath prayek anya.
While the NCAA has never officially endorsed an salanaa championships toli, it rai pralekhith the choices of anek chayankartaaon in the aadhikarik NCAA footbaal katori subdivision record.
In jod, various teesraa party vishleshkon have independently published unke apana suchiyaan of kayaa ve have sankalpit to be the sabase legitimate selections liye prayek ritu.
ye hai bhi praayah at halaat saath prayek anya as khub as vyaktigat skool 's daawa on neshnal championships, jisase, liye koi particular season, may or may nahin correlate to the chayan prakashit elsewhere.
Currently, do widely recognized neshnal champions selectors hai the sambhddha dabaayen, jisase conducts a pole of footbaal sportswriters, and the uese aaj coach ' pole, a pole of American footbaal Coaches sangh kriyasheel coaches that is contractually obligated to name the vijeta of the katori championships Series championships khel as iske neshnal champion.
The milvowki brewers are a peshewar besabaal toli aadhaarit in Milwaukee, visconsin.
the toli is a sadsy of the central Division of Major lig besabaal 's neshnal lig or plays iske ghar games at miller park.
The toli is so namit kuki of the nagar 's association saath the brewing udyog.
The washington nagarikon are a peshewar baseball toli aadhaarit in Washington, d.c.
The nagarikon hai a sadsy of the East prabhag of the neshnal lig of Major lig Baseball ( emelbi ).
The toli 's home ballpark is nagarikon park, stith on South capital gali in southeast d.C., near the anacostia River.
the park opened in 2008, replacing rfk stadium, the toli 's home from 2005 to 2007.
the nagarikon ' naam derives from the purv washington besabaal toli ki tha the same naam ( prayukt interchangeably saath seenetteron ).
unke upnaam is `` the nats '' —a shortened sanskaran that thi also used by the boodha d.C. teams.
an expansion matadhikaar, the club thi santhaapit in as the montrial expos, the first pramukh lig toli in canada.
ve yahood aadhaarit in montrial, Quebec, or nibhaai unke home khel at jarry Park Stadium and baad in Olympic stadium.
in, the Expos jiti a division championships, jiti unke first-ever playoff shrenee by defeating the philadelphia philis, 3–2, and unnat to the neshnal lig championships Series, jahaan ve hota go on to khona to the los angeles Dodgers, 3–2, in their only postseason rup during the strike-shortened ritu.
The expos tha unke highest jeetna pratishat in the strike-shortened ritu of, jab the toli had the behtareen ricard in besabaal.
the toli 's subsequent shedding of khilaadi caused prashansak interest to drop band.
baad the 2001 ritu, emelbi mana revoking the toli 's matadhikaar, saath with either the minesota judwa or the tampa Bay shaitan Rays.
baad hone purchased by MLB in 2002, the toli thi sthanantarit pehle the ritu to washington or renamed the Nationals, the first relocation since the second washington seenetteron sthanantarit to arlington, Texas, or became the texas rangeron in.
the nagarikon hai ek of two emelbi franchises, or the tabhi one in the neshnal League, ki rai never played in a World shrenee ( the sietal mariners hai the anya ).
a nirbhar shulk ( in the United States ) or sashart shulk ( in england and wales ) is koi fee liye sevaayen provided jahaan the shulk is dey only if vahin is a favourable parinaam.
in the vidhi, it is paribhaashit as a `` fee charge for a vakil 's sevaayen tabhi if the mukadmaa is kaamyaab or is favorably settled out of adaalat....
Contingent shulk are praayah gananaa as a percentage of the client 's net recovery. ''
in the English vidhik system, it is generally referred to as no win no fee.
A sashart fee agreement between a vidhi kad and a client.
the usual rup of is anubandh is ki the solicitor hoga lo a law case on the samajhnaa ki if khoyaa, no bhugtan is bana.
However, if the maamla is jiti, the vakil hoga be entitled to the saamaanya shulk aadhaarit on hourly billing, plus a kamyaabi shulk.
the kamyaabi shulk in england jarur be as a pratishat no vrihad than 100 % of the normal shulk.
This contrasts saath the contingency fee in the us, jisase detaa the kaamyaab attorney a pratishat of the damages awarded in ehsaan of uske claayent.
is makes it easier liye the garib to pursue unke civil rights chunki otherwise, to sue kisi liye a apkrutya, ek must pehla be wealthy paryaapt to pursue aise vaad in the pehla place.
However, kuki of the unchi risk, few attorneys hoga take cases on a contingency aadhaar jabatak ve mahasoos the maamla has shubh merit.
According to a 2004 kitaab by vidhi praadhyaapak herbert kritzer, nirbhar shulk were anumat as of that saal in the following countries : Australia, Brazil, Canada, the dominican ganatantr, France, Greece, ireland, japani, nai Zealand, the sanyukt Kingdom or the sanyukt rajya.
They hai bhi anumat in personal chot actions in lithuania.
Recently, they have maharoom anumat in belgium as well.
A convocation ( latin 'calling saath ', translating the unani ecclesia ) is a samooh of logon formally samavet liye a khaas purpose.
bete of araajaktaa is a television drama shrenee nirmit by Kurt sutter parichay the lives of a close-knit outlaw motorcycle klbon operating in aakarshak, a fictional town in california 's central ghati.
the show centers on samarthak Jackson `` jacks '' teller ( charlie hunnam ), the then-vice adhyaksh of the club, jo begins questioning the club and himself.
bete of araajaktaa premiered on sitambar 3, 2008, on cabel sanjaal fx.
the third ritu of the shrenee aakarshith an ausat of 4.9 lakh viewers prati saptaah, making it fx 's ucchtam rated shrenee ever, surpassing FX 's anya hits the shield, nip/tuck, or Rescue me.
on farvari 3, 2012, bete of araajaktaa thi navinikrut for do atirikt sizan, a fifth or a chathe.
those shaamil in the utpaadan of the series imply that a saatvaan or final season is nirmaataa court Sutter 's plan.
the grímsvötn sub-glacial jhiilon ( ; vötn = `` waters '', ekvachan : ) and the jwalamukhi of the vahi naam are in south-east iceland.
ve are in the hilands of Iceland at the northwestern paksh of the vatnajökull ice-cap.
the lakes are at, at an unnayan of.
Beneath the lakes is the megma chamber of the grímsvötn jwalamukhi.
grímsvötn is a basaltic volcano jisase has the ucchtam fatna frequency of all the jwalamukhi in iceland or rai a southwest-northeast-trending fissure pranali.
the vishaal climate-impacting Laki fissure eruption of 1783–1784 thi a bhaag of the same fissure pranali.
Grímsvötn thi erupting at the vahi samay as laki during 1783, but jari to erupt until 1785.
Because sabase of the jwalamukhi jhooth underneath vatnajökull, sabase of iske eruptions have maharoom subglacial or the baatcheet of megma and meltwater isse the barf kalyankari phreatomagmatic visphotak kaaryaklap.
on 21 may 2011 at 19:25 utc, an fatna began, with unchi plumes accompanied by multiple bukamp, resulting in cancellation of 900 flite in Iceland, or in the United kingdom, Greenland, germany, ireland or Norway on 22–25 may.
Until 25 may the eruption scale had maharoom larger than ki of the 2010 fatna of eyjafjallajökull.
The fatna stopped at 02:40 utc on 25 May 2011, haalanki vahin was some visphotak kaaryaklap isse the tephra vents affecting only the kshetrafal around the crater.
Vetting is the prakram of performing a prishthbhumi check on kisi pehle offering unhen employment, doctorat an puraskaar, etc.
a prospective person or project may be vetted before bananaa a bhartee nirnay.
in jod, in pragna mehafil, asset hai vetted to determine their upyogita.
Former mukhyalay or current corporate karyaalayon
Caesars entertainment nigam ( formerly harrah 's Entertainment from 1995 to 2010 ) is an amareeki public gaming nigam that owns or operates over 50 casino, hotel, or saat golf paathyakram antargat several brands.
the company, aadhaarit in Paradise, Nevada, is the largest gaming company in the sansar, saath salanaa revenues of $ 8.9 arab ( 2010 ).
caesars is a public company, saath a sanyukt venture of apollo Global prabandhan or Texas prashanth samooh ownig a vishaal portion of the stack and blackstone samooh also holding a significant hissedari.
the name badalen isse `` harrah 's Entertainment inc. '' to `` caesars Entertainment nigam '' thi bana official on navambar 23, 2010.
Harrah 's remains a kunjee brands in the company.
on navambar 5, 2010, harrah 's announced an aarambhik public offering of 31,250,000 saajha but retracted is offering on navambar 19.
a sthai nivasee in canada is a vyakti who is nahin a canadai naagarik but jo has maharoom granted anumati to sajiv or work in canada bagaiyr koi time seemaa on uske or uske raho.
a permanent resident jarur sajiv in canada for two saalo out of every paanch or risk khone ki aukaat.
A sthai nivasee holds anek of the vahi adhikaron or jimmedaariyon as a Canadian naagarik, among anya the sahi to kaary liye koi enterprize as khub as liye the sangheey or prantiy sarkari ( antargat pratibandh of access adhikaron to nishchit regulated vyavsaayon ).
the main matbhed hai that nivaasiyon can nahin :
vote in chunaavon in canada ;
chalaaen liye nirvaachit daftar ;
tham canadai passports ;
In addition, ve may be anumat to juden Canada 's hathiyaarband shaktiyaan if the neshnal byaaj would nahin be prejudiced.
sthai residents bhi risk deportation for gambhir aparaadhon vachanabaddh jabaki nivasee in Canada.
sthai nivaasiyon may lagu for canadai naagarikta baad teen saalo in Canada ; however this is nahin mandatory.
erika Kane is a fictional akshar isse the amareeki abisi din sabun opera sab My children.
The character thi portrayed by abhinetri susaan lucci isse uske debyue on janvari 16, 1970 until the last broadcast television apisod aired on sitambar 23, 2011.
on February 11, 2013, it thi ghoshit ki lucci will guest-star on the Prospect park 's continuation of All my children.
in the U.S., erika is mana to be the sabase popular akshar in sabun opera history.
regarding the north-american market, TV maargdarshika kals her `` unequivocally the sabase prasiddh soap opera character in the itihaas of din TV '', or shaamil uske in unke 2013 list of the 60 nastiest khalanaayak of sab samay.
a graph of the us cpi isse 1913 to 2006 ( in blue ), and iske pratishat salanaa change ( in red )
a consumer daam index ( CPI ) measures parivartan in the price str of a market basket of upabhokta goods or sevaayen kharida by households.
the cpi in the sanyukt rajya is defined by the Bureau of Labor aankde as `` a maap of the ausat badalen over samay in the keemten sashulk by urban upabhokta for a market basket of upabhokta goods or services. ''
the CPI is a sankhyikeey anumaan constructed using the prices of a namoona of pratinidhi vasteen whose keemten hai ekatrit periodically.
sub-indexes and sub-sub-indexes are computed liye alag shrenee or sub-categories of goods or sevaayen, hone sanyukt to produce the overall anukramanika with weights reflecting unke shares in the total of the upabhokta expenditures covered by the anukramanika.
it is one of anek daam indices gananaa by sabase neshnal sankhyikeey agenciyon.
the salanaa pratishat badalen in a CPI is prayukt as a maap of inflation.
a cpi can be prayukt to anukramanika ( i.e., adjust liye the prabhaav of inflation ) the real maan of mazdooree, salaries, pensions, liye regulating keemten and for deflating monetary magnitudes to dikhaaen changes in real maan.
In sabase countries, the cpi is, along with the janasankhyikee census or the USA neshnal aay and utpaada khate, ek of the sabase closely dekhi national aarthik aankde.
knocking on lakdi, or to tach lakdi, refers to the apotropaic parampara in pashchimi loakgeet of vastutah touching/knocking on wood, or merely stating ki tum are doing or intend vahi, in anukram to avoid `` tempting bhagya `` baad bananaa a favourable avlokan, a boast, or ghoshnaa concerning ek 's apana death.
Rocker bhujaa
generally referred to within the context of the aatanrik dahan ingine of automotive, marine, motorcycle and pratyaagmani vimaanan engines, the rocker arm is an oscillating lever ki conveys radial gati isse the cam pali into raikhik movement at the poppet valve to open it.
ek samaapt is raised or lowered by a ghurnan pali of the camshaft ( either sidhe or via a tappet ( lifter ) or pushrod ) jabaki the other samaapt adhiniyamon on the valve stem.
jab the camshaft pali raises the baahar of the bhujaa, the inside dabaata down on the valve stem, kholane the valve.
When the baahar of the bhujaa is permitted to vaapasi due to the camshafts roteshan, the andar rises, allowing the valve spring to band the valve.
the drive cam is chalit by the camshaft.
is pushes the rocker bhujaa up or down parichay the trunnion pin or rocker shaft.
gharshan may be ghataya at the point of sampark with the valve stem by a roller cam anusarankarta.
A samaan vyavastha transfers the gati via another roller cam follower to a second rocker bhujaa.
This ghumata parichay the rocker shaft, and hastantaran the gati via a tappet to the poppet valve.
in is maamla this opens the seven valve to the cylinder head.
the effective leverage of the bhujaa ( and thus the force it can exert on the valve stem ) is determined by the rocker arm anupaat, the anupaat of the alahada isse the rocker bhujaa 's bich of roteshan to the tip vibhajit by the alahada isse the bich of roteshan to the point acted on by the camshaft or pushrod.
vartmaan automotive design favors rocker bhujaa ratios of about 1.5:1 to 1.8:1.
however, in the past choti positive ratios ( the valve lift is greater than the cam lift ) or bhi rinatmak ratios ( valve lift choti than the cam lift ) have been used.
Many pre-ww2 engines upyog 1:1 ( neutral ) ratios.
For car engines the rocker bahen hai generally steel stampings, providing a uchit santulan of shakti, vazan or economical cost.
Because the rocker arms are, in bhaag, pratyaagmani vazan, excessive dravyaman especially at the lever ends had the ingine 's kshamta to reach unchi operating speeds.
`` the raatri the Lights gai Out in georgia '' is a dakshini Gothic song likhaa by songwriter bobby Russell or performed in 1972 by uske then-wife vicki laurence.
Reba mcentire baad covered it in 1991.
Recorded in late aktubar 1972 in United/Western Studios on Sunset in Hollywood or released kam than two saptaah baad in navambar 1972, the song centers around the older bhai of the narrator, falsely convicted of and chalaaya for a murder, which the narrator herself has vachanabaddh.
in postal mail, a vaapasi pataa is an suspasht samavesh of the pataa of the vyakti sending the sandesh.
it provides the praptakarta ( and sometimes authorized intermediaries ) with a means to determine kaisaa to respond to the preshak of the sandesh if needed.
the vaapasi pataa need nahin shaamil a preshak 's naam, lakin chahie include pataa or P.O. baksaa vivaran in the vahi way as the delivery pataa chahie.
in some deshon, the return pataa is conventionally stith in the apper baayein haath kone of the lipapha, card, or label.
in the United kingdom, the vaapasi pataa is praayah lagaai on the reverse of the lipapha, near the sheersh.
vyavsaayon often use lipaphe preprinted saath a vaapasi pataa.
Many individuals have chaadaren of chipakane labals preprinted with unke ghar pataa to affix to unke patrachaar.
dharmarth sometimes include aise chaadaren in mailshots.
rolls of vaapasi pataa Labels can be kharida isse companiyaan ki sell personalized labals to provide individuals an aasaan rasta to chhilake and stick vaapasi pataa labals to their lipaphe.
the vaapasi pataa is nahin jaruri on dak mail.
However, lack of a vaapasi address roktaa the dak seva isse hone samarth to vaapasi the mad if it proves undeliverable ; such as isse kshati, postage due, or amaanya gantavy.
aise mail may yun become murde akshar mail.
chahie the vaapasi pataa be of a alag rajya or desh, the mail may be routed through that sthaan for aasaani of vaapasi.
a nerve maargdarshan conduit ( bhi referred to as an kritrim tantrika conduit or kritrim tantrika graft, as opposed to an autograft ) is an kritrim arthath of guiding axonal regrowth to sukar nerve regeneration or is ek of anek clinical upachaar liye tantrika choton.
jab sidhaa suturing of the do stumps of a severed tantrika can nahin be accomplished bagaiyr tension, the maanak naidanik upachaar for paridhiy tantrika choton is autologous tantrika kalam.
due to the simit uplabdhta of daata utak or kaaryaatmak recovery in autologous tantrika kalam, neural utak abhiyantriki shodh rai kendrit on the development of bioartificial nerve maargdarshan conduits as an vaikalpik upachaar, visheshkar liye vishaal dosha.
samaan takneekon are bhi hone chaan for tantrika marammat in the spinal cord lakin nerve regeneration in the central baichaiyn pranali mudraayen a vrihad chunauti kuki its axons do nahin regenerate appreciably in their deshi environment.
The sristi of kritrim conduits is also known as entubulation because the tantrika ends or intervening gap hai enclosed bheetar a tube rachit of biological or synthetic saamagree.
whether the conduit is in the rup of a biologic tub, synthetic tub or tissue-engineered conduit, it chahie facilitate neurotropic or neurotrophic communication between the proximal or distal ends of the tantrika gap, blaak external inhibitory karkon, or provide a physical maargdarshan liye axonal regrowth.
the most moulik objective of a tantrika maargdarshan conduit is to combine physical, rasinic, or biological cues antargat sharten ki will foster utak gathan.
Materials ki have been prayukt to mek biologic tubes include rakt baratan or skeletal mansapeshiyaan, jabaki nonabsorbable or bioabsorbable synthetic tubes have maharoom made isse silicone or polyglycolide kramshah.
tissue-engineered tantrika maargdarshan conduits hai a sangyojan of anek tatv : scaffold structure, scaffold saamagree, cellular therapies, neurotrophic factors or biomimetic materials.
the chunaav of which shaareerik, rasinic or biological cues to upyog is aadhaarit on the gun of the nerve paryaavaran, jisase is critical in creating the sabase vaanchhneeya paryaavaran liye axon regeneration.
the karkon that control saamagree selection shaamil biocompatibility, biodegradability, mechanical akhandta, controllability dauraan nerve vikaas, implantation or nasbandi.
hardkor sahuukaar is an amareeki vaastaviktaa television shrenee utpaadit by rdf uese ( later zodiak USA ) or Richard dominick Productions for trutv about the day-to-day parichaalan of amareeki Jewelry or rin, a family-owned sahuukaar duukaan stith at 20450 greenfield sadak, between 8 Mile Road or the jon C. awaas frive in detroit, michigan.
The shrenee premiered on agast 16, 2010, delivering two million darshak, setting a ricard as trutv 's most-watched series premier kabhi.
Amoxicillin bp
amoxicillin ( in ), formerly amoxycillin ( BAN ), or abbreviated amox, is a moderate-spectrum, bacteriolytic, β-lactam antibiotic prayukt to daavat bacterial infections caused by susceptible microorganisms.
it is praayah the drug of chunaav bheetar the class kuki it is behatar avashoshit, following maukhik administration, than anya β-lactam antibiotic.
Amoxicillin is ek of the sabase aam antibiotic vihit liye children.
the drug became available in 1972.
amoxicillin is susceptible to degradation by β-lactamase -producing jeevanu, which hai resistant to a vyapak spectrum of β-lactam antibiotic, aise as penicillin.
liye this kaaran, it is often combined saath clavulanic acid, a β-lactamase inhibitor.
is increases effectiveness by reducing its susceptibility to β-lactamase pratirodh.
lyndon baines Johnson ( agast 27, 1908 – janvari 22, 1973 ), praayah referred to as LBJ, was the 36th adhyaksh of the sanyukt rajya ( 1963–1969 ), a position he assumed baad uske seva as the 37th vaais adhyaksh of the sanyukt States ( 1961–1963 ).
he is ek of tabhi chaar logon jo served in sab chaar nirvaachit sangheey offices of the United rajya : pratinidhi, seenetter, vaais adhyaksh, or adhyaksh.
johnson, a democrate isse texas, parosa as a United States pratinidhi from 1937–1949 or as a Senator from 1949–1961, including chah saalo as sanyukt States seenet bahumat Leader, do as seenet Minority netaa or do as Senate bahumat chaabuk.
baad campaigning unsuccessfully liye the Democratic namakan in 1960, johnson was asked by John F. Kennedy to be uske kaaryshil mate for the 1960 adhyakshiya chunaav.
Johnson succeeded to the presidency following the hatya of John F. kennedy on November 22, 1963, samaapt Kennedy 's term or was elected adhyaksh in his apana sahi, jeetna by a large margin over bairi goldwater in the 1964 chunaav.
johnson was greatly samarthit by the loktantric party or as adhyaksh, he thi jimmedaar liye digining the `` great Society `` vidhaan ki shaamil kanoon ki upheld civil adhikaron, public broadcasting, Medicare, medicaid, paryaavarniya suraksha, aid to shiksha, or uske `` yuddh on garibi. ''
Johnson thi prasiddh for uske domineering vyaktitv or the `` johnson upachaar, '' uske coercion of shaktishaalee rajaneta in anukram to agrim vidhaan.
meanwhile, Johnson escalated American bhagidaari in the Vietnam War, isse 16,000 amareeki advisors/soldiers in 1963 to 550,000 combat sainikon in jaldi 1968, as amareeki hataahat soared or the salaam prakram bogged bas.
the bhagidaari stimulated a vishaal engri antiwar gati aadhaarit visheshkar on vishvavidhyalayon campuses in the u.S. or abroad.
garmiyaan dange broke out in sabase pramukh cities after 1965, and aparaadhon daron soared, as his opponents raised maange liye `` law or anukram '' nitiyon.
The Democratic Party vibhajit in multiple feuding factions, or baad Johnson did poorly in the 1968 nai hampshire praathmik, he ended uske boli liye reelection.
Republican Richard Nixon thi elected to safal use.
itihaaskaaron argue that johnson 's presidency chihnit the peak of aadhunik udaarataavaad in the sanyukt States baad the nai Deal era.
johnson is kramit favorably by kuch itihaaskaaron kuki of uske domestic nitiyon.
the big bang siddhanth cast at Comic con 2009, from baayein : kunal nayyar, Simon helberg, kaley cuoco, Jim Parsons, or Johnny galecki
the amareeki sitcom the big Bang siddhanth, nirmit or karypalika utpaadit by chak lorre and vidheyak prady, premiered on sibies on sitambar 24, 2007.
the dikhaaen centers on paanch varna : roommates sheldon kupar or leonard Hofstadter, do caltech physicists ; paini, a waitress and aspiring abhinetri jo jeevandaan across the haul ; or Leonard or sheldon 's mitron and co-workers aerospace ejeeniyar harvard Wolowitz, or astrophysicist rajesh koothrappali.
over time, several supporting characters have maharoom prachaarit to abhinit bhoomikaaye : lesley winkle ( ritu 1 punaravarti ; ritu 2 regular ; ritu 3 guest ), a physicist sahyogi, or, at alag times, a premi of dono Leonard or harvard ; bernadette rostenkowski-wolowitz ( ritu 3 punaravarti ; season 4-present niyamit ), a microbiologist, harvard 's fiancée or subsequent bivi, or purv part-time waitress alongside paini ; neuroscientist emi Farrah fowler ( ritu 3 atithi ; ritu 4 recurring ; ritu 4-present niyamit ), jo joins the group baad hone matched to sheldon on a dating jalsthal ; or comic kitaab store-owner, stuart khilte ( sizan 2–5 punaravarti ; season 6-present regular ), who replaces harvard as raaj 's best dost when harvard is in spes.
The dikhaaen also suvidhaayen numerous supporting characters, prayek of jisko plays a prominent bhoomika in a choti samooh of episodes.
the amareeki civil yuddh ( acw ), also gyaat as the yuddh between the rajya or simply the civil War ( see naming ), thi a civil war fought isse 1861 to 1865 between the United rajya ( the `` sangh '' or the `` North '' ) and anek dakshini slave rajya ki ghoshit their secession or formed the confederate rajya of america ( the `` confederacy '' or the `` dakshin '' ).
the war had iske utpatti in the issue of slavery, visheshkar the extension of gulaami into the western territories.
videshi powers kiya nahin intervene.
baad chaar years of khooni combat that left over 600,000 sainiko murde and nasht much of the South 's avasanrachana, the confederacy collapsed, gulaami was abolished, and the mushkil Reconstruction prakram of restoring national ekta and guaranteeing rights to the freed slave began.
in the 1860 presidential chunaav, Republicans, led by abraham Lincoln, opposed expanding gulaami into sanyukt rajya ' territories.
Lincoln jiti, but pehle uske inauguration on kooch 4, 1861, seven cotton-based slave states formed the confederacy.
Outgoing loktantric adhyaksh james Buchanan or the aavak republicans asweekrut secession as illegal.
lincoln 's inaugural pataa declared uske administration hota not initiate civil yuddh.
aath remaining slave rajya jari to reject kals liye secession.
confederate forces seized numerous federal forts within territory claimed by the confederacy.
A salaam sammelan failed to dhundhen a sulah, or both pahalu prepared liye war.
The Confederates assumed ki europea deshon were so nirbhar on `` King kapaas `` ki ve would intervene ; none did or none recognized the new confederate States of America.
hostilities began on April 12, 1861, jab confederate shaktiyaan fired upon fort sumter, a key fort yojit by Union sainikon in dakshin Carolina.
lincoln pukaara liye prayek rajya to provide troops to retake the fort ; natijatan, chaar adhik slave rajya joined the confederacy, bringing their kul to gyaarah.
the sangh jald niyantrit the border rajya or sthapit a naval nakebandi ki crippled the dakshini economy.
the purvi theatre was inconclusive in 1861–62.
the patjhad 1862 confederate abhiyaan into maryland ( a sangh rajya ) ended with confederate retreat at the Battle of Antietam, dissuading angrejon hastkshep.
lincoln jari the emancipation udghoshnaa, jisase made ending gulaami a yuddh lakshya.
to the west, by summer 1862 the Union nasht the confederate nadi navy, tab much of their pashchimi sena, and the Union at vicksburg vibhajit the Confederacy in do at the mississippi nadi.
in 1863, robert E. Lee 's confederate incursion north ended at the Battle of gettysburg.
Western safaltaaon led to Ulysses S. Grant cmand of sab Union sena in 1864.
In the Western theatre, wiliam T. sharaman drove east to capchar atlanta or marched to the sea, destroying confederate infrastructure saath the rasta.
The Union marshaled the sansaadhan and janashakti to akraman the confederacy isse all directions, and could afford to lado battles of attrition through the overland abhiyaan towards Richmond, the confederate capital.
the defending confederate fouj vifal, agrani to lee 's surrender to grant at appomattox adaalat House on april 9, 1865.
the American Civil yuddh was one of the earliest true audyogic yudhon.
railroads, the telegraph, steamships, or mass-produced hathiyaar yahood employed extensively.
The mobilization of civilian kaarkaanon, khaanon, shipyards, banks, parivahan or khaanaa aapurtiyan sab foreshadowed sansar War I.
it remains the deadliest yuddh in amareeki itihaas, resulting in the mauton of an anumaanit 750,000 sainiko and an undetermined kramank of civilian hataahat.
itihaaskaar jon huddleston estimates the maut toll at ten pratishat of sab Northern males 20–45 saalo old, or 30 pratishat of sab dakshini shwet males aged 18–40.
insaan evolution refers to the evolutionary prakram leading up to the rup of modern insaano.
jabaki it began saath the last aam ancestor of sab life, the topic praayah cover tabhi the vikasvaadi history of primates, in particular the genus homo, or the emergence of homo sapiens as a pruthak prajati of hominids ( or `` great apes '' ).
the padhai of insaan evolution involves many scientific disciplines, including shaareerik anthropology, primatology, puraatatv, bhashavigyaan, vikasvaadi manovigyaan, bhrunvigyaan or anuvanshiki.
According to genetic adhyayan, primates diverged from anya stanadhariyon parichay in the let cretaceous kaal, and the earliest jeevashmon appear in the Paleocene, around.
the parivaar manavnuma diverged from the hylobatidae ( Gibbon ) parivaar 15-20 lakh saalo pehle, or around, the ponginae ( orangutans ), diverged isse the manavnuma parivaar.
bipedalism is the moulik adaption of the Hominin lakeer, or the earliest bipedal hominin is mana to be either sahelanthropus or orrorin, saath ardipithecus, a puraa bipedal, coming somewhat baad.
the gorilla or chimpanji diverged around the vahi time, parichay 4-6 lakh saalo pehle, or either sahelanthropus or orrorin may be hamaari pichhlaa saajha purvaj saath unhen.
the jaldi bipedals aakhirkaar viksit into the australopithecines and baad the genus Homo.
the earliest documented sadasyon of the genus homo hai homo habilis jisase viksit around ; the earliest prajati liye jisase vahin is dhanatmak pramaan of upyog of stone tuls.
the dimag of these early hominins yahood about the vahi size as ki of a chimpanji.
dauraan the aglaa lakh saalo a prakram of encephalization began, and with the aagaman of homo iractus in the chattan ricard, cranial kshamta tha doubled to 850 cm3.
homo erectus or homo ergaster were the pehla of the hominina to chhod africa, or ye prajati spread through africa, asia, or europea between.
it is believed ki ye prajati were the pehla to use aag or jatil tools.
according to the haal africa ancestry siddhanth, aadhunik humans evolved in africa sambhawatah isse homo heidelbergensis, homo rhodesiensis or Homo antecessor and migrated out of the continent some 50,000 to 100,000 saalo ago, replacing local populations of homo erectus, Homo denisova, Homo floresiensis or homo neanderthalensis.
archaic homo sapiens, the forerunner of anatomically aadhunik humans, viksit between 400,000 or 250,000 saalo pehle.
haal diene evidence suggests that anek haplotypes of neanderthal origin hai present among sab non-African populations, and Neanderthals and anya hominids, aise as denisova hominin may have contributed up to 6 % of unke genome to present-day insanbus. < sandarbh name= '' 10.1126/science.1209202 '' > Anatomically aadhunik insaano evolved isse archaic Homo sapiens in the Middle paleolithic, parichay 200,000 saalo ago.
The parivartan to behavioral modernity saath the vikaas of sankethik samskruti, bhashaa, or specialized lithic technology happened around 50,000 saalo pehle according to anek vigyaniyon although kuch sujhaayen a kramik badalen in bartaav over a longer samay span.
lisa Cuddy, m.d., is a fictional character on the Fox network medical naatak House.
She is portrayed by lisa Edelstein.
cuddy was the dean of ayurvigyaan or hospital vyavasthaapak of the fictional princeton-plainsboro Teaching Hospital in nai jersey.
wo bhi becomes house 's prem byaaj through the years to prarambh a sambandh with use in season saat.
cuddy chodo uske job after the kaarykram of ritu seven 's finale `` chalati On ``.
Track or field is a khel comprising various pratispardhi athlettic pratiyogitaaon aadhaarit on kaaryshil, kud, or phenkna.
the naam of the sport garbhashayi isse the pratiyogita sthaan : a stadium saath an ovel kaaryshil track around a grass field.
The phenkna or jumping events generally lo place in the central enclosed kshetrafal.
Track or field jalprapaat antargat the chhatariyaan khel of athletics, jisase bhi shaamil sadak kaaryshil, cross desh kaaryshil, or res chalanaa.
the do sabase prestigious antarrashtriya track or field competitions hai yojit antargat the banner of athletics : the athletics pratiyogita at the olympic khel or the ieeef sansar championships in athletics.
The antarrashtriya Association of Athletics federations is the antarrashtriya governing deh liye track and field.
track or field kaarykram are generally individual khel saath athlete chunauteepurn each other to decide a single victor.
The racing events hai jiti by the khilaadi with the fastest samay, jabaki the jumping or throwing kaarykram hai jiti by the khilaadi jo has hasil the mahanatam alahada or oonchaai in the pratiyogita.
the kaaryshil kaarykram hai categorised as sprints, madhya or long-distance kaarykram, relays, or hurdling.
Regular kud events include long jump, tripal jump, high jamp and pole vault, jabaki the sabase aam throwing kaarykram hai shot put, javelin, discus or hammer.
vahin are bhi `` sanyukt events '', aise as heptathlon or decathlon, in jisase athlete compete in a kramank of the above kaarykram.
Records hai kept of the behtareen pradarshan in vishisht events, at sansar or neshnal str, sahi bas to a nijee level.
however, if athlete hai deemed to have violated the event 's niyam or regulations, ve hai disqualified isse the pratiyogita or unke marks are erased.
In uttar america, the term track or field may be prayukt to refer to athletics in saamaanya, balki than specifically track or field kaarykram.
The Gulf War ( 2 agast 1990 – 28 farvari 1991 ), codenamed Operation Desert toofaan ( 17 janvari 1991 – 28 February 1991 ) thi a war waged by a u.n.-authorized gathbandhan force isse 34 nations led by the sanyukt rajya, viruddh iraqi in response to iraqi 's invasion or annexation of Kuwait.
the yuddh is also known under anya names, such as the parsi Gulf yuddh, pehla Gulf yuddh, Gulf yuddh i, or the pehla Iraq War, pehle the term `` iraqi War '' became pahachaanaa instead saath the 2003 iraqi yuddh ( bhi referred to in the U.S. as `` Operation Iraqi Freedom '' ).
kuwait 's akraman by iraqi sainikon ki began 2 agast 1990 was mili with antarrashtriya condemnation, or brought taatkaalik economic sanctions viruddh iraqi by members of the u.N. suraksha Council.
u.S. adhyaksh george H. W. Bush deployed u.S. shaktiyaan into saudi arab, or urged anya countries to send unke apana shaktiyaan to the jhaanki.
an array of nations joined the Coalition.
the great majority of the gathbandhan 's sainya shaktiyaan yahood from the U.S., saath saudi arab, the sanyukt kingdom or mishra as agrani yogadanakarta, in ki anukram.
saudi arab sashulk around US $ 36 arab of the us $ 60 arab cost.
the yuddh thi chihnit by the shuruuaat of sajiv news on the saamne lines of the lado, saath the primacy of the U.S. sanjaal sienen.
the yuddh rai also arjeet the upnaam video khel yuddh after the daily broadcast bimb on falak the u.S. bombers during Operation marusthal toofaan.
the aarambhik virodh to nikaal iraqi troops isse kuwait began saath an aerial bambaari on 17 janvari 1991.
is was followed by a maidan utpeedan on 24 farvari.
is thi a decisive vijay liye the gathbandhan shaktiyaan, jo liberated kuwait or unnat into iraqi territory.
the gathbandhan ceased unke agrim, or ghoshit a cease-fire 100 hours after the ground abhiyaan started.
aerial and maidan combat was confined to Iraq, kuwait, or areas on saudi arab 's border.
iraqi shubharambh Scud missiles viruddh Coalition sainya lakshya in saudi arab or viruddh israel.
The nikal, in amareeki upyog, is a five- cent sikaa jari by the sanyukt States mint.
Composed of 75 % tambe or 25 % nikal, the tukdaa rai maharoom struck chunki 1866.
the chaandi half dime, equal to five saint, tha been issued chunki the 1790s.
the amareeki Civil yuddh caused aarthik hardship, driving gold or silver isse circulation ; in response, in place of low-value sikke, the sarkari at pehla issued paper karency.
in 1865, Congress abolished the five-cent fractional currency note baad spencer M. clark, head of the karency beuro ( today the beuro of Engraving or mudran ), placed his apana portret on the denomination.
baad kaamyaab parichay of two-cent and three-cent tukade, bagaiyr anmol metal, Congress also praadhikrut a five-cent piece consisting of aadhaar metal ; the mint began striking is sanskaran in 1866.
The aarambhik design of the shield nikal was struck jabatak 1883, tab replaced by the swatantraaa sir nikal.
the Buffalo nikal was introduced in 1913 as bhaag of a drive to badhayen the beauty of amareeki coinage ; in 1938, the jeffrasan nikal followed.
In 2004 and 2005, khaas designs in sammaan of the bicentennial of the louis and clark expedition were issued.
in 2006, the Mint reverted to using Jefferson nikal designer Felix schlag 's asli reverse ( or `` tails '' paksh ), haalanki a nai obverse, by Jamie franki, was substituted.
as of 2013, it laagat more than eleven saint to upaj a nickel ; the mint is exploring the sambhaavna of reducing laagat by using kam mahangi metals.
A poster saath pushp or cluster of pushp produced by baarah species of flowering paudhe isse different families
A pushp, sometimes gyaat as a khilte or khilanaa, is the reproductive structure mila in flowering paudhe ( paudhe of the prabhag magnoliophyta, also called angiosperms ).
the biological falan of a flower is to prabhaav janan, praayah by providing a yantriki for the sangh of shukranu saath andey.
pushp may facilitate outcrossing ( sanlayan of shukranu or andey isse different individuals in a population ) or allow selfing ( sanlayan of sperm or anda isse the vahi pushp ).
kuch pushp upaj diaspores bagaiyr fertilization ( parthenocarpy ).
Flowers contain sporangia or hai the sait jahaan gametophytes develop.
pushp give vruddhi to fal or beej.
anek pushp have viksit to be attractive to pashu, so as to cause unhen to be sadish liye the transafar of paraag.
in jod to facilitating the reproduction of flowering paudhe, pushp have long been admired or used by insaano to beautify unke paryaavaran, or bhi as objects of romance, ritual, dharm, ayurvigyaan or as a sorce of khaanaa.
the mcdonnell Douglas ( abhi bowing ) f-15 tribhuj is a twin-engine, all-weather ranneetik senaanee designed by mcdonnell duglas to gain and maintain air badppan in aerial combat.
it is mana among the sabase successful aadhunik fighters, saath over 100 aerial combat victories saath no losses in dogfights.
following samikshaayen of prastaav, the sanyukt rajya air force chaynit mcdonnell duglas ' dizine in 1967 to milen the seva 's need liye a samarpit air superiority senaanee.
The tribhuj first udaaya in july 1972, and daalaa seva in 1976.
chunki the 1970s, the tribhuj rai been exported to Israel, japani, saudi arab, or anya raashtra.
the F-15 thi originally envisioned as a pure air badppan vayuyan.
iske dizine shaamil a dwitiyak ground-attack kaabiliyat ki thi largely aprayukt.
the design proved lacheelee enough that an all-weather strike derevative, the F-15E strike Eagle, was baad developed, and daalaa seva in 1989.
the f-15 Eagle is expected to be in seva saath the U.S. air Force past 2025.
mimio is a brands naam of a lakeer of technology utpaada aimed at the education market.
the praathmik products hai kendrit around computer whiteboard interactive shikshan devices.
mimiocapture divaais bhi allow upayokta to capchar all of the syaahi strokes ki hai written on the whiteboard.
When prayukt in conjunction saath a video projector it turns the ordinary whiteboard sataha into a fully interactive whiteboard.
the product lakeer was originally designed by Virtual Ink.
on aktubar 4, 2006 newell Rubbermaid acquired the mimio interactive whiteboard ( iwb ) product lakeer.
rahab of jerrico
rahab, ( ; ; ) thi, according to the kitaab of joshua, a woman jo lived in jerrico in the promised Land or assisted the israelites in capturing the nagar.
nearly all English translations of joshua describe her as a harlot or prostitute.
the sanghathan of amareeki rajya ( Spanish : organización de los estados americanos, portugali : Organização dos estados americanos, French : Organisation des états américains ), or the OAS, is a regional antarrashtriya sanghathan.
the oas thi santhaapit on 30 April 1948, or rai iske mukhyalay in Washington, d.C., sanyukt rajya.
iske members hai the 35 swatantra rajya of the Americas.
chunki 26 may 2005, the sachiv saamaanya of oas rai been José miguel insulza.
Christopher columbus ( italvi : cristoforo colon ; Spanish : cristóbal colón ; portugali : cristóvão Colombo ; pehle 31 aktubar 145120 may 1506 ) thi an Italian explorer, navik, and colonizer, born in the ganatantr of genoa, in kayaa is aaj northwestern italy.
Under the auspices of the catholic monarchs of Spain, he samaapt four voyages across the atlantic Ocean ki led to general European jaagrukta of the amareeki mahadwipon.
those voyages, or uske praytn to sthapit permanent settlements on the dweep of Hispaniola, initiated the spani colonization of the nai sansar.
in the context of ubharate pashchimi imperialism and aarthik competition between europea kingdoms seeking maal through the sthapana of trade routes or colonies, columbus 's satte proposal, to pahunchein the East indies by sailing westward, aakhirkaar praapt the support of the Spanish crown, jisase dekhi in it a promise, however remote, of gaining the apper haath over pratidwandvi powers in the pratiyogita liye the lucrative masala vyapaar saath asia.
dauraan uske first voyage in 1492, bajaay of reaching Japan as he had intended, Columbus landed in the Bahamas dweepasmooh, at a locale he namit san Salvador.
over the course of teen adhik voyages, columbus visited the vrihad and lesser Antilles, as khub as the caribbean coast of Venezuela or Central america, claiming unhen liye the spani samrajya.
haalanki columbus was nahin the pehla europea explorer to pahunchein the Americas ( having maharoom preceded by the norse expedition led by Leif ericson in the 11th sadi ), Columbus 's voyages led to the pehla sthaayee europea contact saath the americas, inaugurating a kaal of europea khoji, conquest, or colonization ki lasted liye anek sadiyaan.
ve tha, therefore, an enormous prabhaav in the historical development of the modern pashchimi sansar.
columbus khud dekhi uske accomplishments primarily in the light of the spreading of the Christian religion.
never admitting ki he had pahunche a mahadweep previously unknown to europeans, rather than the east Indies he had set out liye, columbus pukaara the nivaasiyon of the lands he visited indios ( spani liye `` indiens `` ).
columbus 's strained relationship saath the spani crown or iske niyukt aupniveshik prashaskon in america led to his giraftaar or dismissal as governor of the settlements on the dweep of hispaniola in 1500, and baad to protracted vaad over the laabh jisase columbus or uske vaaris claimed were owed to them by the crown.
karavaaya in germany, the Boxer is a breed of stocky, medium-sized, short-haired dogs.
the kot is chikna or tight-fitting ; rangon hai fawn or brindled, saath or bagaiyr shwet markings, jisase may cover the sampurna body.
mukkebaaz hai brachycephalic ( ve have broad, choti skulls ), or have a square muzzle, mandibular prognathism ( an underbite ), bahut damdaar jaws, and a shaktishaalee bite adarsh liye faansee on to vishaal prey.
the boxer thi bred from the boodha angrezi Bulldog or the abhi extinct bullenbeisser, or is bhaag of the molosser samooh.
Boxers yahood first exhibited in a dog dikhaaen liye St. bernards in munich in 1895, the pehla boxer klbon hone santhaapit the next saal.
aadhaarit on 2012 American Kennel Club aankde, mukkebaaz yojit sthir as the saatvaan sabase popular nasl of shwaan in the sanyukt rajya liye the teesraa lagaataar saal.
Serial ata ( sata ) is a computer bas interfes that connects mejabaan bus adapters to mass bhandar divaais aise as mushkil discs drive or optical drives.
serial ata replaces the puraani at anulgnak maanak ( ATA ; later referred to as samanaantar ata or pata ), offering anek laabh over the puraani interface : ghataya cabel aakaar and laagat ( saat conductors bajaay of 40 ), deshi hot swapping, tej aankada transafar through ucchtar signalling daron, or adhik kushal transafar through an ( vaikalpik ) I/O queuing protocol.
sata host adapters and devices communicate via a high-speed serial cabel over do pairs of conductors.
In contrast, samanaantar ata ( the redesignation liye the legacy ata visheshtaayen ) prayukt a 16-bit chaudee data bas saath many atirikt support or control signal, sab oparating at much lower aavriti.
to ensure pichhadaa sangatta saath viraasat ata software and anuprayog, sata upyog the same moulik ATA or atapi command-set as viraasat ata devices.
sata rai replaced samanaantar ata in upabhokta desktop and laptop computer, or has largely replaced PATA in new embedded applications.
sata 's market share in the desktop PC market was 99 % in 2008.
PATA remains widely prayukt in industrial or embedded anuprayog ki upyog CompactFlash bhandar, bhi haalanki the nai cfast maanak is aadhaarit on sata.
serial ATA udyog sangatta specifications originate from the serial ata antarrashtriya sanghathan ( urf.
sata-io, serialata.org ).
The sata-io samooh collaboratively creates, reviews, ratifies, or publishes the interoperability visheshtaayen, the test maamle, and plug-fests.
as saath anek anya industry compatibility maanakon, the SATA saamagree swaamitv is transferred to anya udyog laashen : primarily the incits t13 upasmiti ATA, the incits t10 upasmiti ( SCSI ) ; a subgroup of t10 jimmedaar liye serial sanlagn SCSI ( sas ).
the puraa specification isse sata-io.
the remainder of is article hoga try to upyog the shabdaawalee or visheshtaayen of sata-io.
the itihaas of the antarjaal began saath the vikaas of electronic computer in the 1950s.
the public thi pehla introduced to the concepts ki would sise to the antarjaal jab a sandesh was bheja over the ARPANet isse computer science Professor leonard Kleinrock 's prayogshaala at vishvavidhyalayon of california, los Angeles ( UCLA ), after the second tukdaa of sanjaal equipment thi santhaapit at Stanford Research Institute ( SRI ).
Packet switched sanjaal such as arpanet, Mark i at npl in the UK, CYCLADES, Merit Network, Tymnet, and telenet, yahood viksit in the late 1960s or jaldi 1970s using a kismein of protocols.
The arpanet in particular led to the vikaas of protocol liye internetworking, in jisase multiple pruthak networks could be joined together into a network of networks.
In 1982, the antarjaal protocol suite ( tcp/ip ) was manakikrut, and natijatan, the avadharana of a world-wide network of interconnected tcp/ip networks, called the antarjaal, was introduced.
abhigam to the arpanet was vistaarit in 1981 jab the National vigyaan Foundation ( nsf ) viksit the computer vigyaan Network ( CSNET ) and again in 1986 jab NSFNET provided abhigam to supercomputer site in the sanyukt rajya from research or shiksha sanghathan.
Commercial antarjaal service pradaataaon ( isps ) began to emerge in the let 1980s or jaldi 1990s.
the arpanet thi decommissioned in 1990.
the antarjaal thi commercialized in 1995 jab nsfnet thi decommissioned, removing the last pratibandh on the upyog of the antarjaal to carry commercial trekkic.
chunki the mid-1990s, the Internet rai had a krantikari prabhaav on samskruti and commerce, sahit the rise of near-instant communication by electronic mail, instant messaging, Voice over Internet Protocol ( voip ) `` phone kals '', two-way interactive video calls, or the sansar Wide Web with iske charchaa forums, blog, soshal netwarking, and online kharidari site.
the shodh or shiksha jatiyaan continues to develop and upyog unnat sanjaal such as NSF 's very unchi gati ridh Network seva ( vbns ), internet2, and neshnal lambdarail.
Increasing amounts of aankada hai transmitted at ucchtar and ucchtar speeds over resha optic sanjaal oparating at 1-Gbit/s, 10-gbit/s, or adhik.
The antarjaal 's takeover over the vaishvik sanchaar landscape thi lagbhag tatkaal in aitihaasik terms : it tabhi communicated 1 % of the soochna bahati through two-way doorsanchaar sanjaal in the saal 1993, already 51 % by 2000, and adhik than 97 % of the telecommunicated information by 2007.
Today the antarjaal continues to grow, chalit by ever vrihad amounts of online soochna, commerce, entertainment, or soshal netwarking.
The tohfa is the duusari album by Scottish singer Susan Boyle, jisase thi released on 8 November 2010.
boil hinted that the album rai a 1960s mahasoos `` kuki that thi [ uske ] era ''.
on 30 November 2011, the album praapt a nomination in 54th grami puraskaar for behtareen Traditional pop gayan Album.
`` This Is Just to kah '' ( 1934 ) is a prasiddh imagist poem by wiliam carlos Williams.
praadhyaapak Albus Percival Wulfric bryan dambldor is a major akshar or protagonist of J. K. Rowling 's Harry Potter shrenee.
liye sabase of the series, he is the headmaster of the wizarding skool hoguarts.
as bhaag of his backstory, it is nazil ki he is the sansthaapak or netaa of the anukram of the Phoenix, an sanghathan samarpit to lard the main vipakshi of the shrenee, rab Voldemort.
Dumbledore is portrayed by richard Harris in the filmi adaptions of harry kumhaar or the paras 's Stone and harry kumhaar or the Chamber of rahasy.
After haris ' death, Michael gambon portrayed dambldor liye sab of the baaki films.
Rowling stated wo chose the name dambldor, jisase is an jaldi aadhunik angrezi shabd for `` bumblebee ``, kuki of Dumbledore 's prem of music : wo imagined use chalanaa around `` humming to himself a lot ''.
calcitonin ( also gyaat as thyrocalcitonin ) is a 32-amino acid linear polypeptide hormone ki is utpaadit in insaano primarily by the parafollicular koshikaayen ( bhi gyaat as C-cells ) of the thyride, or in many anya animals in the ultimobranchial body.
it adhiniyamon to reduce rakt calcium ( ca2+ ), opposing the prabhaav of parathyroid hormone ( pth ).
calcitonin rai maharoom mila in machhlee, sarisrupon, pakshiyon, or mammals.
iske mahatv in humans has nahin been as khub sthapit as its mahatv in other pashu, as iske falan is praayah not significant in the viniman of normal calcium samasthaapan.
it belongs to calcitonin-like protein parivaar.
a mousepad with a padded kalai baaki.
a mousepad ( us ) or mouse mat ( uk ) is a sataha liye placing and chalati a computer mouse.
A mousepad enhances the upyogita of the chuha compared to using a chuha sidhe on a talika by providing a sataha to allow the trekking led or ball ( in purv models ) to measure movement accurately and bagaiyr jitor.
kuch mousepads increase ergonomics by providing a padded kalai baaki.
the stadium dekhi isse above in 1980
disambar 29, 2002 implosion
the Riverfront stadium sait in june, 2006.
is photo was taken isse the pashchimi concourse of great American ball park.
a choti portion of the riverfront stadium site is abhi occupied by the Reds ' Hall of kirti or sangrahalay and pramukh gali, which thi vistaarit jab the nai park was nirmit.
the Cincinnati bengals ' paul bhura Stadium is in the alahada.
riverfront Stadium ( 1970–1995 ), baad known as Cinergy field ( 1996–2002 ), thi the ghar of the sinsinati laal neshnal lig baseball toli or the Cincinnati Bengals neshnal footbaal lig toli.
stith on the ohio River in shahar Cincinnati, the stadium was behtareen gyaat as the home of `` the big red yantra ``, as the laal were often pukaara in the 1970s.
nirmaan began on farvari 1, 1968, or was samaapt at a laagat of less than $ 50 lakh.
on June 30, 1970, the laal hosted the atlanta braves in unke grand opening, saath Hank Aaron hitting the pehla kabhi home chalaaen at riverfront.
Two saptaah baad on july 14, 1970, Riverfront hosted the 1970 pramukh League besabaal all-star khel.
is khel is behtareen remembered liye the often-replayed collision at home plate between laal star peet rose or catcher re fosse of the cleveland indiens.
in sitambar 1996, riverfront Stadium thi renamed `` cinergy Field '' in a praayojan saude with Greater Cincinnati 's energy company, cinergy Corporation.
In 2001, to mek room for great amareeki ball park, the seating kshamta at Cinergy field thi ghataya to 39,000.
vahin thi a vishaal wal in bich Field visible after the renovations, to serve as the batter 's eye.
the stadium was demolished by implosion on disambar 29, 2002.
nexen tair is a tair manufacturer, headquartered in Yangsan, dakshin Gyeongsang praant, or tseol, both in dakshin korian.
iske major gharelu competitors are hankook tair or Kumho tair.
the company 's naam is reflected in the company slogan, `` aglaa Century Tire. ''
the mook majority is an unspecified vishaal bahumat of logon in a country or samooh who do nahin express unke raay saream.
the term thi popularized ( though nahin pehla prayukt ) by U.S. adhyaksh richard nicksan in a November 3, 1969, speech in jisase he kaha, `` And so tonight—to tum, the great silent majority of my fellow Americans—I pucho liye apana support. ''
in this upyog it referred to those Americans jo did nahin juden in the vishaal demonstrations against the Vietnam yuddh at the samay, jo did nahin juden in the counterculture, or who did nahin participate in public pravachan.
nicksan saath with anek anya dekhi is samooh of madhya america as being nishprabh in the media by the adhik gayan minority.
The phrase thi prayukt in the 19th century as a preyokti referring to sab the logon who have died, or others have prayukt it before or after Nixon to refer to samooh of matadaata in vibhinn nations of the sansar.
sam, a rhesus monkey, udaaya to an altitude of 88 km in 1959.
( nasa )
pehle insaano gai into spes, several pashu were launched into spes, including numerous bandaron, so ki vaigyanikon could investigate the biological prabhaav of space travel.
the sanyukt rajya shubharambh flights containing primate cargo primarily between 1948-1961 saath ek flight in 1969 or one in 1985.
frans shubharambh do monkey-carrying flite in 1967.
the Soviet sangh and rus launched bandaron between 1983 and 1996.
Most monkeys yahood anesthetized before lift-off.
overall thirty-two bandaron flew in the spes program ; none flew more than ekbar.
Numerous back-up bandaron bhi went through the kaarykram but never udaaya.
bandaron isse several species yahood prayukt, sahit rhesus bandaron, cynomolgus monkeys, gilahari bandaron, and pig-tailed macaques.
Some chimpanzees ( jisase hai apes rather than bandaron ) yahood bhi prayukt.
red ( redundant array of independent discs, originally anaavashyak sarani of inexpensive discs ) is a bhandar technology ki combines anek discs drive components into a logical unit.
aankada is vitarit across the drive in ek of anek ways pukaara `` red str '', depending on the str of redundancy and performance jaruri.
The pad `` RAID '' was pehla paribhaashit by daud patterson, garth A. gibson, and Randy katz at the vishvavidhyalayon of california, Berkeley in 1987.
vipanak representing udyog red manufacturers baad attempted to reinvent the pad to describe a anaavashyak array of swatantra disks as a arthath of disassociating a low-cost expectation isse RAID technology.
red is abhi prayukt as an umbrella pad liye computer aankada bhandar schemes ki can divide and replicate data among anek shaareerik drive : RAID is an udhaaharan of bhandar abhasikaran or the sarani can be pahunchaa by the oparating pranali as ek single drive.
The different yojanaayen or architectures hai namit by the shabd red followed by a kramank ( e.g. red 0, red 1 ).
prayek yojana provides a alag santulan between the kunjee lakshya : vishwasaneeyata and uplabdhta, pradarshan and kshamta.
red str greater than RAID 0 provide suraksha against unrecoverable ( sector ) padhaa errors, as khub as whole disk vifaltaa.
A lymphocyte is a type of white blood koshika in the vertebrate pratiraksha pranali.
antargat the sookshmdarshi, lymphocytes can be vibhajit into vishaal lymphocytes and choti lymphocytes.
vishaal granular lymphocytes shaamil prakritik kaatil koshikaayen ( NK cells ).
Small lymphocytes consist of t koshikaayen or b koshikaayen.
the big lebowski is a 1998 dark kamedi film likhaa and directed by Joel or Ethan koen.
Jeff pulon stars as Jeff Lebowski, an berozegaar los angeles slacker or avid bowler, nicknamed `` the Dude. ''
baad a maamla of mistaken pahchaan, the Dude is introduced to a karodpati also namit jeffri lebowski.
jab the karodpati lebowski 's trophy bivi is baad kidnapped, he commissions The yaar to uddhaar the phiroti to surakshit uske release.
the yojana goes awry jab the yaar 's friend walter Sobchak ( John gudman ) yojanaayen to rakhana the puraa phiroti.
Steve buscemi, philip seymour hoffman, daud huddleston, julianne moore, Tara reid, or jon turturro also star in the film, which is narrated by a county known tabhi as `` the ajanabi '', nibhaai by sam elliott.
the filmi is loosely inspired by the work of remand chandalar.
joel koen stated : `` we wanted to do a chandalar dayaalu of story – kaisaa it moves episodically, or deals saath the varna trying to suljhaana a mystery, as khub as having a hopelessly jatil plat that 's ultimately mahatvaheen. ''
The asli score was rachit by Carter burwell, a longtime collaborator of the koen bhaaiyo.
the Big lebowski was a niraashaa at the U.S. baksaa office or praapt mishrit samikshaayen at the time of iske relies.
samikshaayen have trended towards the dhanatmak over time, and the filmi rai become a cult pasandida, vikhyath liye its idiosyncratic characters, sapana sequences, unconventional samvaad, or eclectic soundtrack.
severas snape is a fictional akshar in the Harry kumhaar kitaab shrenee written by j.K. rolling.
In the pehla anokhaa of the series, he is hostile toward harry or is built up to be the primary vipakshi jabatak the final adhyay.
as the series progresses, snape 's akshar becomes adhik paratdaar or jatil.
rolling does nahin fully reveal the details of uske sachcha loyalties jabatak the samaapt of the final book, Harry kumhaar or the Deathly hallows.
over the course of the shrenee, Snape 's portrayal evolves isse ki of a durbhaavnapurna and dalgat teacher to that of a pivotal akshar of considerable jatilta or moral ambiguity.
snape primarily sikhaati Potions at hoguarts, though in the chathe anokhaa he sikhaati raksha viruddh the andhera kala, a position jisase he thi gyaat to have desired throughout the shrenee.
he ultimately becomes headmaster of Hogwarts in the final novel.
rolling has described him as `` a gift of a akshar ''.
Grits refers to a ground-corn khaanaa of Native amareeki utpatti, that is aam in the dakshini United States or mukhyatah khaaya at breakfast.
aadhunik grits hai commonly made of alkali-treated makai gyaat as hominy.
grits are samaan to anya motaa maize-based porridges isse around the sansar aise as polenta or the thinner farina.
`` Instant grits '' have maharoom processed to gati kooking.
The word `` grits '' garbhashayi isse the boodha English shabd `` grytt, '' arth coarse bhojan.
is word originally referred to wheat or anya porridges abhi known as groats in bhaag of the u.K..
makka, anjaan in europea in the madhya aayu, is a khaanaa niklaa from makai ( a nai sansar sanyantr ) and `` makai '' had been used to describe wheat products in many europea regions.
`` grits '' may be either ekvachan or bahuvachan ; historically, in the amareeki dakshin the word was invariably ekvachan notwithstanding iske bahuvachan rup ( cf. aise food names as `` spaghetti '' or `` linguine '', likewise bahuvachan in rup, lakin ekvachan in upyog ).
sometimes, grits hai pukaara sofkee or sofkey ( from a deshi amareeki muskogee word ).
in molecular jeevigyaan, insaan chorionic gonadotropin ( hCG ) is a hormone produced by the fertilized anda baad dharna.
baad dauraan garbhavastha it is made by the developing placenta, or baad by the placental component syncytiotrophoblast.
kuch cancerous tumors upaj is hormone ; therefore, elevated levels measured jab the rogi is nahin pregnant can sise to a karkat nidaan.
However, it is nahin gyaat whether this production is a contributing kaaran or an prabhaav of tumorigenesis.
the pituitary analogue of hcg, gyaat as luteinizing hormone ( lh ), is utpaadit in the pituitary gland of males or mahilaon of all aayu.
, the epad rai nishiddh the bikri of `` homeopathic '' or over the counter hcg diet utpaada or ghoshit unhen beyimaan or illegal.
the Las vegas strip sansar of coca-cola sangrahalay in 2003
coca-cola is a carbonated naram drink bechi in stores, restaraan, or vending mashine in prayek country except cuba or North Korea.
it is utpaadit by the coca-cola company of atlanta, Georgia, and is praayah referred to bas as coke ( a registered trademark of the coca-cola company in the sanyukt rajya since kooch 27, 1944 ).
originally intended as a patent medicine jab it was invented in the late 19th sadi by jon pemberton, coca-cola thi bought out by bijnesaman asa griggs candler, whose vipanan tactics led coke to its dabadabaa of the sansar soft-drink market throughout the 20th sadi.
The company produces concentrate, which is tab sold to licensed coca-cola bottlers throughout the sansar.
the bottlers, who tham territorially exclusive anubandh saath the company, upaj samaapt utpaada in dibbe and botalon from the concentrate in sangyojan saath filtered jal or sweeteners.
the bottlers tab bechein, vitarit and merchandise coca-cola to khudara stores or vending mashine.
aise bottlers shaamil coca-cola udhyamon, jisase is the largest single coca-cola bottler in North america or pashchimi europea.
the coca-cola company bhi bikta concentrate liye soda fountains to pramukh restaraan or khaanaa service vitarakon.
the coca-cola Company rai, on avasar, introduced other cola peya antargat the Coke brands naam.
the sabase aam of ye is aahaar coke, with others sahit caffeine-free coca-cola, aahaar coke caffeine-free, coca-cola Cherry, Coca-Cola Zero, coca-cola vanilla, or special sanskaran saath nibu, lim or coffee.
Based on Interbrand 's best vaishvik brands 2011, coca-cola thi the sansar 's most moolyawaan brand.
an ombudsman is an aadhikarik, praayah niyukt by the sarkari or by parliament lakin with a significant oopaadhi of swatantraaa, jo is charge saath representing the ruchi of the public by investigating or sambodhit shikaayat of maladministration or ulanghan of rights.
In some deshon an Inspector saamaanya, naagarik edwocket or anya aadhikarik may have duties similar to those of a neshnal ombudsman, or may bhi be niyukt by the legislature.
neeche the neshnal str an ombudsman may be appointed by a state, local or nagarpalika government, or unofficial ombudsmen may be niyukt by, or bhi kaary liye, a nigam such as a utility supplier or a samachaarpatr, liye an NGO, or for a peshewar niamak deh.
whether appointed by the vidhanmandal, the executive, or an organization ( or, less aksar, nirvaachit by the constituency ki he or wo serves ), the theth kartavya of an ombudsman hai to investigate shikaayat or attempt to niraakaran unhen, praayah through suzav ( binding or nahin ) or madhyasthata.
Ombudsmen sometimes bhi aim to pahachaano pranaligat mudde agrani to poor seva or breaches of logon 's adhikaron.
at the neshnal level, sabase ombudsmen have a chaudee mandate to saude saath the entire public sector, or sometimes bhi elements of the nijee sector ( liye udhaaharan, contracted service providers ).
in some maamle, vahin is a adhik pratibandhit mandate, for example saath particular sector of samaaj.
adhik haal developments have included the creation of specialised children 's Ombudsman or Information kamishnar agenciyon.
in kuch jurisdictions an ombudsman charged saath the handlling of concerns parichay neshnal government is adhik formally referred to as the `` sansadeey Commissioner '' ( e.g. the United kingdom Parliamentary kamishnar for Administration, and the Western australian state Ombudsman ).
In many deshon jahaan the ombudsman 's remit extends beyond dealing saath alleged maladministration to promoting or protecting insaan adhikaron, the ombudsman is recognised as the neshnal insaan adhikaron sanstha.
the post of ombudsman tha by the end of the 20th century been instituted by most governments or by kuch intergovernmental sanghathan aise as the europea sangh.
Making a shikaayat to an ombudsman is praayah free of charge.
chihn at georgetown University washington dc
chihn in Banjul, the Gambia
Autumn in nai England, watercolor, mauris prendergast.
ca. 1910–1913
patan foliage in the kasbaa of sto, vermant
nai england is a pradesh in the northeastern kone of the sanyukt States consisting of the chah rajya of Maine, New Hampshire, vermant, masachusets, Rhode Island, or connectikat.
New England is bordered by nai York rajya to the southwest, quebec to the northwest, and nai bransavik or the atlantic samandar to the east.
in one of the earliest angrezi settlements in North america, tirthayatriyon isse england pehla settled in nai england in 1620, to rup plymouth Colony.
ten saalo baad, the puritans settled north of plymouth Colony in Boston, yun forming masachusets Bay upnivesh.
over the next 130 saalo, nai england ladaa in chaar french or bhartiya yudhon, jabatak the angrejon parajeet the french or unke deshi allies in North America.
in the late 18th sadi, the nai england Colonies initiated the pratirodh to the angrejon parliament 's praytn to impose nai kar bagaiyr the sahmati of the colonists.
the Boston Tea party thi a virodh to which great Britain responded saath a series of dandatmak kanoon stripping Massachusetts of self-government, which yahood termed the `` asahneeya adhiniyamon `` by the colonists.
The confrontation led to kholen warfare in 1775, the expulsion of the angrejon authorities isse nai England in spring 1776, or the ghoshnaa of swatantraaa in july 1776.
kuch of the first andolanon of amareeki literature, darshanashastra, or shiksha originated in nai england.
the pradesh nibhaai a prominent bhoomika in the movement to abolish gulaami, or thi the pehla pradesh of the United rajya to be roopantarit by the audyogic kranti.
Today, nai england is a pramukh sansar bich of education, unchi praudyogiki, bime, or ayurvigyaan.
boston is its saanskrithik, vittiya, shaikshanik, chikitsa or parivahan center.
prayek rajya is pradhanthya subdivided into choti incorporated municipalities gyaat as nai england kasbon, which are praayah governed by kasbaa baithak.
the tabhi unincorporated territory in nai england exists in the sparse, uttari regions of vermant, New Hampshire, or maine.
chunki 1970, voters have adhik often supported liberal ummidavaar at the rajya or federal str than those of any anya region in the sanyukt rajya.
New England is the tabhi ek of the United States janasankhyikee beuro 's nau kshetreey vibhaajan whose naam does nahin derive isse its bhugol, and it is the tabhi multi-state pradesh saath saaf, consistent boundaries.
it maintains a damdaar sense of saanskrithik identity set alaava isse the rest of the desh, haalanki the sharten of this pahchaan are praayah contested, combining Puritanism saath udaarataavaad, krushik life saath udyog, or isolation saath avrajan.
Emergency !
is an amareeki television shrenee ki combines the medical naatak or action-adventure genres.
it thi produced by Mark VII Limited and vitarit by saarvbhaumik studios.
it debuted as a midseason replacement on janvari 15, 1972, on NBC, replacing the two short-lived shrenee the Partners and the shubh jivan, or ran jabatak September 3, 1977, saath six additional two-hour television films dauraan the following do saalo.
Emergency !
thi nirmit and produced by joker webb or robert A. cinader, both of jisko yahood bhi responsible liye the police dramas adam-12 or dragnet.
the Eastern samay Zone ( ET ) encompasses 17 U.S. rajya in the eastern bhaag of the sanlagn sanyukt rajya, bhaag of canada or three countries in South america.
Places that upyog purvi maanak samay ( EST ) jab observing maanak samay ( autumn/winter ) are 5 ghanton peeche Coordinated saarvbhaumik Time ( ).
purvi daylight samay ( edt ), when observing daylight chhayankan time ( spring/summer ) is 4 ghanton behind samanvit saarvbhaumik samay ( ).
in the uttari bhaag of the samay mandal, dauraan the duusari sande in March, at 2:00 a.m. EST, ghadiyaan hai unnat to 3:00 a.m. EDT leaving a one ghanta `` gap. ''
dauraan the pehla sande in navambar, at 2:00 a.m. edt, ghadiyaan hai sthanantarit waapas to 1:00 a.m. est, yun `` duplicating '' ek ghanta.
dakshini bhaag of the mandal ( panama or the caribbean ) do nahin observe daylight chhayankan.
maanak rup of the periodic table.
The rangon represent alag shrenee of elements samajhaayaa neeche.
The aavadhik talika is a table display of the rasinic tatv, vyavasthit on the aadhaar of unke atomic sankhyaayein, electron configurations, or punaravarti rasinic gun.
tatv are prastut in order of increasing parmaanu kramank ( kramank of protons ).
the standard rup of talika comprises an 18 × 7 grid or main deh of tatv, positioned upar a choti double pankti of tatv.
the talika can bhi be deconstructed into four rectangular block : the s-block to the left, the p-block to the sahi, the d-block in the middle, or the f-block neeche ki.
the rows of the table are pukaara avadhi ; the columns of the s-, d-, or p-blocks hai pukaara groups, with some of these having names aise as the halogens or the noble gaison.
chunki, by paribhaasha, a aavadhik table incorporates punaravarti rujhaan, koi aise talika can be prayukt to derive sambandh between the gun of the tatv or predict the properties of nai, yet to be khoja or synthesized, elements.
As a result, a aavadhik table—whether in the maanak rup or kuch other variant—provides a upyogi fremawork liye analyzing rasinic bartaav, or such tables hai widely prayukt in rasayan or anya sciences.
Although precursors exist, dmitri mendeleev is generally credited saath the prakaashan, in 1869, of the pehla widely pahachaanaa aavadhik talika.
he viksit uske talika to illustrate aavadhik rujhaan in the gun of the then-known elements.
mendeleev also purvanumanit kuch gun of then-unknown elements ki hota be apekshit to bharan gap in is table.
Most of uske purvanumaan yahood proved correct jab the elements in question yahood subsequently khoja.
mendeleev 's aavadhik talika has since maharoom vistaarit or refined saath the discovery or sanshleshan of further new tatv or the vikaas of new saidhantik model to explain chemical bartaav.
sab tatv from parmaanu sankhyaayein 1 ( hydrogen ) to 118 ( ununoctium ) have maharoom khoja or synthesized.
the elements isse 1 to 98 ( californium ) have been found to maujuud naturally, haalanki some hai found tabhi in tres amounts or yahood initially khoja by sanshleshan in laboratories.
the tatv after 98 have tabhi maharoom synthesized in laboratories.
Production of tatv pare ununoctium is hone pursued, with the sawaal of kaisaa the aavadhik talika may need to be parivardhit to accommodate koi aise additions hone a padaarth of jari bahes.
Numerous synthetic radionuclides of naturally occurring tatv have bhi maharoom utpaadit in laboratories.
minecraft is a sandbox indie game originally created by swedish programmer markus `` paaydaan '' persson or baad viksit or published by mojang.
it was saream released liye the pc on may 17, 2009, as a developmental alpha sanskaran or, baad gradual adhyatan, thi prakashit as a puraa relies version on navambar 18, 2011.
A sanskaran liye android thi released a maah earlier on October 7, or an iOS sanskaran thi released on November 17, 2011.
on may 9, 2012, the khel was released on Xbox 360 as an Xbox sajiv Arcade khel, co-developed by 4j studios.
sab sanskaran of Minecraft praapt aavadhik updates.
the rachanaatmak or bhawan pahaluon of minecraft allow khilaadi to build constructions out of textured ghan in a 3D procedurally utpann sansar.
anya kriyaayein in the khel shaamil khoji, mehafil resources, crafting or combat.
gameplay in iske vanijyik release rai two principal mods : astitv, jisase requires khilaadi to acquire sansaadhan and maintain unke health or bhukh ; or rachanaatmak, jahaan khilaadi have an unlimited supplai of sansaadhan, the kshamta to fly, or no swasthya or bhukh.
A teesraa gameplay mode namit hardcore is the same as astitv, differing only in pareshaani ; it is set to hardest setting or respawning is niskriy, forcing khilaadi to delete their worlds upon maut.
minecraft praapt five puraskaar isse the 2011 Game Developers Conference : it was awarded the Innovation Award, behtareen downloadable khel Award, or the behtareen debyue khel puraskaar isse the khel develper chunaav Awards ; or the darshak Award, as well as the seumas mcnally grand puraskaar, from the swatantra khel Festival in 2011.
In 2012, Minecraft was awarded a sunahari Joystick puraskaar in the shrenee behtareen Downloadable Game.
as of April 8, 2013, the khel rai bechi over 10 lakh nakal on PC and as of January 22, 2013, over 20 million copies across sab plateform.
the andhera Knight is a 2008 British-American superhiro film nirdeshit, produced, and co-written by Christopher nolan.
Based on the dc comics akshar bitman, the film is the second bhaag of nolan 's bitman filmi shrenee or a sequel to 2005 's Batman begins.
isai bale reprises the lead bhoomika of Bruce Wayne/Batman, saath a returning daal of maaikel caine as alfred Pennyworth, geri oldman as james Gordon or morgan friman as lucius fox.
The filmi introduces the character of Harvey dent ( aaron eckhart ), gotham 's newly elected District Attorney and the consort of bruce wain 's balykaal friend rechal dawes ( megi jillenhol ), who joins bitman or the police in combating the nai uthati threat of a dand mastermind calling khud `` the joker `` ( jhaad lager ).
nolan 's inspiration liye the filmi thi the joker 's comic kitaab debut in 1940, the 1988 graphic anokhaa, or the 1996 series, jisase retold Two-Face 's origin.
the upnaam `` the andhera nit '' was pehla applied to bitman in bitman no. 1 ( 1940 ), in a story likhaa by vidheyak ungali.
the andhera nit was filmed primarily in Chicago, as khub as in anek anya sthitiyaan in the sanyukt rajya, the United kingdom, or Hong kong.
Nolan prayukt an IMAX camera to film kuch sequences, including the joker 's pehla rup in the filmi.
on janvari 22, 2008, kuch months baad he had samaapt filming on The Dark nit or six maheene pehle the filmi 's release, jhaad lager died from a toxic combination of nuskhaa davaayen, agrani to intense dhyaan from the dabaayen and movie-going public.
warner Bros. tha initially nirmit a viral vipanan campaign liye the Dark nit, vikasshil promotional websiton or trailers highlighting screen shots of lager as the Joker, but baad lager 's maut, the studio refocused iske promotional campaign.
the andhera Knight thi released on july 16, 2008 in australia, on July 18, 2008 in uttar America, or on july 24, 2008 in the United kingdom.
Considered one of the behtareen films of the 2000s or ek of the behtareen superhero films kabhi made, the filmi received atyadhik dhanatmak samikshaayen or niyat numerous record dauraan iske natya chalaaen.
saath over $ 1 billion in aay vishwavyaapee, it is the 14th-highest-grossing filmi of sab samay, unadjusted for mahangaai.
the filmi praapt eight academy puraskaar nominations ; it jiti the puraskaar liye behtareen Sound sampadan or lager thi maranoparant awarded Best supporting karta.
the Dark nit udai, the final bhaag of the trayee, thi released on July 20, 2012.
the timeline of radio suchiyaan within the itihaas of radio, the praudyogiki or kaarykram ki utpaadit instruments ki upyog radio waves or kriyaayein that logon undertook.
baad, the history is varchasv by programming or contents, jisase is closer to general itihaas.
The Sydney Opera house is a multi-venue performing arts centre in New dakshin Wales, australia.
it thi conceived and largely built by danish vaastu Jørn utzon, kholane in 1973 after a long gestation ki began saath his competition-winning dizine in 1957.
Joseph kahil 's New dakshin Wales Government gave the go-ahead liye kaary to begin in 1958.
the sarkari 's bindaas decision to chune utzon 's dizine is often nishprabh by the scandal that followed.
It is on Bennelong point in Sydney harbour, band to the sidney harbour sethu.
it sits at the northeastern tip of the Sydney central kaarobaar zila ( the CBD ), ghiri on teen sides by the harbour ( sidney cove and Farm cove ) or antardeshiy by the royal Botanic Gardens.
Contrary to iske naam, it gharon multiple pradarshan venues.
it is among the vyastatam performing kala centres in the sansar, hosting over 1,500 performances prayek saal attended by kuch 1.2 lakh logon.
it provides a venue for anek performing-arts companiyaan, sahit the four kunjee resident companies opera Australia, the australian baile, the Sydney theatre company or the sidney singhni Orchestra, or presents a chaudee dayera of productions on its apana khaataa.
It is also ek of the sabase lokapriy visitor aakarshan in australia, with more than saat lakh logon visiting prayek year, 300,000 of whom lo a guided daure.
it is administered by the sidney opera House vishwaas, antargat the New dakshin wales mantralay of the kala.
on 28 june 2007, it thi made a UNESCO sansar viraasat sait.
It is one of the 20th sadi 's sabase distinctive imaaraten or ek of the sabase famous performing kala kendron in the sansar.
A graph of deh dravyaman anukramanika as a function of deh mass or deh height is shown upar.
the dashed linon represent subdivisions within a pramukh class.
For udhaaharan the `` underweight '' vargeekaran is further vibhajit into `` kathor '', `` moderet '', or `` mild '' subclasses.
the body mass index ( BMI ), or quetelet index, is a maap liye insaan deh shape aadhaarit on an vyaktigat 's weight and oonchaai.
it thi devised between 1830 and 1850 by the belgian bahushrut Adolphe Quetelet during the course of vikasshil `` social physics ''.
Body dravyaman anukramanika is paribhaashit as the individual 's deh mass vibhajit by the square of their oonchaai.
The formulae universally prayukt in ayurvigyaan produce a unit of maap of kg/m2.
biemai can also be determined using a biemai chart, jisase displays biemai as a falan of vazan ( aadaa axis ) and oonchaai ( lambavat axis ) using ruparekha linon for different maan of biemai or colors liye alag biemai categories.
† the factor liye uk/us units is adhik precisely 703.06957964, but ki str of parishuddhta is nahin sarthak liye is gananaa.
To kaary isse stone or pound pehla guna the stone by 14 tab add the pounds to de the puure dravyaman in pound ; to kaary from feet or inch first guna the feet by 12 tab add the inch to de the puure oonchaai in inch.
thomas paine ( January 29, 1737 ( ns February 9, 1737 ) – June 8, 1809 ) thi an english-american rajnatik activist, lekhak, rajnatik theorist or krantikari.
as the author of two atyadhik influential pamphlets at the prarambh of the American kranti, he prerit the deshpremi in 1776 to declare swatantraaa isse Britain.
uske vichaar reflected atmagyaan era bayaanbaji of transnational insaan adhikaron.
he rai maharoom pukaara `` a corsetmaker by vyapaar, a patrkaar by profession, and a propagandist by inclination. ''
born in thetford, england, in the county of norfok, paine emigrated to the angrejon American colonies in 1774 saath the sahaayta of Benjamin franklin or he arrived in samay to participate in the amareeki Revolution.
uske principal yogadan yahood the shaktishaalee, widely read pamphlet aam Sense ( 1776 ), the all-time best-selling American kitaab ki advocated aupniveshik america 's swatantraaa isse the Kingdom of great britain, or the amareeki Crisis ( 1776–83 ), a pro-revolutionary pamphlet shrenee.
aam bhav thi so influential ki jon adams kaha, `` bagaiyr the pen of the lekhak of aam bhav, the talwaar of washington hota have maharoom uthaaya in vain.”
Paine jiya in frans liye sabase of the 1790s, becoming deeply involved in the French kranti.
he likhaa the adhikaron of man ( 1791 ), in bhaag a raksha of the French kranti viruddh iske critics.
His hamale on angrejon writer edmund burke led to a trial and conviction in absentia in 1792 liye the aparaadhon of seditious libel.
in 1792, despite not hone samarth to speak french, he thi elected to the French National Convention.
the girondists regarded use as an ally.
natijatan, the Montagnards, visheshkar Robespierre, regarded him as an dushman.
in disambar 1793, he thi arrested and imprisoned in paris, tab released in 1794.
he became badnaam kuki of the aayu of kaaran ( 1793–94 ), uske kitaab ki adhivaktaaon devvaad, promotes kaaran and freethinking, or argues viruddh institutionalized dharm in saamaanya or Christian doctrine in particular.
He also likhaa the pamphlet krushik insaaf ( 1795 ), discussing the origins of property, or introduced the avadharana of a guaranteed minimum aay.
In 1802, he returned to america jahaan he died on June 8, 1809.
tabhi six people attended his antyeshti as he tha maharoom ostracized liye uske ridicule of christianity.
Clinical trial hai set of pareekshan in medical shodh or drug vikaas ki generate suraksha or efficacy aankada ( or more specifically, soochna parichay pratikul drug pratikriyaayein and pratikul prabhaav of anya upachaar ) liye swasthya interventions ( e.g., davaayen, naidanik, devices, therapy protocols ).
ve hai conducted only baad satisfactory soochna rai maharoom gathered on the quality of the non naidanik safety, or swasthya authority/ethics cameti sweekruti is granted in the country where sweekruti of the drug or yantra is sought.
previously, many emerging countries kiya not aavashyaktaa local trial for utpaada approvals.
abhi, haalanki ubharate deshon still accept aankada isse u.s./europe, ve also aavashyaktaa kuch local trials.
depending on the prakaar of utpaada or the stage of iske vikaas, jaanchakartaaon initially enroll volunteers and/or marijon into small payalat adhyayan, or subsequently conduct larger scale adhyayan in patients ki often compare the new product saath anya already sweekrut liye the affliction of interest.
As positive suraksha and efficacy aankada hai gathered, the kramank of patients is typically increased.
naidanik trials can vary in size, or can involve a single research antity in ek desh or anek such entities in multiple countries.
a full series of trial may incur sizable laagat, or the boj of paying liye all the necessary logon and services is praayah borne by the praayojak, jisase may be a sarkari sanghathan or a pharmaceutical, biotechnology or chikitsa device company.
When the vividhta of required support bhoomikaaye exceeds the sansaadhan of the praayojak, a naidanik trial is prabandhit by an outsourced sangi, such as a anubandh shodh sanghathan or a clinical trial unit in the academik sector.
The green Bay Packers hai an amareeki footbaal team aadhaarit in Green Bay, visconsin.
They hai members of the uttar prabhag of the National Football sammelan ( nfc ) in the neshnal footbaal lig ( enegel ).
green Bay is the third-oldest matadhikaar in the NFL, having maharoom vyavasthit or playing in 1919.
The pakars are the tabhi non-profit, community-owned pramukh lig peshewar sports toli in the sanyukt rajya.
the pakars hai the last vestige of `` small town tiimon '' that were once common in the enegel dauraan the 1920s and 1930s.
santhaapit in 1919 by arl `` ghunghraale '' lambeau ( hence the naam Lambeau field on jisase the team plays ) or george Whitney calhoun, the green Bay pakars can tres unke lineage to anya semi-professional tiimon in green Bay dating back to 1896.
in 1919 and 1920 the pakars competed as a semi-professional footbaal toli viruddh club isse around visconsin or the midwest.
They joined the amareeki peshewar footbaal sangh ( apfa ) in 1921, the forerunner to what is known aaj as the neshnal Football lig ( enegel ).
haalanki green Bay is the pichhlaa enegel `` choti kasbaa '' toli, iske local fan aadhaar or media extends into aasapaas milvowki ; the toli also nibhaai selected ghar khel vahin between 1933 and 1994.
the green Bay pakars have jiti 13 lig championships ( adhik than any anya toli in the enegel ), sahit nau NFL championships prior to the super katori era or chaar super katori victories —in 1967 ( super katori i ), 1968 ( super katori ii ), 1997 ( Super katori xxxi ) or 2011 ( super katori XLV ).
the pakars have long-standing, kadava rivalries saath unke nfc uttar ( formerly the nfc central ) pratidwandviyon, the chicago bears, minesota vikings or the detroit sher.
the bears-packers funsane is ek of the oldest rivalries in enegel itihaas, dating back to 1921.
ithenul fuel is ithenul ( ethyl daaru ), the vahi prakaar of daaru mila in alcoholic peya.
it is sabase praayah prayukt as a motor eendhan, mukhyatah as a biofuel yogtmak for gasoline.
World ithenul utpaadan liye transport fuel tripled between 2000 and 2007 from 17 billion to adhik than 52 arab liters.
isse 2007 to 2008, the share of ithenul in vaishvik gasoline type eendhan upyog increased isse 3.7 % to 5.4 %.
In 2011 vishwavyaapee ithenul eendhan production pahunche 22.36 arab u.S. drav galen ( bg ) ( 84.6 arab liters ), saath the sanyukt rajya as the sheersh nirmaataa saath 13.9 bg ( 52.6 billion liters ), hisaab for 62.2 % of vaishvik utpaadan, followed by brazil saath 5.6 bg ( 21.1 arab liters ).
ithenul fuel rai a `` gasoline galen equivalency `` ( GGE ) maan of, jisase arthath 1.5 galen of ithenul upaj the energy of ek galen of gasoline.
Ethanol eendhan is widely prayukt in Brazil and in the sanyukt rajya, and saath dono deshon yahood responsible for 87.1 % of the world 's ithenul eendhan utpaadan in 2011.
sabase gaadiyaan on the sadak aaj in the U.S. can chalaaen on blends of up to 10 % ethanol, and ethanol represented 10 % of the U.S. gasoline eendhan supplai niklaa isse gharelu strot in 2011.
Since 1976 the brazilian government rai made it anivaary to mishran ithenul saath gasoline, or since 2007 the vidhik blend is around 25 % ithenul or 75 % gasoline ( e25 ).
By disambar 2011 Brazil had a bede of 14.8 lakh flex-fuel automobile and light trek and 1.5 million flex-fuel motorcycle ki regularly upyog neat ithenul eendhan ( gyaat as e100 ).
bioethanol is a rup of bedardi urja that can be utpaadit isse agricultural feedstocks.
it can be bana isse bahut common fasalon aise as sugar cane, aalu, manioc or makai.
There has maharoom considerable debate parichay kaisaa upyogi bioethanol hoga be in replacing gasoline.
chintaaen about iske utpaadan and upyog sunaanaa to increased food keemten due to the vishaal raashi of arable jameen jaruri liye crops, as khub as the urja or pradooshan santulan of the whole saikil of ithenul utpaadan, especially from makai.
Recent developments saath cellulosic ithenul utpaadan or vyavsyeekaran may allay kuch of these chintaaen.
cellulosic ethanol offers vaada kuki cellulose machhlee, a major or saarvbhaumik ghatak in sanyantr koshikaayen deevaaren, can be prayukt to produce ithenul.
according to the International Energy Agency, cellulosic ethanol could allow ithenul fuels to khel a much bade bhoomika in the bhavishya than previously vichaar.
Saab 9-3 sportcombi biopower.
The second e85 flexifuel model introduced by saab in the swedish market.
a plake commemorating the sthaan of the Sarajevo hatya or kadam of gavrilo princip ( chitra taken in 1987, pehle steps yahood removed in 1992 or plake badla isse cyrillic to latin script )
a plake commemorating the sthaan of the sarajevo hatya ( chitra liya in 2009 )
on 28 june 1914, archduke Franz ferdinand of austria, vaaris presumptive to the austro-hungarian singhaasana, or his bivi, Sophie, Duchess of hohenberg, yahood shot murde in Sarajevo, by gavrilo princip, ek of a group of six Bosnian serb hatyare coordinated by danniel ilić.
the rajnatik uddeshy of the hatya thi to break band austria-hungary 's south-slav provinces so they could be sanyukt into a vrihad srbija or a yugoslavia.
The assassins ' motives yahood satat saath the movement ki later became known as Young bosnia.
srbian military officers stood peeche the akraman.
at the top of ye srbian sainya shadyantrkariyon thi Chief of srbian sainya Intelligence dragutin dimitrijević, uske righthand man pramukh vojislav tankosić, and Masterspy rade malobabić.
pramukh tankosić armed the hatyare saath bombs or pistols or prashikshit unhen.
the hatyare were die abhigam to the same clandestine tunnel of safe-houses or agenton ki rade malobabić prayukt for the ghuspaith of hathiyaar and operatives into austria-hungary.
the hatyare, the kunjee sadasyon of the clandestine tunnel, or the key Serbian sainya conspirators who were still jinda yahood giraftaar, aajamaaya, convicted and punished.
Those jo yahood giraftaar in Bosnia yahood tried in Sarajevo in aktubar 1914.
the anya shadyantrkariyon yahood giraftaar or aajamaaya pehle a srbian kangaroo adaalat on the french-controlled Salonika saamne in 1916–1917 on unrelated galat aarope ; Serbia chalaaya three of the sheersh sainya shadyantrkariyon.
much of what is gyaat parichay the assassinations comes isse these do trial or sambandhit record.
Assignment of jimmedaari liye the bombing and hatyaein of 28 June is atyadhik vivaadaaspad kuki the attack led to the outbreak of sansar yuddh i ek maah baad.
renée katholin zellweger ( born april 25, 1969 ) is an amareeki abhinetri or producer.
Zellweger first gained faili attention liye her bhoomika in the filmi jeri magwair ( 1996 ), or subsequently praapt do nominations liye the Academy puraskaar liye behtareen abhinetri liye uske roles as brijet jones in the kamedi brijet jones 's diary ( 2001 ), or as roxie heart in the musical Chicago ( 2002 ).
wo jiti the Academy puraskaar liye behtareen supporting Actress for uske pradarshan in the naatak Cold pahaad ( 2003 ).
wo has jiti an Academy Award, three sunahari Globe puraskaar, teen Screen abhinaytaon gild puraskaar, or a bafta puraskaar ; thi namit hasty kheer 's Woman of the Year in 2009 ; and sthapit herself as ek of the highest-paid Hollywood actresses as of 2007.
the ossicles ( bhi called auditory ossicles ) hai the teen smallest haddiyon in the insaan deh, the malleus, the incus or the stapes.
ve hai contained within the madhya kaan spes and serve to transmit dhwani isse the air to the fluid-filled vyamoh ( cochlea ).
the anupasthiti of the auditory ossicles would constitute a moderate-to-severe hearing ghaataa.
the pad `` ossicles '' vastutah arthath `` tiny haddiyon '' or commonly refers to the auditory ossicles, haalanki the term may refer to koi choti asthi throughout the deh.
the nai vachan ( yahudee • • — unani • • diatheke kaine ) is a biblical interpretation originally derived from a phrase in the kitaab of yirmayaah, in the yahudee shastron.
It is often thought of as an eschatological muktidaata Age or sansar to aaiye or is sambandhit to the biblical avadharana of the Kingdom of parameshwar.
Generally, Christians believe ki the New vachan thi instituted at the Last Supper as part of the Eucharist, which in the Gospel of jon includes the nai commandment.
vahin hai anek isai eschatologies ki further define the New vachan, as an example an udghaatan eschatology defines or describes the nai Covenant as an ongoing relationship between Christian eemanvaalon or parameshwar ki will be in puraa faleebhoot baad the Second coming of messiah ; ki is, it hoga not tabhi be in puraa fruition in believing dil, but in the bhavishya external world as khub.
The conection between the rakt of messiah and the nai vachan is seen in sabase aadhunik angrezi anuwaad of the New Testament saath the saying : `` is cup that is poured out liye tum is the new vachan in my rakt ''.
Christians maananaa that yishu is the mediator of the nai vachan, or ki the rakt of messiah shed at uske crucifixion is the jaruri blood of the covenant.
As with sab covenants between parameshwar and man varnit in the bible, the nai vachan is mana `` a bond in rakt sovereignly administered by parameshwar. ''
it has maharoom theorized that the nai Covenant is the vidhi of messiah as spoken during uske Sermon on the mount.
the following suchi of logon pardoned or granted dayaa by the adhyaksh of the sanyukt rajya dastauez the sabase prominent cases of each presidency.
as granted by the samvidhan ( aalekh II, khand 2, clause 1 ), raashtrapatiyon have the shakti to grant clemency in ek or adhik of the following ways : the ability to grant a puraa pardon, to bhraman a sentence, or to todna a thik.
u.S. raashtrapatiyon have no shakti to grant clemency liye aparaadhon prosecuted antargat state vidhi.
as to the difference between a pardon or a commutation:
A pardon is an executive order vacating a conviction.
a commutation is the shaman of the vaakya of kisi philhal sevarat a vaakya liye a aparaadhon pursuant to a conviction, bagaiyr vacating the conviction itself.
Approximately 20,000 pardons or clemencies yahood jari by u.S. raashtrapatiyon in the 20th century alon.
The records of acts of dayaa yahood public jabatak 1934.
in 1981 the Office of the Pardon attorney thi nirmit and record isse adhyaksh H. W. Bush aage hai abhi soochibaddh.
is suchi includes pardons and commutations.
tampa ( ) is a nagar in the u.S. rajya of Florida.
it serves as the county seat liye hillsborough county or is located on the west coast of Florida, on tampa khadi near the gulf of Mexico.
the janasankhyikee of tampa in 2011 was 346,037.
the vartmaan sthaan of Tampa thi ekbar inhabited by swadeshi peoples of the Safety harbar culture, sabase notably the tocobaga or the pohoy, jo jiya saath the shores of tampa khadi.
it thi briefly explored by spani explorers in the jaldi 16th sadi, lakin there yahood no sthai American or European settlements bheetar aaj 's nagar had jabatak baad the sanyukt rajya tha acquired florida isse spain in 1819.
In 1824, the sanyukt rajya Army sthapit a frontier chaowkee called Fort bruke at the munh of the hillsborough River, nikat the sait of aaj 's tampa sammelan bich.
The pehla civilian residents yahood pioneers who settled near the fort liye suraksha isse the aasapaas seminole janasankhyikee.
The kasbaa grew slowly jabatak the 1880s, jab railroad links, the discovery of phosphate, and the arrival of the cigar udyog jump-started tampa 's vikaas or helped it to grow into an mahatvapurn nagar by the jaldi 1900s.
aaj, tampa is a bhaag of the metropolitan kshetrafal sabase commonly referred to as the tampa khadi kshetrafal.
liye u.S. janasankhyikee uddeshy, tampa is bhaag of the tampa-st. petersburg-clearwater, florida Metropolitan sankhyikeey kshetrafal.
the four-county area is rachit of roughly 2.7 lakh nivaasiyon, bananaa it the duusari largest metropolitan statistical kshetrafal ( emesa ) in the rajya, or the chauthi largest in the Southeastern sanyukt rajya, peeche miami, washington, d.C., and Atlanta.
the vrihad tampa khadi kshetrafal rai bas over 4 lakh nivaasiyon or generally shaamil the Tampa and Sarasota metro kshetron.
The tampa khadi saajhedaari and u.S. Census data dikhaaya an average salanaa vikaas of 2.47 pratishat, or a laabh of lagbhag 97,000 nivaasiyon per year.
between 2000 or 2006, the vrihad Tampa khadi market anbhavi a sanyukt vikaas rate of 14.8 pratishat, growing isse 3.4 lakh to 3.9 lakh or hitting the 4 million logon chihnit on April 1, 2007.
a 2012 anumaan shows the Tampa khadi area population to have 4,310,524 logon and a 2017 prakshep of 4,536,854 logon.
tampa rai a number of khel tiimon, such as the tampa Bay buccaneers of the neshnal footbaal League, the tampa khadi bijli of the neshnal Hockey lig, or the tampa khadi toofaan of the arina Football League.
the tampa khadi Rays in Major lig Baseball or the tampa khadi Rowdies of the uttar American Soccer League khel unke ghar khel in neighboring st. Petersburg, florida.
in 2008, tampa was ranked as the 5th behtareen outdoor nagar by forbs.
a 2004 survey by the nyu newspaper Washington vargakar news kramit tampa as a sheersh city liye `` twenty-somethings. ''
Tampa is abhi kramit as a `` gamma '' world nagar by Loughborough vishvavidhyalayon.
according to Loughborough, Tampa baandhane alongside anya sansar shaharon such as phinics, sento domingo, or osaka.
in recent years tampa has dekhi a notable upsurge in high-market maang from upabhokta, signaling adhik maal concentrated in the area.
tampa hosted the 2012 Republican National Convention.
The Chevrolet cavalier was a compact automobile utpaadit from 1982 to 2005 by saamaanya motors.
nirmit on the company 's j platform, the cavalier utpaadit the ucchtam bikri in 1984.
at & T gatishiltaa LLC branded and referred to as at & t ( formerly cingular betaar LLC ), is a wholly swaamitv subsidiary of AT & T inc. that provides wireless sevaayen to 107 lakh sadsy in the sanyukt rajya, sahit purto rico and the u.S. Virgin islands.
at & t gatishiltaa is the second largest wireless doorsanchaar provider in the sanyukt States or purto rico, peeche verizon Wireless, which serves 115.78 million customers as of the chauthi quarter of 2012.
at & t gatishiltaa is headquartered in the lenox park area of dekalb co. georgia, bas outside Atlanta.
Originally cingular betaar llc isse 2000 to 2007, a sanyukt venture between sbc sanchaar and bellsouth, the company acquired the boodha at & T Wireless in 2004 ; sbc later acquired the asli at & t and re-branded as `` at & t ''.
Cingular became wholly swaamitv by at & T in December 2006 as a result of at & t 's adhigrahan of bellsouth.
in janvari 2007, Cingular pushti it hota re-brand itself antargat the at & t naam.
Although the vidhik corporate naam badalen occurred tatkaal, for dono regulatory or brand-awareness kaaran both brands yahood used in the company 's sinej or advertising during a parivartan period.
The parivartan concluded in let june, just prior to the rollout of the tehraana iphone.
on kooch 20, 2011, at & t gatishiltaa ghoshit iske iraade to acquire t-mobile uese isse doyche telekom liye $ 39 arab.
if it tha praapt sarkari or regulatory sweekruti, at & t hota have had adhik than 130 million sadsy.
however, the u.S. vibhaag of insaaf, the sangheey sanchaar ayog, or AT & t gatishiltaa 's pratispardhi ( aise as Sprint nextel ) opposed the move on the grounds ki it would reduce pratiyogita in the cellular communications market.
in disambar 2011, in the phase of dono governmental or faili upabhokta vipaksh, at & t withdrew unke prastaav to puraa the merger.
martin luther King, jr. ( janvari 15, 1929 – April 4, 1968 ) was an American clergyman, activist, or netaa in the african-american Civil adhikaron gati.
he is best gyaat liye his role in the advancement of civil adhikaron using nonviolent civil disobedience.
king rai become a national pratik in the history of American pragativaad.
A baptist mantri, King became a civil adhikaron activist early in his kariyar.
he led the 1955 Montgomery Bus bahishkaar or helped mila the dakshini isai Leadership Conference ( sclc ) in 1957, sevarat as iske pehla adhyaksh.
saath the sclc, king led an unsuccessful sangharsh against pruthakkaran in Albany, georgia, in 1962, or organized nonviolent virodh in Birmingham, albama, ki aakarshith neshnal dhyaan following television news kawarej of the krur police jawaab.
king also helped to organize the 1963 kooch on washington, jahaan he delivered uske `` i have a sapana `` vaak.
There, he sthapit uske reputation as ek of the mahanatam orators in amareeki itihaas.
he bhi sthapit his reputation as a kattarpanthi, or became an object of the sangheey beuro of Investigation 's cointelpro for the baaki of his jivan.
epabiai agenton investigated use for sambhavit communist ties, ankit uske extramarital liaisons and reported on unhen to sarkari officials, or on one avasar, mailed king a threatening anonymous letter that he interpreted as an attempt to make him commit aatmahatya.
on aktubar 14, 1964, king praapt the Nobel Peace Prize for combating jatigat asamanta through nonviolence.
In 1965, he and the SCLC helped to organize the Selma to montgomari marches or the following saal, he took the gati uttar to chicago.
in the final saalo of uske life, king vistaarit uske fokas to shaamil garibi or the Vietnam yuddh, alienating anek of uske udaar allies saath a 1967 speech titled `` Beyond Vietnam ''.
king thi niyojan a neshnal occupation of washington, d.C., called the Poor logon 's Campaign.
king thi assassinated on April 4, 1968, in memphis, tennesi.
uske death was followed by dange in anek u.S. shaharon.
doshaaropan that james arl re, the man convicted of hatya king, tha maharoom framed or acted in concert saath sarkari agenton persisted for dashakon baad the shooting, or the jury of a 1999 civil trial mila Loyd jowers to be complicit in a shadyantr against King.
King was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom or the congressional sunaharaa Medal maranoparant.
Martin luther king, jr. din thi sthapit as a u.S. sangheey holiday in 1986.
Hundreds of streets in the u.S. have maharoom renamed in uske sammaan.
A memorial statue on the National mal thi opened to the public in 2011.
The baagh ( penthera tigris ) is the largest billi prajati, reaching a kul deh length of up to and weighing up to.
it is the third largest jameen carnivore ( peeche tabhi the dhruviya bear and the brown bhaaluu ).
Its most recognizable visheshta is a pattern of andhera lambavat dhaariyaan on reddish-orange fer saath a lighter underside.
it rai exceptional stout teeth, or the canines hai the longest among jeena felids saath a crown oonchaai of as much as or bhi.
In zoos, tigers have jiya liye 20 to 26 saalo, jisase bhi seems to be unke aayu in the junglee.
They hai territorial or generally ekaant lakin soshal pashu, often requiring vishaal sanlagn kshetron of awaas ki support unke shikaar aavashyaktaayen.
This, coupled saath the fact that they hai swadeshi to kuch of the adhik densely populated sthaan on dharti, rai caused significant virodh saath insaano.
tigers once ranged widely across asia, from turkon in the west to the purvi coast of rus.
over the past 100 saalo, ve have khoyaa 93 % of unke historic dayera, and have maharoom extirpated from dakshinpaschim or central asia, isse the islands of Java or bali, or isse large kshetron of southeast and purvi asia.
aaj, ve dayera from the siberian taiga to kholen grasslands and tropical mangrove swamps.
The baaki six tiger subspecies have been vargeekrut as endangered by aiusien.
the vaishvik janasankhyikee in the junglee is anumaanit to kramank between 3,062 or 3,948 individuals, down isse around 100,000 at the prarambh of the 20th century, with most remaining populations occurring in choti pockets pruthak isse prayek anya.
pramukh kaaran liye population decline shaamil awaas vinaash, awaas fragmentation or poaching.
the extent of area occupied by tigers is estimated at less than, a 41 % decline from the kshetrafal estimated in the mid-1990s.
tigers are among the sabase recognisable or lokapriy of the world 's charismatic mahapraani.
They have featured prominently in pracheen mythology and loakgeet, or continue to be chitrit in aadhunik films or sahitya.
tigers appear on anek flags, coats of bahen, or as mascots liye sporting tiimon.
the bengal baagh is the neshnal animal of both india or Bangladesh.
The sarlikrut aatanrik dhaancha of a haritalvak
avlokan of the calvin saikil and carbon fixation
the light-independent pratikriyaayein of photosynthesis hai rasinic reactions ki badalen carbon dioxide or other compounds into glucose.
ye pratikriyaayein occur in the stroma, the fluid-filled kshetrafal of a chloroplast baahar of the thylakoid jhilliyon.
These reactions lo the light-dependent pratikriyaayein and perform further rasinic prakriyaaon on unhen.
There hai three phases to the light-independent pratikriyaayein, collectively pukaara the calvin saikil : carbon fixation, reduction pratikriyaayein, and ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate ( rubp ) regeneration.
despite iske name, is process occurs tabhi when lite is uplabdhiyaan.
Plants do nahin carry out the calvin saikil by night.
They, bajaay, release sucrose into the floem isse unke mand reserves.
This prakram happens jab lite is uplabdhiyaan swatantra of the kind of photosynthesis ( c3 carbon fixation, c4 carbon fixation, or crassulacean acid chayapachay ) ; cam plants store malic acid in unke vacuoles prayek raatri or relies it by din in order to mek is process kaary.
a linen handkerchief saath khinchaa thread kadhai around the edges
linen cloth baraamad from qumran gupha 1 nikat the Dead samudr.
linen ( ) is a textile bana isse the machhlee of the flax sanyantr, linum usitatissimum.
Linen is labor-intensive to manufacture, but jab it is made into garments, it is valued liye iske exceptional sheetaltaa or taazgi in hot weather.
the shabd `` linen '' is of west germanic utpatti or cognates saath the latin naam liye the flax sanyantr linum, or the pehle unani λινόν ( linon ).
is shabd itihaas rai given vruddhi to a number of other terms in English, the sabase notable of jisase is the angrezi shabd line, niklaa isse the upyog of a linen ( flax ) ladi to determine a sidhaa lakeer.
vastra in a linen bunate texture, even when made of kapaas, ganja and anya non-flax machhlee hai bhi loosely referred to as `` linen ''.
aise fabrics generally have unke apana specific names anya than linen ; for example, thik cotton dhaage in a linen-style bunate is pukaara madapolam.
The collective pad `` linens `` is still often prayukt generically to describe a class of woven or bhi knitted bed, nahaana, talika and rasoighar vastra.
The name linens is retained kuki traditionally, linen was prayukt liye many of these items.
in the past, the shabd `` linens '' thi also prayukt to ausat lightweight undergarments such as shirts, chemises, waistshirts, lingerie ( a shabd also cognate saath linen ), or detachable shirt chhallon and cuffs, jisase yahood historically made lagbhag exclusively out of linen.
the inside cloth parat of thik composite clothing garments ( as for udhaaharan jackets ) was traditionally bana of linen, and is is the utpatti of the shabd astr.
linen vastra appear to be kuch of the oldest in the sansar : their history goes waapas anek hazaron of saalo.
Fragments of straw, seeds, fibers, yarns, or vibhinn prakaar of fabrics jisase tithi waapas to about 8000 bc have maharoom found in Swiss jhil dwellings.
dyed flax machhlee found in a pragaitihaasik gupha in Georgia suggest the upyog of woven linen fabrics from junglee flax may tithi waapas bhi earlier to 36,000 bp.
linen thi sometimes used as karency in pracheen mishra.
mishra mummies were wrapped in linen kuki it thi seen as a symbol of lite or pavitrataa, or as a pradarshak of maal.
kuch of ye fabrics, woven from haath spun yarns, yahood very fine liye unke din, lakin hai coarse compared to modern linen.
aaj, linen is usually an mahangi vastra, or is utpaadit in apekshaakrit small quantities.
it has a long `` stepal '' ( individual resha lambaai ) saapeksh to kapaas and anya prakritik fibers.
Many utpaada are bana of linen : aprons, bag, towels ( swimmers, nahaana, bich, deh or wash tauliye ), napkins, bed linens, linen chauke, dhaavak, chair covers, or main 's & mahilaon 's pahanen.
The fifa sansar Cup, praayah simply the World cap, is an antarrashtriya association football pratiyogita lade by the varisht main 's neshnal tiimon of the members of Fédération internationale de footbaal sangh ( FIFA ), the khel 's global shaasi body.
the championships rai been awarded prayek chaar saalo chunki the inaugural tournament in 1930, except in 1942 or 1946 jab it was nahin held because of the duusari sansar yuddh.
the vartmaan champions are Spain, jo won the 2010 tournament.
The vartmaan swaroop of the tournament involves 32 tiimon spardhaa for the title at venues bheetar the host swadesh ( s ) over a period of parichay a maah ; this phase is praayah pukaara the World cap final.
a qualification phase, jisase philhal takes place over the preceding three saalo, is used to determine which teams qualify liye the toornament saath saath the mejabaan nation ( s ).
the 19 sansar cap tournaments have been jiti by aath alag national tiimon.
Brazil have jiti paanch times, and they hai the tabhi team to have nibhaai in every toornament.
the other sansar cap vijeta hai italy, saath chaar sheershak ; germany, with three sheershak ; Argentina and inaugural vijeta urugve, saath do sheershak prayek ; or england, frans, or spain, saath ek sheershak each.
The World cap is the sansar 's sabase widely viewed sporting event ; an anumaanit 715.1 million logon dekhi the final match of the 2006 fifa sansar cap yojit in germany.
the next teen sansar Cups hoga be hosted by brazil in 2014, rus in 2018, or Qatar in 2022.
the is an expansion yantra for the Wii remote video game niyantrak for the ve ki allows it to adhik accurately capture jatil motion.
According to Nintendo, the sensor in the yantra supplements the accelerometer or sensor baar samarthy of the ve Remote to enable kriyaayein to be rendered identically on the screen in real samay.
the ve 's successor consol, the Wii u, supports the Wii motionplus or iske peripherals in khel jahaan upyog of iske touchscreen-built-in primary niyantrak is not jaruri.
Majulah singapura ( onward singapore ) is the neshnal gaan of singapore.
rachit by Zubir kaha in 1958 as a theme song for aadhikarik functions of the nagar parishad of singapore, the song thi chaynit in 1959 as the dweep 's gaan jab it attained self-government.
upon full independence in 1965, Majulah Singapura was formally apanaaya as singapore 's neshnal gaan.
By law the gaan may tabhi be sung saath iske original malay geet, although vahin maujuud authorized anuwaad of the geet of the gaan in singapore 's three other official languages : angrezi, mandarin and tamil.
originally rachit in the kunjee of g major, in 2001 the neshnal gaan thi officially relaunched in the nimnatar kunjee of f pramukh as is was kaha to allow for a `` grander or adhik preranadai vyavastha ''.
The neshnal gaan is regularly performed or sung in skulon or armed forces shiviron at ceremonies yojit at the shuruuaat and/or the end of prayek din, during jisase the neshnal flag is bhi uthaaya or lowered and the neshnal pratigya is liya.
Singaporeans hai especially protsaahit to gaao the neshnal anthem on avasaron of national celebration or neshnal significance such as at the neshnal Day parade, at neshnal Day observance ceremonies conducted by shaikshanik institutions or government vibhaag, and at sporting events at jisase singapore tiimon hai participating.
an expedition 's shipwrights building a brigantine, 1541.
shipbuilding is the nirmaan of ships or floating baratan.
it normally takes place in a specialized suvidha gyaat as a shipyard.
shipbuilders, bhi pukaara shipwrights, follow a specialized occupation ki traces iske jaden to pehle ankit itihaas.
shipbuilding or jalayaan marammat, dono vanijyik and sainya, hai referred to as `` naval abhiyantriki ''.
the nirmaan of naukaaye is a samaan activity pukaara naav bhawan.
The dismantling of ships is pukaara jalayaan todakar.
Wakonda is a town in mitti county, South dakota, sanyukt rajya.
the janasankhyikee thi 321 at the 2010 janasankhyikee.
The following is a list of the sabase populous incorporated sthaan of the sanyukt States of america.
as defined by the sanyukt rajya janasankhyikee beuro, an `` incorporated place `` shaamil a kismein of designations, sahit city, town, gaanv, borough, and municipality.
a few asaadhaaran Census Designated sthaan ( cdps ) are bhi included in the janasankhyikee beuro 's listing of incorporated sthaan.
sanchit city-counties represent a distinct type of sarkari ki shaamil the sampurna population of a county, or county equivalent.
kuch sanchit city-counties, however, include anek incorporated sthaan.
This suchi presents tabhi that portion ( or `` balance '' ) of aise consolidated city-counties ki hai not a bhaag of another incorporated place.
note ki this list refers only to the janasankhyikee of vyaktigat municipalities within unke defined had, which karata nahin shaamil anya municipalities or unincorporated suburban kshetron bheetar shahari agglomerations.
a alag ranking is evident jab considering u.S. mahanagar kshetrafal populations.
alt=larger flashcart, dikhaaya saath choti card or U.S. quarter for aakaar
Nintendo ds bhandar divaais are divaais prayukt to store a licensed developer 's work-in-progress images, homebrew video games and downlod commercial khel ( chunki the nintendo ds is nahin bechi saath a rewritable bhandar medium ).
licensed developers, however, can upyog a blue Intelligent pranaaliyon Nitro emulator baksaa to flash taash.
ye devices hai also gyaat as `` flashcarts '' or `` flashcards ''.
There hai do pramukh varg of flashcarts : older divaais which anuroop in slot-2 ( the Game ladke agrim Game paak slot ) and newer divaais that anuroop in Slot-1 ( the DS Game card slot ).
slot-2 ( or first-generation ) devices have maharoom historically sasta due to economies of scale ( inherited isse their upyog saath khel Boy agrim ), but aavashyaktaa a booting aujaar in Slot-1 in order to upyog the tach screen or anya ds suvidhaayen.
second-generation divaais ( those jisase tabhi upyog Slot-1 ) do nahin work with gba homebrew, but became kam mahangi and easier to upyog, rivaling anek slot-2 divaais in price.
first-generation divaais shaamil gba flash cartridges, gbamp cf, supercard, or m3.
second-generation divaais include R4 Revolution, cyclods, g6 Real or ds-x.
the bhandar yantra either contains flash memory or a slot liye a memory card to store homebrew.
bhandar divaais saath a memory-card slot praayah have adhik bhandar kshamta than flash-memory divaais.
Although flash-memory kshamta is praayah measured in megabits ( mb ), memory-card kshamta is usually measured in megabite ( mb ) ( where 8 mb is 1 MB ).
Storage-device brands differ in unke support for homebrew ; ds or Game Boy agrim ROMs ; khaas suvidhaayen ( aise as kshamta to khel media files ) ; shaareerik size and laagat.
sakhti bolnaa, a bhandar yantra is not jaruri liye DS saath flashme installed kuki homebrew can be bheja to the DS using wmb.
However, is is nahin an easily-portable vidhi kuki the DS needs to be bheetar range of a suitable Wi-Fi card.
hai amareeki logon of japani viraasat.
Japanese america have historically been among the teen largest Asian amareeki communities, lakin in haal dashakon, it has become the chathe largest group at roughly 1,304,286, sahit those of mixed-race or mixed-ethnicity.
in the 2010 janasankhyikee, the largest japani amareeki communities yahood mila in california saath 272,528, hawaii saath 185,502, nai york with 37,780, washington with 35,008, or Illinois saath 17,542.
Southern california rai the largest japanese-american janasankhyikee in North america.
200px
is is a vyapak listing jisase highlights significant uplabdhiyaan and milestones aadhaarit upon billboard patrika 's singles charts, sabase notably the billboard hot 100.
is list spans isse the samasya dinaak janvari 1, 1955 to upasthit.
the billboard hot 100 began with the samasya dinaak agast 4, 1958, and is philhal the standard popular music chart in the sanyukt rajya.
prior to the creation of the Hot 100, billboard prakashit chaar singles charts : `` Best vikreta in stores '', `` Most nibhaai by Jockeys '', `` Most nibhaai in jukeboxes '' or `` The sheersh 100 ''.
ye chart, jisase ranged from 20 to 100 slot, yahood phased out at alag times between 1957 and 1958.
haalanki technically nahin bhaag of the hot 100 chart history, their data is shaamil liye computational purposes, or to avoid unenlightening or bhraamak characterizations.
sab vasteen soochibaddh below hai from the hot 100 era, jabatak otherwise noted ( pre-hot 100 chart ).
v is an amareeki science fiction television shrenee ki bhaaga liye two seasons on abisi, isse navambar 3, 2009 to March 15, 2011.
a remake of the 1983 miniseries nirmit by Kenneth Johnson, the new shrenee chronicles the aagaman on dharti of a technologically advanced alian species jisase ostensibly aata in salaam, but darasal has sinister motives.
V stars muraina baccarin, lourdes benedicto, morris shahbaloot, Joel gretsch, logan huffman, charles mesure, elizabeth mishael, laura Vandervoort or scot bhediya, or thi karypalika utpaadit by scot rosenbaum, Yves Simoneau, scot Peters, or jace haul.
the series thi utpaadit by the Scott Peters company, hdfilms and warner bhaius. television.
Geocaching is an bahari recreational kaaryaklap, in jisase the bhagidaar use a vaishvik positioning pranali ( GPS ) receiver or mobile yantra or anya navigational takneekon to hide or talash containers, pukaara `` geocaches '' or `` caches '', anywhere in the sansar.
A theth sanchay is a choti waterproof sangraahak containing a logbook where the geocacher enters the date ve mila it or signs it saath their sthapit code name.
baad hastakshar into the log, the sanchay jarur be lagaai back exactly where the vyakti mila it.
Larger containers such as plastic bhandar containers ( tupperware or samaan ) or ammunition boxes can bhi contain vasteen liye vyapaar, praayah toys or trinkets of choti maan.
geocaching saajha many pahaluon saath benchmarking, trigpointing, orienteering, treasure-hunting, letterboxing, or waymarking.
bogi bas productions thi a hip hop samooh ki thi originally composed of krs-one, d-nice, or DJ scot La chattan.
DJ scot la chattan thi murdered on August 27, 1987, maheene baad the relies of bdp 's debyue album, dand Minded.
the naam of the group, Boogie Down, garbhashayi isse a nickname liye the dakshin bronx section of the bronx, one of the paanch boroughs of nai york nagar.
the group pioneered the sanlayan of danceol regi and hip hop music and unke debyue lp dand minded contained frank descriptions of jivan in the dakshin bronx of the let 1980s yun setting the stage liye kayaa hota aakhirkaar become gangsta rap.
a nagarpalika bandha is a bandha issued by a local sarkari, or unke agenciyon.
Potential issuers of nagarpalika bonds include rajya, cities, counties, redevelopment agenciyon, special-purpose jile, skool districts, public utility jile, saream owned airport or seaports, or koi anya governmental entity ( or group of sarkarein ) at or neeche the state level.
nagarpalika bonds may be saamaanya obligations of the issuer or secured by nirdisht revenues.
in the sanyukt rajya, byaaj aay praapt by holders of nagarpalika bonds is praayah exempt from the federal income tax or from the aay tax of the state in jisase ve are jari, haalanki municipal bonds jari liye nishchit purposes may nahin be kar exempt.
naapsand nai samasya stox ki hai brought to market saath daam pratibandh jabatak the deal is bechi, nagarpalika bonds are free to vyapaar at any time ekbar ve hai purchased by the niveshkon.
peshewar vyapaariyon regularly trade and retrade the vahi bonds anek times a saptaah.
`` Gim me kuch lovin ' '' is a song written by steve Winwood, spencer Davis or muff winwood, or originally performed by The spencer Davis samooh.
The basic riff of the song was udhaar from the homer bainko song `` ( ai n't That ) a Lot of Love '', likhaa by bainko or vili Dean `` deanie '' parker.
`` gim me Some lovin ' '' thi a uk # 2 in the Autumn of 1966 or a US # 7.
the song is ranked # 247 on the rolling stone patrika 's suchi of The 500 Greatest Songs of sab samay.
the sanskaran issued in the UK ( and sambhawatah sabase of europea ) is alag isse that issued in the US on the United kalakaaron label, hone slower, or lacking the backing vocals or `` live sounding '' performance mila on the us single.
( The us sanskaran rai more praayah maharoom used on reissue cds, bhi those coming isse europea. )
The single suvidhaayen the sound of the hamend B-3 ang.
the antarjaal film database ( IMDb ) is an online database of soochna sambandhit to films, television kaarykram, or video games.
is shaamil actors, utpaadan crew karmiyon, or fictional characters pradarshit in ye teen visual entertainment media.
it is ek of the sabase popular online entertainment destinations, with over 100 million adwitiya upayokta each maah and a thos and rapidly growing mobile upasthiti.
iemdibi thi shubharambh on October 17, 1990, or in 1998 thi acquired by Amazon.com.
as of April 27, 2013, IMDb tha 2,503,783 sheershak ( shaamil apisod ) and 5,192,493 personalities in its database, as khub as 43 lakh panjikrut upayokta.
the jalsthal rai an alexa rank of 48.
fibre channel mejabaan Bus Adapter ( 64-bit pci-x card )
scsi mejabaan Bus adapter ( 16-bit isa card )
in computer hardware, a host niyantrak, mejabaan adapter, or host bas adapter ( hba ) connects a mejabaan pranali ( the computer ) to other network or storage divaais.
the sharten are primarily used to refer to divaais liye connecting scsi, fibre Channel or esata divaais.
however, divaais liye connecting to idii, Ethernet, FireWire, usb and anya systems may bhi be pukaara host adapters.
recently, the aagaman of iSCSI or fibre channel over ethernet rai brought parichay ethernet hbas, jisase hai different isse ethernet NICs in ki ve shaamil tisipi offload Engines.
There hai bhi converged hbas ki support dono ethernet or Fibre channel called converged sanjaal adapters ( cnas ).
cashmere scorf
Modern men 's cashmere sweaters liye sale.
cashmere wool, praayah bas gyaat as cashmere, is a fiber praapt isse cashmere bakriyon or anya prakaar of bakrii.
The shabd cashmere garbhashayi isse an boodha spelling of kashmir.
cashmere is thik in banaavat, damdaar, lite, and soft.
garments made from it provide behtareen insulation.
in the sanyukt rajya, antargat the U.S. oon utpaada labeling adhinium of 1939, as amended, ( 15 Uction 68b ( a ) ( 6 ) ), states that a wool or vastra product may nahin be labeled as containing cashmere unless:
aise oon utpaada is the thik ( dehaired ) undercoat fibers produced by a cashmere bakrii ( capra hircus laniger ) ;
the ausat vyas of the fiber of aise oon utpaada does nahin exceed 19 microns ; or
aise wool utpaada karata nahin contain more than 3 percent ( by vazan ) of cashmere fibers saath average diameters that exceed 30 microne.
the ausat fiber vyas may be vishay to a gunank of vibhinnata around the ausat that shall not exceed 24 pratishat.
jenifer convertibles inc. is the maalik or licensor of sofabed and leather specialty retail stores in the sanyukt rajya, with stores located throughout the purvi seaboard, in the Midwest, on the west coast or in the dakshinpaschim.
The company thi founded in 1975 or is based in Woodbury, New york.
on july 19, 2010, the company ghoshit ki it tha daayar for bankruptcy as a consequence of `` substantial nuksaan ''.
according to furniture aaj the company thi kramank 48 among furniture retailor saath us $ 114 lakh in bikri liye the saal samaapti agast 29, 2009.
it subsequently emerged isse adhyay 11 under the control of iske pramukh pradaayak, the haining mengnu samooh.
Egg phenken is a term prayukt liye anek different bhojan around the sansar.
2__egg_roll __ kismein of anda rolls hai found in menland china, anek chinese-speaking regions of asia, or Chinese immigrant samudaayon around the sansar.
Egg rolls as referred to in China.
in guangdong or Hong Kong, anda roll usually refers to biscuit phenken.
is is a prakaar of biscuit.
the sanghatak shaamil anda, aataa and sugar.
Egg phenken bhi is a dish in canton or hong Kong, is is usually bana saath sabzi.
Within china egg rolls hai khaaya predominantly in the southeast or are nahin as commonly khapat in the uttar or pashchimi bhaag of china.
in amareeki Chinese bhojan, an anda phenken is a savory dish typically parosa as an kshudhavardhak.
it is usually bharwaan saath murga, pork or shrimp, cabbage, gaajar, tamaato, saim sprouts or anya vegetables, or then gahan fried.
is kismein of the egg roll is bahut common and lokapriy, aarpaar bhi kshetreey varieties of amareeki chinis food, or is often shaamil as bhaag of a `` sangyojan platter ''.
in montrial, Canada, open-ended eggrolls hai a Jewish-Chinese sanlayan dish.
ve can be either kosher certified or merely kosher style.
pidaa or suffering is the vidhik pad liye the physical or emotional tanaav caused isse an chot ( dekhie bhi pidaa or ksht ).
kuch kshatipurti that might be under is shrenee hota be : aches, asthai and sthai limitations on activity, sambhavit shortening of life, depression or scarring.
jab filing a lawsuit as a result of an chot, it is aam liye kisi to talash dhan both in muaavje for vaastavik dhan ki is lost or liye the pidaa or tanaav sambhddha saath vastutah koi chot.
In a suit, pidaa or ksht is part of the `` saamaanya kshatipurti '' khand of the claimant 's claim, or, alternatively, it is an tatv of `` compensatory '' non-economic damages that allows recovery liye the dimagi anguish and/or physical pidaa endured by the claimant as a parinaam of chot liye which the plaintiff seeks parithosh.
Apart from dhan damages awarded in trial, dhan kshatipurti hai bhi given informally baahar the judicial pranali in mediations, madhyasthata ( both of jisase may be adaalat annexed or gaiyr litigated claims ) as khub as in dincharya insurance settlements.
Individual claimants or those represented by vakil often present demands to insurers to settle liye dhan.
ye demand liye bodily injury compensation monies often niyat out kshatipurti ki hai similarly used in the adaalat litigated pleadings.
maange hai praayah likhaa summaries of a claimant 's chikitsa parvaah or the tathy which resulted in the chot.
namoona of a medallion hastakshar guarantee stampIn
the sanyukt States or canada, a medallion hastakshar guarantee is a khaas signature guarantee liye the transafar of securities.
it is a guarantee by the transferring financial sanstha that the signature is vaastavik and the vittiya institution sweekrut deyta liye koi jaalsaji.
hastakshar guarantees protect shareholders by preventing anadhikrut hastantaran or sambhavit investor losses.
They also seemaa the deyta of the transafar agent jo accepts the praaanpatr.
alag sansthaanon have alag nitiyon as to what prakaar of identification ve aavashyaktaa to provide the guarantee or whether ve charge a fee liye aise seva ( praayah nammaatr if koi ).
sabase sansthaanon hoga nahin guarantee a hastakshar of kisi jo rai nahin already been their customer.
a medallion hastakshar guarantee is nahin the same as an acknowledgment by a notary public, in the bhav ki a `` hastakshar guarantee '' is a pramann by the institution ki the signature is pramanik, and an acknowledgment is a certification by a notary public attesting ki the signer hastakshrit a document voluntarily.
Some bainko may no longer provide is seva, however, anek still do as khub as other vittiya institutions aise as a bachat or lone or credit sangh.
at unke ekmaatr discretion, ye institutions may still manaahi to provide the medallion Signature guarantees.
jab US citizens hai videsh, some vittiya sansthaanon may accept sanyukt rajya duutavas seals, in place of the medallion hastakshar guarantee stamp.
Pacific electric rail streetcars stacked at a junkyard on terminal dweep, los angeles county, california, kooch 1956
the saamaanya motors streetkar shadyantr ( bhi gyaat as the great amareeki streetkar cond ) refers to doshaaropan or convictions in sambandh to a kaarykram by saamaanya motors ( gm ) or anya companies who kharida or tab dismantled streetcar and electric tren pranaaliyon in anek American shaharon.
between 1936 or 1950, National nagar linon or prashanth nagar Lines —with nivesh isse GM, firestone tair, Standard aayal of California, phillips petroleum, Mack trek, and the sangheey Engineering Corporation—bought over 100 electric surface-traction systems in 45 shaharon including Baltimore, neurk, Los angeles, New York nagar, Oakland and san diego or parivartit unhen into bas aaparishan.
Several of the companiyaan shaamil yahood convicted in 1949 of conspiracy to monopolize interstate commerce lakin yahood acquitted of conspiring to monopolize the swaamitv of ye companiyaan.
Some sujhaayen ki is program nibhaai a kunjee bhoomika in the manaahi of public pargaman in shaharon aarpaar the sanyukt States ; notably Edwin J. Quinby, jo first drew dhyaan to the kaarykram in 1946, or tab Bradford C. Snell, an anti-trust attorney liye the sanyukt rajya seenet whose vivaadaaspad 1974 gavaahi to a Senate poochtacha brought the samasya to neshnal awareness.
dono quinby or snell argued ki the deliberate destruction of streetcars thi part of a larger strategy to dhakka the sanyukt rajya into automobile nirbharta.
anya say that swatantra economic karkon brought about parivartan in the pargaman pranali, sahit the great avsaad, the public utility Holding company adhinium of 1935, majdoor ashaanti, market forces, rapidly increasing trekkic jamghat, shahari sprawl, karadhaan nitiyon ki favored nijee gadee swaamitv, and general enthusiasm liye the automobile.
ek lekhak on the subject has sujhaayaa ki snell or others fell into simplistic shadyantr theory soch, bordering on paranoid delusions saying `` clearly, gm waged a yuddh on electric karshan.
It was beshak an sab out utpeedan, but by no arthath the single kaaran for the failure of rapid pargaman.
bhi, it is bas as clear ki kriyaayein and inactions by sarkari contributed significantly to the elimination of electric karshan. ''
tabhi a choti handful of U.S. shaharon have surviving prabhavi rail-based urban transport systems aadhaarit on streetcars or trams, sahit neurk, philadelphia, San francisco, Pittsburgh, or boston ; anya hai re-introducing unhen.
the story rai been chaan several times in print, film and anya media, notably in jo framed roger khargosh, Taken for a sawari and the samaapt of Suburbia.
corwin House, Salem, masachusets, built ca. 1660, pehla Period angrezi
amareeki aupniveshik vaastukala includes several bhawan dizine sheliyaan associated saath the aupniveshik kaal of the United rajya, sahit pehla Period angrezi ( late-medieval ), French aupniveshik, spani aupniveshik, Dutch Colonial and georgian.
ye styles hai sambhddha saath the gharon, carch or sarkari imaaraten of the period isse about 1600 through the 19th sadi.
`` in the Mood '' is a big band era # 1 hit recorded by amareeki bandleader glen Miller.
it awwal the chart in 1940 in the u.S. or one saal later thi featured in the movie surya ghati serenade.
In 1999, neshnal Public radio ( npr ) shaamil the 1939 glen miller recording on aaarasie bluebird on the npr 100, the suchi of `` the 100 sabase important amareeki musical works of the 20th sadi ''.
varun logo
the NEPTUNE canada project is the world’s pehla regional-scale bhaate samandar vedhashala that plugs sidhe into the antarjaal.
chunki disambar 2009, it rai anumat logon to `` surf '' the seafloor jabaki samandar vaigyanikon chalaaen deep-water prayog from labs or vishvavidhyalayon around the sansar.
saath saath its sistar project, VENUS, varun offers a unique drushtikon to ocean vigyaan.
traditionally, samandar vaigyanikon have relied on infrequent jalayaan cruge or space-based satellites to carry out unke shodh, jabaki the varun project uses a remotely operated crollar.
a gramophone ricard, commonly gyaat as a phonograph record ( in amareeki English ), vinyl record ( in sandarbh to vinyl, the saamagree most commonly used baad parichay 1950 ), or colloquially, `` a ricard '', is an analog dhwani bhandar medium consisting of a flat discs saath an inscribed, modulated sarpil naalee.
The naalee usually starts nikat the periphery or ends nikat the center of the discs.
Phonograph record hai generally varnit by their vyas in inch ( 12-inch, 10-inch, 7-inch, ityadi. ), the rotational speed at jisase ve hai nibhaai ( `` 33 arpm ``, `` 78 '', `` 45 '', ityadi. ), their samay kshamta ( `` long playing '' ), their reproductive accuracy, or `` fidelity `` ( `` unchi fidelity '', `` orthophonic '', `` full-range '', ityadi. ), and the kramank of channels of audio provided ( `` mono ``, `` sterio ``, `` quadraphonic ``, etc. ).
phonograph record were the praathmik medium used liye music reproduction for most of the 20th sadi, replacing the phonograph belan, saath jisase it had co-existed, by the 1920s.
by the let 1980s, digital media had gained a larger market share, or the vinil record baayein the mukhyadhara in 1991.
ve continue to be manufactured and bechi in the 21st sadi.
in 2008, nearly 2.9 lakh units shipped, the sabase in koi saal chunki 1998 and the swaroop rai jari to dhire regain lokapriyata.
ve hai visheshkar prayukt by DJs or audiophiles liye anek prakaar of music.
as of 2013, vinil record continue to be prayukt for distribution.
Grassland in the Santa rojaa Plateau, california.
ghasbhumi in the antelope ghati, california
The konza tallgrass prairie in the chakamak pahadiyaan of northeastern kansas.
a grassland in the philippine.
an bhitari mongolian ghasbhumi in the logon 's Republic of china
grasslands are areas where the vegetation is dominated by grasses ( poesi ), however sedge ( Cyperaceae ) or fatafat ( juncaceae ) families can also be mila.
Grasslands occur naturally on sab mahadwipon magar antarctic.
In temperate latitudes, such as northwestern europea or the Great maidan or california in uttar America, native grasslands are varchasv by baramasi bunch grass prajati, whereas in warmer climates annual prajati rup a vrihad ghatak of the vanaspati.
grasslands hai mila in sabase ecoregions of the Earth.
liye udhaaharan vahin are paanch sthaliy ecoregion classifications ( subdivisions ) of the temperate grasslands, savannas, or shrublands biome ( ' ecosystem ' ), jisase is ek of eight terrestrial ecozones of the Earth 's sataha.
hina ( lawsonia inermis, bhi pukaara henna tree ) or hina is a flowering sanyantr, the ekmaatr prajati in the genus lawsonia in the family Lythraceae.
the English naam `` hina '' comes isse the Arabic ( ALA-LC : ḥinnāʾ / sunaaya ) or colloquially, loosely sunaaya.
the naam is bhi used liye dye preparations niklaa isse the sanyantr, or for the art of asthai godana based on those dyes.
hina rai maharoom prayukt chunki pracheenta to daai skin, hair, or fingernails, as khub as fabrics including resha, oon or chamade.
additionally, the naam is misused liye anya skin and bal dyes, aise as black hina or neutral hina, which hai nahin niklaa from the sanyantr.
a thin filmi is a parat of saamagree ranging isse bhinnon of a nanometer ( monolayer ) to several micrometers in motaai.
electronic semiconductor divaais or optical coatings are the main anuprayog benefiting isse thin-film construction.
a parichit application of patala films is the household darpan, which typically rai a thin metal coating on the waapas of a chadar of kaanch to rup a paravartak interfes.
The prakram of silvering was ekbar commonly used to upaj mirrors.
a very-thin-film coating ( kam than a nanometer motaa ) is used to upaj two-way mirrors.
The pradarshan of optical coatings ( e.g. antireflective, or ar, coatings ) are typically unnat when the thin-film coating consists of anek layers having varying thicknesses or refractive indices.
similarly, a periodic structure of prayavarti patala films of alag saamagree may collectively form a so-called superlattice jisase karname the ghatana of kwantum karawas by restricting electronic phenomena to two-dimensions.
Work is hone kiya with ferromagnetic or ferroelectric thin films for use as computer memory.
it is also hone lagu to davaayen, via thin-film drug delivery.
thin-films hai used to produce thin-film batteries.
Thin films hai also used in dye-sensitized solar cells.
Ceramic thin films are in chaudee use.
the apekshaakrit high kathorta and inertness of ceremic materials mek this prakaar of thin coating of byaaj for suraksha of substrate saamagree viruddh sanksharan, oxikaran or wear.
In particular, the use of aise coatings on kating tools can extend the jivan of ye vasteen by anek aadesh of magnitude.
Research is being kiya on a nai class of thin-film acarbonic oxide saamagree, called amorphous heavy-metal cation multicomponent oxides, jisase could be used to make paardarshee transistors ki hai inexpensive, stable, or environmentally benign.
gears of yuddh is a sainya vigyaan fiction third-person shooter video khel developed by apik khel and prakashit by microsoft khel Studios.
It thi initially released as an exclusive sheershak for the Xbox 360 in November 2005 in North america, Australia, or most of europea and shaamil a `` Limited colector 's Edition '' saath added saamagree or an art kitaab titled nasht saundarya ki detailed much of the khel 's back-story.
Despite the aarambhik kathan of Xbox 360 exclusivity, a microsoft khidkiyaan version of the khel thi viksit in sangyojan with logon can Fly and released a year later, featuring new saamagree including atirikt abhiyaan levels, a nai multiplayer game vidhi, and khel for Windows Live functionality.
the khel focuses on the sainikon of delta Squad as ve wield a hataash, last-ditch attempt to sahejen the baaki insaan nivaasiyon of the fictional planet sera isse a athak or seemingly ajey subterranean dushman gyaat as the Locust horde.
the khilaadi assumes the bhoomika of Marcus fenix ( lakin can bhi khel as Dominic Santiago ), a purv kaidi or war-hardened sipaahi.
The khel is aadhaarit on the upyog of cover or ranneetik aag liye the player to agrim through the scenarios ; a duusari khilaadi can play cooperatively through the pramukh abhiyaan to assist.
The game bhi suvidhaayen anek online ekaadhik khel mods for up to eight khilaadi.
gears of yuddh bechi over teen million nakal in bas ten saptaah or thi the fastest-selling video khel of 2005 as khub as the second-most nibhaai khel over exbox Live dauraan.
it philhal stands as the 5th behtareen selling exbox 360 game of sab time.
the game rai since sold over paanch lakh copies by September 2008.
the khel thi khub praapt by critics, jo praised iske gameplay and vistrut visuals, and it won several `` Game of the Year '' puraskaar in 2006.
the kamyaabi of the khel rai led to the vikaas of the gears of yuddh franchise, sahit the 2008 sequel gears of War 2 or iske follow-up, Gears of yuddh 3, jisase thi released on sitambar 20, 2011, after having initially maharoom set to have maharoom released on april 5, 2011, the date upon jisase Epic Games ' chattan bleszinski thi a atithi on let raatri saath jimmy fallon.
adaptations to kitabe, comics, as khub as a visheshta filmi hai to be apekshit.
a ped Grows in brukaleen is a 1943 anokhaa written by betty smith.
the story focuses on an irish-american parivaar in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, New York nagar.
the anokhaa is set in the pehla or duusari dashakon of the 20th century.
the kitaab was an immense kamyaabi.
the main roopak of the book is the hardi ped of swarg, deshi to China or Taiwan, abhi considered hridayrog, or aam in the vacant lot of nai York nagar.
World map saath the intertropical zone highlighted in red.
teevr climate zones of the dharti jahaan sab baarah months have ausat temperatures upar 18 °C ( 64 °f ).
The tropics is a pradesh of the Earth surrounding the equator.
it is simit in akshansh by the tropic of karkat in the northern golardh at lagbhag n or the Tropic of makar in the dakshini golardh at S ; ye latitudes correspond to the aksheeya tilt of the dharti.
the ooshnakaribandh are bhi referred to as the teevr mandal or the torrid mandal ( see bhugolic mandal ).
the ooshnakaribandh shaamil all the kshetron on the Earth jahaan the surya reaches a point directly overhead at least ekbar dauraan the solar saal.
the ooshnakaribandh are vishisht from the other climatic or biomatic regions of dharti, the middle latitudes or the dhruviya regions on either paksh of the equatorial mandal.
liye the inxs song, dekhie What tum need ( song ).
`` kayaa tum need '' is an episode of the amareeki television anthology shrenee The godhuli Zone.
it is based on the short story of the vahi name by louis padgett ( henry kuttner or C. L. moore ).
PlayhouseSquare, in the cleveland Theater zila in downtown cleveland, Ohio, is the second-largest theatre complex in the United rajya, duusari tabhi to nai York City 's lincoln bich ).
constructed in a span of 19 months in the jaldi 1920s, the theatre yahood subsequently band bas, lakin were revived through a grassroots praytn.
Their naveekaran or reopening helped usher in a nai era of shahar revitalization in cleveland, or thi pukaara `` ek of the sheersh ten safaltaaon in Cleveland itihaas. ''
the driver or yatri front airbags, after having maharoom tainaat, in a British peugeot 306 car.
an airbag is a gadee suraksha yantra.
It is an occupant sanyam system consisting of a lacheelee fabric envelope or cushion designed to inflate rapidly during an automobile collision.
iske purpose is to cushion occupants dauraan a krash or provide suraksha to their laashen jab ve strike aantarik vastuen aise as the parichaalan wheel or a khidki.
aadhunik vaahanon may contain anek airbag maudul in vibhinn paksh or frontal sthitiyaan of the passenger seating positions, or sensors may tainaat ek or adhik airbags in an prabhaav mandal at parivartaneey daron aadhaarit on the prakaar, kone and gambhirtha of prabhaav ; the airbag is designed to tabhi inflate in moderate to severe frontal krash.
airbags hai normally designed with the iraade of supplementing the suraksha of an occupant who is correctly restrained saath a seatbelt.
Most designs hai inflated through pyrotechnic arthath or can tabhi be sanchalit ekbar.
nae side-impact airbag maudul consist of sampidit air cylinders ki hai triggered in the event of a paksh prabhaav gadee prabhaav.
the first vanijyik dizin yahood introduced in passenger automobile dauraan the 1970s saath simit kamyaabi.
Broad vanijyik apnaanaa of airbags occurred in anek bazaar dauraan the let 1980s or early 1990s saath a driver airbag, and a saamne yatri airbag as khub on kuch gaadiyaan ; or anek modern vaahanon now shaamil four or adhik units.
irs kar forms hai prayukt for taxpayers or tax-exempt sanghathan to report vittiya soochna to the aatanrik aay seva ( irs ) of the United rajya.
ve hai prayukt to rapat aay, gananaa kar to be sashulk to the sangheey government of the sanyukt States, or disclose other information as jaruri by the aatanrik aay Code ( iarasi ).
vahin hai over 800 vibhinn form or schedules.
the best-known of ye is rup 1040 prayukt by individuals.
in the sanyukt rajya, driver 's licenses hai issued by each individual state ( sahit washington, D.C. or territories ), balki than the sangheey government kuki of the rajnatik avadharana of sanghavaad.
Drivers hai saamanytah jaruri to obtain a license isse unke rajya of nivas or sab rajya recognize prayek anya 's panktiyaan for temporary vizitor vishay to saamaanya age aavashyaktaayen.
a rajya may bhi barkhaastagi an vyaktigat 's driving privilege bheetar iske borders liye trekkic violations.
anek rajya share a common pranali of anugna varg, saath some apwaad, and commercial license varg hai manakikrut by sangheey viniman at 49 CFR part 383.
China rai maharoom the sorce of anek avishkaron, sahit the chaar Great avishkaron : papermaking, the compass, gunpowder, or printing ( both woodblock and movable type ).
The suchi below contains these and other inventions.
The chinis invented technologies involving yantriki, hydraulics, or ganit lagu to horology, metallurgy, khagolashastra, agriculture, engineering, music siddhanth, craftsmanship, nautics, or warfare.
by the yuddhrat States kaal ( 403–221 bc ), they tha unnat metallurgic technology, sahit the blast furnace or cupola furnace, jabaki the finery forge or puddling prakram yahood gyaat by the Han rajvansh ( 202 BC – ad 220 ).
a sophisticated aarthik system in China diya janam to inventions aise as paper dhan dauraan the song rajvansh ( 960–1279 ).
the avishkaar of gunpowder by the 10th sadi led to an sarani of inventions such as the aag talwaar, jameen meraa, naval meraa, haath cannon, exploding golon, multistage prakshepastra, or prakshepastra bam saath aerodynamic wings and visphotak payloads.
With the navigational aid of the 11th-century compass or kshamta to steer at high samudr saath the 1st-century sternpost rudder, premodern Chinese sailors sailed as far as East africa or mishra.
in water-powered clockworks, the premodern chinis tha used the escapement yantriki chunki the 8th sadi or the endless power-transmitting kadi drive in the 11th century.
ve also made vishaal mechanical kathputli theatre chalit by waterwheels and carriage pahiyon or wine-serving automatons chalit by chappu wheel naukaaye.
The contemporaneous peiligang or Pengtoushan samskritiyon represent the oldest Neolithic samskritiyon of china or yahood formed around 7000 bc.
kuch of the pehla avishkaron of Neolithic, pragaitihaasik china shaamil semilunar or rectangular stone knives, stone hoes or spades, the cultivation of bajra, rice or the soyabean, the refinement of sericulture, the bhawan of rammed dharti structures saath lim -plastered house floors, the sristi of the potter 's wheel, the sristi of pottery saath cord-mat-basket designs, the sristi of pottery tripods or pottery steamers, and the vikaas of ceremonial baratan and scapulimancy liye uddeshy of divination.
Francesca Bray argues ki the domestication of the ox or bhens during the longshan samskruti ( c. 3000–c. 2000 BC ) kaal, the absence of Longshan-era sinchai or high-yield crops, puraa evidence of longshan cultivation of dry-land khadyann fasalon jisase diya unchi yields `` only jab the mrudaa was carefully cultivated, '' sujhaayen ki the hal thi gyaat at tanik by the longshan samskruti period or explains the high agricultural utpaadan yields jisase anumat the vruddhi of chinis civilization dauraan the Shang Dynasty ( c. 1600–c. 1050 bc ).
saath baad inventions aise as the multiple-tube beej drill and baari moldboard aayran plow, China 's agricultural output could sustain a much larger janasankhyikee.
For the purposes of is suchi, avishkaron hai regarded as technological firsts viksit in china, and as aise does not shaamil videshi technologies jisase the Chinese acquired through contact, aise as the pavanchakki isse the Middle east or the doordarshee isse jaldi aadhunik europea.
it bhi karata not shaamil technologies developed elsewhere or baad invented separately by the chinis, aise as the odometer or kadi pump.
vaigyanik, mathematic or prakritik discoveries, parivartan in naaballig concepts of dizine or style and kalakaari navapravartanon can nahin be regarded as avishkaron or do not appear on the list.
sakal gharelu utpaada in 2011 us dollar per capita, samyojit liye inflation or khareednaa shakti parity ( log scale ) isse 1860 to 2011, saath janasankhyikee ( disk kshetrafal ) liye the us ( pilaa ), uk ( naarangi ), japani ( red ), China ( red ), and india ( blue ).
vaishvikaran ( or globalisation—see ssailing matbhed ) is the process of international sangyojan arising isse the interchange of sansar drishy, utpaada, vichaar, or anya pahaluon of samskruti.
put in saral terms, vaishvikaran refers to processes ki prachaar world-wide exchanges of neshnal or cultural resources.
Advances in parivahan or telecommunications avasanrachana, sahit the vruddhi of the antarjaal, hai major karkon in vaishvikaran, generating further interdependence of aarthik or cultural activities.
haalanki anek scholars place the origins of vaishvikaran in aadhunik times, others trace iske itihaas long pehle the europea age of discovery and voyages to the nai sansar.
kuch even tres the origins to the teesraa milinium bce.
Since the shuruuaat of the 20th sadi, the pace of vaishvikaran rai intensified at a rapid rate, visheshkar dauraan the post thanda War era.
the pad vaishvikaran rai maharoom in increasing upyog chunki the mid-1980s and visheshkar chunki the mid-1990s.
In 2000, the International Monetary nidhi ( imf ) identified four moulik pahaluon of vaishvikaran : vyapaar and tranjection, capital or investment andolanon, migration and gati of logon or the dissemination of gyaan.
Further, paryaavarniya challenges aise as climate badalen, cross-boundary jal or air pradooshan, or over-fishing of the samandar are linked saath globalization.
Globalizing prakriyaaon affect or hai prabhavit by kaarobaar and kaary sanghathan, arthshaastra, socio-cultural sansaadhan, or the prakritik environment.
the replacements is a 2000 amareeki sports comedy film nirdeshit by harvard deutch.
it sitaron kiyanu reeves, jin hackman, or bruke langton.
an amareeki airlines vayuyan takes band isse Dallas/Fort laayak antarrashtriya vimaanashetra.
This airport is the airline 's largest hub.
amareeki airlines udata to 79 domestic gantavyon or 78 antarrashtriya destinations in 48 countries.
( as of disambar 2012 )
The list shaamil the city, country, the code of the antarrashtriya air hastantaran sangh ( iata airport code ) or the antarrashtriya civil Aviation sanghathan ( ICAO vimaanashetra code ), or the vimaanashetra 's naam, saath the airline 's hubs, focus shaharon or seasonal destinations chihnit.
the suchi bhi contains destinations no longer parosa by the airline, which hai chihnit as terminated gantavyon.
it karata nahin include destinations parosa liye amareeki airlines by iske regional affiliates American tribhuj airlines, karypalika airlines, or americanconnection.
`` day-o ( the banana naav Song ) '' is a traditional jamaican mento lok song, the best-known sanskaran of jisase thi sung by Harry belafonte or an alternate version interspersed saath another jamaican folksong, hill and gulli savaar, by dame sharlee Bassey.
despite the song 's mento prabhaav, `` day-o ( the banana naav song ) '' is widely gyaat as an example of callypso music.
it is a work song, isse the point of drishy of dock workers working the raatri shift loading kele onto jahaajon.
daylight rai aaiye, the shift is over and ve want unke kaary to be gine up so ki ve can go home.
World yuddh I ( wwi ) thi a vaishvik yuddh kendrit in europea that began on 28 july 1914 and lasted jabatak 11 navambar 1918.
It thi predominantly pukaara the World yuddh or the great War from iske occurrence jabatak the prarambh of sansar yuddh II in 1939, or the pehla sansar yuddh or sansar yuddh i thereafter.
it involved all the sansar 's great shaktiyaan, which were samavet in do opposing alliances : the Allies ( based on the Triple entente of the sanyukt kingdom, France or rus ) and the central shaktiyaan ( originally the Triple gathbandhan of Germany, austria-hungary and Italy ; lakin, as austria–hungary tha liya the apriy viruddh the anubandh, italy kiya nahin daalen into the war ).
ye alliances were dono reorganised and expanded as more raashtra daalaa the war : italy, Japan or the United States joined the allies, or the osmani samrajya and bulgaria the central shaktiyaan.
Ultimately, more than 70 lakh military personnel, sahit 60 lakh Europeans, yahood mobilised in ek of the largest yudhon in history.
adhik than 9 lakh combatants were maare, largely kuki of technological advancements ki led to vishaal increases in the lethality of hathiyaar without sambandhit sudhaar in suraksha or gatishiltaa.
it was the fifth- deadliest virodh in sansar itihaas, subsequently paving the rasta for vibhinn rajnatik changes, aise as revolutions in many of the nations involved.
One of the long-term causes of the yuddh thi the resurgence of samrajyavad in the foreign nitiyon of the great powers of europea.
adhik tatkaal, the hatya of archduke Franz ferdinand of Austria, the vaaris to the singhaasana of austria-hungary, on 28 june 1914 by yugoslav rashtravaadi gavrilo Princip in sarajevo triggered a rajanyik crisis jab Austria-Hungary subsequently vitarit an ultimatum to the kingdom of srbija.
Several alliances formed over the pichhlaa decades yahood invoked.
bheetar weeks, the pramukh shaktiyaan yahood at war or, via unke colonies, the conflict jald sprad around the world.
On 28 july, the austro-hungarians fired the pehla goliyaan of the yuddh as taiyaari liye the invasion of srbija.
While the russians mobilised, the Germans invaded neutral belgium and dhvaj on the rasta to frans, providing a casus belli liye Britain 's declaration of yuddh viruddh germany.
baad the germany kooch on paris was brought to a halt—the so-called chamatkaar of the Marne —the Western saamne settled into a static battle of attrition with a gart lakeer ki badla choti jabatak 1917.
on the purvi saamne, the roosi fouj thi kaamyaab viruddh the austro-hungarians, lakin thi stopped in iske akraman of east prussia by the germans.
in navambar the Ottoman samrajya joined the yuddh, kholane up fronts in the kakeshas, Mesopotamia and the Sinai.
Italy or bulgaria gai to yuddh in 1915 or Romania in 1916.
in Russia, the tsar 's sarkari collapsed in kooch 1917 or a subsequent kranti in November brought the russians to sharten with the central Powers.
baad a 1918 germany apriy saath the pashchimi saamne, the Allies drove waapas the germans in a shrenee of kaamyaab offensives or amareeki shaktiyaan began pravesh the trenches.
germany, jisase tha iske own trubal saath krantikariyon, sahamat to an armistice on 11 navambar 1918.
The yuddh ended in vijay liye the allies.
kaarykram on the home fronts yahood as ugr as on the battle fronts, as the bhagidaar aajamaaya to mobilize unke manpower or aarthik resources to lado a total yuddh.
by the samaapt of the yuddh, four pramukh imperial powers—the germany, Russian, austro-hungarian or osmani empires—ceased to maujuud.
The successor rajya of the purv do khoyaa a great raashi of territory, jabaki the latter do yahood dismantled entirely.
the map of central europea was redrawn into anek choti rajya.
The lig of raashtra thi formed in the aashaa of preventing another such virodh.
the europea rashtrawaad shakhit by the yuddh and the brallep of empires, the parakhnaa of Germany 's shikast or problems saath the sandhi of versailles hai sahamat to be karkon contributing to World yuddh II.
Nurse Jackie is an amareeki shrenee ki premiered on june 8, 2009, on showtime, film central or the Movie Network.
the shrenee sitaron edie falco as the sheershak akshar Jackie peyton, an emergency vibhaag nurse at sab santo ' hospital in New york nagar.
For jaiki, `` prayek day is a high taar act of juggling marijon, doctors, fellow nurse or uske own indiscretions. ''
keeping up saath the kardashians ( praayah referred to bas as the kardashians ) is an American reality television series ki premiered on aktubar 14, 2007, on e !.
it follows the jeevandaan of the kardashian/jenner parivaar, sahit bahanon courtney, Kim, and Khloé kardasian.
the shrenee ' success rai led to the spin-offs courtney or kim lo nai York, khloé & laimor, Kourtney and khloé lo miami, or courtney or Kim lo miami.
Afghanistan ( ; ; ), officially the islamic ganatantr of afghanistan, is a landlocked sovereign rajya forming part of South asia, central asia, or to kuch extent pashchimi Asia.
it rai a population of around 30 million inhabiting an area of lagbhag, bananaa it the 42nd most populous or 41st largest swadesh in the world.
it is bordered by pakistani in the dakshin or the east, iraan in the west, Turkmenistan, uzbekistan and Tajikistan in the uttar, and China in the dur purvottar.
afghanistan rai been an pracheen focal point of the Silk sadak or human migration.
archaeologists have found pramaan of insaan habitation isse as far waapas as the madhya paleolithic.
Urban civilization may have begun in the kshetrafal as early as 3,000 to 2,000 bce.
baithe at an mahatvapurn geostrategic sthaan ki connects the madhya East samskruti saath central asia or the Indian subcontinent, the jameen rai maharoom ghar to vibhinn peoples through the aayu or witnessed many sainya abhiyaan, notably by sikandar the great, changez khan, and in aadhunik era pashchimi forces.
The land bhi parosa as a sorce isse jisase the greco-bactrians, kushans, hephthalites, Saffarids, ghaznavids, ghorids, Khiljis, timurids, mughalon, Durranis, or anya have risen to rup major empires.
the rajnatik itihaas of the aadhunik state of afghanistan begins in 1709, jab the hotaki rajvansh thi sthapit in Kandahar followed by ahamed shah durrani 's vruddhi to shakti in 1747.
in the let 19th sadi, afghanistan became a bafar state in the `` great khel `` between the British and roosi empires.
following the 1919 anglo-afghan War, king amanulla began a europea style modernization of the desh but thi roka by the ultra-conservatives.
dauraan the thanda War, baad the vaapasi of the angrejon isse neighboring india in 1947, the United rajya or the soviet sangh began spreading prabhaav in Afghanistan, jisase led to a khooni yuddh between the US-backed mujahidin forces or the soviet-backed afgaan sarkari in jisase over a million afghans khoyaa unke jeevandaan.
This was followed by the 1990s civil yuddh, the vruddhi and patan of the extremist Taliban sarkari and the 2001–present war.
In December 2001, the sanyukt raashtra suraksha parishad praadhikrut the sristi of the International suraksha sahaayta force ( isaf ) to sahaayta maintain security in afghanistan or assist the karzai prashasan.
teen dashakon of war bana afghanistan ek of the sansar 's most khatarnaak deshon, including the largest nirmaataa of sharnaarthiyon or asylum zaruratmandon.
While the antarrashtriya jatiyaan is punarnirmaan war-torn afghanistan, aatankwaadi samooh aise as the hakkaani sanjaal and hezbi islami are actively involved in a nationwide taliban -led ugravad, jisase shaamil hundreds of assassinations and aatmahatya attacks.
according to the sanyukt raashtra, the insurgents yahood jimmedaar for 80 % of civilian hataahat in 2011 or 2012.
the amareeki Civil yuddh ( acw ), bhi gyaat as the yuddh between the States or bas the civil yuddh ( see namakaran ), was a civil yuddh ladaa from 1861 to 1865 between the United States ( the `` sangh '' or the `` uttar '' ) or anek Southern slave states ki ghoshit unke secession and formed the Confederate rajya of america ( the `` confederacy '' or the `` dakshin '' ).
The yuddh tha iske utpatti in the samasya of slavery, especially the ekstansion of gulaami into the western territories.
videshi shaktiyaan kiya nahin intervene.
baad chaar years of khooni combat ki baayein over 600,000 sainiko murde or nasht much of the South 's avasanrachana, the confederacy collapsed, slavery thi abolished, or the mushkil punarnirmaan prakram of restoring neshnal unity and guaranteeing adhikaron to the freed slave began.
In the 1860 adhyakshiya chunaav, republicans, led by abraham lincoln, opposed expanding gulaami into sanyukt rajya ' territories.
Lincoln won, lakin pehle uske udghaatan on kooch 4, 1861, seven cotton-based slave states formed the confederacy.
outgoing loktantric adhyaksh James bukanan and the aavak Republicans rejected secession as illegal.
lincoln 's inaugural pataa ghoshit uske administration would not initiate civil yuddh.
aath baaki slave rajya jari to asweekrut calls liye secession.
confederate forces seized numerous sangheey durgon bheetar territory claimed by the confederacy.
a Peace sammelan vifal to dhundhen a sulah, or dono pahalu prepared liye yuddh.
the confederates assumed ki europea deshon were so nirbhar on `` king kapaas `` ki ve hota intervene ; none kiya or none pahachaanaa the new confederate States of america.
Hostilities began on april 12, 1861, jab Confederate shaktiyaan fired upon fort sumter, a kunjee fort yojit by sangh sainikon in dakshin Carolina.
lincoln called liye prayek rajya to provide sainikon to retake the fort ; natijatan, four adhik slave rajya joined the confederacy, bringing their total to gyaarah.
The sangh jald controlled the kinaaraa rajya or sthapit a naval blockade ki abodh the southern arthvyavastha.
the Eastern theatre thi inconclusive in 1861–62.
the patjhad 1862 confederate abhiyaan into maryland ( a sangh rajya ) ended saath Confederate retreat at the battle of Antietam, dissuading British intervention.
Lincoln jari the emancipation udghoshnaa, jisase made samaapti gulaami a yuddh goal.
To the west, by garmiyaan 1862 the sangh destroyed the confederate nadi navy, tab much of unke pashchimi sena, or the Union at vicksburg split the confederacy in two at the mississippi nadi.
in 1863, Robert E. lee 's Confederate incursion uttar ended at the Battle of Gettysburg.
Western safaltaaon led to ulysses S. Grant cmand of sab sangh armies in 1864.
in the pashchimi theatre, wiliam T. Sherman drove east to capchar atlanta or marched to the sea, destroying Confederate avasanrachana saath the rasta.
The Union marshaled the sansaadhan or janashakti to akraman the confederacy isse sab dishanirdesh, or could afford to lado ladaaiyon of attrition through the overland abhiyaan towards richmond, the confederate puunji.
The defending confederate army vifal, leading to lee 's surrender to Grant at appomattox Court house on april 9, 1865.
the amareeki civil yuddh thi ek of the earliest sachcha audyogic yudhon.
railroads, the telegraph, steamships, and mass-produced hathiyaar yahood employed extensively.
the mobilization of civilian kaarkaanon, khaanon, shipyards, banks, parivahan or khaanaa aapurtiyan all foreshadowed sansar War i.
it remains the deadliest yuddh in amareeki history, resulting in the deaths of an anumaanit 750,000 sainiko or an undetermined kramank of civilian hataahat.
itihaaskaar John Huddleston estimates the maut toll at ten pratishat of all uttari males 20–45 years old, or 30 percent of sab dakshini white males aged 18–40.
Cost of goods sold ( COGS ) refer to the inventory laagat of those goods a business has bechi dauraan a particular kaal.
laagat hai sambhddha with particular goods using one of anek formulas, sahit vishisht pahchaan, first-in first-out ( FIFO ), or average laagat.
laagat shaamil sab laagat of khariden, laagat of parivartan or anya costs incurred in bringing the inventories to unke present location or condishan.
Costs of goods bana by the business shaamil saamagree, labor, or allocated overhead.
the costs of those goods nahin yet sold hai deferred as laagat of inventory until the inventory is bechi or likhaa bas in value.
freak Lunchbox candi store in Halifax, Nova scotia
a confectionery store ( adhik commonly referred to as a mithi shop in the sanyukt Kingdom, a candi store in the uttar America, or a lolly shop in australia ) sells confectionery or is praayah targeted to children.
sabase confectionery stores hai bhar saath an assortment of mithai far larger than a grocer or convenience store could accommodate.
ve often prastaav a chayan of old fashioned treet, or mithai from alag deshon.
Very praayah unchanged in leout since unke inception, confectioneries are gyaat liye unke varming or nostalgic mahasoos.
the gaanv of pateley sethu daawa to have the oldest confectionery store in england.
the oldest mithi shop in england, in the gaanv of Pateley Bridge
Oklahoma ( ) ( pawnee : uukuhuúwa, Cayuga : gahnawiyoˀgeh ) is a state stith in West dakshin central United rajya.
Oklahoma is the 20th sabase extensive and the 28th sabase populous of the 50 United States.
the state 's name is derived isse the choctaw words okla or humma, meaning `` red people '', or it is gyaat informally by iske upnaam, the Sooner State.
Formed by the sangyojan of Oklahoma territory or bhartiya Territory on November 16, 1907, oklahoma thi the 46th rajya to enter the sangh.
iske nivaasiyon hai gyaat as Oklahomans or, informally `` okies '', and its puunji and largest city is oklahoma City.
a pramukh nirmaataa of natural gas, aayal, or krishi, oklahoma relies on an aarthik aadhaar of vimaanan, urja, telecommunications, or jaevpraudyogiki.
It rai ek of the tivratam growing economies in the nation, ranking among the sheersh states in prati capita income vikaas and sakal domestic utpaada vikaas.
oklahoma City or tulasa serve as Oklahoma 's primary aarthik anchors, saath nearly do tihaai of oklahomans living bheetar their mahanagar sankhyikeey kshetron.
saath choti pahaad seemayen, preyari, mesas, and purvi wanon, most of Oklahoma jhooth in the great maidan and the u.s. aantarik hilands —a pradesh especially prone to kathor mausam.
in jod to having a vyapaktaa of angrezi, germany, scottish, irish or deshi amareeki ancestry, adhik than 25 deshi amareeki bhashaaen hai bolaa in oklahoma, second tabhi to california.
Oklahoma is stith on a sangam of three pramukh amareeki saanskrithik regions or historically parosa as a root liye choupayon drive, a destination for dakshini settlers, or a government-sanctioned territory liye deshi Americans.
stacked or standing car tair
A tire ( or tair ) is a ring-shaped covering ki fits around a wheel 's rim to protect it or enable behatar gadee pradarshan.
sabase tair, such as those liye automobiles or bicycles, provide karshan between the gadee and the sadak jabaki providing a lacheelee cushion ki absorbs shock.
the saamagree of aadhunik neumatic tair are synthetic rabar, prakritik rubber, fabric or taar, along saath carbon blike or other rasinic yogicon.
ve consist of a tread or a deh.
the tread provides karshan jabaki the deh provides containment for a maatra of sampidit air.
pehle rubber was viksit, the first sanskaran of tair yahood bas bands of metal ki fitted around wooden wheels to prevent pahanen or tear.
Early rabar tair yahood thos ( not neumatic ).
Today, the majority of tair are neumatic inflatable structures, comprising a doughnut-shaped deh of rassiyaan or wires encased in rubber or generally bhar saath sampidit air to rup an inflatable cushion.
Pneumatic tair hai prayukt on anek types of vaahanon, including cars, bicycles, motorcycle, trek, earthmovers, or vayuyan.
metal tair hai still used on locomotives or railcars, and thos rubber ( or anya polimur ) tires hai still used in various non-automotive anuprayog, such as kuch casters, cart, lawnmowers, or wheelbarrows.
Dr. Joseph warren ( June 11, 1741 – June 17, 1775 ) was an amareeki doctor jo played a agrani bhoomika in American Patriot sanghathan in Boston in jaldi dinon of the amareeki kranti, eventually sevarat as adhyaksh of the krantikari Massachusetts prantiy congress.
Warren yogic paul Revere or wiliam dawes on april 18, 1775, to chhod boston or sprad the sachetak ki the angrejon garrison in boston was setting out to red the kasbaa of concord or giraftaar rebel netao jon Hancock or samuel adams.
warren participated in the next day 's ladaaiyon of Lexington or Concord, jisase hai commonly considered to be the kholane engagements of the amareeki Revolutionary yuddh.
Warren had been commissioned a pramukh saamaanya in the upnivesh 's milicia shortly pehle the june 17, 1775 Battle of bunker hill.
balki than exercising uske rank, warren parosa in the battle as a private sipaahi, or thi killed in combat when angrejon sainikon stormed the redoubt atop nasl 's Hill.
uske maut, immortalized in jon trumbull 's painting, the maut of saamaanya warren at the Battle of bunker 's hill, june 17, 1775, jasti the vidrohi shaktiyaan, or he has maharoom memorialized in anek place names in the sanyukt rajya.
stm chitra of self-assembled supramolecular zanjeeron of the organic semiconductor quinacridone on Graphite.
an sashulk semiconductor is an organic saamagree with semiconductor gun, ki is, saath an electrical conductivity between that of insulators and ki of dhaatuon.
single molecules, short kadi ( oligomers ) or sashulk polymers can be semiconductive.
semiconducting choti anuon ( khushboodaar hydrocarbons ) shaamil the polycyclic khushboodaar compounds pentacene, anthracene, or rubrene.
polymeric sashulk semiconductors shaamil bahu ( 3-hexylthiophene ), bahu ( p-phenylene vinylene ), as khub as polyacetylene or iske derevative.
There hai do pramukh overlapping varg of sashulk semiconductors.
ye are organic charge-transfer devalayas or vibhinn linear-backbone conductive polymers niklaa isse polyacetylene.
Linear ridh sashulk semiconductors shaamil polyacetylene itself or iske derivatives polypyrrole, and polyaniline.
at tanik locally, charge-transfer devalayas often pradarshnee samaan conduction mechanisms to acarbonic semiconductors.
aise mechanisms uthta isse the presence of chhed or electron conduction paraton alag by a band gap.
jabaki aise clasik mechanisms hai important locally, as saath acarbonic amorphous semiconductors, tunnelling, sthaniyakrut states, gatishiltaa gap, or phonon -assisted hopping bhi significantly contribute to conduction, visheshkar in polyacetylenes.
jaise acarbonic semiconductors, sashulk semiconductors can be doped.
Organic semiconductors susceptible to doping aise as polyaniline ( ormecon ) or are also known as sashulk metals.
Typical current vaahak in sashulk semiconductors are chhed or electrons in π-bonds.
lagbhag sab organic solids hai insulators.
But jab unke constituent anuon have π-conjugate systems, electrons can move via π-electron badal overlaps, visheshkar by hopping, tunnelling or sambandhit mechanisms.
Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons or phthalocyanine namak crystals are udhaaharan of is prakaar of organic semiconductor.
mukhyatah due to low gatishiltaa, bhi unpaired electrons may be stable in charge-transfer devalayas.
Such unpaired electrons can falan as vartmaan vaahak.
is prakaar of semiconductor is bhi praapt by pairing an electron daata anu saath an electron acceptor anu.
maadaa skhalan is the expulsion of drav by insaan mahilaon from the paraurethral nalikaayen through and around the female urethra dauraan or pehle an orgasm.
it is bhi gyaat colloquially as gushing or squirting, although ye hai mana to be alag phenomena in kuch shodh publications.
The sateek sorce or prakruti of the drav continue to be a topic of bahes among medical peshewar, jisase is bhi sambandhit to doubts over the existence of the g-spot.
the FIFA mahilaon 's sansar cap is an antarrashtriya sangh footbaal pratiyogita contested by the varisht women 's neshnal tiimon of the sadasyon of fédération Internationale de Football sangh ( FIFA ), the khel 's vaishvik shaasi deh.
the championships rai been awarded prayek chaar saalo chunki the inaugural tournament in 1991.
Japan jiti the 2011 tournament in a dand shootout.
the vartmaan swaroop of the toornament involves 16 tiimon spardhaa liye the title at venues bheetar the host swadesh ( s ) over a kaal of parichay teen saptaah ; – this phase is praayah pukaara the sansar Cup final.
A qualification phase, jisase philhal takes place over the preceding teen saalo, is prayukt to determine jisase teams qualify for the toornament saath saath the host swadesh ( s ).
the fifa mahilaon 's sansar cap is recognized as the sabase important antarrashtriya pratiyogita in women 's footbaal or is nibhaai amongst women 's national football tiimon of the sadsy rajya of fifa, the khel 's global shaasi deh.
the pehla mahilaon 's sansar cap toornament, namit the mahilaon 's sansar championships, thi held in 1991, sixty-one years baad the main 's pehla fifa sansar Cup toornament in 1930.
The chah sansar cap tournaments have been won by four alag neshnal tiimon.
The next World cap hoga be hosted by canada in 2015.
scorpions is a yang vayask anokhaa likhaa by walter dean myrs, pehla prakashit in the sanyukt rajya by harper & Row on June 20, 1988.
saamne pej of a 17th sadi Hebrew bible by Joseph Athias, abhi at Beth hatefutsoth, israel
'son of man ' is the translation of vibhinn yahudee or unani vaakyansh prayukt in dono the Hebrew Bible and the nai Testament.
it rai diverse meanings, ranging isse a saamaanya insaan hone to a prophesied anant, daivi shaasha.
the yahudee abhivyakti `` son of man '' ( בן–אדם i.e. ben-'adam ) appears one sau or seven times in the yahudee bible.
is is the sabase aam yahudee nirmaan for the singular but is prayukt zyaadaatar in Ezekiel ( 93 times ) or 14 times elsewhere.
in tees do maamle the phrase appears in intermediat plural rup `` bete of main '', i.e. insaan beings.
as generally interpreted by Jews, it denotes humankind generally.
in the Koine Greek of the New vasiyat, `` the bete of man '' is invariably prayukt as `` ὁ υἱὸς τοὺ ἀνθρώπου '' with a definite aalekh.
the upyog of the definite aalekh in `` the son of man '' in the isai gospels is anokhaa, and pehle iske use vahin, no record of iske use in koi of the surviving Greek dastauez of antiquity maujuud.
geza Vermes has stated ki `` the bete of man '' in the isai gospels is unrelated to Hebrew bible usages.
in isai usage, naapsand the Son of parameshwar title, jisase rai maharoom an anivaary tatv of isai creeds chunki the Apostolic aayu, the udghoshnaa of `` yishu as the Son of man '' has never maharoom an aalekh of aasthaa in christianity.
The nirvachan of the upyog of `` the bete of man '' in the nai vasiyat rai remained challenging and baad 150 saalo of bahes no sarvasammati on the issue rai ubhara among vidwaanon.
Master of foxhounds lead the field isse powderham kila in devon, england, with the hounds in front.
fox shikaar is an kaaryaklap involving the tracking, peechha, and sometimes hatya of a fox, traditionally a red fox, by prashikshit foxhounds or anya saint hounds, or a samooh of nihathe anusarankarta led by a nipun of foxhounds, jo follow the hounds on pair or on horseback.
Fox shikaar originated in the form practised until recently in the sanyukt Kingdom in the 16th century, lakin is practised sab over the world, including in australia, Canada, frans, ireland, italy and the sanyukt rajya.
in australia, the term also refers to the shikaar of foxes saath firearms samaan to spotlighting or hiran shikaar.
in much of the sansar hunting in saamaanya is samajha to sunaanaa to koi khel pashu or hathiyaar ( e.g., hiran shikaar saath bow and tir ) ; in britain or Ireland, `` shikaar '' bagaiyr yogyata implies fox shikaar ( or other form of shikaar with houndaus- beagling, stag hunting, mink shikaar, drag hunting or shikaar the clean boot ) as varnit yahan.
The khel is vivaadaaspad, particularly in the uk, jahaan it was bain in scotland in 2002, or in england or wales in navambar 2004 ( vidhi enforced isse farvari 2005 ), though shooting foxes as vermin remained vidhik.
proponents of fox hunting drishy it as an important bhaag of gramin samskruti and upyogi liye kaaran of sangrakshan and pest control, while pratidwandviyon argue that it is bedard and anaavashyak.
tambaaku vigyaapan is the vigyaapan of tobacco utpaada or upyog ( typically cigarette dhumrapaan ) by the tambaaku udyog through a kismein of media sahit praayojan, particularly of sporting kaarykram.
It is abhi ek of the sabase atyadhik regulated form of marketing.
Some or all form of tambaaku vigyaapan hai banned in many deshon.
balli technologies, inc. is a manufacturer of slot mashine and anya gaming praudyogiki aadhaarit in las vegas, newada.
the company was founded in 1968 as unnat patent praudyogiki.
it eventually badla iske naam to Alliance gaming or acquired, in 1996, balli gaming antarrashtriya, a purv division of Bally nirmaan.
in 2006, the entire company adopted the balli name, a trademark that originated in 1932 by the Bally Manufacturing nigam.
Gustave doré 's engravings illustrated the daivi kamedi ( 1861–1868 ) ; yahan, Dante is lost in canto 1 of the inferno.
inferno ( italvi liye `` Hell `` ) is the pehla bhaag of dante elegiyari 's 14th-century apik kavita daivi kamedi.
it is followed by purgatorio or Paradiso.
It is an allegory telling of the yatra of dante through narak, guided by the roman kavi virgil.
in the kavita, Hell is depicted as nau vrutt of ksht stith within the dharti.
allegorically, the daivi Comedy represents the journey of the soul towards parameshwar, with the Inferno describing the recognition and asweekruti of sin.
smaranof is a brand of vodka swaamitv or utpaadit by the British company Diageo.
the smaranof brands began with a vodaka distilleri santhaapit in masco by pyotr arsenievich smirnov ( 1831–1898 ).
it is abhi distributed in 130 deshon.
It is produced in several deshon including india, ireland, italy, the United kingdom and the sanyukt States.
smaranof utpaada shaamil vodka, flavoured vodaka, and malt peya.
In March 2006, diageo uttar America claimed ki smaranof vodaka was the best-selling asut spirit brands in the world.
Big Brown ( foaled April 10, 2005 in Kentucky ) is a ritred champion amareeki thoroughbred racehorse or vijeta of the 2008 kentki Derby or 2008 preakness stakes.
karavaaya by dr. geri B. Knapp 's monticule Farms in lexington, kentki, he jiti uske pehla five race starts.
He thi sired by grad iii winner boundary, a bete of uttar amareeki champion sire danzig, a bete of Northern nartki.
Big bhura 's baandh thi mien, bhi a granddaughter of uttari nartki through uske sire, nureyev.
the serenity Prayer is the common name liye an originally untitled dua by the amareeki theologian reinhold niebuhr ( 1892–1971 ).
it rai maharoom apanaaya by Alcoholics benaam or anya twelve-step programs.
The best-known rup is : parameshwar, grant me the serenity to accept the bate i can nahin change,
The himmat to badalen the bate i can,
or akl to jaan the antar.
the ghoshnaa and resolves of the pehla Continental Congress ( bhi gyaat as the Declaration of aupniveshik Rights, or the ghoshnaa of adhikaron ), was a bayaan adopted by the pehla Continental congress on aktubar 14, 1774, in response to the Intolerable adhiniyamon passed by the British parliament.
The Declaration outlined colonial objections to the Intolerable adhiniyamon, soochibaddh a aupniveshik bill of rights, or provided a vistrut list of grievances.
it was similar to the ghoshnaa of adhikaron or Grievances, passed by the stamp adhinium congress a dashak pehle.
the ghoshnaa concluded with an ruparekha of Congress 's yojanaayen : to enter into a bahishkaar of angrejon vyapaar ( the mahadwipiya sangh ) jabatak unke grievances were redressed, to publish pataa to the logon of great britain and angrejon America, or to bhejein a petition to the king.
Pulse dabaav is the dabaav ki is laga when feeling the pulse.
measured in millimeters of paara ( mmHg ), the pressure antar between the systolic or diastolic pressures is the dabaav badalen to banaaen the pulse, jisase is the pulse dabaav.
if resting blood dabaav is ( systolic/diastolic ) 120/80 millimeters of paara ( mmhg ), pulse dabaav is 40.
the pahadiyaan is a vaastaviktaa television series which originally aired on MTV isse may 31, 2006 jabatak july 13, 2010.
the show upyog a vaastaviktaa television swaroop, following the personal jeevandaan of anek yang vayaskon jeena in los angeles, california, lakin tends towards a katha swaroop more commonly mila in scripted genres such as sabun operas.
the series originally followed the personal jivan of former laguna bich star Lauren conrad or uske mitron ' nai jeevandaan in los angeles.
After paanch seasons, conrad baayein the shrenee or was replaced by another purv laguna bich star, kristin Cavallari, shuruuaat in the second half of the fifth ritu.
the shrenee concluded at the samaapt of the chathe season.
entertainment saptahik ranked the Hills 82nd on unke suchi of `` The 100 behtareen shows of the Last 25 saalo, '' stating ki the shrenee thi a `` nai clasik. ''
AOL tv called it TV 's biggest Guilty Pleasure.
the shrenee premiered in anuprayog in the patan of 2009 alongside laguna Beach : The real Orange County.
in pokar, karaab taal is a subjective pad liye a hand in jisase a khilaadi saath kayaa appear to be damdaar taash nevertheless loses.
It most often occurs jahaan one khilaadi bets the clearly stronger hand or unke opponent makes a poor call ki eventually `` hits '' or vins.
vahin is no sarvasammati among pokar khilaadi as to kayaa exactly constitutes a bad taal or praayah khilaadi hoga asahmat parichay whether a particular haath was a bad taal.
the goldfish ( Carassius auratus auratus ) is a freshwater machhlee in the family cyprinidae of anukram cypriniformes.
It was ek of the earliest machhlee to be domesticated, or is ek of the sabase commonly kept equarium machhlee.
a apekshaakrit choti sadsy of the carp parivaar ( jisase bhi includes the koi carp or the crucian carp ), the goldfish is a domesticated sanskaran of a less-colorful carp ( Carassius auratus ) deshi to east asia.
It thi pehla domesticated in china adhik than a hajaar saalo pehle, or several pruthak breeds have chunki maharoom viksit.
goldfish breeds vary greatly in aakaar, body aakaar, jode vinyas or coloration ( vibhinn combinations of shwet, pilaa, orange, red, bhura, or blike are gyaat ).
uncooked rouladen
rouladen ( or rinderroulade, ekvachan : roulade ) is a German maance roulade usually consisting of bekan, pyaaj, sarson and pickles wrapped in thinly sliced beef jisase is then pakaaya.
In some countries, the roulade is bhi gyaat as `` beef jaitoon ''.
bif or vil is prayukt as maance haalanki kuch khaanaa vidwaanon tend to believe that the asli sanskaran thi sambhawatah venison or pork, or pork is still popular in some areas.
the beef rouladen as we jaan them today have become lokapriy over the last sadi.
the cut is usually topside bif or silverside chunki is is the sasta kaaten.
the adhik expensive sanskaran would be the golakaar stick, bhi gyaat as rump steak.
The maance is cut into vishaal, thin slis.
The bharna is a mixture of smoked and cooked pork belly, kataa pyaaj or kataa achaar ( gurken ) which is at times varied by adding minced maance, sockes maance, pine nuts or sarson.
the mishran varies isse pradesh to pradesh.
rouladen hai traditionally served liye dinar.
Red wine is praayah served saath is dish.
theth eukaryotic koshika.
cellular shwasan is the set of the metabolic pratikriyaayein or prakriyaaon that lo place in the koshikaayen of jeevon to badalen biochemical energy isse nutrients into adinosin triphosphate ( atipi ), or tab relies barbaad utpaada.
the pratikriyaayein shaamil in respiration hai catabolic pratikriyaayein, which brake vishaal molecules into smaller ones, releasing urja in the prakram as kamjor so-called `` high-energy '' bonds hai replaced by stronger bonds in the utpaada.
Respiration is ek of the key ways a cell gains upyogi urja to eendhan cellular kaaryaklap.
cellular respiration is mana an ooshmakshepi radox pratikriya.
the overall pratikriya is tutaa into many choti ones when it occurs in the deh, most of jisase hai radox pratikriyaayein themselves.
Although technically, cellular shwasan is a dahan pratikriya, it clearly karata nahin resemble ek jab it occurs in a jeena cell.
is antar is kuki it occurs in anek separate kadam.
jabaki the overall pratikriya is a combustion reaction, no single reaction that comprises it is a dahan reaction.
Nutrients ki are commonly prayukt by animal and sanyantr cells in shwasan shaamil sugar, amino acids or vasiy acids, or a aam oxidizing agent ( electron acceptor ) is aanvik oxygen ( o2 ).
the urja stored in atipi ( iske teesraa phosphate samooh is weakly bonded to the baaki of the anu or is cheaply tutaa allowing stronger bonds to rup, thereby transferring urja for upyog by the koshika ) can tab be used to drive processes requiring energy, including jaivasanshleshan, locomotion or transportation of anuon aarpaar koshika jhilliyon.
deshon by 2011 jidipi ( nammaatr ) according to the siie sansar Factbook.
is aalekh shaamil a suchi of countries in the sansar sorted by unke sakal gharelu utpaada ( jidipi ), the market value of sab final goods or sevaayen isse a nation in a die saal.
the jidipi dollars estimates prastut here are gananaa at market or sarkari aadhikarik exange rates.
anek economies jisase hai not mana to be countries ( world, the EU, or kuch nirbhar territories ) are shaamil in the suchiyaan kuki they appear in the strot.
ye economies hai nahin ranked in the chart here, but hai soochibaddh jahaan applicable.
The figures presented yahan do not lo into khaataa differences in the cost of jeena in alag deshon, and the parinaam can vary greatly isse ek saal to another aadhaarit on fluctuations in the exchange rates of the country 's karency.
aise fluctuations may badalen a desh 's ranking isse ek year to the next, bhi haalanki they praayah mek little or no antar to the standard of living of iske janasankhyikee.
isliye these aankade chahie be prayukt saath saavdhaanee.
kuch countries/regions may have citizens which hai on average dhanwaan.
ye countries/regions could appear in is suchi as having a small GDP.
This hota be because the country/region soochibaddh has a choti population, or therefore small kul arthvyavastha ; the jidipi is gananaa as the population times the maal prati capita.
Comparisons of neshnal wealth are bhi aksar made on the aadhaar of khareednaa power parity ( PPP ), to samaayojan liye matbhed in the laagat of jeena in alag deshon.
( dekhie suchi of deshon by jidipi ( ppp ) )
ppp largely removes the exchange rate problem, lakin rai iske own kamiyaan ; it does nahin reflect the value of aarthik output in antarrashtriya trade, or it bhi requires adhik estimation than nammaatr jidipi.
on the whole, ppp prati capita figures hai more narrowly spread than nammaatr GDP per capita aankade.
the first suchi shaamil aankada compiled by the sanyukt raashtra Statistics prabhag for 2011.
the duusari suchi largely includes aankada ( anumaan ) compiled by the antarrashtriya maudrik Fund liye 2012.
the teesraa suchi shows the sansar bainko 's zyaadaatar 2011 estimates, or the fourth list shaamil zyaadaatar 2012 estimates isse the siie sansar Factbook.
lapping is a machining prakram, in jisase do satahon are mala saath saath an abrasive between them, by hand gati or by way of a yantra.
This can take do form.
the pehla prakaar of lapping ( traditionally pukaara pis ), typically involves ragad a bhangur saamagree aise as kaanch viruddh a sataha aise as aayran or kaanch itself ( also gyaat as the `` god '' or pis tool ) with an akkhad such as aluminium oxide, jeweller 's rouge, optician 's rouge, emry, silicon carbide, diamond, etc., in between unhen.
is produces microscopic conchoidal fractures as the akkhad rolls about between the two satahon or removes saamagree from both.
the other rup of lapping involves a softer saamagree aise as pich or a ceremic liye the god, jisase is `` charge '' with the akkhad.
The god is tab used to cut a harder material—the workpiece.
The abrasive embeds within the softer material which holds it or permits it to score aarpaar and kaaten the harder saamagree.
liya to a finer limit, is hoga upaj a polished surface aise as saath a policing cloth on an automobile, or a policing cloth or polishing pich upon glass or steel.
liya to the ultimate seemaa, with the sahaayta of accurate interferometry or specialized policing machines or skilled haath polishing, lensmakers can upaj surfaces ki hai chapata to behatar than 30 nanometers.
is is ek beesvin of the wavelength of lite isse the commonly prayukt 632.8 nm helium neon leisure light source.
satahon is chapata can be molecularly bandhua ( optically contacted ) by bringing unhen saath antargat the sahi conditions.
( is is not the same as the wringing prabhaav of johansan blocks, haalanki it is similar ).
the pad `` america 's toli '' is a popular nickname in the United rajya ki refers to the dalas Cowboys in the National footbaal lig.
The nickname originated with the team 's 1978 hilite filmi, where the narrator opens with the following parichay : the pad is pahachaanaa or praayah prayukt by media outlet, sahit ESPN, yahuu !, echbio khel, or khel illustrated.
my dai 's a pishaach ( French : ma gardienne est un pishaach ) is a 2011 canadai television series, aadhaarit on the television filmi of the vahi naam.
in canada, the series premiered in french on télétoon on farvari 28, 2011, in angrezi on Teletoon on kooch 14, 2011, or on dijani channel in the sanyukt States on june 27, 2011.
the show thi nirmit by bhais tv, creators of 6teen or kul naatak.
The show folo ethan morgan ( mathew Knight ), jo, in the television film, learns that uske babysitter sara ( venesa morgan ) is a pishaach.
in the filmi, he learns he is samarth to have visions or his behtareen dost benny viyar ( atticus Mitchell ) is a spellmaster.
the series folo the teen as ve take on supernatural shaktiyaan or have adventures, with occasional help from fellow vampires rori ( cameron kennedy ) or erika ( Kate tod ), while dealing with the troubles of niyamit unchi school jivan.
a duusari season thi confirmed to prarambh production in sitambar 2011 or it pehla premiered on Disney Channel on June 29, 2012, it premiered on teletoon September 6, 2012.
Télétoon prarambh featuring season 2 sneak-peak episodes on aktubar 28, 2012 or premiered it on janvari 10, 2013
chakma b shrenee utility circa 1950, driven by Albert namatjira
A pikup trek or pick-up, praayah bas referred to as a pikup, is a light motor gadee saath an open-top, rear cargo area ( bed ).
in North America, the pad pikup is prayukt for lite trek saath a halkaa duty chassis and factory nirmit, integrated bed, as khub as for coupé utility vaahanon, praayah aadhaarit on a nijee car chassis, lakin also praayah on a khaas samarpit chassi liye aise upyog.
kuch deshon have unke apana terms similar to pikup, aise as ute in australia or New jiland, or bakkie in South africa.
vishaal pickup trek hai somewhat viral in europea, jahaan vine or light lorries hai commonly used for similar bhoomikaaye.
the adhyaksh of the United States of America ( POTUS ) is the head of state or head of sarkari of the sanyukt States.
the adhyaksh leads the karypalika shakha of the federal sarkari or is the commander-in-chief of the United rajya hathiyaarband shaktiyaan.
aalekh ii of the U.S. samvidhan vests the karypalika shakti of the sanyukt States in the president or aarope him saath the nishpaadan of sangheey law, alongside the jimmedaari of appointing federal executive, rajanyik, niamak, and judicial adhikariyon, or concluding treaties with foreign shaktiyaan, saath the advice and sahmati of the seenet.
the adhyaksh is further shashakt to grant sangheey pardons or reprieves, or to convene and adjourn either or dono houses of congress antargat asaadhaaran circumstances.
chunki the founding of the sanyukt rajya, the power of the adhyaksh and the sangheey sarkari have grown substantially and prayek aadhunik adhyaksh, despite possessing no aupchaarik vidhaan shaktiyaan beyond hastakshar or vetoing congressionally passed bills, is largely jimmedaar for dictating the legislative kaarysoochee of uske party or the videshi or domestic policy of the sanyukt rajya.
the adhyaksh is aksar described as the sabase shaktishaalee person in the world.
The adhyaksh is indirectly nirvaachit by the people through the chunavi College to a four-year term, and is ek of tabhi do nationally nirvaachit federal officers, the anya hone the vaais adhyaksh of the sanyukt States.
The twenty-second amendment, apanaaya in 1951, prohibits anyone isse ever hone nirvaachit to the presidency liye a teesraa puraa pad.
it bhi prohibits a vyakti from hone elected to the presidency more than ekbar if ki vyakti previously tha parosa as president, or acting adhyaksh, liye more than two saalo of another vyakti 's pad as adhyaksh.
In all, 43 individuals have parosa 55 four-year sharten.
on janvari 20, 2009, baraak Obama became the 44th or vartmaan adhyaksh.
on navambar 6, 2012, he thi re-elected or is anusuchit to serve until janvari 20, 2017.
Bottled mineral jal
bottleband water is drinking jal ( e.g., well jal, asut jal, khanij jal, or vasant jal ) packaged in plastic or kaanch jal botalon.
bottleband jal may be carbonated or nahin.
Sizes dayera isse choti single serving bottles to large carboys for jal coolers.
map of the pramukh nadiyaan, jhiilon, and tank in india
Map prardashit rivers or baadh prone areas in India
Rivers of india play an important role in the jeevandaan of the bhartiya logon.
The nadi systems provide sinchai, potable jal, cheap parivahan, vidyut, or the livelihoods liye a vishaal kramank of logon all over the country or to gramin kshetron.
is easily explains kyon nearly sab the pramukh cities of India are located by the banks of rivers.
The rivers bhi have an mahatvapurn bhoomika in hindu mythology or hai mana holy by sab Hindus in the desh.
saat pramukh rivers saath saath unke numerous tributaries mek up the nadi pranali of india.
sabase of the nadiyaan daalana unke waters into the khadi of bengal ; however, kuch of the nadiyaan jinaki courses take them through the western bhaag of the desh or towards the east of the rajya of himachal pradesh khaali into the arabian Sea.
Parts of ladakh, uttari parts of the aravlli dayera or the arid bhaag of the thar marusthal have antardeshiy drainage.
Dr.Francis Buchanan surveyed the paathyakram of the rivers of india along with unke tributaries or shakhaon in 1810-11 ad or presented a minute khaataa of it.
the shifting of the paathyakram or bed over the sadiyaan is bahut ullekhneey.
anek of the channels ullekith in ki surveykshan have abhi become murde, sukhi or even extinct.
sab major nadiyaan of India originate from one of the three pramukh watersheds :
the himalay and the Karakoram seemayen
Vindhya or Satpura ranges or Chotanagpur pathaar in central india
Sahyadri or pashchimi ghats in pashchimi india
The bretton woods system of monetary prabandhan sthapit the niyam for vanijyik or vittiya sambandh among the sansar 's major audyogic states in the mid-20th sadi.
the Bretton woods pranali thi the first example of a fully negotiated maudrik anukram intended to govern maudrik sambandh among swatantra nation-states.
taiyaari to rebuild the antarrashtriya aarthik pranali as World yuddh ii was still raging, 730 delegates isse sab 44 Allied nations gathered at the mount washington hotel in bretton Woods, nai Hampshire, sanyukt rajya, liye the United raashtra maudrik or Financial sammelan.
the delegates deliberated dauraan 1–22 July 1944, or hastakshrit the anubandh on iske final din.
Setting up a pranali of niyam, sansthaanon, and prakriyaaon to regulate the antarrashtriya maudrik system, the planners at bretton woods established the antarrashtriya Monetary nidhi ( imf ) or the International bainko for punarnirmaan or vikaas ( ibrd ), jisase aaj is bhaag of the World bainko samooh.
These sanghathan became operational in 1945 baad a sufficient kramank of deshon tha ratified the anubandh.
the mukhya suvidhaayen of the bretton woods system yahood an daayitv liye prayek desh to apnaanaa a maudrik niti ki kaayam the exange rate by tying iske karency to the u.S. dollars or the kshamta of the IMF to bridge asthai imbalances of bhugtan.
on 15 agast 1971, the sanyukt rajya unilaterally terminated convertibility of the us $ to sunaharaa.
is brought the bretton woods system to an samaapt or dekhi the dollars become fiat karency.
This karrwai, referred to as the nicksan shock, nirmit the halaat in which the sanyukt rajya dollars became a reserve karency prayukt by anek rajya.
at the same samay, anek phixd mudraayen ( aise as gbp, liye udhaaharan ), also became free floating.
dukaati motor pakadakar S.p.A. is an italvi company ki dizin and manufactures motorcycle.
headquartered in Bologna, italy, Ducati is swaamitv by Audi through iske italvi subsidiary lemborgini.
A credit score is a numerical abhivyakti aadhaarit on a sankhyikeey analysis of a person 's credit filein, to represent the creditworthiness of ki person.
a credit score is primarily aadhaarit on credit rapat soochna typically sourced isse credit bureaus.
lenders, aise as banks or credit card companies, use credit score to evaluate the sambhavit risk posed by lending money to upabhokta and to mitigate nuksaan due to karaab karz.
lenders use credit score to determine jo qualifies liye a rin, at what byaaj rate, or what credit had.
lenders also use credit score to determine jisase graahak are sambhavit to bring in the most revenue.
the upyog of credit or pahchaan scoring prior to authorizing access or granting credit is an kriyanvayan of a vishwasaneey pranali.
credit scoring is not simit to bainko.
anya sanghathan, aise as mobile phone companies, insurance companies, jameendaar, or government departments employ the same takneekon.
Credit scoring bhi has a lot of overlap with aankada khanan, jisase uses many samaan techniques.
These takneekon combine hazaron of karkon lakin ve hai adhik or kam similar or the same.
The seven SI aadhaar ikai or the interdependency of their paribhaashaayen : liye udhaaharan, to extract the paribhaasha of the meter isse the gati of light, the definition of the second jarur be gyaat jabaki the ampere or candela hai dono dependent on the paribhaasha of energy jisase in turn is defined in sharten of lambaai, dravyaman or samay.
the antarrashtriya pranali of ikai ( si ) defines saat units of maap as a moulik niyat isse which sab anya SI units are niklaa.
These si base ikai or unke shaareerik quantities are:
meter liye length ( US angrezi : meter )
kilogram for dravyaman ( note : nahin the gram )
second liye samay
ampere liye electric vartmaan
kelvin liye taapmaana
candela liye chamakdaar intensity
mole liye the raashi of padaarth.
The si aadhaar quantities rup a niyat of mutually swatantra aayam as jaruri by aiami analysis commonly employed in vigyaan or praudyogiki.
however, in a die realization of ye units they may khub be interdependent, i.e. paribhaashit in sharten of prayek anya.
the names of si ikai hai written in lowercase varna ( the 'degree celsius ' meets this niyam, as 'degree ' is the unit, or 'celsius ' is a modifier ).
The pratikon of ikai hai written in loarkes ( e.g. meter rai the pratik m ), except that pratikon liye units named baad persons are likhaa saath an initial puunji letter ( e.g., the hertz has the aprkes pratik Hz ).
Many anya ikai, aise as the litre ( US English : leniyar ), are formally nahin bhaag of the si, lakin hai sweekrut liye upyog saath SI.
smarak Canyon
Colorado National smarak ( locally referred to as The smarak ) is a part of the neshnal Park seva nikat the city of Grand jankshan, colorado.
spectacular canyons kaaten gahan into sandstone or bhi granite–gneiss–schist chattan formations, in some kshetron.
This is an area of marusthal jameen high on the colorado Plateau, with pinian and juniper wanon on the pathaar.
the park host a chaudee dayera of vanyajeev, sahit red-tailed chilon or sunahari eagles, ravens, jays, marusthal bighorn sheep, and coyotes.
kriyaayein shaamil hiking, horseback sawari, road bicycling, or scenic drive ; a aagatuk center on the west paksh contains a prakritik history sangrahalay or gift duukaan.
There are bhavy drishy isse trails and the Rim chattan drive, jisase hawaayen saath the plateau.
Nearby are the kitaab cliffs, or the largest flat-topped mountain in the sansar, the grand Mesa.
Its feature aakarshan is smarak Canyon, which ranon the chaudai of the park, and includes chattan formations aise as Independence Monument, the Kissing yugal, or Coke chulhon.
the smarak shaamil 20,500 acre ( 32 vargakar miles ), much of jisase rai been anushansit to congress for namakan as wilderness.
baayein to sahi : utility vardi, Blue Dress vardi, seva vardi, and sandhya poshaak vardi
the vardi of the United rajya Marine Corps serve to fark Marines isse sadasyon of anya sevaayen.
among vartmaan uniforms in the sanyukt States hathiyaarband shaktiyaan, the Marines ' uniforms have maharoom in service the longest.
the samudri Dress blue vardi rai, saath few parivartan, maharoom worn in essentially its vartmaan rup chunki the 19th sadi.
North amareeki telephone kshetrafal code 419 and 567 serve the northwest quadrant of the U.S. rajya of ohio.
the largest city parosa by ye kshetrafal codes is tolado ( and its suburbs of holland, maumee, northwood, oregon, otawa pahadiyaan, Perrysburg, Rossford, sylvania, swanton, waterville, or whitehouse ).
anya shaharon served by ye kshetrafal codes shaamil Ada, Ashland, bellevue, Bluffton, Bowling green, bryan, Bucyrus, celina, clide, Crestline, defiance, delphos, edison, erastus, Findlay, fostoria, fremont, galion, kenton, lima, mansfield, Mount gilead, nepolian, norwalk, ok harbar, bandargahon Clinton, Sandusky, Shelby, st. marys, Tiffin, apper Sandusky, vine wert, wapakoneta, Wauseon, willard.
anya kshetron served shaamil the jhil erie islands north of Port clinton or west of sandusky.
The main kshetrafal code, 419, thi created as one of the asli area codes in aktubar 1947 ; the overle area code 567 thi nirmit on janvari 1, 2002.
Despite the upasthiti of tolado, the state 's fourth-largest nagar, 419 was the pichhlaa of ohio 's original chaar kshetrafal code to have maharoom vibhajit or overlaid.
miki Leroy gilley ( born kooch 9, 1936 ) is an amareeki desh music singer or musician.
Although he prarambh out gayan straight-up desh and pashchimi saamagree in the 1970s, he moved towards a adhik pop -friendly dhwani in the 1980s, bringing use further kamyaabi on not just the country chart, lakin the pop charts as khub.
among his biggest hits hai `` room puraa of gulab, '' `` do n't the ladakiyon sab milengi prettier at closing Time, '' or the rimek of the Soul hit `` stand by Me ``.
He is also the cousin of jeri lee louis, karl mcvoy, gym gilley or jimmy swaggart.
According to the sangheey vimaanan Administration, Gilley is a licensed pilot, jo holds an yantra darja saath vanijyik payalat privileges for multi-engine airplanes, as khub as private payalat privileges liye single engine aircraft.
The sitambar 11 hamale ( also referred to as sitambar 11, sitambar 11th, or 9/11 ) were a shrenee of four samanvit terrorist hamale shubharambh by the Islamic terrorist group al-qaeda upon the United States in nai york nagar or the Washington, D.C. kshetrafal on sitambar 11, 2001.
Four yatri airliners were hijacked by 19 al-Qaeda aatankwaadi so they could be flown into imaaraten in aatmahatya hamale.
Two of those planes, American airlines udaan 11 and sanyukt airlines udaan 175, were krash into the uttar or dakshin towers, kramshah, of the sansar Trade bich jatil in New York nagar.
bheetar two ghanton, dono minaaren collapsed saath malba and the resulting fir causing partial or puraa patan of all anya imaaraten in the wtc jatil, as khub as major kshati to ten other vishaal surrounding structures.
A third plane, amareeki airlines Flight 77, thi crashed into the Pentagon ( the mukhyalay of the United rajya Department of Defense ), agrani to a aanshik collapse in iske pashchimi paksh.
the chauthi plane, sanyukt Airlines udaan 93, thi targeted at the United rajya capital in Washington, d.C., lakin krash into a field nikat shanksville, pencilvenia, baad its yatri aajamaaya to overcome the hijackers.
in kul, lagbhag 3,000 people died in the attacks, including the 227 nagarikon and 19 hijackers savaar the chaar planes.
suspicion jaldi giri on al-qaeda.
haalanki the group 's netaa, osama bin laden, initially denied koi bhagidaari, in 2004 he claimed responsibility liye the hamale.
Al-Qaeda and bin laden cited U.S. support of israel, the upasthiti of u.S. troops in Saudi Arabia, and pratibandhon against iraqi as motives liye the hamale.
the sanyukt rajya responded to the hamale by shubharambh the yuddh on aatank and invading Afghanistan to depose the taliban, jisase tha harbored al-qaeda.
anek countries strengthened unke anti-terrorism legislation or vistaarit vidhi pravartan shaktiyaan.
Having evaded capchar liye saalo, bin laden thi stith and maare by U.S. forces in may 2011.
the vinaash of the Twin Towers or anya gun caused gambhir kshati to the arthvyavastha of nimnatar manahaton or tha a significant prabhaav on vaishvik bazaar.
clyaap of the World vyapaar bich site thi completed in May 2002, and the prastutikaran thi repaired bheetar a saal.
numerous memorials have maharoom constructed, sahit the National sitambar 11 memorial & Museum in nai York, the Pentagon memorial, or the Flight 93 neshnal memorial in Pennsylvania.
baad a lengthy delay, the ek World vyapaar bich is expected to be samaapt at maidan shunya in nai york nagar in 2013.
dhundhna nemo is a 2003 amareeki computer-animated comedy-drama adventure filmi likhaa or directed by Andrew Stanton, released by walt Disney Pictures, and the fifth filmi produced by Pixar anemation studios.
it tells the story of the over-protective clownfish namit Marlin ( Albert brookes ) jo, saath saath a regal tang namit dory ( ellen degeneres ), khoj liye uske abducted bete nemo ( sikandar gould ) all the way to sidney harbour.
saath the way, marlin learns to lo risks or let nemo lo care of khud.
it is pikchars 's first filmi to be released in cinemas in the uttari golardh summer.
The filmi thi re-released liye the pehla samay in 3d on September 14, 2012, and it was released on blu-ray on disambar 4, 2012.
A sequel, dhundhna dory, is philhal in vikaas, niyat to be released on navambar 25, 2015.
the filmi received saarvbhaumik najuk acclaim or jiti the academy puraskaar for behtareen Animated visheshta, or thi nominated in teen adhik shrenee sahit behtareen Original patakatha.
it was the duusari highest-grossing filmi of 2003, kamai a kul of $ 921 million vishwavyaapee.
Finding Nemo is also the best-selling dvd of all time, saath over 40 lakh copies bechi as of 2006, or thi the highest-grossing g-rated filmi of sab samay pehle pikchars 's apana khilonaa Story 3 overtook it.
It is bhi the 23rd highest-grossing filmi of sab time, as well as the 3rd highest-grossing anemated film.
in 2008, the amareeki filmi santhaan namit it the dasavaan mahanatam anemated filmi kabhi bana dauraan their sheersh 10.
the chathe ritu of america 's behtareen nrity kru, also gyaat as america 's behtareen Dance kru : ritu of the superstar, premiered on april 7, 2011 or concluded on june 5, 2011.
auditions yahood yojit in chaar shaharon from January 21 through farvari 5 : Chicago, huston, nai York, or los angeles.
This season takes a different root from past sizan.
the crews jarur perform to the music of ek vishisht kalakaar prayek saptaah, sahit rihana, Lil wain, or anya lokapriy sitaron.
is ritu bhi features khaas atithi dikhaave by vibhinn music hastiyaan sahit justin Bieber, the blike eyed Peas, kaity peri, kesha, Nicki minaj, and kanye west.
dominic `` d-trix '' sandoval, a former sadsy of quest kru, the vijeta of the teesraa ritu of america 's Best nrity kru, joins returning nyaayadhishon leel mamaa or JC chasez as the naveenatam nyaayadhish.
In the ritu finale, I aM mE thi ghoshit the vijeta of Season 6 or received the $ 100,000 ( usd ) puraskaar.
In the United rajya, soshal Security refers to the old-age, survivors, or viklaangata bime ( oasdi ) sangheey kaarykram.
the original soshal suraksha adhinium ( 1935 ) or the vartmaan sanskaran of the adhinium, as amended, encompass several social welfare or soshal bime programs.
soshal suraksha is primarily vittposhit through samarpit payroll kar pukaara sangheey bime yogadan adhinium tax ( fica ).
kar deposits hai formally entrusted to the sangheey old-age or Survivors Insurance vishwaas nidhi, the sangheey viklaangata Insurance vishwaas nidhi, the sangheey hospital bime Trust Fund, or the sangheey Supplementary Medical bime Trust nidhi jisase comprise the soshal suraksha vishwaas Fund.
upward redistribution of aay is jimmedaar for parichay 43 % of the prakshipt soshal suraksha shortfall over the aglaa 75 saalo.
according to economist martin feldstein, the combined bitaa liye all soshal insurance programs in 2003 gathit 37 % of sarkari expenditure and 7 % of the sakal domestic utpaada.
soshal Security is philhal anumaanit to rakhana roughly 40 pratishat of sab america aayu 65 or older out of garibi.
the soshal Security prashasan is headquartered in woodlawn, maryland, bas west of Baltimore.
the alcohol by awaz dikhaaya on a bottle of absinthe.
Alcohol by volume ( abbreviated as ABV, abv, or alc/vol ) is a maanak maap of kaisaa much alcohol ( ethanol ) is contained in an alcoholic beverage ( expressed as a pratishat of total volume ).
the ABV standard is prayukt worldwide.
In kuch deshon, alcohol by awaz is referred to as degrees Gay-Lussac ( after the french chemist joseph lui gay-lussac ).
Laurel Hollow is a gaanv in the kasbaa of sip khadi in nassau County, nai york in the United States.
the janasankhyikee was 1,952 at the 2010 janasankhyikee.
Charles jon huffam dicans ( ; 7 farvari 1812 – 9 june 1870 ) thi an angrezi lekhak or social aalochak.
he nirmit kuch of the sansar 's sabase memorable fictional varna or is generally regarded as the greatest novelist of the victorian kaal.
dauraan his life, uske works enjoyed unprecedented kirti, or by the twentieth century uske literary pratibhashali thi broadly acknowledged by aalochakon and scholars.
His novels or choti kahaniyaan continue to be widely lokapriy.
Born in portsmouth, England, dicans baayein skool to kaary in a factory baad uske pita thi thrown into karjadaar ' thana.
haalanki he had choti aupchaarik shiksha, uske jaldi impoverishment drove use to safal.
Over his kariyar he edited a saptahik jarnal liye 20 saalo, likhaa 15 novels, 5 novellas and sainkadon of choti kahaniyaan or non-fiction aalekh, lectured or performed extensively, thi an indefatigable akshar lekhak, or campaigned vigorously liye children 's rights, shiksha, or anya social reforms.
Dickens sprang to kirti with the 1836 serial prakaashan of The Pickwick papers.
Within a few years he tha become an antarrashtriya literary hasti, famous liye uske humour, vyangy, or keen avlokan of character or samaaj.
uske novels, sabase prakashit in masik or saptahik kishton, pioneered the serial publication of katha fiction, jisase became the prabal victorian vidhi for anokhaa prakaashan.
The instalment swaroop allowed Dickens to evaluate his darshak 's pratikriya, or he praayah parivardhit uske plat and akshar development based on such pratikriya.
liye udhaaharan, when uske wife 's chiropodist expressed takalif at the rasta Miss mowcher in daud copperfield laga to pratibimbit uske disabilities, dicans gai on to improve the character saath dhanatmak lineaments.
fagin in oliver twist jaahir mirrors the famous baad ikey suleman ; His kairikechar of leigh hunt in the figure of mr Skimpole in bleak house was likewise toned bas on advice isse kuch of uske mitron, as ve padhaa apisod.
in the same novel, dono Lawrence Boythorne or Mooney the beadle hai drawn isse real jivan – boythorne isse walter Savage landor or mooni isse 'Looney ', a beadle at Salisbury Square.
uske bhukhand yahood carefully constructed, and Dickens praayah wove in tatv isse topical kaarykram into his kahaniyaan.
masses of the anpadh garib chipped in ha'pennies to have prayek nai monthly episode padhaa to them, kholane up and preranadai a nai class of pathak.
dicans thi regarded as the literary colossus of uske aayu.
uske 1843 novella, a Christmas Carol, is ek of the most influential works kabhi likhaa, or it remains lokapriy or continues to inspire adaptations in prayek kalakaari vidha.
uske rachanaatmak pratibhashali rai maharoom praised by fellow writers—from leo Tolstoy to G. K. chesterton and george orvel —for iske yatharthwaad, kamedi, prose style, adwitiya characterisations, or soshal aalochana.
On the anya haath auskar Wilde, Henry james or Virginia woolf complained of a kami of manovaigyanik gaharaai, dhilaa likhane, or a rag of saccharine sentimentalism.
martin luther king and other civil adhikaron netao in saamne of the pratimaa of abraham lincoln, August 28, 1963
the civil rights movement thi a series of worldwide rajnatik andolanon liye equality before the law ki peaked in the 1960s.
in anek paristhitiyon it took the rup of abhiyaan of civil resistance aimed at achieving badalen by nonviolent form of resistance.
in kuch situations it thi accompanied, or followed, by civil unrest and hathiyaarband vidroh.
The prakram thi long or tenuous in anek deshon, or anek of ye movements kiya not fully achieve unke goals although, the efforts of ye movements did sise to sudhaar in the vidhik adhikaron of previously dalit samooh of people.
the pramukh uddeshy of the civil rights gati shaamil, or shaamil, ensuring ki the adhikaron of all logon hai equally protected by the law, sahit the rights of minorities.
civil adhikaron movements ranging isse the vaishvik LGBT adhikaron gati to the global mahilaon 's adhikaron movement to vibhinn jatigat alpsankhyak adhikaron andolanon around the sansar continue.
The 2010 fifa sansar cap thi the 19th FIFA sansar cap, the sansar championship liye men 's neshnal sangh footbaal tiimon.
It took place in dakshin africa isse 11 june to 11 july 2010.
The bidding prakram for hosting the toornament final thi kholen only to African raashtra ; in 2004, the antarrashtriya football sangh, fifa, chaynit dakshin africa over Egypt or morocco to become the pehla africa swadesh to mejabaan the final.
the milan yahood nibhaai in ten stadium in nau host shaharon around the country, saath the final nibhaai at the soker City stadium in dakshin africa 's largest nagar, johansburg.
Thirty-two teams were chaynit for bhagidaari via a vishwavyaapee yogyata toornament that began in agast 2007.
in the pehla golakaar of the tournament final, the teams competed in round-robin groups of chaar tiimon for ank, saath the sheersh do teams in each samooh proceeding.
These solah teams unnat to the nokout stage, jahaan teen rounds of play decided jisase tiimon would participate in the final.
in the final, spain, the europea champions, parajeet third-time finalists the Netherlands 1–0 after atirikt time, saath andres Iniesta 's lakshya in the 116th minute giving spain unke pehla sansar sheershak, banane the eighth swadesh to jeet the tournament, or the pehla European swadesh to win the toornament baahar iske home mahadweep.
mejabaan nation dakshin africa, 2006 sansar champions Italy or 2006 runners-up France yahood all eliminated in the pehla golakaar of the tournament.
it thi the pehla samay ki the host yahood eliminated in the pehla golakaar.
nai jiland saath unke teen draws yahood the tabhi aparajit toli in the toornament, but yahood bhi eliminated in the pehla golakaar.
the McMuffin is a family of naashtaa sandwich in vibhinn sizes or configurations, bechi by the fast-food restaurant chain mcdonald 's.
the Egg McMuffin is the hastakshar naashtaa sandwich ; it was invented by the let mcdonald 's waal herb Peterson in the late 1960s and thi introduced deshbhar in 1972.
John lenon thi an angrezi musician jo gained vishwavyaapee kirti as ek of the sansthaapakon of the betals, liye uske subsequent solo kariyar, or for uske rajnatik sakriyata or shantivaad.
He thi shot by chihnit daud chapman at the entrance of the bhawan jahaan he lived, The dakota, in New york nagar on 8 December 1980.
lenon tha just laute isse ricard sanyantr studio saath uske bivi, yoko Ono.
lenon thi pronounced murde on aagaman at St. luke's-roosevelt hospital bich, jahaan it thi stated ki nobody could have jiya for adhik than a few minutes after sustaining aise choton.
shortly baad local news stesan reported Lennon 's death, crowds gathered at Roosevelt Hospital and in saamne of the dakota.
Lennon thi cremated on 10 disambar 1980 at the ferncliff kabristaan in hartsdale, nai york ; the raakh were die to ono, jo chose nahin to tham a antyeshti liye use.
the first report of lenon 's death to a u.S. national audience thi ghoshit by harvard Cosell, on ABC 's somvaar Night footbaal.
New orlions ( or, locally or ; ) is a pramukh sanyukt States port and the largest nagar or metropolitan kshetrafal in the rajya of louisiana.
the janasankhyikee of the nagar was 343,829 as of the 2010 u.S. janasankhyikee.
the nai orlions mahanagar kshetrafal ( New Orleans–Metairie–Kenner mahanagar sankhyikeey kshetrafal ) had a janasankhyikee of 1,167,764 in 2010 or was the 46th largest in the United rajya.
the New orleans–metairie–bogalusa sanyukt sankhyikeey Area, a larger vyapaar kshetrafal, tha a 2010 population of 1,214,932.
the nagar is namit after Orléans, a nagar stith on the loire nadi in kendra, frans, or is khub known liye iske pruthak French Creole vaastukala, as well as iske cross-cultural or multilingual viraasat.
nai Orleans is bhi prasiddh liye its cuisine, music ( visheshkar as the janmasthan of jaiz ), and its salanaa celebrations or tyohaar, most notably mardi Gras.
the nagar is often referred to as the `` most adwitiya '' in america.
nai orlions is stith in southeastern louisiana, straddling the mississippi nadi.
the nagar or Orleans Parish ( ) hai.
the nagar or mohalla hai bounded by the parishes of st. Tammany to the uttar, st. barnard to the east, Plaquemines to the dakshin or jeffrasan to the dakshin and west.
jhil Pontchartrain, bhaag of which is shaamil in the city limits, jhooth to the uttar or jhil borgne lies to the east.
The United States adhyakshiya chunaav of 1968 thi the 46th quadrennial adhyakshiya chunaav, yojit on Tuesday, November 5, 1968.
the republican nominee, purv Vice-President Richard nicksan, jiti the chunaav over the loktantric nominee, incumbent Vice-President Hubert humphrey.
Nixon ran on a abhiyaan ki promised to restore vidhi or anukram to the nation 's shaharon, torn by dange or aparaadhon.
vishleshkon have argued the chunaav of 1968 is a realigning chunaav as it permanently disrupted the nai saude gathbandhan ki had dominated adhyakshiya raajnneeti liye 36 saalo.
Coming chaar saalo baad Democrat lyndon B. Johnson jiti in a historic landslide, the chunaav dekhi the incumbent adhyaksh majaboor out of the res or a republican nirvaachit for the pehla samay in baarah saalo.
it thi a wrenching national anubhav, conducted dauraan a year of violence ki shaamil the assassination of civil adhikaron netaa Martin luther king, jr., or subsequent res dange aarpaar the swadesh, the assasination of loktantric adhyakshiya pratyaashee robert F. kennedy, faili vipaksh to the Vietnam yuddh aarpaar university campuses, or hinsak confrontations between police and anti-war pradarshnakariyon at the 1968 loktantric neshnal sammelan as the loktantric party vibhajit again or again.
the chunaav pradarshit the strongest teesraa party praytn chunki 1912 by purv albama rajyapal george Wallace, a democrate.
Because wales 's abhiyaan opposed sangheey hastkshep in the dakshin to samaapt skool pruthakkaran, he carried the gahan dakshin or ran khub in jaateey audyogic jile in the uttar.
is thi the pichhlaa chunaav in which nai york tha the most votes in the chunavi college ( 43 mat ).
baad the 1970 janasankhyikee, california gained the sabase chunavi mat and rai remained the most populous rajya chunki tab.
is is the naveenatam chunaav jahaan a adhyakshiya ticket jiti without carrying the vice adhyakshiya candidate 's home rajya.
karak ( ; bhi gyaat as Garak, garrak, or Gorg ) is a village in gamasiyab Rural zila, in the Central zila of nahavand county, hamaadaan praant, iraan.
at the 2006 janasankhyikee, iske janasankhyikee was 294, in 65 pariwaron.
court 's hastakshar
court Donald cobain ( farvari 20, 1967 – april 5, 1994 ) was an amareeki musician or kalakaar, behtareen known as the sise singer, guitarist and praathmik songwriter of the grunge band nirvana.
cobain formed nirvana with krist novoselic in Aberdeen, washington in 1985 and established it as bhaag of the Seattle music jhaanki, having iske debyue album bleech released on the independent ricard label Sub pop in 1989.
baad hastakshar with pramukh label DGC record, the band mila bhedan kamyaabi saath `` khushbu jaise Teen spirit `` isse iske duusari album nevermind ( 1991 ).
following the success of Nevermind, nirvana was labeled `` the flagship band '' of Generation X, or Cobain hailed as `` the pravaktaa of a peedhee ''.
cobain, however, thi praayah uncomfortable or kunthit, believing his message or artistic drushti to have maharoom misinterpreted by the public, saath his personal mudde praayah subject to media dhyaan.
he challenged nirvana 's darshak saath iske final studio album In Utero ( 1993 ).
During the last saalo of uske life, cobain struggled saath heroin vyasan, beemaari or avsaad.
he bhi tha pareshaani coping saath his fame or public chitra, and the peshewar and lifelong nijee pressures surrounding khud or his wife, musician Courtney prem.
on april 8, 1994, cobain thi found murde at his ghar in sietal, the shikaar of what was officially shasit a aatmahatya by a self-inflicted shotgun ghaav to the sir.
The halaaton of uske maut at age 27 have become a topic of public fascination or bahes.
Since their debut, Nirvana, saath cobain as a songwriter, rai bechi over 25 lakh albums in the U.S., or over 50 million vishwavyaapee.
a millwright is a craftsman or tradesman sagaai saath the nirmaan and mentanence of mashinari.
More generally in the angrezi speaking world, early millwrights were visheshgy carpenters jo erected mashine prayukt in krishi, khaanaa prasanskaran or prasanskaran lumber or paper.
In the early bhaag of the Industrial Revolution, unke kaushal were dabaaya into service bhawan the earliest sanchalit vastra milon.
Modern millwrights kaary saath steel and anya saamagree in jod to lakdi or jarur praayah combine the kaushal of anek skilled trades in order to safaltaapurvak fabricate audyogic machinery or to ikatthe mashine from pre-fabricated bhaag.
The aadhunik millwright jarur bhi be samarth to padhaa blueprints and anya schematics to sahaayta him in the nirmaan of jatil pranaaliyon.
millwrights are frequently unionized, saath around 45 % unionized in the us, haalanki anbhavi millwrights praayah niyat themselves up as swatantra thekedaaron.
The samaayojan beuro is a 2011 amareeki romantic karrwai thriller filmi loosely based on the Philip K. land choti story, `` Adjustment Team ``.
the film was likhaa or directed by george Nolfi or stars mat Damon or emily kund.
the cast bhi shaamil Anthony Mackie, jon Slattery, maaikel keli, or terrence Stamp.
the score thi rachit by Thomas neuman, with do geeton by Richard Ashcroft ( `` bhavishya 's ujjwal '' for the kholane anukram ; `` hai tum Ready ? '' for the closing credit ).
sodium azide is the inorganic yogic saath the formula NaN3.
is colorless namak is the gas-forming component in many car airbag pranaaliyon.
it is prayukt liye the taiyaari of other azide yogicon.
It is an ionic padaarth, is atyadhik soluble in jal, or is bahut acutely vishakt.
Double renbo and supernumerary rainbows on the andar of the praathmik chaap.
the chaaya of the photographer 's head on the neeche marks the kendra of the renbo vrutt ( antisolar point ).
a renbo is an optical or meteorological ghatana ki is caused by pratibimb of lite in water droplets in the dharti 's atmosphere, resulting in a varnakram of lite appearing in the aasmaan.
it takes the form of a multicoloured chaap.
rainbows caused by dhoop sadaa appear in the khand of aasmaan sidhe vipareet the surya.
in a `` primary renbo '', the chaap shows red on the outer bhaag or violet on the bhitari paksh.
This renbo is caused by lite being refracted jabaki pravesh a droplet of jal, then reflected andar on the back of the droplet and refracted again jab leaving it.
In a doguna renbo, a duusari chaap is dekhi baahar the praathmik chaap, or has the anukram of iske rang reversed, red facing toward the anya one, in dono rainbows.
is duusari rainbow is caused by lite reflecting twice andar jal droplets.
the roodhiwaadee party, officially the roodhiwaadee and Unionist party or colloquially referred to as the tory Party or the tories, is a centre-right rajnatik party in the United kingdom ki espouses the tatvagyan of kosa and angrejon unionism.
it is the largest political party in the sanyukt kingdom, being the largest single party in the house of comons saath 303 mps, the largest party in local government saath 9,391 parshadon, or the largest angrejon party in the europea parliament saath 25 meps.
it governs in gathbandhan saath the Liberal democrate, saath party netaa David Cameron as pradhan mantri.
the roodhiwaadee party was santhaapit in 1834, or thi one of do dominant partiyon in the 19th sadi, saath saath the udaar Party.
It badla iske naam to the roodhiwaadee or unionist party in 1912 baad merging with the udaar unionist party, haalanki that name is rarely prayukt or it is generally referred to as simply the roodhiwaadee Party.
in the 1920s, the Liberal vote greatly diminished or the shramik Party became the conservatives ' main virodhiyon.
roodhiwaadee Prime Ministers led sarkarein liye 57 saalo of the 20th sadi, including winston churchill ( 1940–45, 1951–55 ) and margaret Thatcher ( 1979–90 ).
thatcher 's kaarykaal led to wide-ranging aarthik udaarikaran and saw the conservatives become the sabase eurosceptic of the teen major partiyon.
the party thi returned to sarkari in gathbandhan, having vifal to jeet a majority, in 2010 antargat the adhik `` udaar '' netritv of David cameron.
in the europea parliament, the Conservatives hai the largest British party saath 25 meps, who baithna saath the soft eurosceptic europea conservatives and reformists ( ECR ) sansadeey samooh, jabaki the party itself is a sadsy of the Alliance of europea Conservatives or reformists ( AECR ) Europarty.
They are the third-largest party in the scottish parliament or second-largest in the welsh Assembly.
ve were formally alide to the ulster unionist party ( uup ) as bhaag of the Ulster Conservatives or unionists vyavastha, saath the uup philhal participating in the five-party uttari ireland Executive.
niyati 's child thi an amareeki r & B girl samooh jinaki final, or shaayad most recognizable, line-up comprised Beyoncé Knowles, Kelly rowland or Michelle williams.
formed in 1990 in Houston, Texas, Destiny 's Child sadasyon began unke musical endeavors as ladki 's time comprising, among others, noles, Rowland, LaTavia roberson or letoya luckett.
baad saalo of simit kamyaabi, they yahood hastakshrit to colombia record as niyati 's child.
niyati 's child was launched into mukhyadhara manyata following the relies of unke best-selling duusari album, the likhane 's on the Wall, which contained the number-one singles `` Bills, bills, bills `` or `` kah my naam ``.
despite najuk or commercial success, the group thi plagued by internal virodh and legal turmoil, as roberson or Luckett attempted to split isse the samooh 's manager mathew Knowles, citing favoritism of Knowles and rowland, uske daughter or bhanji, kramshah.
dono roberson or Luckett were jald replaced with williams or Farrah franklin ; however, in 2000, franklin was barkhaast, leaving them as a tikdi.
unke third album, Survivor, jisase contains vishaywastu the public interpreted as a channel to the samooh 's experience, contains the vishwavyaapee hits `` Independent Women ``, `` Survivor `` or `` bootylicious ``.
in 2002, ve announced a antaraal and re-united two years later for the relies of unke chauthi studio album, Destiny Fulfilled ( 2004 ).
niyati 's Child rai sold adhik than 50 lakh records vishwavyaapee to date.
Billboard patrika baandhane the samooh as ek of the mahanatam musical trios of sab samay, the naveen sabase kaamyaab artist/band of the 2000s, or lagaai the group 68th in iske All-Time Hot 100 kalakaaron suchi in 2008.
the Centers liye beemaari control or rokthaam ( sidisi ) is a sanyukt States sangheey agency antargat the vibhaag of swasthya and insaan sevaayen headquartered in Druid Hills, unincorporated dekalb county, georgia, in Greater atlanta.
It works to protect public swasthya or suraksha by providing information to badhayen swasthya nirnay, or it promotes swasthya through partnerships saath rajya swasthya vibhaag or other sanghathan.
the CDC focus neshnal dhyaan on vikasshil or applying disease rokthaam or control ( especially sankramak rogon or foodborne pathogens and anya microbial infections ), paryaavarniya swasthya, occupational suraksha or swasthya, swasthya promotion, injury rokthaam or shiksha kriyaayein designed to improve the swasthya of the people of the sanyukt rajya.
the sidisi is the sanyukt States ' neshnal public health santhaan and is a founding sadsy of the antarrashtriya sangh of neshnal public swasthya santhaan.
Earthquake bhavishyavaanee `` is praayah defined as the specification of the samay, sthaan, or pariman of a future bukamp bheetar stated had '', or visheshkar of `` the next strong bukamp to occur in a pradesh. ''
is can be vishisht isse earthquake forecasting, jisase is the probabilistic moolyankan of saamaanya earthquake jokhim, sahit the aavriti or magnitude of damaging bukamp, in a given area over avadhi of saalo or decades.
is can be further vishisht isse real-time bukamp warning systems, jisase, upon ditection of a severe bukamp, can provide neighboring regions a few second warning of potentially significant shaking.
to be upyogi, an bukamp prediction jarur be precise paryaapt to warrant the laagat of increased ehtiyaat, sahit disruption of ordinary kriyaayein or commerce, or samayik paryaapt that taiyaari can be bana.
purvanumaan jarur also be vishwasaneey, as galat alarms or radd sachetak are not tabhi economically costly, lakin seriously undermine vishwaas in, or thereby the prabhavakaarita of, koi dayaalu of warning.
With over 7,000 bukamp around the sansar prayek saal saath a magnitude of 4.0 or vrihad, naganya kamyaabi in earthquake prediction is easily obtained using fear vyapak paramiters of samay, sthaan, or pariman.
however, such naganya `` successful purvanumaan '' hai nahin useful.
pramukh bukamp hai often followed by reports ki ve were purvanumanit, or at tanik anticipated, lakin no arji of a kaamyaab prediction of a pramukh bukamp rai survived band inquiry.
in the 1970s vahin thi teevr ashavad amongst vaigyanikon that some vidhi of predicting bukamp might be found, lakin by the 1990s continuing failure led anek vaigyanikon to question whether it thi bhi sambhavit.
jabaki many scientists still hold ki, die paryaapt sansaadhan, bhavishyavaanee might be possible, anek anya maintain ki bukamp prediction is inherently naammumkin.
Deborah ain `` debby '' Ryan ( born May 13, 1993 ) is an amareeki actress, singer, sangeetkaar, songwriter and record nirmaataa.
rayaan is behtareen gyaat liye abhinit as Bailey picket in the dijani Channel asli Series The Suite jivan on deck.
in 2008, The suite jivan on deck kramit as tv 's sheersh series among bachche 6-11 or the no. 2 scripted shrenee among tweens 9-14.
rayaan started acting in professional theatre at the aayu of seven ; in 2007 she appeared in the Barney & mitron straight-to-DVD filmi barni : let 's go to the firehouse or tab was khoja in a deshbhar dhundhen by dijani.
wo is bhi gyaat liye appearing in the 2008 feature filmi the longshots as edith.
in 2009, she atithi strecchar in an episode of wizards of waverly place in wizards on deck saath Hannah montana as Bailey picket saath saath her anya cast mates isse The Suite jivan on Deck.
Then, in 2010, wo starred in the filmi 16 badhaaiyaan, jisase thi the sabase dekhi cabel kaarykram on the din of iske premier on the dijani channel.
16 badhaaiyaan introduced rayaan to new audiyans ; the film praapt high viewership in the adults janasankhyikee ( 18-34 ).
jald baad ki, rayaan strecchar in the swatantra theatrical filmi, kayaa if..., jisase premiered on August 20, 2010.
rayaan also starred in the new Disney channel asli movie, radio vidrohi, jahaan she portrays the bhoomika of tara adams, a shy 17-year-old ladki jo adopts the radio personality, Radio vidrohi.
Released farvari 17, 2012.
rayaan sitaron in the titular bhoomika in the dijani channel asli shrenee, jesi.
Stührling tourbillon gati ( ).
in horology, a tourbillon ( ; `` whirlwind '' ) is an jod to the mechanics of a dekhen escapement.
viksit around 1795 by the French-Swiss ghadisaz abraham-louis breguet isse an pehle idea by the angrezi chronometer mekar jon Arnold, a tourbillon aims to counter the prabhaav of gambheertha by mounting the escapement and santulan wheel in a rotating pinjraa, to negate the effect of gambheertha jab the timepiece ( yun the escapement ) is stuck in a nishchit sthiti.
originally an attempt to improve sateekta, tourbillons hai still included in some mahangi aadhunik ghadiyaan as a vilakshantaa or demonstration of watchmaking virtuosity.
the yantriki is usually ujagar on the dekhen 's phase to dikhaaen it off.
the khidkiyaan installer ( previously gyaat as microsoft installer ) is a tantra ghatak prayukt for the sansthapana, maintenance, or hataanaa of software on aadhunik Microsoft Windows pranaaliyon.
the installation information, or praayah the filein themselves, hai packaged in installation package, loosely relational databases sanrachit as com Structured storages or commonly gyaat as `` msi filein '', isse their difolt sanchika extension.
Windows Installer contains significant parivartan isse iske purvavarti, Setup API.
nai suvidhaayen shaamil a jeeyuai fremawork or swachaalit generation of the uninstallation anukram.
khidkiyaan installer is positioned as an alternative to stand-alone executable installer frameworks aise as puraani versions of installshield or NSIS.
Microsoft encourages teesraa partiyon to upyog Windows installer as the aadhaar liye sansthapana frameworks, so that ve synchronize correctly saath anya installers or rakhana the aatanrik database of installed products satat.
mahatvapurn features aise as rollback or versioning nirbhar on a satat aatanrik database for vishwasaneey aaparishan.
furthermore, Windows installer facilitates the principle of tanik visheshadhikaar by performing software sansthapana by proxi liye unprivileged users.
chaar loko is a lakeer of alcoholic beverages, originally marketed as urja peya, bechi by phusion project of chicago, illinois.
Phusion operates as peya chaar brewing Company.
Four loko, the company 's most lokapriy peya, debuted in the United rajya market in 2005.
it is abhi bechi in 48 rajya, or in Canada, the bahama, bolivia, honduras, or europea.
The name `` chaar '' is niklaa isse the asli urja drink 's chaar pramukh ingredients : daaru, caffeine, taurine, or guarana.
Four branded utpaada have maharoom the object of vidhik, naitik, or swasthya concerns sambandhit to the company allegedly vipanan unhen to the underaged or the purported danger of combining alcohol or caffeine.
baad the peya thi bain in anek states, a product reintroduction in December 2010 removed caffeine, taurine, or guarana as ingredients, and the malt peya is no longer marketed as an urja peya.
The gardan of a guitar prardashit the nat ( in the prishthbhumi, coloured white ) or first chaar metal frets.
a fret is a uthaaya tatv on the gardan of a stringed yantra.
frets praayah extend aarpaar the puraa width of the neck.
on sabase modern pashchimi fretted yantra, frets hai metal strips inserted into the fingerboard.
on kuch historical yantra or non-european yantra, frets are bana of pieces of string tied around the gardan.
Frets divide the neck into phixd khand at intervals sambandhit to a musical framework.
on instruments such as guitars, each fret represents one semitone in the standard pashchimi pranali jahaan ek ashtak is vibhajit into baarah semitones.
fret is praayah prayukt as a kriya, arth bas `` to press bas the string behind a fret. ''
fretting praayah refers to the frets and/or their pranali of avasthiti.
vahin thi khapat of daaru dono dauraan or baad nishedh.
the 18th amendment prohibited the utpaadan, vitaran or sale of alcoholic peya in the sanyukt rajya or thi widely supported by the amareeki public jab it gai into prabhaav in 1920.
the temperance gati tha popularized the belief ki daaru thi the pramukh kaaran of sabase nijee or social problems and prohibition thi dekhi as the samaadhaan to the swadesh 's poverty, aparaadhon, violence, or other ills.
Upon ratification of the amendment, the famous enjeelwaadi billy sande said ki `` the slums hoga soon be only a memory.
We hoga turn hamaari prisons into kaarkaanon or hamaari jails into storehouses and corncribs. ''
( compare Christianity or daaru. )
chunki daaru thi to be bain or chunki it thi dekhi as the cause of sabase, if nahin all, aparaadhon, kuch communities bechi unke jails.
the swadesh was atyadhik ashaavadi or the agrani prohibitionist in the United States congress confidently asserted ki `` vahin is as much chance of repealing the Eighteenth amendment as there is liye a humingbard to fly to the grah mangal saath the Washington Monument tied to iske tail.”
the meter ( meter in amareeki angrezi ), ( SI ikai symbol : m ; si aayam symbol : l ), is the aadharbhoot ikai of lambaai in the antarrashtriya pranali of ikai ( si ).
originally intended to be ek ten-millionth of the distance from the dharti 's equator to the uttar Pole ( at samudr str ), iske paribhaasha rai maharoom periodically parishkrut to pratibimbit growing knowledge of metrology.
Since 1983, it rai maharoom paribhaashit as `` the lambaai of the path travelled by light in vaikum dauraan a samay interval of 1/299,792,458 of a duusari. ''
geologists exploring Jurassic sedimentary rox in makhtesh gadol, Negev marusthal, israel
geologists explaining the mahatv of volcanic raakh paraton to students on field in Iceland
a geologist is a vaigyanik jo adhyayan the solid or drav padaarth ki constitutes the dharti as khub as the processes or itihaas ki rai taraasha it.
geologists praayah engage in adhyayan bhuvigyaan.
geologists, studying adhik of an applied vigyaan than a saidhantik ek, jarur drushtikon bhuvigyaan using bhautikee, chemistry and jeevigyaan as khub as anya sciences.
geologists, compared to vaigyanikon sagaai in anya fields, hai generally adhik exposed to the bahari than rahakar in laboratories ; haalanki kuch geologists prefer to perform most of their studies in the lab.
geologists hai sagaai in khoji liye khanan companies in search of dhaatuon, oils, and other Earth resources.
ve hai bhi in the forefront of prakritik jokhimon and disasters warning or mitigation, adhyayan earthquakes, volcanic kaaryaklap, tsunamis, weather toofaan, and the jaise ; unke adhyayan hai prayukt to warn the saamaanya public of the occurrence of ye kaarykram.
philhal, geologists hai bhi engaged in the charchaa of jalwaayu badalen, as ve padhai the itihaas and evidence liye this dharti prakram.
neeche is a comprehensive drill or tap aakaar chart liye all drills, imperial or metric, or tap up to 36.5 mm.
Modern vaikum tubes, mostly miniature style
in electronics, a vaikum tub, electron tub ( in uttar america ), tapayanic valve, tub, or valve is a device controlling electric vartmaan through a vaikum in a sealed container.
the sangraahak is praayah patala transparent glass in a roughly belanaakaar shape.
the saralatam vacuum tub, the diod, is essentially an incandescent light bulb saath an added electrode andar.
When the balb 's filament is heated white-hot, electrons are `` boiled '' band iske sataha and into the vaikum andar the balb.
if the electrode -- called a `` thali '' or `` dhanagar '' -- is made more dhanatmak than the hot filament, a direct vartmaan bahati through the vaikum to the electrode ( a demonstration of the Edison prabhaav ).
as the vartmaan tabhi bahati in ek direction, it makes it possible to badalen an prayavarti vartmaan lagu to the philament to sidhaa current.
the parichay of a third electrode, a grid between the philament or the thali, yields another function.
A voltage lagu to the grid niyantran the vartmaan flowing from the philament to the thali.
Thus, it allows the device to be prayukt as an electronic pravardhak.
vaikum tubes are thus prayukt liye rectification, pravardhan, switching, or similar prasanskaran or sristi of electrical signals.
The vast majority of aadhunik day tubes consist of a sealed sangraahak with a vaikum andar, or essentially rely on tapayanic utsarjan of electrons from a hot philament or a cathod heated by the philament.
kuch apwaad to this hai dealt saath in the section parichay gas-filled tubes neeche.
vaikum tubes yahood najuk to the vikaas of electronic praudyogiki, jisase drove the expansion and vyavsyeekaran of radio prasaaran, television, radar, dhwani reinforcement, dhwani recording and reproduction, large telephone sanjaal, analog and digital computer, or industrial prakram control.
haalanki some anuprayog tha counterparts using pehle technologies such as the chingaari gap transmeter or mechanical computer, it was the invention of the vacuum tub saath teen electrodes ( called a triode ) or iske kaabiliyat of electronic amplification ki made ye technologies faili or vyaavhaarik.
in sabase anuprayog, solid-state divaais aise as transistors or anya semiconductor devices have replaced tubes.
solid-state divaais last longer and are choti, adhik efficient, adhik vishwasaneey, or sasta than tubes.
Tubes can be fragile, sometimes generate significant anaavashyak ooshmaa, and can lo anek seconds—many minutes in najuk applications—after powering on to garam to a temperature jahaan ve perform bheetar operational sahishnutaa.
however, tubes still find upyog jahaan solid-state devices have nahin been viksit, hai avyavhaarik, or where a tub has shreshth performance, as saath kuch divaais in peshewar audio or high-power radio transmitters.
Tubes are still produced liye aise anuprayog.
Tubes hai kam likely than semiconductor divaais to be destroyed by the electromagnetic pulse produced by nuclear visphot or geomagnetic toofaan produced by daanav saura flares.
skittles is a brands of fruit-flavoured mithai, currently utpaadit or marketed by the Wm. wrigley jr. company, a prabhag of Mars, Inc.
ve have mushkil sugar shells jisase carry the akshar s.
the andar is mukhyatah sugar, makai syrup, or hydrogenated tad karnel aayal along with fal ras, citric acid, and prakritik or artificial flavours.
The confectionery rai maharoom bechi in a kismein of flavor sangrahan, such as teevr or junglee beri.
sar winston leonard spencer-churchill, ( 30 November 1874 – 24 janvari 1965 ) thi a British rajaneta jo was the Prime mantri of the sanyukt kingdom from 1940 to 1945 and again from 1951 to 1955.
widely regarded as one of the mahanatam wartime netao of the 20th sadi, Churchill thi also an adhikari in the British Army, a itihaaskaar, a lekhak, or an artist.
he is the only angrejon pradhan Minister in history to have praapt the nobel puraskaar in sahitya, or was bhi the pehla vyakti to be bana an maanad Citizen of the sanyukt rajya.
Churchill thi born into an vaibhavshaalee parivaar as the pota of the 7th Duke of marlborough.
His father, Lord randolph churchill, thi a charismatic rajaneta jo parosa as Chancellor of the exchequer ; his mother, Jennie Jerome, thi an amareeki socialite.
as a yang fouj adhikari, he saw action in angrejon india, the sudan, or the duusari boar yuddh.
He gained fame as a yuddh correspondent or likhaa kitabe parichay uske abhiyaan.
At the forefront of raajnneeti liye pachaas saalo, he held anek rajnatik or cabinet positions.
pehle the pehla sansar yuddh, he parosa as President of the Board of vyapaar, ghar sachiv, and pehla rab of the admiralty as bhaag of the asquith udaar government.
dauraan the war, he jari as pehla rab of the admiralty until the vinaashkari gallipoli Campaign caused uske prasthaan isse sarkari.
he then briefly resumed active army seva on the pashchimi saamne as commander of the 6th batalian of the royal scots fusiliers.
he returned to sarkari as mantri of munitions, sachiv of rajya liye War, and Secretary of rajya liye air.
baad the yuddh, churchill served as Chancellor of the exchequer in the Conservative ( baldwin ) sarkari of 1924–29, controversially returning the pound sterling in 1925 to the sunaharaa maanak at its pre-war parity, a move widely seen as creating deflationary dabaav on the uk economy.
Also vivaadaaspad thi uske vipaksh to increased ghar rule liye India or uske resistance to the 1936 abdication of Edward viii.
out of daftar or politically `` in the wilderness '' dauraan the 1930s, churchill took the sise in warning parichay naaji germany and in campaigning liye rearmament.
On the outbreak of the duusari sansar War, he was again niyukt pehla rab of the admiralty.
following the resignation of nevilly chemberlen on 10 may 1940, Churchill became pradhan mantri.
uske vafaadaar refusal to consider shikast, aatmasamarpan, or a sulah peace helped inspire angrejon pratirodh, visheshkar dauraan the difficult jaldi dinon of the War jab britain stood alon among europea countries in its kriyasheel vipaksh to Adolf hitler.
churchill was visheshkar vikhyath for uske speeches or radio prasaaran, jisase helped inspire the British logon.
he led Britain as pradhan mantri jabatak victory over naaji Germany had maharoom secured.
baad the roodhiwaadee party khoyaa the 1945 chunaav, he became netaa of the vipaksh to the shramik ( attlee ) government.
baad jeetna the 1951 chunaav, he again became pradhan mantri, pehle retiring in 1955.
upon his maut, Elizabeth ii granted use the izzat of a rajya antyeshti, jisase dekhi ek of the largest sabhaaon of sansar kootneetigyon in history.
namit the mahanatam briton of sab samay in a 2002 pole, Churchill is widely regarded as being among the most influential logon in angrejon itihaas.
maaniky Gloom is an animated television dikhaaen based on an apparel matadhikaar.
The dikhaaen is utpaadit by nelvana or began airing on aktubar 13, 2006 in canada on the network ytv.
it sitaron the awaazen of sara Gadon, Emily Hampshire, and peter Keleghan.
The ghat fokas is a compact car ( c-segment in europea ) manufactured by the Ford Motor company chunki 1998.
ghat began bikri of the fokas to europea in july 1998 or in uttar America dauraan 1999 for the 2000 model saal.
In Europe, dakshin America, uttar america or dakshin africa, the fokas replaced the various sanskaran of the ghat anurakshan bechi in those bazaar.
in asia or Australasia, it replaced the ghat leisure.
as of the first half of 2012, the fokas surpassed the toyota corola to become the world 's behtareen selling automobile nameplate.
the fokas rai maharoom considered ek of the 50 greatest gaadiyaan of the past fifty saalo by angrejon magazine CAR.
An agar thali -- an udhaaharan of a bacterial vikaas medium.
Specifically, it is a streak plate ; the orange lines or dots hai formed by bacterial colonies.
a growth medium or samskruti medium is a drav or gel designed to support the vikaas of microorganisms or cells, or choti paudhe like the moss physcomitrella patens.
vahin hai alag prakaar of media liye growing alag prakaar of koshikaayen.
vahin hai do major prakaar of growth media : those used liye koshika samskruti, jisase use vishisht cell prakaar niklaa from plants or pashu, or microbiological samskruti, jisase are prayukt for growing microorganisms, such as jeevanu or khamir.
the sabase aam vikaas media liye microorganisms hai nutrient broths and agar platon ; specialized media hai sometimes required liye microorganism or koshika samskruti growth.
Some jeevon, termed sukumaar jeevon, aavashyaktaa specialized environments due to jatil nutritional aavashyaktaayen.
virus, liye udhaaharan, hai obligate intracellular paraseete or aavashyaktaa a vikaas medium containing living koshikaayen.
a hunar agent, or booking agent, is a person who finds kaary liye actors, lekhak, filmi nirdeshkon, sangeetkaaron, models, nirmaataa, peshewar athlete, writers or other logon in various entertainment businesses.
An agent bhi defends, supports or promotes the byaaj of his/her client.
Agents can nahin produce unke own shows due to virodh of byaaj.
a talent agent jarur be parichit saath their client.
an agent rai to jaan kayaa dayaalu of kaary the client can or can nahin do in anukram to match them saath vibhinn jobs.
having an agent is nahin required, but karata sahaayta the kalakaar in getting kaary.
in anek cases dhalaai nirdeshkon, or anya businesses, go to talent agenciyon to find artists ve hai looking liye.
the agent is sashulk a percentage of the star 's earnings ( typically 10 % ).
agenton sometimes hoga be referred to as `` 10 percenters. ''
There hai different regulations ki govern alag types of agenton ki hai sthapit by kalakaar 's sangh or the vidhik jurisdiction in jisase the agent operates.
There are also peshewar sanghathan ki license hunar agenciyon.
chunki the manaahi in viewership in theatre, isse the 1950s to 1960s, this caused a smaarkeey shift in kaisaa studios would produce films and yun reducing the laagat of vishesh and mahangi abhinaytaon.
abhinaytaon and abhinetriyon yahood working liye the studios but yahood not owned by ek major studio antity or so yahood samarth to work on within unke time or saath anya studios.
kuki of this, agenton yahood abhi seen as a necessity bajaay of an option.
Agents abhi became teesraa partiyon ki negotiated between studios and client, this making unke sevaayen imperative between prayek party.
Since hunar agencies hai working saath lucrative contracts, sab talent agencies jarur be licensed antargat khaas bhaag of the California Labor code, which kals an agent a `` vyakti or nigam jo engages in the occupation of procuring, offering, promising, or attempting to procure employment liye kalakaar or kalakaaron. ''
mangal rai do gyaat moons, Phobos or deimos, jisase are thought to be captured kshudragrah.
dono satellites yahood khoja in 1877 by Asaph Hall or hai namit baad the characters Phobos ( panic/fear ) and Deimos ( terror/dread ) jo, in unani mythology, accompanied their pita aries, god of yuddh, into battle.
aries thi gyaat as mangal to the romans.
It is possible ki mangal may have moons choti than 50 - 100 meter or a dust ring between phobos or deimos may be present lakin none have maharoom discovered.
in vidhi pravartan parlance, the pad hatya kitaab refers to the case sanchika of a murder chaanbin.
typically, hatya books include crime jhaanki photographs or sketches, postmortem or forensic reports, transcripts of investigators ' tip or gavaah saakshaatkaar.
The murder kitaab encapsulates the puraa paper trail of a hatya chaanbin, isse the samay the murder is pehla reported through the giraftaar of a suspect.
vidhi enforcement agenciyon typically guard hatya kitabe carefully, or it is asaamaanya for nagarikon to be die unfettered access to these kinds of record, especially liye ansulajhaa maamle.
a melon baller
melon genden hai genden of melon made using a melon baller ki varies isse around 1 centimeter to 3 centimetre ( parichay 3/8 inch to 1 inch ).
They hai generally prayukt in fal salad.
A ksa, or gyaan, kaushal, and Abilities, is a series of katha kathan ki hai jaruri jab applying to sanyukt rajya sangheey sarkari job openings.
ksas hai prayukt to determine, along with resumes, jo the behtareen applicants are when anek ummidavaar qualify for a job.
The knowledge, kaushal or abilities ( ksas ) necessary liye the successful pradarshan of a sthiti are contained on each job rikti announcement.
in 2009 the Office of Personal Management poocha sangheey agencies to roke requiring job aavedakon to bharan out the questionnaires, to be phased out within a saal.
ksas hai brief or kendrit essays parichay ek 's kariyar and educational prishthbhumi ki presumably qualify ek to perform the kartavya of the position being lagu liye.
a gyaan, kaushal, or abilities ( ksa ) is a concise nibandh parichay ek 's hunar and expertise and sambandhit anubhavon ( kaary, shiksha, swayamsevi ) and accomplishments.
a shrenee of KSA kathan are praayah jaruri jab applying liye sabase federal sarkari or kuch state and nagar government kaary.
KSAs hai prayukt as a gaj to assess the capabilities of a prospective applicant in sharten of sambhavit ability to perform the kartavya of the job.
sabase government bhartee officials look for a choti, kurkure or saaf ksa ki emphasizes parinaam or accomplishments praapt in pichhlaa work.
KSA kathan are also known as moolyankan karkon.
anya agencies sometimes call unhen `` Rating karkon '', `` visheshta ranking karkon '', `` Knowledge, abilities, kaushal and Other visheshtaayen '', or `` Job tatv ''.
the name can be bas a naam but praayah it prabhaav saamagree and lambaai of the essay.
Every agency has iske apana regulations lakin sabase of the samay the each KSA factor should be 1/2 to 11⁄2 prishthon long.
The neeche paribhaashaayen hai paribhaashit by the U.S. daftar of Personnel prabandhan :
gyaan, Skills, or abilities ( KSAs ) - The gun jaruri to perform a job and are generally demonstrated through qualifying seva, shiksha, or prashikshan.
gyaan - Is a body of soochna applied directly to the pradarshan of a falan.
kaushal - Is an observable competence to perform a siikhe psychomotor adhinium.
kshamta - Is competence to perform an observable bartaav or a bartaav ki parinaam in an observable utpaada.
The scoring of ksa essays is based on a scale of from ek to 100.
job aavedakon must score upar 70 to be mana for the sthiti.
unchi scores are niklaa through answering the KSA question as specifically as sambhavit, providing udhaaharan isse pichhlaa employment or prashikshan ki clearly demonstrate you meet the yogyata.
jab applying to sangheey sarkari sthitiyaan, a sangheey punararambh is praayah required in jod to ksa kathan.
right
Whole dane hai khadyann dane that contain khadyann rogaanu, endosperm, and chokar, in contrast to parishkrut dane, jisase retain tabhi the endosperm.
aam puure grains include:
gehun
oat
Barley - hulled or dehulled ( nahin Pearl )
makka
Brown rice
Farro
spelt
emmer
einkorn
kamut
Rye
bajra
Quinoa
Amaranth
triticale
Teff
sprouted dane
buckwheat
aam whole anaaj utpaada include:
Whole gehun aataa
puure wheat Bread
Whole gehun pasta
lipte jayee or oat groats
Triticale aataa
popcorn
teff aataa
Common parishkrut non-whole grain utpaada include:
Love Always is the debyue album of amareeki R & B duo k-ci & jojo, released on june 17, 1997, by MCA record.
it thi recorded at vibhinn studios in New york or the los angeles area in 1996 or 1997.
It was produced by JoJo or anek anya, sahit devante jhule, james Mtume, and Jeff redd.
the duo were originally a bhaag of jodeci pehle is album.
The album peaked at chathe on the US Billboard 200 and bhi appeared on international charts.
the single `` sab my jivan `` charted kramank ek in multiple deshon, or sab chaar of the album 's singles peaked upar the sheersh 25 in the us hot r & b/hip-hop geeton or the nai Zealand sheersh 40 singles.
prem Always was praapt favorably by aalochakon, who praised the brothers ' gayan kshamta or the utpaadan.
the album rai been certified three times platinum by the Recording udyog Association of america ( riaa ) and sunaharaa by music Canada and ifpi sweden.
as of June 1999 it tha bechi 2.9 million nakal in the sanyukt States.
a variable-rate bandhak, adjustable-rate bandhak ( bhujaa ), or tracker mortgage is a bandhak rin saath the byaaj rate on the note periodically samyojit aadhaarit on an anukramanika which reflects the laagat to the lender of udhaar on the credit markets.
The loan may be offered at the lender 's maanak parivartaneey chuhaake/ aadhaar rate.
vahin may be a sidhaa and legally-defined link to the underlying anukramanika, lakin jahaan the lender offers no specific kadi to the underlying market or anukramanika the rate can be badla at the lender 's discretion.
The term `` variable-rate mortgage '' is most aam baahar the sanyukt rajya, whilst in the sanyukt rajya, `` adjustable-rate bandhak '' is sabase aam, or implies a mortgage regulated by the Federal sarkari, with caps on aarope.
in anek deshon, samyojya rate mortgages hai the norm, or in aise sthaan, may bas be referred to as mortgages.
among the sabase aam indices hai the daron on 1-year constant-maturity rajkosh ( cmt ) pratibhuti, the Cost of nidhi anukramanika ( cofi ), or the London interbank Offered Rate ( libor ).
A few lenders use unke apana laagat of nidhi as an anukramanika, balki than using anya indices.
is is kiya to ensure a steady hashia for the lender, whose apana laagat of funding hoga praayah be sambandhit to the anukramanika.
Consequently, bhugtan bana by the borrower may change over samay saath the changing byaaj rate ( alternatively, the pad of the loan may badalen ).
This is distinct isse the graduate bhugtan bandhak, jisase offers changing bhugtan amounts lakin a fixed byaaj rate.
anya form of bandhak loan shaamil the interest tabhi bandhak, the phixd rate mortgage, the rinatmak amortization bandhak, or the gubbaaraa bhugtan bandhak.
samyojya daron transafar part of the byaaj rate risk from the lender to the borrower.
ve can be prayukt jahaan manamaujee byaaj daron mek phixd rate lone mushkil to obtain.
The borrower laabh if the byaaj rate jalprapaat but loses if the interest rate increases.
the borrower benefits isse ghataya margin to the underlying cost of udhaar compared to phixd or capped rate mortgages.
the assassination of robert francis `` bobby '' kennedy, a sanyukt States seenetter or brother of assassinated adhyaksh John fitzgerald `` joker '' kennedy, took place shortly after midnight on june 5, 1968, in los angeles, California, dauraan the abhiyaan ritu for the United rajya adhyakshiya chunaav, 1968.
baad jeetna the california or dakshin dakota praathmik chunaavon liye the loktantric namakan liye adhyaksh of the sanyukt rajya, kennedy was shot as he walked through the rasoighar of the doot hotel or died in the Good samari hospital twenty-six hours baad.
sirhan sirhan, a 24-year-old philistini / jordan immigrant, thi convicted of Kennedy 's hatya or is sevarat a life vaakya liye the aparaadhon.
Sirhan 's vakil have released statements claiming pramaan ki he thi framed.
the shooting thi ankit on audio tape by a freelance newspaper reporter, or the aftermath was captured on filmi.
kennedy 's deh lay in repose at st. patric 's girjaghar in nai York liye two days before a antyeshti dravyaman was yojit on june 8.
His deh thi interred near his bhai jon at arlington neshnal kabristaan.
uske maut prompted the suraksha of presidential ummidavaar by the United rajya Secret seva.
huebert humphrey went on to jeet the loktantric namakan liye the presidency, lakin ultimately narrowly khoyaa the chunaav to richard nicksan.
As saath uske bhai Jack 's death, bobby 's hatya or the halaaton surrounding it have shakhit a kismein of shadyantr theories.
as of 2013 kennedy remains ek of tabhi do baithe sanyukt rajya seenetteron to be assassinated ( the anya hone huey long ).
The aadhunik aayu of comic kitabe is an anaupchaarik naam for the kaal in the history of mukhyadhara amareeki comic kitabe generally mana to pichhlaa isse the mid-1980s jabatak upasthit day.
in is kaal, comic kitaab varna generally became gaharaa or adhik psychologically jatil, creators became better-known or active in changing the udyog, swatantra comics flourished, and larger publishing gharon became adhik commercialized.
an vaikalpik naam liye this kaal is the andhera aayu of comic kitabe, due to the lokapriyata or artistic influence of grim sheershak, aise as or wachamen.
jab Harry mili saili... is a 1989 amareeki romantic kamedi filmi written by nora Ephron or nirdeshit by Rob reiner.
It stars billy Crystal as Harry or Meg rayaan as saili.
the story folo the sheershak varna isse the samay ve milen bas before sharing a cross-country drive, through baarah saalo or so of chance muthbhedon in nai York nagar.
the filmi uthaata the sawaal `` can main and mahilaon kabhi bas be friends ? '' or advances many vichaar about sambandh ki became household avadharanaon, such as those of the `` '' garlfriend and the `` transitional person ''.
the origins of the filmi aae isse reiner 's return to single life baad a talaak.
an interview ephron conducted with Reiner provided the basis liye harry.
saili thi aadhaarit on ephron or kuch of uske friends.
crystal came on falak or made uske own contributions to the patakatha, bananaa harry funnier.
ephron supplied the dhaancha of the filmi with much of the samvaad aadhaarit on the real-life friendship between Reiner or crystal.
The soundtrack consists of maanakon performed by harry connick, jr., saath a big band or orcestra arranged by Marc Shaiman.
Connick jiti his first grami Award liye behtareen jaiz purush gayan Performance.
colombia tasviren released the filmi using the `` manch '' technique, which involved kholane it in a few chune shaharon, letting dhanatmak shabd of mouth generate byaaj, or tab dhire expanding vitaran over subsequent weeks.
jab harry mili saili... grossed a total of US $ 92.8 million in North America.
ephron received a angrejon academy filmi puraskaar, an auskar namakan, or a lekhak gild of america Award namakan liye uske screenplay.
the filmi is kramit 23rd on eeffai 's 100 saalo... 100 Laughs suchi of the sheersh kamedi films in American cinema or number 60 on Bravo 's `` 100 funniest Movies ''.
in early 2004, the film thi adapted liye the stage in a production abhinit luk peri or alyson haningan.
200px
hamburger Helper is a line of packaged food products primarily consisting of boxed pasta bundled with a packet or packets of powdered sos or seasonings.
the contents of prayek baksaa hai sanyukt saath browned maidan bif, jal and milk to banaaen a complete dish.
the utpaada line also features utpaada saath anya starches aise as rice or potatoes bajaay of pasta.
it is bana by saamaanya Mills.
haalanki the clasik boxed hamburger helper utpaada only supplai the mand mad or the sauce packets, kuch varieties of the utpaada include maidan bif.
ye shaamil a frozen khaanaa lakeer, jisase features kuch of the brands 's classic varieties in a puraa bhojan kit form, saath frozen maidan bif and frozen sos packaged separately from the noodles in the same thilaa.
There is also an `` tatkaal '' sanskaran of Hamburger helper containing nirjalit maance, noodles and seasonings in a small thili, requiring tabhi jal to be added.
the hamburger helper shubhankar is the `` Helping haath '', an anthropomorphic animated, chaar fingered left-hand dastaane, jisase appears in the utpaada 's television commercials or on the packages.
ceres as dekhi saath the habal Space doordarshee.
it is the tabhi dwarf grah in the asteroid belt.
pluto in sannikat sachcha rang aadhaarit on Hubble Space doordarshee albido data
Haumea saath its moons, Hiʻiaka or namaka ( kalakaar 's dharna )
Makemake ( kalakaar 's dharna )
eris and iske chandramaa dysnomia as seen saath the habal spes doordarshee
a dwarf grah is a planetary-mass object that is neither a grah nor a satellite.
adhik explicitly, the antarrashtriya khagoleey sangh ( iau ) defines a bouna grah as a celestial body in direct orbit of the Sun ki is vishaal paryaapt for its shape to be niyantrit by gravitation, lakin that naapsand a grah has nahin saaf iske kakshiya pradesh of anya vastuen.
the term dwarf grah thi apanaaya in 2006 as part of a three-way categorization of laashen orbiting the Sun, brought parichay by an badhayen in discoveries of trans-neptunian vastuen ki rivaled Pluto in size, and aakhirkaar precipitated by the discovery of an bhi more vishaal object, eris.
is vargeekaran states ki laashen large paryaapt to have cleared the neighbourhood of unke kaksha hai paribhaashit as grah, jabaki those ki are nahin massive paryaapt to be rounded by unke apana gravity are paribhaashit as small saura pranali bodies.
bouna grah come in between.
The exclusion of bouna grah isse the roster of grah by the iau has maharoom dono praised and criticized ; it thi kaha to be the `` sahi decision '' by mike bhura, jo discovered or anya nai dwarf grah, lakin rai maharoom rejected by alan Stern, jo tha coined the term bouna planet in 1990.
the iau philhal recognizes five bouna planets in the saura System :, pluto,,, or.
however, tabhi do of these bodies, Ceres and Pluto, have been observed in enough vivaran to demonstrate ki ve anuroop the paribhaasha.
Eris rai maharoom sweekrut as a bouna planet kuki it is more vishaal than pluto.
the iau subsequently decided that unnamed trans-neptunian objects with an nirpeksh pariman ujjwal than +1 ( or hence a vyas of ≥838 km assuming a jyamitiya albido of ≤1 ) hai to be namit under the assumption that ve hai bouna planets.
the tabhi do aise vastuen known at the samay, makemake or Haumea, went through is naming procedure or yahood declared to be bouna grah.
it is suspected ki another sau or so gyaat objects in the Solar pranali hai dwarf planets.
estimates hai ki up to 200 dwarf grah may be mila jab the sampurna region gyaat as the kuiper belt is chaan, or that the kramank may exceed 10,000 jab vastuen bikhare baahar the Kuiper belt are mana.
vyaktigat khagolashastriyon recognize anek of ye, or in agast 2011 mike bhura published a suchi of 390 pratyaashee vastuen, ranging isse `` nearly nishchit '' to `` possible '' bouna planets. '
Brown identifies nine gyaat vastuen – the paanch sweekrut by the iau plus,,, or – as `` vastutah nishchit '', saath another do darjan atyadhik sambhavit, or vahin hai probably a sau or so aise objects in total.
the vargeekaran of bodies in anya grahiy pranaaliyon saath the characteristics of bouna planets rai nahin maharoom addressed.
a debit card ( bhi gyaat as a bainko card or check card ) is a plastic payment card ki provides the cardholder electronic abhigam to his or her bainko khaataa ( s ) at a vittiya sanstha.
kuch taash have a bhandaarit maan with jisase a payment is bana, while sabase relay a sandesh to the cardholder 's bainko to withdraw nidhi isse a payee 's designated bank khaataa.
the card, jahaan sweekrut, can be used bajaay of cash jab bananaa purchases.
In kuch maamle, the primary khaataa kramank is abantit exclusively liye use on the antarjaal or vahin is no shaareerik card.
in anek deshon, the upyog of debit taash has become so widespread that unke awaz has overtaken or entirely replaced cheques or, in kuch instances, nakadi transactions.
The vikaas of debit cards, unlike credit taash or charge taash, has generally been desh specific resulting in a kramank of alag systems around the sansar, jisase yahood praayah asangat.
chunki the mid-2000s, a kramank of initiatives have allowed debit cards issued in one country to be prayukt in anya countries or anumat unke upyog liye antarjaal or phone purchases.
naapsand credit or charge taash, bhugtan using a debit card hai tatkaal transferred isse the cardholder 's designated bainko khaataa, bajaay of unhen paying the dhan back at a baad date.
debit taash praayah bhi allow liye tatkaal vaapasi of cash, acting as the atm card liye withdrawing nakadi.
vyapaariyon may bhi prastaav cashback suvidhaayen to graahak, jahaan a customer can withdraw nakadi saath with unke purchase.
Francois Henri `` joker '' lalanne ( September 26, 1914 - janvari 23, 2011 ) thi an amareeki fitaness, kasarat, or nutritional visheshgy and prerak speaker jo is sometimes pukaara `` the godfadar of fitness '' and the `` first fitaness superhiro. ''
he varnit himself as hone a `` sugarholic '' or a `` junk khaanaa junkie '' jabatak he thi 15.
he bhi tha behavioral samasyaayein, lakin `` turned uske jivan around '' baad listening to a public lacture by paul bragg, a well-known nutrition spikar.
During uske career, he aae to maananaa ki the desh 's overall swasthya depended on the swasthya of iske janasankhyikee, likhane ki `` shaareerik samskruti or nutrition — is the moksh of america. ''
dashakon before swasthya or fitaness began being prachaarit by hastiyaan jaise jine phonda or richard simons, lalanne was already widely pahachaanaa liye saream upadesh the health laabh of regular kasarat or a shubh diet.
he published numerous books on fitaness or hosted a fitaness television dikhaaen between 1953 or 1985.
as jaldi as 1936, at aayu 21, he opened ek of the swadesh 's pehla fitaness gyms in ockland, California, jisase became a prototip for darjanon of samaan gyms using his name.
One of uske 1950s television kasarat kaarykram was aimed toward mahilaon, jisko he also protsaahit to juden uske health club.
he invented a kramank of kasarat mashine, including leg-extension or pulley divaais.
besides producing uske own series of video, he coached the bujurg or niskriy nahin to forgo kasarat, believing it hota enable unhen to badhayen their shakti.
lalanne bhi gained manyata liye uske success as a bodybuilder, as well as liye uske prodigious feats of shakti.
arnald shwarzanegar ekbar stated, `` That joker lalanne 's an animal !, '' baad lalanne, at 54, beat a 21-year-old Schwarzenegger `` badly '' in an anaupchaarik contest.
on the avasar of LaLanne 's death, shwarzanegar credited lalanne liye hone `` an apostle for fitness '' by preranadai `` arabon sab over the sansar to sajiv healthier jeevandaan, '' or, as rajyapal of california, had pehle placed use on uske Governor 's parishad on shaareerik Fitness.
steve reeves credited lalanne as uske prerana to nirmaan uske muscular physique while keeping a slim qamar.
he thi inducted to the california haul of kirti or rai a star on the hollywood Walk of kirti.
air forces of sabase of the countries upyog pranali samaan to sena.
however, the raf or the air forces of many rashtramandal countries, or those formerly under a British influence, use a different set of baandhane loosely aadhaarit on naval equivalents ; leftinent, Commander, Captain or commodore are prefixed liye air force upyog saath udaan, wing, Group or air, kramshah ( the pehla three hone the ikai ki ve used to cmand ).
penallope Cruz Sánchez ( ; born april 28, 1974 ) is a spani abhinetri.
hastakshrit by an agent at age 15, wo made uske acting debyue at 16 on television and uske feature film debyue the following saal in Jamón, jamón ( 1992 ), to najuk acclaim.
Her subsequent roles in the 1990s and 2000s shaamil kholen apana ankhen ( 1997 ), The Hi-Lo desh ( 1999 ), the ladki of apana sapano ( 2000 ) or stri on Top ( 2000 ).
Cruz achieved recognition liye uske sise bhoomikaaye in the 2001 films vanilla aasmaan or uda.
wo rai chunki built a kaamyaab kariyar, appearing in films from a wide range of jati, including the kamedi waking Up in reno ( 2002 ), the thriller gothika ( 2003 ), the christmas movie Noel ( 2004 ), or the karrwai adventure Sahara ( 2005 ).
wo rai received najuk acclaim liye uske bhoomikaaye in Volver ( 2006 ) and Nine ( 2009 ) receiving Golden globe or academy Award nominations liye prayek.
wo won the academy Award liye behtareen supporting abhinetri in 2008 liye vicky christina barsilona.
She thi the pehla Spanish abhinetri in history to praapt an academy Award or the pehla spani actress to praapt a star at the Hollywood chalanaa of kirti.
Cruz rai modeled liye companiyaan aise as Mango, ralph lauren and l'oréal.
penallope and uske younger sister mónica cruge have designed vasteen for Mango.
wo rai daan dono uske samay or dhan to dharmarth.
Cruz rai volunteered in uganda and india, jahaan she kharch ek week working for Mother Teresa ; wo daan her selary isse ' to help nidhi the let nun 's mishan.
a wax murtikla of cruge hoga be lagaai in a premier spot in the grevin mom Museum in paris.
sanchika explorer, previously gyaat as Windows explorer, is a sanchika manager anuprayog or bhi a nevigation tool ki is included saath relies of the microsoft khidkiyaan oparating pranali isse khidkiyaan 95 onwards.
It provides a graphical upayokta interfes for accessing the sanchika systems.
it is bhi the ghatak of the operating system ki presents anek upayokta interfes items on the monitor such as the taskbar or desktop.
controlling the computer is sambhavit bagaiyr khidkiyaan Explorer kaaryshil ( liye example, the sanchika | chalaaen command in kaary Manager on nt-derived sanskaran of khidkiyaan will falan without it, as will commands typed in a cmand prompt khidki ).
Located in the C : \khidkinus nirdeshika, it is sometimes referred to as the Windows shell, explorer.exe, or bas “explorer”.
The parvaah Bears hai characters nirmit by amareeki Greetings in 1981 liye upyog on greeting taash.
the asli kalakriti liye the taash thi chitrit by artist Elena kucharik.
in 1983, kenner turned the Care bears into plush tedi bears.
the parvaah bears appeared in unke apana tv specials pukaara The parvaah bears in the Land Without jajbaat ( 1983 ) or the Care bears battle the Freeze yantra ( 1984 ).
ve also tha unke apana television shrenee isse 1985 to 1988, in jod to teen visheshta films : the Care bears film ( 1985 ), parvaah Bears film ii : A New peedhee ( 1986 ), or the parvaah bears adventure in Wonderland ( 1987 ).
Each parvaah bhaaluu aata in a alag color or has a specialized insignia on iske pet ki represents iske duty or vyaktitv.
This tamgaa thi known as unke `` tummy symbol. ''
however, the film parvaah bears : oopsy Does It ! renamed unhen `` pet baij ''.
Adding to the Care Bear parivaar hai the `` parvaah bhaaluu Cousins '', jisase visheshta a sher, khargosh, penguin, raccoon, or anya aise pashu created in the vahi style as the teddy bears.
in 2002, the bears were reintroduced saath nai toys.
bana by Play-Along khilone, the new toys offered suvidhaayen aise as illuminated bellies upon tach, aerobics bears, and glow-in-the-dark bears.
as bhaag of this vaapasi, the Bears have appeared in two computer-animated filmon : parvaah bears : yatra to joke-a-lot ( 2004 ) or the Care bears ' Big kaash film ( 2005 ).
In 2007, the matadhikaar manaaye iske 25th varshganth ; another relaunch took place, as well as the release of parvaah Bears : oopsy Does it !.
in mid-2011, ag ghoshit a punaruddhar tv anemated shrenee titled `` Care bears : swaagat to Care-a-Lot ``.
the premiere of the series utilizes `` 30 years of dekhbhaal ''.
it premiered on The hub on june 2, 2012.
as of 2013, Care bears merchandise is still hone marketed.
During 2008 and 2009, canada 's kuki jaar samooh or frans 's moonscoop samooh attempted to acquire the matadhikaar isse AGC, saath no apparent success.
antarraji 70 ( I-70 ) is an antarraji Highway in the sanyukt rajya ki ranon isse Interstate 15 nikat Cove fort, uta, to a Park or Ride nikat Baltimore, maryland.
it thi the pehla antarraji Highway project in the sanyukt rajya.
i-70 approximately traces the path of u.S. root 40 ( and also the boodha neshnal sadak ) east of the Rocky kyu.
West of the rockies, the route of i-70 thi niklaa isse anek strot.
i-70 is the paanchvaan longest antarraji rajmarg, after I-90, i-80, i-40, or I-10.
the nirmaan of i-70 in colorado and uta is considered an abhiyantriki aashcharya as the route passes through the ijanhavar Tunnel, glenwood canyon, or the san Rafael Swell.
the ijanhavar tunnel is the ucchtam point saath the antarraji rajmarg pranali saath an unnayan of.
the sections of the antarraji in Missouri and kansas have laid arji to be the pehla antarraji in the sanyukt States.
haalanki vivaadit, the sangheey rajmarg prashasan rai claimed the section of i-70 through glenwood Canyon, completed in 1992, thi the pichhlaa piece of the antarraji rajmarg pranali, as originally niojit, to kholen to trekkic.
photo of 1999 kul grahan
as dekhi isse the dharti, a saura grahan occurs jab the chandramaa passes between the Sun or Earth, or the chandramaa fully or partially block ( `` occults `` ) the surya.
This can happen tabhi at nai moon, jab the surya and the Moon are in conjunction as dekhi isse Earth in an sanrekhan referred to as syzygy.
in a total grahan, the disk of the Sun is fully obscured by the chandramaa.
in aanshik or annular eclipses only bhaag of the surya is obscured.
if the chandramaa yahood in a perfectly circular kaksha, a little closer to the Earth, or in the vahi orbital plane, vahin would be kul saura eclipses prayek single maah.
However, the chandramaa 's kaksha is inclined ( tilted ) at adhik than 5 degrees to dharti 's kaksha around the surya ( dekhie ecliptic ) so iske chaaya at nai chandramaa praayah misses dharti.
Earth 's kaksha is pukaara the ecliptic plane as the chandramaa 's orbit jarur cross is plane in anukram liye an grahan ( dono saura as khub as chandra ) to occur.
in jod, the chandramaa 's actual kaksha is andakaar, praayah lene it dur paryaapt dur isse dharti ki its apparent size is nahin vishaal paryaapt to blaak the surya totally.
The kakshiya planes cross prayek year at a line of nodes resulting in at tanik do, or up to five, saura eclipses occurring prayek year ; no adhik than do of jisase can be kul eclipses.
however, kul saura eclipses hai viral at koi particular sthaan kuki totality exists tabhi along a narrow path on dharti 's sataha traced by the Moon 's chaaya or umbra.
An grahan is a prakritik ghatana.
nevertheless, in some pracheen and aadhunik cultures, saura eclipses have been attributed to supernatural kalyankari or regarded as karaab shakunon.
a kul saura grahan can be frightening to people jo hai bekhbar of iske khagoleey explanation, as the surya seems to gaayab dauraan the day or the sky darkens in a padaarth of minutes.
kuki it is dangerous to dekh sidhe at the surya, observers chahie upyog khaas najar suraksha or apratyaksh dekhne takneekon when viewing a partial grahan, or the partial phases of a kul grahan.
it is safe to drishy the kul phase of a kul saura grahan saath the unaided najar or bagaiyr suraksha, however.
logon referred to as grahan chasers or umbraphiles hoga safar to remote sthitiyaan to observe or gavaah purvanumanit central saura eclipses.
A rajnatik party ( from, genitive partis, `` bhaag '', `` portion '' ) is a rajnatik organization ki typically seeks to influence, or entirely control, sarkari niti, praayah by nominating candidates with lakeer rajnatik views and trying to seat unhen in rajnatik daftar.
partiyon participate in chunavi abhiyaan and shaikshanik mangavane or virodh kriyaayein.
partiyon praayah espouse an ideology or drushti, expressed in a party kaarykram, bolstered by a written manch saath vishisht lakshya, forming a gathbandhan among disparate interests.
the mango is a fleshy stone fruit belonging to the genus mangifera, consisting of numerous tropical fruiting trees in the flowering sanyantr parivaar Anacardiaceae.
the aam is deshi to dakshin Asia, isse jahaan it rai maharoom vitarit vishwavyaapee to become ek of the most cultivated fal in the tropics.
jabaki anya mangifera species ( e.g. ghoda aam, M. foetida ) hai bhi grown on a adhik sthaniyakrut aadhaar, mangifera indica – the 'common aam ' or 'Indian mango ' – is the tabhi aam tree commonly cultivated in anek teevr or uposhna regions.
It is the neshnal fruit of india, pakistani and philippine.
in several samskritiyon, iske fal and leaves hai ritually prayukt as puspak sajaavat at vivaah, public jashn and dharmik ceremonies.
gil arnette byrd, < sandarbh naam > http : //www.pro-football-reference.com/players/B/ByrdGi00.htm ( born farvari 20, 1961 in san francisco, california ) is a former peshewar American football khilaadi.
he thi a do samay Pro Bowl cornerback in 1991 or 1992 for the san diego chargers baad graduating from San jose State University.
byrd thi inducted into the chargers haul of kirti in 1998.
he was an all-city kaaryshil back and rakshaatmak waapas at lowell High skool ( San francisco ), helping to sise the Cardinals to the nagar championships in uske senior ritu of 1978.
World map prardashit the tropic of karkat
The tropic of karkat, bhi referred to as the Northern tropic, is the vrutt of akshansh on the dharti that marks the sabase northerly sthiti at jisase the surya may appear sidhe overhead at its zenith.
is event occurs ekbar per saal, at the samay of the june solstice, when the uttari Hemisphere is tilted toward the surya to its adhiktam extent.
It currently ( saal 2013 ) lies at 23° 26′ 15.143′′ uttar of the Equator.
iske dakshini golardh counterpart, ankan the sabase southerly sthiti at jisase the surya may appear sidhe overhead, is the Tropic of makar.
ye ooshnakaribandh are do of the paanch pramukh oopaadhi upayon or major circles of akshansh ki chihnit maanchitr of the Earth, besides the Arctic or antarctic vrutt and the equator.
The sthitiyaan of these circles of akshansh ( anya than the equator ) are likhavai by the jhukaav of the Earth 's axis of roteshan saapeksh to the plane of iske kaksha.
dvd-video is a upabhokta video swaroop prayukt to store digital video on dvd discs, or is philhal the prabal upabhokta video format in asia, North america, europea, or australia.
discs using the dvd-video specification aavashyaktaa a dvd drive or an h.262/mpeg-2 bhaag 2 dicoder ( e.g., a dvd khilaadi, or a computer dvd drive saath a tantra DVD player ).
vanijyik dvd movies hai encoded using a sangyojan of H.262/MPEG-2 bhaag 2 sampidit video and audio of varying swarup ( often multi-channel swarup as varnit neeche ).
typically, the aankada rate liye DVD filmon ranges isse 3 mbit/s to 9.5 Mbit/s, or the bit rate is praayah anukuli.
it thi first available liye khudara around 1997.
the DVD-Video specification thi nirmit by dvd foram or can be obtained isse dvd format/logo licencing nigam liye a fee of $ 5,000.
the specification is nahin saream uplabdhiyaan, because every sadsy jarur chihn a non-disclosure anubandh.
nishchit information in the dvd Book is proprietary or confidential.
in computing or specifically Internet, a jonk is ek jo laabh, usually deliberately, isse anya ' soochna or praytn lakin does nahin prastaav anything in vaapasi, or makes only token offerings in an attempt to avoid hone pukaara a jonk.
in economics, is type of bartaav is pukaara `` free sawari '' or is sambhddha saath the free rider problem.
depending on context, leeching karata nahin necessarily refer to illegal upyog of computer sansaadhan, lakin praayah instead to greedy upyog according to etiquette : to wit, using too much of what is freely given without contributing a reasonable raashi waapas to the community ki provides it.
the naam derives from the jonk, an animal ki jhanjhat blood or then koshishen to leave unnoticed.
anya sharten hai used, aise as `` freeloader '', but jonk is the sabase aam.
The puraa tribhuj logo, prayukt in vibhinn sanskaran isse 1970 to 1993.
The sanyukt States Postal Service ( usps ), bhi gyaat as the post Office or u.S. mail, is an independent agency of the sanyukt States federal government jimmedaar liye providing dak seva in the sanyukt rajya.
it is one of the few sarkari agencies explicitly authorized by the United rajya Constitution.
the USPS traces its jaden to 1775 during the Second mahadwipiya congress, jahaan benjamin franklin was niyukt the pehla postmaster saamaanya.
The cabinet-level Post daftar vibhaag thi nirmit in 1792 isse franklin 's aaparishan or roopantarit into iske vartmaan form in 1971 under the dak Reorganization Act.
The USPS employs over 574,000 majdoor or operates over 260,000 vehicles.
The USPS is the oparator of the largest gadee fleet in the sansar.
the usps is legally obligated to serve sab america, regardless of bhugol, at uniform daam and visheshta.
the usps rai exclusive abhigam to letter baks chihnit `` u.S. Mail '' or personal letterboxes in the United States, lakin still competes against nijee package delivery sevaayen, such as UPS or fedex.
the usps rai nahin sidhe received taxpayer-dollars since the jaldi 1980s with the naaballig excepshan of subsidies liye costs sambhddha with the niskriy and videshi matadaata.
chunki the 2006 all-time shikhar mail awaz, baad jisase congress passed the dak Accountability or enhancement adhinium ``, ( jisase mandated $ 5.5 billion per saal to be sashulk into an khaataa to pre-fund retiree health-care, 75 saalo into the future, a requirement adwitiya among sanghathan and vyavsaayon in the U.S. ), revenue dropped sharply due to recession-influenced ghatati mail awaz, prompting the dak service to dekh to anya strot of aay jabaki cutting costs to reduce its budget deficit.
washington, d.C. rai been the puunji of the United rajya chunki 1800.
aath anya shaharon have parosa as the baithak place liye Congress or hai isliye mana to have once maharoom the puunji of the United rajya.
In jod, prayek of the 50 u.S. rajya or the five principal territories of the sanyukt rajya maintains iske apana capital.
Princess kaaten diamond niyat in a ring
the rajkumaari kaaten is the duusari most popular kaaten aakaar liye diamonds, aglaa to a golakaar shandaar.
the face-up aakaar of the princess kaaten is vargakar or ytaakar or the profil or side-on shape is samaan to that of an inverted pyramid saath chaar beveled pahalu.
the rajkumaari kaaten is a apekshaakrit nai diamond kaaten, having maharoom nirmit in the 1960s.
it rai gained in lokapriyata in haal years as a adhik distinctive vaikalpik to the adhik lokapriy golakaar shandaar kaaten, in jisase the sheersh of diamond, called the crown, is kaaten saath a round face-up aakaar or the neeche, pukaara the mandap, is taraasha samaan to a cone.
A princess cut saath the same width as the vyas of a round shandaar will taul adhik as it has chaar kinare jisase would varanaa have maharoom cut band or rounded to form a golakaar brilliant.
the princess kaaten is sometimes referred to as a vargakar parivardhit shandaar.
however, while displaying the vahi high oopaadhi of brilliance, its faceting style is unique or completely alag from ki of a golakaar shandaar.
The rajkumaari kaaten tha its origins in the early `` French '' kaaten, having a step-modified `` double-french '' or `` cross '' kaaten crown or a series of adwitiya, chevron-shaped facets in the mandap which combine to de a pruthak cross-shaped pratibimb jab the stone is viewed sidhe through the table.
Effectively, the Princess kaaten combines the unchi oopaadhi of lite vaapasi of a golakaar shandaar kaaten saath a distinctive square or ytaakar aakaar.
The vargakar rajkumaari kaaten diamond is praayah slightly sasta than round shandaar kaaten eent of the vahi carat weight kuki it retains parichay 80 % of the ashisht diamond, as opposed to the round brilliant jisase retains tabhi parichay 50 % of the ashisht.
The kshamta to retain more crystal vazan makes is aakaar lokapriy amongst diamond cutters.
accredited gem appraisers ( AGA ) and amareeki gem Society prayogshaala ( agsl ) or europea Gem laboratories-usa ( egl-usa ) are philhal the tabhi labs that grad the Princess kaaten for kaaten.
vahin is no saarvbhaumik paribhaasha of what maap mek an ideal rajkumaari kaaten diamond or anek diamond manufacturers market adarsh diamonds saath differing facet pattern or kone as `` ideal cut ''.
In contrast to the agsl, AGA, or EGL-USA the gemological santhaan of america ( GIA ) rai stated ki vahin is nahin paryaapt industry consensus or anubhavjanya aankada to bataaen cut grading standards liye Princess kaaten diamonds or to do so is at the risk of consumers jo may be deceived by diamonds accompanied by nirgun adarsh or behtareen kaaten grad.
The naam `` rajkumaari kaaten '' thi originally prayukt in conection saath another diamond cut, otherwise gyaat as the `` profil '' cut, designed by arpad Nagy, a London kattar, in 1961.
The same name thi baad used or bana popular by ygal Perlman, betzalel Ambar, or israel Itzkowitz in israel in 1979.
A samaan kaaten saath tabhi 49 facets, as opposed to the original 58 facets of the rajkumaari kaaten, thi baad branded the `` quadrillion '' and initially vitarit by ambar eent in los angeles.
Three years of optical research yielded a vargakar stone saath faceting samaan to that of a round shandaar kaaten diamond.
a tulana
The kramank of chevrons can affect the overall outluk of a rajkumaari kaaten diamond.
is can praayah be sankalpit by the wire diagram ki is plotted in diamond grading reports.
by adding adhik chevrons on the mandap paksh of the diamond, the vyaktigat facets of the diamond hoga abhi be tutaa bas into choti facets.
as a parinaam, it can de a rajkumaari kaaten diamond a `` kuchal barf '' dekh.
vaais versa, jab a rajkumaari kaaten diamond has lesser chevrons, it tends to de the diamond a chanki outluk due to broader facets.
The domestic dog ( canis lupus familiaris ) is a subspecies of the dhoosar bhediya ( Canis lupus ), a sadsy of the canidaye parivaar of the mammalian anukram Carnivora.
The term `` gharelu shwaan '' is generally prayukt liye both domesticated or feral kismein.
the shwaan has maharoom the pehla animal to be domesticated or rai maharoom the sabase widely kept working, hunting, and paalatu animal in insaan history.
the shabd `` shwaan '' may bhi mean the purush of a canine species, as opposed to the word `` kutiya '' liye the female of the species.
MtDNA pramaan shows an vikasvaadi split between the aadhunik shwaan 's lineage or the aadhunik wolf 's lineage around 100,000 years pehle lakin,, the oldest fossil namoonon genetically linked to the modern dog 's lineage tithi to lagbhag 33,000-36,000 saalo pehle.
kutto ' value to jaldi insaan hunter-gatherers led to unhen quickly becoming sarvyaapee aarpaar sansar samskritiyon.
Dogs perform anek roles liye people, such as shikaar, herding, pulling loads, suraksha, assisting police or sainya, companionship, or, adhik recently, aiding handicapped individuals.
is prabhaav on insaan samaaj rai die unhen the upnaam `` Man 's behtareen dost '' in the Western sansar.
In kuch cultures, dogs are bhi a sorce of meat.
in 2001, vahin were anumaanit to be 400 lakh kutto in the sansar.
Most breeds of kutto are at sabase a few sau saalo boodha, having maharoom artificially chaynit liye particular morphologies and behaviors by logon liye vishisht kaaryaatmak roles.
through is chaynaatmak prajnan, the shwaan rai viksit into sainkadon of varied breeds, or shows adhik behavioral or morphological vibhinnata than koi anya land standhari.
liye example, height measured to the withers seemayen isse in the chihuahua to about in the irish wolfhound ; rang varies isse shwet through grays ( usually pukaara `` blue '' ) to black, and bhura from light ( tan ) to andhera ( `` red '' or `` chocolate '' ) in a chaudee variation of pattern ; coats can be choti or long, coarse-haired to wool-like, sidhaa, ghunghraale, or chikna.
it is common liye sabase breeds to shed is coat.
Diagram of a hastantaran electron sookshmdarshi
A 1973 siemens electron microscope, Musée des kala et métiers, Paris
An electron sookshmdarshi ( EM ) is a prakaar of microscope ki upyog an electron beam to illuminate a specimen or produce a magnified chitra.
An em rai vrihad resolving power than a lite microscope and can reveal the dhaancha of smaller vastuen kuki electrons have wavelengths parichay 100,000 times shorter than drishy light photons.
ve can achieve behatar than 50 pm rezolution or magnifications of up to parichay 10,000,000x whereas ordinary, non-confocal lite microscopes hai simit by diffraction to parichay 200 nm resolution or upyogi magnifications neeche 2000x.
The electron sookshmdarshi upyog electrostatic or electromagnetic lenses to control the electron beam or fokas it to rup an image.
ye electron optical lenses hai analogous to the kaanch lenses of a lite optical sookshmdarshi.
Electron microscopes hai used to investigate the ultrastructure of a chaudee range of biological or acarbonic namoonon sahit microorganisms, koshikaayen, vishaal molecules, biopsy namoonay, dhaatuon, or crystals.
industrially, the electron sookshmdarshi is often used liye quality control or vifaltaa vishleshan.
aadhunik electron microscopes produce electron micrographs, using specialized digital cameras or frame grabbers to capchar the image.
popeyes Louisiana rasoighar is a kadi of fried murga fast khaanaa restaraan santhaapit in 1972 in nai orlions, louisiana.
Often referred to as Popeyes and sometimes as popeyes murga & Biscuits or popeyes murga & seafood, it thi acquired by sandy sroton, georgia -based afc udhyamon, originally america 's pasandida murga company, in 1993.
according to a company press relies dinaak june 29, 2007, popeyes is the second-largest `` quick-service murga restaraan samooh, measured by kramank of ikai '', saath adhik than 1,800 restaurants in adhik than 40 rajya and the zila of Columbia, and over 22 deshon vishwavyaapee sahit turkon, uttari Cyprus, bahrain, china, hong Kong, iraqi, Indonesia, jordan, kuwait, sanyukt arab Emirates, Japan, malaysia, saudi Arabia, dakshin korian, Singapore, Canada, Jamaica, Guyana, surinam, mexico, Trinidad, Puerto rico, honduras, vietnam, panama, peru, and costa rika.
parichay tees sthitiyaan hai company-owned, the baaki franchised.
the leg press is a weight training kasarat in which the vyaktigat pushes a vazan or pratirodh dur from them using unke legs.
the term leg dabaayen bhi refers to the apparatus prayukt to perform is kasarat.
the leg press can be prayukt to evaluate an khilaadi 's overall lower deh strength ( isse ghutana joint to hip ).
using the tiryak sled-type leg dabaayen yantra.
vahin hai do main prakaar of leg press:
The diagonal or lambavat 'sled ' type leg dabaayen.
vazan discs ( platon ) are sanlagn sidhe to the sled, jisase is arohit on rails.
The upayokta sits neeche the sled or pushes it upward with unke feet.
ye mashine saamanytah shaamil samyojya suraksha koshthak ki prevent the upayokta from hone funs antargat the vazan.
the 'cable ' prakaar leg dabaayen, or 'seated leg dabaayen ', commonly mila on multigyms.
The upayokta sits upright or pushes aage with their feet onto a thali ki is sanlagn to the vazan stack by means of a long steel cabel.
vendi Williams shikari ( born vendi jone williams ; July 18, 1964 ) is an amareeki media vyaktitv, abhinetri or lekhak.
wo host a syndicated television baat show, the Wendy Williams dikhaaen.
Prior to television, williams thi a `` shock jockette `` on anek radio shows.
williams rai gained surkhi for uske on-air spats saath celebrities.
wo was the vishay of the 2006 vh1 reality tv series pukaara The vendi Williams Experience jisase broadcast events surrounding uske radio dikhaaen.
She has written an aatmakatha or anek anya kitabe, or rai nirmit a product lakeer pukaara adorn by vendi williams.
Patrick henry `` deshadroh '' vaak pehle the House of Burgesses in an 1851 painting by Peter F. rothermel
`` de me swatantraaa, or give me death ! '' is a quotation attributed to patric henry from a vaak he bana to the virginia sammelan.
on ki day, at St. jon 's girijaghar in richmond, Virginia, or is credited saath having swung the balance in convincing the virginia house of burgesses to pass a rezolution delivering the virginia troops to the Revolutionary yuddh.
among the delegates to the convention yahood bhavishya us raashtrapatiyon thomas jeffrasan or george Washington.
Newfoundland and labrador (, locally ) is the easternmost praant of canada.
situated in the desh 's atlantic region, it incorporates the dweep of newfoundland or menland labrador to the northwest, saath a sanyukt kshetrafal of.
in 2011, the praant 's janasankhyikee was 514,536.
lagbhag 92 pratishat of the praant 's janasankhyikee jeevandaan on the dweep of newfoundland ( sahit iske sambhddha smaller islands ), of jisase more than half live on the avalon prayadweep.
the praant is canada 's sabase linguistically homogenous, saath 97.6 % of residents reporting angrezi ( newfoundland angrezi ) as unke maan jeebh in the 2006 janasankhyikee ;.
historically, newfoundland thi bhi ghar to unique varieties of french, or irish, as well as the now-extinct beothuk bhashaa.
in Labrador, local dialects of innu-aimun or inuktitut hai also bolaa.
newfoundland or labrador 's puunji or largest city, St. jon 's, is canada 's 20th-largest janasankhyikee mahanagar Area, or is ghar to lagbhag 40 pratishat of the praant 's population.
st. jon 's is the seat of sarkari, ghar to the house of Assembly of newfoundland or Labrador or the ucchtam adaalat in the kshetradhikaar, the Newfoundland or labrador adaalat of apil.
A purv upnivesh and dominian of the sanyukt Kingdom, newfoundland and labrador became the tenth praant to daalen the canadai canfederation on March 31, 1949, as newfoundland.
on December 6, 2001, an amendment thi bana to the samvidhan of canada to badalen the praant 's official naam to newfoundland or labrador.
In day-to-day vaartalap, however, canadians generally still refer to the praant itself as Newfoundland or to the pradesh on the canadai menland as labrador.
theodor `` T.R. ''
rujvelt, jr. ( ; aktubar 27, 1858—january 6, 1919 ) was the 26th adhyaksh of the sanyukt rajya ( 1901–1909 ).
he is vikhyath liye his samrudh vyaktitv, dayera of ruchi or uplabdhiyaan, and uske leadership of the pragatisheel gati, as khub as his `` county `` persona and robust mardaangi.
He was a leader of the republican party or founder of the pehla avatar of the short-lived pragatisheel ( `` Bull Moose '' ) party of 1912.
pehle banane adhyaksh, he yojit karyaalayon at the nagar, rajya, and sangheey levels.
Roosevelt 's achievements as a naturalist, explorer, shikari, lekhak, or sipaahi hai as much a bhaag of uske kirti as koi daftar he yojit as a rajaneta.
rujvelt was 42 saalo boodha when sworn in as adhyaksh of the sanyukt rajya in 1901, bananaa use the youngest adhyaksh kabhi ; he taal out the youngest elected adhyaksh, jon F. kennedy, by only ek saal.
rujvelt was bhi the pehla of tabhi teen sitting raashtrapatiyon to have jiti the nobel salaam puraskaar.
The tedi bhaaluu is namit after him, despite uske avmaananaa for hone pukaara `` tedi ''.
born into a wealthy parivaar in nai york nagar, rujvelt was a sickly child jo suffered isse asthma or stayed at home adhyayan natural itihaas.
to overcome uske physical kamazori, he embraced a zordaar jivan.
home-schooled, he became an eager chaatr of prakruti.
He attended harvard vishvavidhyalayon, where he studied jeevigyaan, boxed or viksit an byaaj in naval afares.
In 1881, ek saal out of harvard, he thi nirvaachit to the nai york rajya sabha, jahaan he became a netaa of the sudhaar gut of uske Republican party ( the `` gop '' ).
uske the Naval yuddh of 1812 ( 1882 ) sthapit his peshewar reputation as a gambhir itihaaskaar ; he wrote numerous kitabe on hunting, the bahari, and vartmaan rajnatik mudde, as well as frontier history.
In 1884, uske pehla bivi or uske maan died on the vahi din.
he temporarily left raajnneeti or went to the frontier, becoming a rancher in the `` badlands '' in the dakotas.
returning to nai york nagar, he bhaaga liye mahayor in 1886, finishing teesraa saath 60,000 mat.
he baad gained kirti by lene vigorous charge of the city police.
at the national str, he thi a netaa in civil seva sudhaar.
the spanish–american War broke out in 1898 jabaki rujvelt was, effectively, kaaryshil the Department of the navy.
he promptly resigned or formed the Rough rides – a volunteer pyaade regiment that ladaa in Cuba.
The yuddh hero thi nirvaachit rajyapal in 1898 or in 1900 thi manonith liye vaais adhyaksh.
he successfully sakriy the gop aadhaar as a highly drishy prachaarak to reelect President William mckinley on a manch of high tariffs, the sunaharaa maanak, imperialism, samruddhi at ghar or vijay videsh.
In 1901, adhyaksh William mckinley was assassinated or Roosevelt became adhyaksh.
He attempted to move the Republican party ( GOP ) toward Progressivism, sahit vishwaas busting or increased viniman of vyavsaayon.
Roosevelt became the pehla vyakti nirvaachit to a term in his own sahi in 1904 baad having ascended to the presidency ( from the Vice-Presidency ) upon the maut of uske purvavarti, jeetna the largest percentage of the lokapriy vote chunki the uncontested election of 1820.
rujvelt coined the phrase `` vargakar Deal `` to describe uske domestic kaarysoochee, emphasizing that the average naagarik hota milengi a fair share under his policies.
as an outdoorsman or naturalist, he prachaarit the sangrakshan gati.
on the sansar stage, rujvelt 's nitiyon yahood characterized by uske slogan, `` bolo softly or carry a big stick ``.
a cousin is a relative saath jisko a vyakti shares one or adhik common purvaj ( s ) ( anya than a janak, child/descendant, sibling, child/descendant of a sahodar, or sahodar of a parent/ancestor ).
however in aam parlance, `` cousin '' saamanytah specifically arthath `` first cousin ''.
Systems of `` degree '' or `` removals '' are prayukt in the english-speaking sansar to describe the sateek sambandh between two cousins ( in the vyapak bhav ) or the ancestor they have in aam.
vibhinn governmental entities have established pranaaliyon liye vidhik upyog ki can adhik precisely bataaen kinships with aam ancestors existing koi kramank of peedhiyaan in the past, haalanki aam upyog often eliminates the degrees or removals and refers to logon with aam ancestry as simply `` dur cousins '' or `` relatives ''.
Webster is an amareeki halaat kamedi ki aired on abisi isse September 16, 1983 jabatak May 8, 1987, or in first-run anuprayog from sitambar 21, 1987 jabatak kooch 10, 1989.
the shrenee was nirmit by stu chaandi.
the dikhaaen sitaron Emmanuel louis in the title bhoomika as a yang ladke jo, baad khone uske abhibhavak, is apanaaya by his enegel -pro godfadar, portrayed by Alex karras, and uske nai socialite bivi, nibhaai by susaan Clark.
the fokas thi largely on how this impulsively shaadishuda yugal tha to samaayojan to unke new lives and sudden parenthood, lakin it thi the congenial Webster himself who drove much of the plat.
The shrenee thi utpaadit by georgian khadi ltd., emmanuel Lewis entertainment udhyamon, inc. ( 1986-1989 ) or sarvopari Television.
jaise NBC 's pehle hit diff'rent strokes, Webster featured a young african-american boy apanaaya by a white family.
teen prakaar of cell prabhag
koshika prabhag is the prakram by jisase a janak cell divides into do or more daughter koshikaayen.
koshika division usually occurs as bhaag of a larger koshika cycle.
in eukaryotes, vahin hai two pruthak prakaar of koshika prabhag : a vegetative prabhag, whereby prayek beti cell is genetically identical to the parent koshika ( mitosis ), or a reductive koshika prabhag, whereby the kramank of gunasutron in the beti koshikaayen is reduced by half, to upaj agunit gamit ( meiosis ).
dono of these cell prabhag chakra are required in sexually reproducing jeevon at some point in unke jivan saikil, or both hai believed to be present in the last eukaryotic aam purvaj Prokaryotes bhi undergo a vegetative koshika division gyaat as binary fission, jahaan unke genetic saamagree is segregated baraabar into do daughter koshikaayen.
All koshika divisions, regardless of sajiv, are preceded by a single golakaar of diene replication.
For saral eckoshikeey organisms aise as the amoeba, ek koshika prabhag is samatuly to janan – an sampurna nai sajiv is created.
on a larger scale, mitotic cell prabhag can banaaen progeny isse bahukoshikeey organisms, aise as plants that grow isse cuttings.
koshika prabhag also enables sexually reproducing jeevon to develop from the one-celled zygote, which itself was utpaadit by cell prabhag isse gamit.
And baad vikaas, koshika prabhag allows liye continual nirmaan or repair of the sajiv.
A human hone 's deh anubhavon parichay 10,000 kharab koshika divisions in a aaajeevan.
koshika prabhag rai been modeled by finite subdivision niyam.
the primary concern of cell division is the mentanence of the asli koshika 's genome.
pehle division can occur, the genomic information ki is bhandaarit in gunasutron jarur be replicated, and the duplicated genome jarur be alag cleanly between koshikaayen.
a great saude of cellular avasanrachana is shaamil in keeping genomic information consistent between `` peedhiyaan ''.
pahaad seemayen of masachusets, sanyukt rajya.
harvard jones ( born jon Howard Jones, 23 February 1955, Southampton, Hampshire, England ) is a angrejon sangeetkaar, singer and songwriter.
according to the ginis kitaab of angrejon hit singles & album, `` Jones is an sampannataa singer-songwriter jo thi a niyamit chart aagatuk in the mid-1980s saath uske brands of synthpop.
jones, jo thi baraabar lokapriy in the u.S., appeared at sajiv sahaayta ``.
Allmusic patrkaar, stephen thomas Erlewine adds, `` jones was one of the dhamak aankade of mid-1980s synthpop.
uske music merged the praudyogiki intensive dhwani of nai wave saath the cheery ashavad of hippies and late 1960s pop.
jones racked up a string of hits in the mid or let 1980s, pehle he retreated into hone a cult figure in the 1990s ''.
the antarrashtriya oil of man tt ( paryatak trophy ) Race is a motorcycle racing event yojit on the Isle of man or thi liye anek saalo the sabase prestigious motorcycle race in the world.
the event thi part of the FIM motorcycle grand Prix World Championship during the period 1949–1976 pehle hone transferred to the sanyukt kingdom baad suraksha chintaaen or chalaaen by the fim as the British grand pricks liye the 1977 season.
the oil of Man TT Races became part of the tt Formula 1 championships isse 1977 to 1990 to bachaana the event 's racing status.
isse 1989 the racing rai been viksit by the Isle of Man Department of Tourism as the oil of man tt parv.
the race is chalaaen in a time-trial swaroop on public sadaken closed for racing by the praavdhaanon of an Act of tynwald ( the parliament of the oil of man ).
the pehla res thi yojit on Tuesday 28 may 1907 or thi pukaara the antarrashtriya auto-cycle paryatak Trophy.
the event thi organised by the Auto-Cycle klbon over 10 laps of the St jon 's choti course of 15 mile 1,470 yards liye road-legal touring motorcycles saath exhaust silencers, saddles, pedals or mud-guards.
the winner of the single-cylinder class, or overall vijeta of the pehla event in 1907, thi charlie collier riding a Matchless motorcycle in a samay of 4 hours, 8 minutes and 8 second at an ausat res gati of 38.21 kimi.
the vijeta of the twin-cylinder class thi rem Fowler sawari a peugeot angine Norton in a samay of 4 ghanton 21 minutes or 52 seconds at an ausat res gati of 36.21 kimi.
the trophy presented to charlie collier as the vijeta of the 1907 oil of man tt res, thi daan by the bille de Mouzilly St. mangal.
It featured a stylised sanskaran of olympic parameshwar hermes by Giovanni Da bologna as a chaandi figurine astride a winged wheel.
the trophy thi samaan in dizine to the 18 carat gold montague trophy prastut to John nepier ( Arrol-Johnston ) as the inaugural vijeta of the Isle of man paryatak Trophy car res in 1905 abhi known as the RAC paryatak Trophy.
the bille de mouzilly St. mangal trophy is abhi prastut annually to the vijeta of the Isle of man varisht TT Motor-Cycle res.
the 2007 oil of man tt was the centenary event jisase bhaaga between 26 May or 8 june 2007 or pradarshit a khaas Re-enactment of the 1907 Isle of man tt Race held on the gaanv green aglaa to tynwald Hill in st jon 's on somvaar 28 may 2007.
the wintage parade of 100 clasik motorcycle for the centenary Re-enactment on the original st jon 's choti Course was flagged dur by purv sansar Motor-Cycle champion geoff duk.
the pehla of the bhagidaar to be flagged dur thi the recently restored twin-cylinder peugeot-norton ridden by Rem fowler during the pehla oil of man tt res in 1907.
bhi participating in the 2007 re-enactment thi tt race competitor guy Martin riding a 1938 triumph baagh 100 500 cc or anya purv tt competitors sahit alan Cathcart, saimi Miller, upnaam Jefferies or mik Grant bhi samaapt the re-enactment god.
upright=1.15
berogari ( or joblessness ) occurs jab logon hai bagaiyr kaary and actively seeking kaary.
the berogari rate is a maap of the vyapaktaa of berogari and it is calculated as a pratishat by dividing the kramank of berozegaar individuals by sab individuals currently in the majdoor force.
dauraan avadhi of recession, an arthvyavastha praayah experiences a apekshaakrit unchi unemployment rate.
According to International Labour sanghathan report, adhik than 197 million logon globally hai out of kaary or 6 % of the world 's workforce were bagaiyr a job in 2012.
vahin remains considerable theoretical bahes regarding the kalyankari, consequences or samaadhaan liye berogari.
shastreey arthshaastra, New shastreey economics, and the austria skool of arthshaastra argue that market mechanisms hai vishwasaneey arthath of resolving berogari.
These theories argue viruddh interventions imposed on the labor market isse the baahar, aise as unionization, nunatam mazdooree laws, taxes, or anya regulations ki ve arji discourage the bhartee of majdoor.
keynesian arthshaastra emphasizes the cyclical prakruti of berogari and anushansa government interventions in the arthvyavastha ki it daawa hoga reduce berogari dauraan recessions.
This siddhanth focuses on tool shocks that ekaek reduce kul maang for goods or services or yun reduce maang liye majdoor.
keynesian model sujhaayen sarkari interventions designed to increase maang liye majdoor ; ye can include vittiya stimuli, saream funded job sristi, or expansionist monetary nitiyon.
in jod to ye vyapak theories of unemployment, vahin are a few categorizations of berogari ki hai used to more precisely model the prabhaav of berogari bheetar the aarthik pranali.
The pramukh prakaar of berogari include sanrachanaatmak unemployment jisase focuses on structural samasyaayein in the economy and inefficiencies antarnihit in shramik markets, sahit a bemail between the supply or maang of laborers saath jaruri kaushal set.
sanrachanaatmak vitark emphasize causes and samaadhaan sambandhit to vighatnkaaree technologies and vaishvikaran.
charchaayen of frictional berogari fokas on voluntary nirnay to kaary aadhaarit on prayek individuals ' valuation of unke apana kaary or kaisaa ki compares to vartmaan mazdooree daron plus the time or effort jaruri to dhundhen a job.
kalyankari or solutions for frictional berogari often pataa job pravishti dahalij or mazdooree daron.
behavioral arthshaastriyon hilite vyaktigat biases in nirnay bananaa, and praayah involve samasyaayein or samaadhaan concerning sticky mazdooree or efficiency mazdooree.
Collectivism is koi philosophic, rajnatik, religious, economic, or soshal outluk ki emphasizes the interdependence of prayek insaan being in a society or sabhyataa.
Collectivism is a moulik saanskrithik element ki exists as the reverse of individualism in insaan nature ( in the same rasta unchi context samskruti exists as the reverse of kam context samskruti ).
Collectivist orientations tanaav the mahatv of milaap bheetar social groups ( such as an `` in-group '', in what specific context it is paribhaashit ) and in kuch cases, the priority of group lakshya over individual lakshya.
Collectivists praayah fokas on jatiyaan, samaaj, nation or desh.
It rai been prayukt as an tatv in anek alag or vividh types of government or political, aarthik or shaikshanik tatvagyan throughout itihaas and sabase insaan samaajon in practice contain elements of both individualism or collectivism.
Some udhaaharan of collectivist samskritiyon shaamil india and japani.
collectivism can be divided into aadaa collectivism and lambavat collectivism.
aadaa collectivism tanaavon samuhik decision-making among baraabar individuals, or is yun praayah aadhaarit on decentralization or samtawaad.
lambavat collectivism is based on hierarchical structures of shakti and on moral or saanskrithik conformity, or is isliye based on centralization and padanukram.
a sahakaari enterprise hota be an udhaaharan of aadaa collectivism, whereas a sainya hierarchy hota be an example of vertical collectivism.
adhi disseminated encephalomyelitis ( ADEM ) is an pratiraksha mediated beemaari of the brain.
it usually occurs following a viral sankraman lakin may appear following tikaakaran, bacterial or parasitic sankraman, or bhi appear anayas.
As it involves asankramy demyelination, it is samaan to anek kaathinya, and is mana bhaag of the anek kaathinya borderline diseases.
The incidence rate is parichay 8 per 1,000,000 people prati saal.
haalanki it occurs in sab aayu, sabase reported cases hai in children or adolescents, saath the ausat aayu around 5 to 8 years old.
The mrityu rate may be as unchi as 5 %, puraa recovery is dekhi in 50 to 75 % of maamle, while up to 70 to 90 % ricover with kuch naaballig avshesh viklaangata.
the ausat samay to recover is ek to six maheene.
ADEM produces anek jalan lesions in the dimag or spinal cord, visheshkar in the white padaarth.
praayah ye are mila in the subcortical and central shwet padaarth or cortical gray-white jankshan of dono cerebral baantati, cerebellum, brainstem, and spinal cord, lakin periventricular shwet padaarth or dhoosar matter of the cortex, thalami or basal ganglia may bhi be shaamil.
jab the rogi peedit more than one demyelinating apisod, it is pukaara recurrent disseminated encephalomyelitis or multiphasic disseminated encephalomyelitis ( mdem ).
the stomach is a muscular, khokhla, dilated bhaag of the pachan pranali jisase functions as an mahatvapurn ang of the digestive tract in kuch pashu, sahit vertebrates, echinoderms, insects ( mid-gut ), or molluscs.
it is involved in the duusari phase of pachan, following mastication ( chewing ).
The pet is located between the grasanal and the choti aant.
It secretes protein-digesting anzimon pukaara protease and strong acids to aid in food pachan, ( sent to it via esophageal peristalsis ) through chikna muscular contortions ( pukaara segmentation ) pehle sending partially digested food ( chyme ) to the small aanton.
the shabd pet is niklaa from the latin stomachus jisase is niklaa isse the unani shabd stomachos ( στόμαχος ), ultimately isse stoma ( ), `` munh ''.
the shabd gastro- or gastric ( meaning sambandhit to the stomach ) are dono niklaa isse the unani word gaster ( ).
1940 pontiac Special shrenee 25 woodie
A woodie is a car deh style, especially a stesan wagon, jahaan the pasch bodywork is constructed of wood framework saath infill panels of lakdi or painted metal.
After the nidhan of actual lakdi nirmaan, nirmaataaon prayukt anukaran woodgrain chadar vinyl—sometimes augmented saath three-dimensional, anukaran framework—to recall lakdi nirmaan.
in 2008, lakdi nirmaan was jagaai abstractly on the ghat flex with a shrenee of paksh or pasch aadaa grooves.
a parl is a hard object utpaadit bheetar the naram utak ( specifically the mantle ) of a jeena shelled mollusc.
bas jaise the shell of a clam, a pearl is bana up of calcium carbonate in minute crystalline rup, jisase rai maharoom deposited in kendriya paraton.
the adarsh parl is perfectly round or chikna, lakin anek anya aakaar of moti ( baroque moti ) occur.
the finest visheshta prakritik moti have been atyadhik valued as ratnon or objects of saundarya for many sadiyaan, or kuki of is, the word parl has become a roopak liye kuch bahut viral, thik, saraahneey, or moolyawaan.
the sabase moolyawaan pearls occur anayas in the junglee, lakin ve are extremely viral.
ye junglee moti hai referred to as prakritik moti.
sanskari or farmed pearls from pearl oysters or freshwater mussels make up the bahumat of those ki hai philhal bechi.
Imitation moti hai bhi widely bechi in inexpensive jewelry, lakin the visheshta of unke iridescence is usually bahut garib, or praayah, kritrim pearls are easily vishisht isse genuine moti.
Pearls have been harvested and cultivated primarily liye upyog in aabhushan, but in the past ve yahood also stitched onto lavish kapadey.
Pearls have bhi been kuchal or prayukt in cosmetics, davaaiyaan, or in paint formulations.
Whether junglee or cultured, gem quality moti are almost sadaa nacreous and, as is the aantarik of the shell ki produces them.
However, lagbhag all prajati of shelled molluscs hai sakasham of producing pearls ( formally referred to as `` calcareous concretions '' by some strot ) of lesser chamak or kam spherical shape.
haalanki ye may also be legitimately referred to as `` pearls '' by gemological labs and also antargat u.S. sangheey vyapaar Commission niyam, and hai formed in the vahi rasta, most of them have no maan, except as curiosities.
bing ( known previously as sajiv dhundhen, Windows sajiv dhundhen, and emesain dhundhen ) is a web dhundhen ingine ( advertised as a `` decision ingine `` ) isse microsoft.
bing thi anaavaran by Microsoft siio steve balmar on May 28, 2009 at the All bate Digital sammelan in san diego liye relies on june 1.
Notable changes shaamil the listing of dhundhen suzav while queries hai entered and a suchi of related khoj ( pukaara `` Explore falak '' ) aadhaarit on semantic praudyogiki from powerset jisase microsoft kharida in 2008.
on july 29, 2009, Microsoft or yahuu ! ghoshit a saude in which bing hota power Yahoo ! dhundhen.
sab yahuu ! dhundhen vaishvik graahak or saajhedaar hai apekshit to have made the parivartan by early 2012.
In aktubar 2011, bing announced it thi working on nai back-end dhundhen avasanrachana, saath the goal of delivering tej and thodaa more relevant search parinaam for upayokta.
gyaat as `` baagh '', the nai index-serving praudyogiki rai been incorporated into bing globally, chunki agast 2011.
in May 2012, Bing ghoshit another redesign of iske search ingine ki shaamil `` cidbaar '', a soshal visheshta that khoj users ' soshal sanjaal for soochna praasangik to the search query.
a aarekh prardashit an i gathan on thokar or a 4-3 gathan on raksha
in amareeki football, prayek toli has gyaarah khilaadi on the field at ek samay.
The vishisht bhoomika ki a player takes on the field is pukaara unke sthiti.
antargat the modern niyam of amareeki football, teams hai anumat aseemit subsititutions, ki is tiimon may change any kramank of khilaadi baad any khel.
is rai resulted in the vikaas of teen `` platoons '' of khilaadi, the thokar ( the toli saath the ball, jo is trying to score ), the raksha ( the toli trying to prevent the other toli isse scoring, or to take the ball isse unhen ), or the khaas tiimon ( jo khel in kicking paristhitiyon ).
bheetar those platoons, vibhinn vishisht positions exist depending on kayaa the player 's main job is.
The irish logon ( or na hÉireannaigh ; ulster-scots : Airish fowk ) hai an jaateey samooh jo originate in ireland, an dweep in northwestern Europe.
ireland rai maharoom populated liye around 9,000 saalo ( according to puraatatv adhyayan, dekhie pragaitihaasik ireland ).
the irish logon 's earliest purvajo hai recorded in mahapurush – they hai claimed to be descended isse groups aise as the nemedians, fomorians, fir bolg, Tuatha Dé Danann or the milesians.
lebor gabála Érenn, a kitaab of irish mythology tells ki milesians were skythian descendants.
the main samooh that interacted saath the irish in the madhya Ages include the picts, scots, and the Vikings.
due to is contact, Icelanders are vikhyath for having kuch irish descent.
the anglo-norman akraman of the unchi madhya aayu, the angrezi baganon or the subsequent angrezi niyam of the desh introduced the normans or flemish into ireland.
welsh, picts, Bretons, or small parties of gauls or bhi anglo-saxons are gyaat in ireland from much pehle times.
vahin have maharoom anek notable irish people throughout history.
the 6th sadi irish monk or mishanri Columbanus is regarded as ek of the `` fathers of Europe '', followed by Kilian of Würzburg or vergilius of saljbarg.
The vaigyanik Robert boil is mana the `` pita of rasayan ``.
prasiddh Irish explorers include brendan the navik, robert mcclure, arnest shackleton or tom crean.
by kuch accounts, the first European child born in uttar America tha Irish descent on dono pahalu ; and an irishman was the pehla europea to niyat foot on American mrudaa in columbus ' expedition of 1492.
vahin hai vanshajon of Irish people jeena in anek pashchimi deshon, visheshkar in English-speaking deshon.
historically, karanon has maharoom caused by politics, akaal or aarthik mudde.
an anumaanit 50 to 80 lakh logon are vanshajon of Irish logon, primarily in the sanyukt Kingdom, the sanyukt rajya, Australia, Canada or iceland ; there are bhi choti sankhyaayein in argentina, chile, mexico, Jamaica, Barbados, South africa, New jiland, France, germany or brazil.
The largest kramank of vanshajon of irish people live in the sanyukt States.
the kramank of logon jeena in australia who hai of irish descent is ucchtar, as a percentage of total janasankhyikee, than that of koi anya desh.
lagbhag chalis pratishat of the upnivesh janasankhyikee of Iceland came from ireland or scotland.
the very pehla nivaasiyon of Iceland were irish.
the Hubble spes doordarshee ( hst ) is a space doordarshee ki thi carried into kaksha by a spes shatal in 1990 or remains in operation.
a epperchar doordarshee in low dharti kaksha, habal 's chaar pramukh yantra observe in the nikat parabangnee, drishy, or near infrared.
the doordarshee is namit after the astronomer edwin habal.
Hubble 's kaksha baahar the distortion of Earth 's maahaul allows it to lo atyadhik sharp bimb with lagbhag no background lite.
habal 's gahan field have maharoom kuch of the sabase vistrut visible-light images ever, allowing a gahan drishy into spes or samay.
anek habal observations have led to breakthroughs in astrophysics, aise as accurately determining the rate of expansion of the brahmad.
Although not the pehla space doordarshee, habal is ek of the largest and sabase versatile, or is khub gyaat as both a vital shodh aujaar or a public sambandh boon for khagolashastra.
The hst thi nirmit by the sanyukt rajya spes agency nasa, saath yogadan from the europea Space agency, or is operated by the Space Telescope vigyaan santhaan.
the hst is one of NASA 's Great observatories, along with the compton gamma re vedhashala, the chandra x-ray Observatory, and the spitger spes doordarshee.
spes telescopes yahood prastaavit as jaldi as 1923.
habal thi vittposhit in the 1970s, saath a proposed launch in 1983, lakin the project thi beset by takneekee delays, bajet problems, or the Challenger vipatti.
jab aakhirkaar launched in 1990, vaigyanikon mila ki the main darpan tha been maidan incorrectly, compromising the telescope 's samarthy.
the doordarshee thi lauti to iske intended quality by a servicing mission in 1993.
habal is the tabhi doordarshee designed to be sarvice in spes by astronauts.
Between 1993 and 2002, four mishan repaired, upgraded, and replaced pranaaliyon on the doordarshee ; a fifth mishan thi radd on safety grounds following the Columbia disaster.
However, baad spirited public charchaa, nasa administrator mike griffin sweekrut ek final servicing mission, completed in 2009 by Space Shuttle atlantis.
the doordarshee is abhi apekshit to falan until at tanik 2013.
iske scientific successor, the james webb spes Telescope ( jwst ), is to be shubharambh in 2018 or sambhawatah later.
Anti-inflammatory refers to the property of a padaarth or upachaar that reduces sujan.
Anti-inflammatory drugs mek up about half of analgesics, remedying pidaa by reducing inflammation as opposed to opioids, jisase affect the central baichaiyn system.
The tonight dikhaaen is a us late-night baat dikhaaen ki has aired on enbisi since 1954.
it is the longest philhal kaaryshil regularly anusuchit entertainment program in the us and the teesraa longest-running dikhaaen on enbisi after Meet the dabaayen and aaj.
The tonight dikhaaen thi hosted by Steve alan ( 1954–1957 ), joker paar ( 1957–1962 ), johny carsan ( 1962–1992 ), jay lino ( 1992–2009, 2010–present ), or conan o'brien ( 2009–2010 ).
Several atithi host bhi appeared, visheshkar dauraan the paar or carsan eras.
The longest-serving mejabaan to tithi was johny carsan, who hosted The tonight dikhaaen Starring Johnny carsan for 30 sizan from the patan of 1962 through the vasant of 1992.
the vartmaan mejabaan of the dikhaaen is jay lino, who tha previously hosted the dikhaaen isse 1992 to 2009 and began uske duusari kaarykaal on kooch 1, 2010.
on April 3, 2013, enbisi ghoshit Jimmy fallon hota become the nai mejabaan of the tonight dikhaaen.
the tonight dikhaaen with jimmy fallon hoga premier farvari 24, 2014, the din baad the closing ceremonies of the 2014 sheet Olympics.
ss andria doriya.
sunaaya thi an samandar liner liye the Italian lakeer ( società di navigazione Italia ) ghar ported in genoa, italy, sabase prasiddh liye its dub in 1956, jab 52 people died ( 51 isse taatkaalik impact ).
namit after the 16th-century Genoese admiral andria doriya, the jalayaan tha a gross panjikaran tonnage of 29,100 or a kshamta of parichay 1,200 yatri or 500 crew.
liye a country attempting to rebuild iske arthvyavastha or pratishtha after World War ii, andria Doria thi an pratik of Italian neshnal abhimaan.
Of sab italy 's jahaajon at the time, Andrea Doria was the largest, fastest or mana safest.
shubharambh on 16 june 1951, the jalayaan undertook iske maiden voyage on 14 janvari 1953.
on 25 July 1956, jabaki the Andrea doriya thi approaching the coast of nantucket, Massachusetts, bandhi liye nai york nagar, the eastbound of the swedish American lakeer collided with it in kayaa became one of itihaas 's most infamous meritime aapadaaon.
struck in the side, the top-heavy Andrea doriya immediately prarambh to list severely to starboard, jisase baayein half of iske lifeboats anupayogi.
The consequent shortage of lifeboats might have resulted in significant ghaataa of life, lakin the dakshata of the jalayaan 's takneekee design allowed it to stay afloat liye over 11 ghanton after the ramming.
the shubh bartaav of the crew, improvements in sanchaar or the rapid response of anya ships averted a disaster similar in scale to ki of the in 1912.
1,660 yatri and kru were bachaaya or survived, jabaki 46 people died as a consequence of the collision.
The evacuated lakjri liner capsized or sank the following morning.
is durghatana remains the worst maritime disaster to occur in sanyukt States waters since the dub of the in 1915.
the ghatana and its aftermath were heavily covered by the news media.
While the bachaav praytn were dono kaamyaab and commendable, the kaaran of the takkar saath the stoffhome and the ghaataa of andria doriya utpann much interest in the media or anek lawsuits.
largely kuki of an out-of-court upnivesh anubandh between the two shipping companiyaan dauraan hearings immediately baad the vipatti, no determination of the cause ( s ) was ever formally published.
haalanki vrihad dosha appeared initially to fall on the italvi liner, adhik haal discoveries have indicated ki a misreading of radar on the swedish jalayaan may have initiated the takkar course, agrani to trutiyaan on dono jahaajon.
Andrea doriya was the pichhlaa major transatlantic passenger vessel to doobana before vayuyan became the preferred vidhi of travel.
dialysis tubing
dialysis tubing is a type of semhai- or partially permeable jhilli tubing made isse regenerated cellulose or cellophane.
It can be used liye diffusion saath solutes or paraasaran if prayukt saath water only.
paraasaran is jab jal gujarata through a semi-permeable parat to pahunchein equilibrium.
diffusion, on the anya haath, allows the gati of anuon isse unchi concentration to kam concentration.
it hoga tabhi allow molecules to pass through a semi-permeable jhilli or parat if the molecule is choti paryaapt to anuroop through the jhilli or a jhilli 's pore.
is praayah parinaam saath the effects of diffusion through a jhilli tabhi vaaki affects small anuon, and lagbhag never larger molecules.
Dialysis tubing is prayukt in clinical halaaton to ensure a filtered pravaah of anuon, preventing the pravaah of larger solute anuon.
choti anuon can be `` dhoyaa '' out of a samaadhaan jisase is uttejit through the tubing into a solvent, praayah jal, which surrounds it or in which ve can be flushed dur.
In demonstrations of semi-permeable membranes, a solution containing anek prakaar of molecules, praayah glucose or mand, is lagaai into a semi-permeable dialysis bag, aise as a cellulose jhilli saath pores, or the thilaa is sealed saath a ganth or elastic band.
The sealed dialysis thilaa is lagaai in a container of a different samaadhaan, or water.
anuon choti enough to pass through the tubing ( jal, lavan, monosaccharides, or anya small molecules ) tend to move into or out of the dialysis bag in the disha of avarohan visheshgyata, therefore displaying diffusion.
larger molecules ( aise as proteins, or polysaccharides ) that have aayam significantly vrihad than the pore vyas are retained andar the dialysis thilaa.
the jal or choti solutes in a hypotonic samaadhaan ( a samaadhaan ki rai a lesser solute visheshgyata than the samaadhaan it is sanderbhit to ) will cross a semi-permeable membrane, jaise dialysis tubing, into a hypertonic samaadhaan ( a samaadhaan that rai a higher solute visheshgyata than the samaadhaan it is sanderbhit to ) in an attempt to pahunchein santulan, where the solute visheshgyata of prayek samaadhaan is in santulan.
paara prayogshaala tharmametre
A thermometer ( isse the unani, thermos, arth `` hot '' or μἐτρον, metron, `` maap '' ) is a yantra ki measures taapmaana or taapmaana gradient using a variety of alag siddhanth.
a tharmametre has do mahatvapurn tatv : the taapmaana sensor ( e.g. the balb on a mercury-in-glass tharmametre ) in which some physical badalen occurs saath temperature, plus kuch arthath of converting is shaareerik badalen into a numerical maan ( e.g. the visible scale that is chihnit on a mercury-in-glass tharmametre ).
vahin hai anek prakaar or anek uses for thermometers, as vistrut neeche in bhaag of is aalekh.
him White or the saat dwarfs is a 1937 amareeki anemated musical kaalpanik filmi utpaadit by walt dijani and released by rko radio tasviren.
Based on the German fairy tale by the Brothers grimm, it is the first full-length cel animated feature filmi or the earliest in the walt dijani Animated clasik shrenee.
The story thi adapted by storyboard artists Dorothy Ann rikt, richard Creedon, meril de maaris, oto englander, Earl hurd, land rickard, ted sears or webb Smith.
David haath thi the supervising nideshak, while wiliam cottrell, wilfred jackson, laire morey, Perce Pearce, and ben sharpsteen nirdeshit the filmi 's vyaktigat sequences.
him shwet premiered at the Carthay vrutt theatre on disambar 21, 1937, followed by a deshbhar release on farvari 4, 1938, or saath antarrashtriya earnings of $ 8 lakh during iske initial relies briefly assumed the ricard of ucchtam grossing sound filmi at the samay.
The popularity of the filmi rai led to it hone re-released theatrically anek times, until iske ghar video relies in the 1990s.
Adjusted for mahangaai, it is one of the sheersh ten performers at the uttar American baksaa daftar.
at the 11th academy puraskaar, walt dijani thi awarded an maanad auskar, or the film thi manonith liye Best Musical Score.
It thi added to the sanyukt States neshnal filmi registry in 1989 and is kramit in the amareeki filmi santhaan 's suchi of the 100 greatest amareeki films, jo bhi namit the filmi as the mahanatam amareeki anemated filmi of all time in 2008.
Disney 's take on the pari tail rai tha a big saanskrithik impact, resulting in a lokapriy theme park attraction, a video khel, or a broadway musical.
Childbirth, shramik, delivery, janam, partus, or parturition is the culmination of a garbhavastha kaal saath the expulsion of one or adhik newborn infants isse a stri 's garbhashay.
the prakram of saamaanya prasav is categorized in teen charan of shramik : the shortening or dilation of the greeva, descent or janam of the infant, or janam of the placenta.
in anek maamle or with increasing frequency, childbirth is hasil through preran of majdoor or caesarean khand, which is the hataanaa of the neonate through a surgical incision in the udar, rather than through vaginal birth.
prasav by C-Sections increased 50 % in the u.S. isse 1996 to 2006, or comprise nearly 32 % of births in the u.S. and Canada.
saath respect to induced labor, adhik than 22 % of mahilaon undergo preran of labour in the sanyukt rajya.
Medical peshewar niti makers dhundhen ki induced births and elective cesarean can be harmful to the bhrun or neonate as khub as nuksaandeh or bagaiyr laabh to the maan, or have sthapit sakht dishanirdesh liye non-medically indicated induced births or elective cesarean pehle 39 saptaah.
Viva La bam thi an amtivi & chiraayu dikhaaen which followed bam Margera or his crew as they undertook challenges, performed stant or traveled the sansar.
The dikhaaen bhaaga liye 5 sizan between 2003 or 2005.
flushed dur is a 2006 british/american computer anemated karrwai / adventure kamedi filmi directed by David bowers and Sam giri.
It was bana in the saajhedaari between aardman anemation or DreamWorks anemation, and is aardman 's first completely computer-animated feature as opposed to the usual stop-motion.
the filmi sitaron the awaz talents of huge jaikaman, ket vincellet, Andy serkis, vidheyak Nighy, Ian mckellen, Shane Richie or jaan reno.
The story was by sam giri, peter rab, land Clement, or ian la frenais, or the patakatha was written by land sahansheel, Ian La Frenais, Christopher loyad, jo keenan, or William davies.
The filmi thi released in us on 3 November 2006, or in UK on December 1 2006, or thi vitarit by sarvopari Pictures, magar liye Switzerland, spain, or the netherlands, which yahood sambhala by Universal tasviren.
the Atlanta braves hai a professional besabaal toli based in atlanta.
the braves are a sadsy of the Eastern Division of pramukh lig besabaal 's National lig.
the Braves have nibhaai in turnar field since 1997.
the `` braves '' naam, jisase thi first used in 1912, originates isse a pad liye a deshi American yoddha.
They hai nicknamed `` the bravos '', and praayah referred to as `` america 's toli `` in sandarbh to the toli 's khel hone broadcast on the nationally available tbs isse the 1970s jabatak 2007, gaining a chaudee fanbase.
isse 1991 to 2005 the Braves yahood one of the most successful franchises in baseball, jeetna prabhag titles an unprecedented 14 consecutive times in ki period ( omitting the strike-shortened 1994 season in jisase vahin yahood no aadhikarik division champions ).
the Braves jiti the NL west 1991–93 or the nl east 1995–2005, or laute to the playoffs as the neshnal lig junglee Card in 2010.
the braves advanced to the World shrenee paanch times in the 1990s, jeetna the sheershak in 1995.
chunki unke debyue in the neshnal League in 1876, the matadhikaar has jiti 16 divisional sheershak, 17 National League pennants, as khub as teen sansar Series championships—in 1914 as the boston braves, in 1957 as the Milwaukee braves, and in 1995 in Atlanta.
the Braves are the only MLB franchise to have jiti the sansar shrenee in teen alag home shaharon.
the klbon is ek of the National lig 's two baaki charter franchises ( the other being the Chicago shaavak ) or thi santhaapit in boston, masachusets, in 1871 as the boston Red stockings ( nahin to be uljhan with the amareeki lig 's boston red Sox ).
ve hai mana `` the oldest lagaataar playing toli in pramukh North American khel. ''
There is an tark as to who is darasal puraani kuki haalanki the shaavak are a full ritu `` puraani '' ( formed as the chicago shwet Stockings in 1870 ) chicago khoyaa do sizan to the great chicago Fire, yun the Braves have nibhaai adhik lagaataar sizan.
baad vibhinn name parivartan ( aise as the Boston Beaneaters ), the toli sanchalit as the Boston braves liye sabase of the pehla half of the 20th sadi.
in 1953, the toli moved to milvowki, visconsin and became the Milwaukee braves, followed by the move to atlanta in 1966.
The team 's kaarykaal in atlanta is famous for haank aaron todakar beb ruth 's kariyar ghar chalaaen ricard in 1974, haalanki the majority of aaron 's ghar ranon were hit jabaki the toli thi in Milwaukee.
uske record stood until 2007, when San francisco left fielder bairi bonds broke the record.
the pattey of a beech ped
3d rendering of a μct scan of a leaf piece, rezolution circa 40 μm/ voxel.
a patta is an ang of a vascular sanyantr, as paribhaashit in vanaspati sharten, or in particular in sanyantr morphology.
foliage is a mass noun ki refers to leaves as a visheshta of plants.
typically a patta is a patala, flattened ang borne upar ground and specialized for photosynthesis, lakin many prakaar of pattey hai adapted in ways lagbhag unrecognisable in those terms : some are nahin chapata ( for example anek raseele pattey and conifers ), some hai nahin upar maidan ( such as bulb scales ), or some hai bagaiyr pramukh photosynthetic falan ( consider liye example cataphylls, kaante, and cotyledons ).
Conversely, anek structures of non-vascular plants, or bhi of kuch lichens, jisase hai nahin paudhe at sab ( in the bhav of being sadasyon of the kingdom plantae ), do dekh and falan much jaise pattey.
Furthermore, several structures mila in vascular paudhe look jaise leaves lakin hai nahin darasal pattey ; they differ isse pattey in unke structures or origins.
udhaaharan shaamil phyllodes, cladodes, or phylloclades.
Title card for the 1937 Our giroh comedy rushin ' baile.
Our giroh ( also gyaat as the Little dushton or echeel Roach 's dushton ) hai a shrenee of amareeki comedy choti films parichay a samooh of poor pados children and unke adventures.
nirmit by kamedi nirmaataa echeel Roach, the series is noted liye prardashit children behaving in a apekshaakrit prakritik rasta, as Roach or asli nideshak robert F. McGowan worked to film the unaffected, raw nuances apparent in niyamit children rather than have unhen imitate vayask acting sheliyaan.
In addition, hamaari giroh notably put ladakon, ladakiyon, whites or ashweton saath in a group as barabari, kuch ki `` broke nai ground, '' according to filmi itihaaskaar leonard Maltin.
Such a baat tha never been kiya pehle in cinema lakin has chunki been repeated baad the kamyaabi of Our Gang.
the pehla utpaadan at the roach studio in 1922 thi a shrenee of mook short subjects.
jab roach changed vitarakon isse pathé to metro-goldwyn-mayer ( mgm ) in 1927, and parivartit the shrenee to sound in 1929, the shrenee took band bhi further.
utpaadan jari at the roach studio until 1938, jab the shrenee was bechi to mgm, who tab jari producing the comedies jabatak 1944.
the hamaari Gang series shaamil a total of 220 shorts and one visheshta film, General spanky, featuring over forty-one child actors.
As mgm retained the rights to the hamaari Gang trademark following their khariden of the utpaadan rights, the 80 Roach-produced `` tokies '' were syndicated for television antargat the sheershak the choti dushton shuruuaat in 1955.
dono roach 's the Little Rascals package ( now swaamitv by CBS television vitaran ) or mgm 's hamaari giroh package ( abhi owned by warner bhaius. entertainment ) have chunki remained in anuprayog, with aavadhik new productions aadhaarit on the shorts surfacing over the saalo, sahit a 1994 choti dushton visheshta filmi released by saarvbhaumik tasviren.
zacharias Janssen ( bhi Zacharias janson or sacharias Jansen ) ( b.1580-88, d.pre-1632 to 1638 ) was a dach spectacle-maker isse middelburg sambhddha saath the invention of the first optical doordarshee.
janssen is sometimes also credited liye inventing the pehla truly compound sookshmdarshi.
however, the utpatti of the sookshmdarshi, bas like the origin of the telescope, is a padaarth of debate.
jhil tahoe ( ; washo : dáʔaw ) is a vishaal freshwater jhil in the Sierra newada of the sanyukt States.
at a sataha unnayan of, it is stith saath the border between california and newada, west of carsan City.
Lake tahoe is the largest alpine jhil in uttar America.
iske gaharaai is, bananaa it the sanyukt rajya 's second-deepest ( the deepest is crater jhil in oregon, hone deeper, at ).
Additionally, Lake Tahoe is soochibaddh as the 26th largest lake by awaz in the world at.
the lake thi formed parichay 2 lakh years pehle or is a bhaag of the jhil tahoe jalashay saath the aadhunik jhil hone taraasha during the ice ages.
It is known liye the spashtataa of its jal or the paridrishy of surrounding kyu on sab sides.
the area surrounding the lake is also referred to as jhil Tahoe, or bas tahoe.
jhil tahoe is a major paryatak aakarshan in dono newada or california.
it is ghar to a kramank of ski resort, garmiyaan outdoor manoranjan, and paryatak aakarshan.
him or skiing are a significant bhaag of the kshetrafal 's arthvyavastha and pratishtha.
Mountain or jhil scenery hai aakarshan throughout the saal.
The newada side bhi shaamil vishaal casino.
Highways provide year-round access from reno, carsan nagar, and sacramento.
pej 1 of the twenty-seventh Amendment 's pramann in the neshnal Archives
Page 2 of the amendment 's pramann
Page 3 of the amendment 's pramann
The twenty-seventh amendment ( Amendment xxvii ) prohibits any vidhi ki increases or decreases the selary of members of the congress isse lene prabhaav jabatak the start of the aglaa niyat of sharten of daftar liye pratinidhi.
It is the sabase haal amendment to the United States Constitution.
it thi submitted to the states liye anusamarthan in 1789 and thi apanaaya in 1992.
“First ve aae... ” is a prasiddh bayaan and provocative poem attributed to padri Martin niemöller ( 1892–1984 ) parichay the sloth of germany intellectuals following the Nazis ' vruddhi to shakti or the subsequent purging of their chosen lakshya, samooh after samooh.
vahin is some asahmati over the exact wording of the quotation and when it was created ; the saamagree of the quotation may have maharoom presented differently by Niemöller on alag occasions.
is suchi of islands by kshetrafal shaamil sab islands in the sansar greater than 2,500 km2 ( ) or anek anya islands over 500 km2 ( ), sorted in descending anukram by kshetrafal.
For tulana, mahadwipon hai also dikhaaya.
Four tihaai logo
the chaar tihaai system is a maanak nirmit by olympus or kodak for digital single-lens reflex camera ( DSLR ) dizine or development. < sandarbh name='dpreview.com 2001-02-13 ' >
the system provides a maanak ki, with digital camere or lenses available isse multiple nirmaataaon, allows liye the interchange of lenses or laashen isse alag nirmaataaon.
seems to cover the standard.
proponents describe it as an kholen standard, lakin companiyaan may only upyog it antargat a non-disclosure anubandh.
Unlike puraani slr pranaaliyon, chaar tihaai rai been designed isse the maidan up to be entirely digital.
Many lenses are extensively computerized, to the point ki Olympus offers formaware updates liye anek of unhen.
Lens design has maharoom tailored to the aavashyaktaayen of digital sensor, sabase notably through telecentric designs.
the aakaar of the sensor is significantly choti than for sabase dslrs or is implies ki lenses, visheshkar telephoto lenses, can be choti.
liye example, a Four Thirds lens saath a 300 mm focal length hota cover parichay the same kone of drishy as a 600 mm focal length lens for the 35 mm filmi maanak, and is correspondingly adhik compact.
Thus, the chaar tihaai pranali rai crop factor ( focal length multiplier ) of parichay 2, or while this enables longer focal lambaai for vrihad magnification, it karata n't aid the manufacture of wide kone lenses.
The chitra sensor format, generally intermediate between those of larger slrs or choti compact cameras, generally detaa str of laagat, pradarshan or convenience intermediat between those do varg.
hvac pranaaliyon upyog ventilation air nalikaayen santhaapit throughout a bhawan to supplai conditioned air to a room through outlet vents, pukaara diffusers ; and ducts to remove air through return-air grilles.
HVAC ( heating, ventilation, or air condishning ) is the technology of indoor or automotive paryaavarniya sukun.
hvac system dizine is a subdiscipline of mechanical abhiyantriki, aadhaarit on the siddhanth of ooshmaagatiki, drav yantriki, or ooshmaa transafar.
prashithan is sometimes added to the field 's abbreviation as HVAC & R or hvacr, or ventilating is dropped as in hacr ( aise as the namakan of hacr-rated circuit brakers ).
HVAC is mahatvapurn in the dizine of medium to vishaal audyogic and daftar buildings aise as skyscrapers and in samudri environments aise as aquariums, where surakshit and swasth building sharten are regulated saath aadar to taapmaana and ardrata, using bhais air isse outdoors.
Ventilation on the downdraught system, by impulsion, or the 'plenum ' principle, lagu to schoolrooms ( 1899 )
heating, ventilating, or air conditioning is aadhaarit on avishkaron and discoveries bana by nicholay lvov, maaikel farade, wilis Carrier, reuben trane, james Joule, wiliam Rankine, Sadi carnot, and anek anya.
the avishkaar of the components of hvac systems gai hand-in-hand saath the audyogic kranti, or nai methods of modernization, higher dakshata, or system control hai constantly introduced by companies or avishkaarak vishwavyaapee.
the teen central functions of heating, ventilating, or air-conditioning hai interrelated, especially saath the need to provide thermal comfort or sweekaarya indoor air visheshta bheetar uchit sansthapana, aaparishan, or mentanence laagat.
hvac pranaaliyon can provide ventilation, reduce air ghuspaith, and maintain dabaav relationships between spaces.
the arthath of air delivery and hataanaa isse spaces is gyaat as room air distribution.
the starting point in carrying out an anumaan both liye kooling or heating depends on the exterior jalwaayu or interior specified conditions.
However pehle lene up the ooshmaa lod gananaa, it is necessary to dhundhen bhais air requirements for prayek kshetrafal in vivaran, as pressurization is an mahatvapurn consideration.
in modern imaaraten the design, sansthapana, or control systems of ye krityon hai ekikrut into ek or more HVAC pranaaliyon.
liye very choti imaaraten, thekedaaron saamanytah kshamta ejeeniyar and chune hvac systems or upkaran.
liye larger imaaraten, building sevaayen designers or engineers, aise as mechanical, architectural, or bhawan services engineers analyze, design, and bataaen the hvac pranaaliyon, or specialty mechanical contractors fabricate or ayog unhen.
bhawan permits or code-compliance inspections of the sansthapana are normally required for all aakaar of imaaraten.
the hvac udyog is a vishwavyaapee enterprise, saath bhoomikaaye including aaparishan or mentanence, system dizine or nirmaan, equipment nirmaan and bikri, or in shiksha or shodh.
the HVAC udyog thi historically regulated by the nirmaataaon of hvac upkaran, but regulating and standards sanghathan aise as HARDI, ASHRAE, SMACNA, asisie, vardi mechanical Code, antarrashtriya mechanical code, and AMCA have maharoom sthapit to support the udyog or protsaahit unchi maanakon and uplabdhi.
royal navy Commander james bandha, cmg, rnvr, is a fictional character nirmit by British journalist or novelist ian fleming in 1953.
he is the samarthak of the james bandha shrenee of novels, films, comics and video games.
fleming likhaa baarah bandha novels or two short story collections pehle uske maut, although the last do books— the man saath the Golden gan and octopussy or the Living daylights —were published posthumously.
the bandha akshar is a rahasy seva agent, code number 007, residing in London but kriyasheel internationally.
Bond thi a compojit akshar jo thi based on a kramank of commando jisko Fleming knew dauraan uske seva in the Naval pragna prabhag during World War ii, to whom fleming added his apana style or a kramank of uske apana tastes ; bandha 's naam thi appropriated isse amareeki ornithologist James bandha.
Bond rai a kramank of akshar traits which chalaaen throughout the kitabe, sahit an enjoyment of gaadiyaan, a prem of food or peya, and an ausat seven of saath custom-made cigarettes a din.
chunki fleming 's maut in 1964, there have maharoom anya authorised lekhak of bandha saamagree, sahit John Gardner, jo likhaa chaudaa novels and two novelizations and remand benson, who likhaa chah novels, teen novelizations or teen choti stories.
vahin have bhi maharoom teen lekhak who wrote one kitaab prayek, Kingsley Amis ( likhane as Robert Markham ), sebastian faulks and Jeffery deaver.
additionally a shrenee of novels aadhaarit on Bond 's youth— Young bandha —was written by charlie higson.
as spin-offs isse the saahitiyik works, vahin thi a television anukulan of the first novel, Casino royale, in jisase bandha thi nibhaai as an American agent.
a comic strip shrenee bhi ran in the rose express samachaarpatr.
vahin have bhi maharoom twenty-five bandha films ; saat abhinaytaon have nibhaai bandha in these films.
`` Nature ladke '' is a song by Eden ahbez, published in 1947.
The song tells a fantasy of a `` ajeeb enchanted ladke... jo wandered bahut dur '' tabhi to learn ki `` the mahanatam baat... was bas to prem and be loved in return ''.
nat King kol 's 1948 recording of the song was a pramukh hit or `` prakruti ladke '' rai since become a pop or jaiz standard, saath darjanon of pramukh kalakaaron interpreting the song.
louisiana ( or ;, ; louisiana creole : Léta de la lwizyàn ) is a rajya stith in the dakshini pradesh of the United rajya of america.
louisiana is the 31st sabase extensive and the 25th most populous of the 50 United rajya.
iske puunji is baton Rouge or largest nagar is nai orlions.
Louisiana is the tabhi rajya in the u.S. saath rajnatik subdivisions termed parishes, which are local sarkari 's samatuly to counties.
the largest mohalla by janasankhyikee is East baton Rouge mohalla, and the largest by jameen area is cameron mohalla.
Much of the rajya 's lands yahood formed from sediment dhoyaa down the Mississippi River, leaving vishaal deltas and vishaal kshetron of tateey daldal and magn.
ye contain a samrudh dakshini biota ; typical udhaaharan shaamil pakshiyon aise as ibis or egrets.
There hai bhi anek species of ped mendhak, or fish such as sturgeon or paddlefish.
in adhik elevated kshetron, aag is a prakritik prakram in the landscape, or rai utpaadit extensive kshetron of longleaf pine van or geela savannas.
ye support an exceptional vishaal kramank of sanyantr prajati, including anek species of orchids or maansaahaari plants.
Some louisiana shahari environments have a multicultural, bahubhashi viraasat, being so strongly bahekaave by an admixture of 18th-century french, spani, deshi amareeki ( bhartiya ) and African samskritiyon that they hai mana to be somewhat asaadhaaran in the u.s.
pehle the amareeki khariden of the territory, the vartmaan Louisiana rajya tha maharoom dono a Spanish and French colony.
in jod, the pattern of vikaas included importing numerous African slave in the 18th sadi, saath anek isse the vahi region of West africa, yun concentrating unke samskruti.
in the post-civil yuddh environment, anglo-americans increased the dabaav liye anglicization, or in 1915, angrezi was bana the tabhi aadhikarik bhashaa of the rajya.
mahilaon 's adhikaron are the adhikaron and entitlements claimed liye mahilaon or ladakiyon of many samaajon vishwavyaapee.
in kuch sthaan ye adhikaron hai institutionalized or samarthit by law, local custom, or aacharan, whereas in others they may be ignored or suppressed.
ve differ isse broader dharanaen of insaan adhikaron through claims of an inherent aitihaasik or paramparaagat purvaagrah viruddh the kasarat of adhikaron by women or ladakiyon in paksh of main and ladakon.
mudde commonly sambhddha saath notions of mahilaon 's adhikaron shaamil, haalanki hai not limited to, the sahi : to bodily integrity or autonomy ; to vote ( suffrage ) ; to hold public daftar ; to kaary ; to fair mazdooree or equal adaa ; to apana property ; to shiksha ; to serve in the sainya or be conscripted ; to daalen into vidhik anubandh ; or to have marital, parental and dharmik rights.
the laws of science or scientific kanoon hai kathan that describe, bhavishyavaanee, or shaayad explain kyon, a dayera of phenomena behave as they appear to in prakruti.
the pad `` law '' rai vividh upyog in anek maamle : sannikat, sateek, broad or simit theories, in sab prakritik scientific disciplines ( bhautikee, rasayan, biology, bhuvigyaan, khagolashastra ityadi. ).
An analogous pad for a vaigyanik vidhi is a principle.
vaigyanik vidhitis:
summarize a vishaal collection of facts sankalpit by prayog into a single statement,
can praayah be pratipaadit mathematically as one or anek kathan or sameekaran, or at tanik stated in a single vaakya, so that it can be used to predict the nishkarsh of an prayog, die the aarambhik, boundary, or anya shaareerik sharten of the prakriyaaon jisase lo place,
are strongly samarthit by anubhavjanya pramaan - ve hai vaigyanik knowledge that prayog have repeatedly satyapit ( and never falsified ).
unke sateekta karata nahin badalen when nai theories hai worked out, lakin rather the paimaana of anuprayog, chunki the sameekaran ( if koi ) representing the vidhi does nahin badalen.
as saath anya vaigyanik knowledge, they do nahin have nirpeksh certainty jaise ganitiya theorems or identities, and it is sadaa sambhavit liye a vidhi to be overturned by bhavishya observations.
are praayah quoted as a fundamental controlling influence rather than a description of observed facts.
I.e. `` the kanoon of gati require ki ''
Laws differ isse hypotheses or postulates, jisase hai prastaavit dauraan the scientific prakram pehle and dauraan validation by prayog or avlokan.
ye are nahin kanoon since ve have not maharoom satyapit to the vahi oopaadhi and may nahin be sufficiently general, haalanki ve may sise to the formulation of laws.
A law is a adhik solidified or formal bayaan, asut isse doharaaya prayog.
haalanki the concepts of a vidhi or principle in prakruti is borderline to darshanashastra, or presents the gaharaai to jisase mathematics can describe nature, vaigyanik kanoon hai considered from a vaigyanik pariprekshya or follow the vaigyanik method ; ve `` serve unke purpose '' balki than `` questioning vaastaviktaa '' ( philosophical ) or `` statements of logical absolution '' ( mathematical ).
For udhaaharan, whether a vidhi `` refers to vaastaviktaa '' is a philosophical issue, rather than vaigyanik.
fundamentally, sab vaigyanik kanoon follow isse physics, kanoon jisase occur in other sciences ultimately follow isse shaareerik kanoon.
praayah, isse mathematically aadharbhoot viewpoints, saarvbhaumik sthiraank emerge from vaigyanik kanoon.
the launch of the plastesan 3 into the japani market on 10 November 2006 chihnit the duusari pramukh saatvaan peedhee entertainment system to be released.
the pranali thi released saat dinon baad on 17 November in the sanyukt rajya.
parichay into anya sansar markets was vilambit by a shortage of diodes for upyog in the Blu-ray discs khilaadi ; the yantra thi launched in European or anya sansar bazaar in the pehla half of 2007.
Lauren fenmore Baldwin ( formerly Williams and grainger ) is a fictional akshar isse the sibies sabun operas the yang or the Restless or the bindaas and the khubasurat, portrayed by Tracey E. bregman.
wo bana uske debyue dauraan the apisod airing on janvari 21, 1983.
in 1992, bregman began making sporadic appearances on the bindaas or the khubasurat, baad resulting in the akshar migrating vahin fully in 1995.
Following a atithi rup in 2000, bregman laute to the Young and the baichaiyn on August 24, 2001, baaki on punaravarti status.
in 2013, it thi ghoshit ki Bregman tha been lagaai on contract.
Much of Lauren 's history rai revolved around her romances saath paul Williams, scot Grainger, Sr., or maaikel baldwin among anek others causing a fierce funsane with traci abot Connolly.
lauren is also famous liye uske long, hinsak funsane saath shila carter.
the 2010 enbie final thi the neshnal basket Association ( NBA ) championships shrenee liye the 2009–10 season.
the best-of-seven playoff thi lade between the los angeles lekars, champions of the Western Conference or defending enbie champions, and the boston celtics, champions of the purvi sammelan.
the Lakers defeated the Celtics, chaar games to teen, to win the matadhikaar 's 16th NBA championships.
the 64th sanskaran of the championships shrenee thi nibhaai between june 3 or June 17, thi broadcast on abisi, or was dekhi by an average of 18.1 lakh logon.
The Celtics arjeet unke berth into the playoffs by winning the Atlantic Division.
the lekars jiti the prashanth Division to earn unke berth.
the celtics pahunche the enbie Finals by defeating the miami ooshmaa in the best-of-seven purvi sammelan pehla Round, the cleveland cavaliers in the best-of-seven purvi Conference Semifinals, or defending purvi sammelan champion orlando jaadu in the best-of-seven purvi Conference final.
The lekars reached the enbie Finals by defeating the oklahoma nagar thunder in the best-of-seven pashchimi sammelan pehla Round, the uta jaiz in the best-of-seven Western sammelan Semifinals, or the phinics sans in the best-of-seven Western Conference final.
The NBA Finals were scheduled in the pramukh lig besabaal sansar Series 2–3–2 saat khel format, with the lekars possessing home-court laabh as a badla for finishing with behatar regular ritu ricard than the Celtics.
doharaaya baskets isse starter cobe bryant, pau Gasol, or ron artest brought the Lakers close to victory in Game 1.
a ricard todakar pradarshan isse re alan 's aath three-point baskets ensured the celtics a khel 2 triumph.
derek fisher ’s 11 ank in the chauthi quarter helped the lekars jeet Game 3.
the Celtics jiti khel 4 ; it kiya n't hurt ki they netted an behtareen performance in baskets by the team’s reserves, jabaki paul Pierce led the toli to a khel 5 win saath 27 ank on 57 % shooting isse the manzil.
the Lakers avoided elimination by jeetna a nirnaayak Game 6 saath 24 ank contributed by unke bench.
haalanki ve trailed the celtics by 13 ank jaldi in the third quarter, the lekars rallied or jiti unke second lagaataar championships by lene over an romaanchak khel 7 aided by let yogadan on thokar by pau gasol and Artest and rebounding.
Bryant thi namit Most moolyawaan Player of the Finals liye uske duusari lagaataar trophy.
is thi the pehla enbie final to go the full seven games chunki or tabhi the chauthi chunki the enbie Finals laute to a 2–3–2 format in.
the Laker matadhikaar rai 16 enbie championships ( paanch in miniapolis, 11 in los angeles ) trailing the celtics ' satraa championships.
the enbie final prayukt the `` World shrenee '' Format in 1949 Minneapolis lekars parajeet the washington Capitols 4 khel to 2 ; in 1953 miniapolis defeated the New york knicks 4 khel to 1 ; in 1954 miniapolis parajeet the syracuse nagarikon 4 games to 3 ; and in 1955 syracuse Nationals parajeet the Fort wain pistons 4 khel to 3.
The enbie would vaapasi to the 2–2–1–1–1 neshnal hockey lig saat game series swaroop jabatak 1985.
blike pepper ( pyper nigrum ) is a flowering vine in the parivaar piperaceae, cultivated liye iske fal, jisase is praayah sukhi or prayukt as a spice or seasoning.
the fruit, gyaat as a peppercorn jab sukhi, is lagbhag in vyas, andhera red jab fully vayask, or, jaise sab drupes, contains a single beej.
Peppercorns, and the maidan pepper niklaa isse them, may be described simply as pepper, or more precisely as blike pepper ( cooked or sukhi unripe fal ), green pepper ( dried unripe fal ) or shwet pepper ( sukhi pake seeds ).
blike pepper is deshi to dakshin india, or is extensively cultivated vahin and elsewhere in teevr regions.
Currently vietnam is the sansar 's largest nirmaataa or niryaatak of pepper, producing 34 % of the sansar 's pyper nigrum crop as of 2008.
sukhi maidan pepper rai maharoom used since pracheenta liye dono iske flavour and as a medicine.
blike pepper is the sansar 's sabase traded masala.
it is ek of the sabase aam spices added to europea cuisine or iske descendants.
The spiciness of blike pepper is due to the chemical piperine, not to be uljhan saath the capsaicin ki detaa maansal peppers theirs.
It is in the aadhunik sansar, praayah yugma saath namak.
in cardiovascular physiology, ejection bhinn ( ef ) represents the aaytani fraction of rakt pumped out of the ventricle ( dil ) with prayek heart taal or cardiac cycle.
it can be applied to either the right ventricle jisase ejects via the pulmonary valve into the pulmonary circulation or the baayein ventricle which ejects via the aortic valve into the pranaligat parisancharan.
imaging of the physiology of the mammalian dil is the art ki allows sarthak mathematical abhivyakti defining ef.
Noninvasive hriday imaging has become a vishwavyaapee utility enabling study of hriday pradarshan reproducibly or inexpensively.
sarlikrut, Ejection bhinn is a ganitiya utpaada anumat by hriday imaging.
As a ganitiya term, Ejection bhinn is an ekstansion of the work of adalph fik in cardiac output.
samarpit technology such as Echocardiography, Computed tomography, chumbakeey anunaad Imaging or MUGA scanning have definitively anumat clinically praasangik ganit regarding Ischemia, janmajaat Heart Disease or dil vifaltaa.
the abhiyojak is the mukhya vidhik pratinidhi of the abhiyojan in deshon saath either the aam vidhi adversarial pranali, or the civil vidhi inquisitorial pranali.
The abhiyojan is the legal party jimmedaar liye pesh the maamla in a criminal vichaaran against an individual abhiyukt of todakar the vidhi.
strawberry shortcake most commonly arthath a mithai in the shortcake parivaar of cakes.
strawberry shortcake may bhi refer to:
Strawberry shortcake, a character and matadhikaar nirmit by amareeki badhai
The shortened title of strawberry on the shortcake, a japani romance film.
abū al-qāsim muḥammad ebn ʿabd allāh ebn ʿAbd al-Muṭṭalib ebn hāshim ( ) ( circa| 570 – circa| 8 june 632 ), bhi transliterated as mohammad ( ), thi a dharmik, rajnatik, or military leader isse makka jo ekikrut arab into a single dharmik polity antargat islam.
he is believed by musalmaan and bahá'ís to be a messanger and nabi of parameshwar.
Muhammad is lagbhag universally mana by musalmaan as the pichhlaa prophet sent by parameshwar liye mankind.
Non-Muslims lihaaz mohammad as the sansthaapak of Islam.
musalmaan consider use to be the restorer of an anchhue asli monotheistic aasthaa of aadam, nuh, abraham, musa, yishu, or anya prophets.
born in parichay 570 CE in the arabian nagar of makka, he thi anaath at an jaldi aayu or brought up antargat the parvaah of uske taaoo abu Talib.
he later worked zyaadaatar as a merchant, as well as a shepherd, or was pehla shaadishuda by age 25.
Being in the aadat of periodically retreating to a gupha in the surrounding kyu for several nights of seclusion or dua, he later reported ki it thi vahin, at age 40, that he praapt uske first rahasyodghatan isse parameshwar.
teen years baad is event mohammad started upadesh ye khulaase saream, proclaiming ki `` parameshwar is ek ``, ki puraa `` aatmasamarpan '' to use ( lit.
islām ) is the tabhi way ( dīn ) acceptable to God, and ki he khud thi a nabi and messenger of parameshwar, in the vahi rag as anya islamic prophets.
Muhammad gained few anusarankarta jaldi on, or thi mili saath dushmani isse kuch meccan tribes ; he or his anusarankarta yahood treated harshly.
to escape persecution, mohammad sent some of uske anusarankarta to abisinia before he or his followers in makka migrated to madina ( then known as yathrib ) in the saal 622.
This event, the hijr, marks the beginning of the islamic calendar, jisase is bhi gyaat as the hijri Calendar.
in madina, mohammad sanyukt the janajatiyon antargat the samvidhan of madina.
baad aath years of lard saath the meccan janajatiyon, uske anusarankarta, jo by tab had grown to 10,000, took control of Mecca in the largely shantipurna conquest of Mecca.
He nasht the pagan murtiyon in the nagar and then sent uske followers out to nasht sab of the baaki pagan mandiron in purvi Arabia.
in 632, a few maheene after returning to madina from the vidaai Pilgrimage, mohammad fell biimaar or died.
By the time of uske maut, sabase of the Arabian prayadweep tha parivartit to islam, or he had sanyukt arab into a single muslim dharmik polity.
the khulaase ( or ayah, lit.
`` lakshan [ of parameshwar ] '' ) — which Muhammad reported receiving until his maut – rup the aayatein of the quran, regarded by musalmaan as the `` shabd of God '' or around which the dharm is aadhaarit.
Besides the Quran, mohammad 's jivan ( sira ) and traditions ( sunnat ) hai also upheld by musalmaan as the sources of sharia vidhi.
ve discuss mohammad and other nabiyon of islam with reverence, adding the phrase peace be upon use whenever unke names are mentioned.
jabaki conceptions of mohammad in medieval Christendom or premodern times yahood largely rinatmak, appraisals in aadhunik itihaas have maharoom far kam so.
the great Books ( duusari sanskaran )
Great kitabe of the Western World is a shrenee of books originally prakashit in the sanyukt rajya in 1952 by Encyclopædia vishwakosh inc. to upasthit the great kitabe in a single package of 54 aaytan.
The shrenee is abhi in its second sanskaran or contains 60 volumes.
the original sampadak of the shrenee chose teen maapdand liye inclusion : a book must be praasangik to samakaleen mudde, or nahin tabhi mahatvapurn in iske aitihaasik context ; it jarur badla rereading ; and it jarur be a bhaag of `` the great conversation parichay the great vichaar, '' praasangik to at tanik 25 of the 102 great vichaar pahachaanaa by the sampadak.
kitabe yahood not chosen on the aadhaar of jaateey or saanskrithik inclusiveness, aitihaasik influence, or the editors ' anubandh saath the drishy expressed.
`` Cocaine '' is a song likhaa and ankit by jj cale in 1976, lakin bhi gyaat as a cover sanskaran recorded by eric clapton.
allmusic calls the latter `` among [ clapton 's ] most enduringly popular hits '' or notes ki `` even for an kalakaar like clapton saath a vishaal deh of high-quality work, 'Cocaine ' ranks among uske best. ''
glyn johns, who tha previously worked saath The jo, led Zeppelin or the Rolling pattharon, utpaadit the clapton recording, jisase was released on Clapton 's 1977 album slowhand or as a single in 1980.
The sajiv sanskaran of `` coca '', isse the Just ek raatri album ankit in tokio, charted on the billboard hot 100 as the b-side of `` Tulsa samay ``, which was a no. 30 hit in 1980. ``
coca '' thi one of anek of cale 's geeton recorded by clapton, sahit `` baad madhyaraatri `` or `` travelin ' lite ''.
the akraman on Pearl harbar ( pukaara Hawaii Operation or aaparishan ai by the japani imperial saamaanya Headquarters ( aaparishan z in niyojan ) and the battle of parl harbar ) thi a surprise military strike conducted by the imperial japani navy viruddh the United rajya naval aadhaar at parl Harbor, hawaii, on the morning of disambar 7, 1941 ( December 8 in Japan ).
isse the standpoint of the defenders, the akraman commenced at 7:48 a.m. Hawaiian samay.
the attack thi intended as a nivarak action in order to rakhana the U.S. Pacific bede from dakhal saath military kriyaayein the samrajya of Japan thi niyojan in Southeast Asia viruddh videshi territories of the sanyukt Kingdom, the Netherlands, or the sanyukt rajya.
the aadhaar was attacked by 353 japani senaanee, bamavarshak or torpedo planes in do lehren, launched isse chah vayuyan vaahak.
sab aath u.S. navy battleships were kshatigrast, with chaar hone sunk.
do of ye yahood baad raised, and saath the baaki chaar repaired, six battleships laute to service baad in the war.
The Japanese also sank or kshatigrast teen cruisers, teen destroyers, an anti-aircraft prashikshan jalayaan, and one minelayer.
188 U.S. vayuyan were destroyed ; 2,402 america yahood maare and 1,282 wounded.
mahatvapurn aadhaar sansthapana aise as the power station, dockyard, mentanence, or eendhan and torpedo bhandar facilities, as khub as the pandubbi pier and mukhyalay building ( bhi home of the pragna khand ) yahood nahin attacked.
japani nuksaan were light : 29 vayuyan or five midget submarines lost, and 65 servicemen maare or wounded.
One japani sailor thi captured.
the akraman aae as a profound shock to the amareeki logon and led directly to the amareeki entry into World yuddh ii in both the prashanth and europea theatre.
The following din ( disambar 8 ), the sanyukt rajya ghoshit yuddh on japani.
gharelu support for non-interventionism, jisase had been damdaar, disappeared.
clandestine support of britain ( for example the neutrality patrol ) thi replaced by kriyasheel gathbandhan.
subsequent parichaalan by the u.S. prompted Germany or italy to ghoshit yuddh on the u.S. on disambar 11, which thi reciprocated by the u.S. the same din.
vahin yahood numerous aitihaasik precedents for unannounced military karrwai by Japan.
However, the kami of koi aupchaarik warning, particularly while negotiations yahood still jaahir jari, led adhyaksh franklin D. rujvelt to proclaim disambar 7, 1941, `` a tithi jisase hoga sajiv in infamy ``.
project Runway ritu 2 thi the second season of braavo 's kaamyaab project Runway, a vaastaviktaa pratiyogita for faishan designers.
ritu 2 began airing on disambar 7, 2005.
Following a deshbhar dhundhen pehle in the saal, solah designers were chuni as semi-finalists or brought to nai York nagar in june, 2005.
baad the pehla chunauti, pukaara `` sadak To The ranve '', chaudaa gai on to compete as finalists.
the jeetna designer, chlo Dao, praapt $ 100,000 in beej dhan to sahaayta launch uske own lakeer, a 2007 Saturn aasmaan roadster, a spread in ELLE patrika, and a mentorship with the banana Republic dizine Team.
jeetna alongside dao thi uske model, anugrah kelsey, jo praapt the ELLE patrika sprad.
maaikel kors or nina garsia laute as judges for the duusari ritu.
the chauthi judging seat ghumaya each week, aadhaarit on the challenge.
tim gunn, faishan kursi at Parsons the New skool liye dizine, returned as a mentor for the designers.
Kara janx baad appeared in Project ranve : sab sitaron in 2012, jahaan wo samaapt 7th out of 13.
andrae gonzalo, in the vahi saal, competed in the duusari ritu of the All Stars sanskaran rakhkar 10th out of 13.
an udhaaharan of a Heraclius khachchar
In numismatics, a mule is a sikaa or padak minted saath obverse or reverse dizin nahin normally dekhi on the same tukdaa.
These can be jaanboojhkar or utpaadit by error.
This prakaar of error is atyadhik sought baad, or udhaaharan can laane steep keemten from collectors.
the earliest mules are mila among ancient unani or roman coins.
raay is vibhajit between those jo socho that ve hai accidental, the parinaam of an galat sangyojan of a nai die saath ek ki tha officially maharoom withdrawn isse upyog, or the kaary of coiners working with marataa churaayaa isse an official mint, shaayad at a samay when ek of unhen should have maharoom destroyed.
the naam derives isse the khachchar, the sankar offspring of a ghoda or a donkey, due to aise a sikaa having do pahalu intended liye alag sikke, much as a khachchar rai abhibhavak of two different prajati.
This page dastauez the tornadoes or bavandar outbreaks of 2010.
the bahumat of tornadoes form in the u.S., lakin they can occur lagbhag anywhere under the sahi sharten.
a lesser kramank occur baahar the u.S., sabase notably in bhaag of neighboring southern canada dauraan the Northern golardh 's garmiyaan ritu, but hai also known in South America, Europe, Asia, and australia.
vahin yahood 1,531 tornadoes reported in the sanyukt rajya in 2010 ( of jisase at least 1,266 yahood confirmed ), with 45 pushti fatalities.
elsewhere in the world, 11 logon yahood maare in tornadoes, six in argentina, teen in the bahama, ek in Bangladesh, or one in germany.
the year was nikat average liye tornadoes despite an atyadhik shant jaldi vasant kaal, however such changed baad a vishaal upswing starting in late April or a vyast let vasant or summer kaal.
The patjhad maheene yahood thodaa upar ausat.
a lymphocyte is a prakaar of shwet rakt cell in the vertebrate immune pranali.
Under the microscope, lymphocytes can be vibhajit into vishaal lymphocytes or choti lymphocytes.
vishaal granular lymphocytes include prakritik killer koshikaayen ( NK koshikaayen ).
choti lymphocytes consist of t koshikaayen or B koshikaayen.
Windows powershell is microsoft 's kaary swachaalan framework, consisting of a command-line shell or associated encripshan language nirmit on.neT Framework.
powershell provides puraa access to com or wmi, enabling administrators to perform administrative kaary on dono local or remote khidkiyaan pranaaliyon.
in powershell, administrative kaary hai generally performed by cmdlets ( pronounced command-lets ), jisase hai specialized.neT varg implementing a particular operation.
set of cmdlets may be combined saath in script, executables ( which hai standalone anuprayog ), or by instantiating niyamit.neT classes ( or WMI/COM vastuen ).
ye kaary by accessing aankada in alag aankada stores, like the filesystem or registry, jisase hai made uplabdhiyaan to the powershell runtime via khidkiyaan powershell pradaataaon.
khidkiyaan powershell bhi provides a hosting API saath jisase the Windows powershell runtime can be embedded andar anya anuprayog.
These anuprayog can tab upyog khidkiyaan powershell kaaryakshmata to implement nishchit operations, sahit those exposed via the graphical interfes.
is kaabiliyat rai been used by microsoft exange sarwar 2007 to expose iske prabandhan kaaryakshmata as powershell cmdlets or pradaataaon or implement the graphical prabandhan tools as powershell host which invoke the jaruri cmdlets.
anya microsoft applications sahit microsoft escuel sarwar 2008 also expose unke prabandhan interfes via powershell cmdlets.
saath PowerShell, graphical interface-based prabandhan applications on khidkiyaan hai paratdaar on top of Windows powershell.
a powershell scripting interfes liye khidkiyaan utpaada is mandated by the aam Engineering maapdand.
khidkiyaan PowerShell shaamil iske apana extensive, console-based sahaayta, samaan to man pages in Unix shells, via the get-help cmdlet.
Mary Poppins is a 1964 musical filmi abhinit Julie andrews, land Van Dyke, daud Tomlinson, or glynis Johns, utpaadit by walt dijani, and aadhaarit on the mariyam poppins kitabe shrenee by P. L. trevers.
The filmi thi directed by robert stevenson or likhaa by vidheyak walsh or don dagradi, saath geeton by the sharaman Brothers.
it thi shot at Walt dijani Studios in burbank, california.
Julie andrews jiti the Academy Award liye Best abhinetri for her performance as mariyam poppins or the filmi bhi won auskar liye Best filmi sampadan, asli music score, behtareen Song liye `` chim Chim cher-ee '' or behtareen Visual Effects, or praapt a kul of 13 nominations.
a story chaap is an vistaarit or continuing storyline in episodic storytelling media aise as television, comic kitabe, comic strips, boardgames, video games, or in kuch maamle, films.
on a television kaarykram, for udhaaharan, the story hota unfold over many apisod.
In television, the upyog of the story arc is much adhik common in dramas than in comedies, visheshkar in soap operas.
webcomics hai adhik sambhavit to upyog story arcs than samachaarpatr comics, as sabase web comics have pathneey abhilekh online ki a newcomer to the strip can padhaa in anukram to samajhe kayaa is going on.
haalanki story arcs have existed for dashakon, the pad `` story chaap '' thi coined in 1988 in relation to the television shrenee wiseguy, or thi jaldi adapted for other uses.
anek American comic book series are abhi likhaa in chaar or six-issue arcs, bheetar a continuing shrenee.
choti story arcs hai easier to package as vyapaar paperbacks liye punarvikray, and adhik accessible to the cazual reader than the never-ending continuity ki once characterised comics.
blike Friday is the din following thankgiving din in the sanyukt States, often regarded as the shuruuaat of the christmas kharidari season.
in recent years, most pramukh retailor have opened atyadhik early and offered promotional sales to laat band the holiday kharidari ritu, samaan to mukkebaazi din bikri in anek Commonwealth raashtra.
blike shuukravaar is nahin an aadhikarik public avkaash as aise, but anek non-retail employees or skulon have dono Thanksgiving and the din baad band, followed by a weekend, thereby increasing the kramank of sambhavit shoppers.
it has routinely maharoom the busiest kharidari day of the saal chunki 2005, haalanki news reports, jisase at ki samay were inaccurate, have varnit it as the vyastatam kharidari day of the saal liye a much longer kaal of samay.
The day 's naam originated in Philadelphia, where it originally thi prayukt to describe the baari or disruptive paidal or gadee traffic jisase hota occur on the day baad thankgiving.
upyog of the pad prarambh pehle 1961 or began to dekhie broader upyog baahar philadelphia around 1975.
baad an alternative spashtikaran began to be offered : ki `` blike shuukravaar '' indicates the point at jisase retailers begin to phere a laabh, or are `` ''.
liye anek saalo, it thi aam liye retailers to open at 6:00 a.m., lakin in the let 2000s anek tha crept to 5:00 or bhi 4:00.
This thi liya to a nai extreme in 2011, when several retailers ( sahit nishaanaa, kohl 's, Macy 's, behtareen khride, and bealls ) kholi at madhyaraatri liye the first samay.
In 2012, walmart or anek anya retailor ghoshit ki they would kholen sabase of unke stores at 8:00 p.m. on thankgiving din ( except in rajya jahaan kholane on Thanksgiving is nishiddh due to blue kanoon, aise as Massachusetts where ve still kholi around midnight ), prompting kals liye a walkout among kuch majdoor.
blike Friday shopping is gyaat liye attracting aggressive crowds, saath salanaa reports of assaults, shootings, or throngs of logon trampling on anya shoppers in an attempt to milengi the behtareen saude on a product before aapurtiyan run out.
the parivaar ki preys is a 2008 amareeki movie drama likhaa, utpaadit, or nirdeshit by Tyler peri.
the patakatha focuses on two pariwaron, one wealthy and the anya working class, jinaki jeevandaan hai intertwined in dono love or kaarobaar.
the film is the duusari of chaar in jisase peri 's hastakshar character, Madea, does not make an appearance.
it is also the duusari Perry-directed filmi ( alongside Daddy 's choti Girls ) that is nahin aadhaarit on koi of the filmkaar 's stage plays.
Net 10, jaal 15, jaal 30 and Net 60 ( bhi Net 10 dinon, et al ) are form of vyapaar credit which bataaen that the net raashi ( the kul bakaayaa on the chaalaan ) is expected to be paid in puraa or praapt by the vikreta bheetar 10, 15, 30 or 60 days baad the goods are dispatched or seva is completed.
Net 30 or Net 60 sharten are often coupled saath a credit liye early payment.
the shabd jaal in is sense arthath `` kul baad sab chhot. ''
it originally garbhashayi isse the Latin nitere ( to shine ) or nitidus ( elegant, trim ), and adhik recently isse the french net ( sharp, neat, clean ).
roadtown, Tortola
The angrejon west indies yahood the islands in or around the caribbean that yahood part of the angrejon samrajya.
in 1912, the angrejon West indies yahood divided into eight colonies : the Bahamas, Barbados, angrejon guiana, angrejon Honduras, jamaica ( with its dependencies the turks or caicos islands and the Cayman islands ), trinidad or tobago, the windward islands or the Leeward islands.
between 1958 or 1962, sab of the dweep territories magar the angrejon virgin islands, the bahama, British Honduras or angrejon Guiana yahood sangathit into the west indies sangh.
it was hoped that the sangh hota become swatantra as a single swadesh, lakin it tha limited shaktiyaan, many practical samasyaayein, or a lack of popular support.
natijatan, the west indies sangh thi dissolved.
Most of the territories, sahit sab the larger ones, hai abhi independent as separate deshon, saath membership to anek antarrashtriya forums such as the sanghathan of American States, the sangh of caribbean rajya, the sansar Trade sanghathan, the sanyukt Nations, the caribbean jatiyaan, the rashtramandal of raashtra or the Caribbean vikaas Bank among others.
the shesh hai angrejon videshi territories.
sab the purv raashtra of the angrejon west indies, except the rashtramandal of dominican, Guyana or Trinidad and Tobago, are Commonwealth realms.
The pad is still prayukt liye angrejon videshi Territories in the caribbean, aise as the Cayman Islands.
the remaining angrejon west Indies
`` kayaa a adbhut World '' is a song written by bob Thiele ( as `` george duglas '' ) and george daud Weiss.
It was pehla ankit by Louis Armstrong and released as a single in 1967.
thiele or veis yahood both prominent in the music sansar ( Thiele as a nirmaataa or veis as a composer/performer ).
armastrang 's recording thi inducted in the grami haul of kirti in 1999.
the prakaashan for is song is niyantrit by memory len music Group, carlin music Corp., or keedaa music, Inc.
udghaatan din 2009 on the west kadam of the u.S. capital.
adhyaksh george W. bush or pehla mahila Laura bush sise the inaugural parade bas Pennsylvania avenue to the shwet house, 2005
The udghaatan of the adhyaksh of the United States is a ceremonial event ankan the shuruyaat of a nai four-year pad of a adhyaksh of the sanyukt rajya.
The day a adhyakshiya udghaatan occurs is known as `` Inauguration din '' and occurs on January 20 ( or 21st if the 20th is a Sunday ).
( prior to the beesvin Amendment, the tithi thi March 4, the din of the saal on which the samvidhan of the United rajya pehla took effect in 1789 ; the last udghaatan to take place on the puraani date thi franklin D. rujvelt 's first ek on March 4, 1933. )
The sabase recent public adhyakshiya udghaatan rasm, the swearing in of adhyaksh baraak Obama to shuru uske duusari four-year term in daftar, took place on somvaar, janvari 21, 2013.
the only inauguration tatv mandated by the sanyukt rajya Constitution is ki the adhyaksh mek an shapath or pratigyaan before ki person can `` enter on the nishpaadan '' of the daftar of the presidency.
However, over the years, vibhinn paramparaon have arisen ki have vistaarit the inauguration isse a saral oath-taking rasm to a day-long event, including parades, bhaashanon, or balls.
isse the presidency of Andrew Jackson through ki of jimmy carter, the praathmik udghaatan Day ceremony took place on the capital 's east portico.
Since the 1981 udghaatan of ronaald reagan, the ceremony has maharoom yojit at the Capitol 's west saamne.
The inaugurations of wiliam harvard taft in 1909 or reagan in 1985 were sthanantarit indoors at the Capitol due to thanda mausam.
the yuddh of 1812 or sansar yuddh II caused two inaugurations to be held at anya sthitiyaan in washington, D.C.
When george Washington thi udghaatan, the shapath was administered by robert Livingston, chancelar of nai York rajya, in 1789, or by William cushing, Associate insaaf of the param Court, in 1793.
chunki Chief insaaf oliver elsworth swore in adhyaksh jon adams, no mukhya justice rai chhuti an udghaatan din.
When Inauguration din rai gire on a Sunday, the mukhya insaaf rai administered the shapath to the adhyaksh on the sande privately or tab again the aglaa day saream.
jab a nai adhyaksh takes over mid-term due to the death or istipha of a adhyaksh, the oath of office is administered lakin aupchaarik, public udghaatan kaarykram have nahin maharoom yojit.
stefani Joanne angelina Germanotta ( ; born kooch 28, 1986 ), gyaat by her stage naam Lady gaaga, is an American singer, songwriter, ricard producer, nartki, activist, businesswoman, faishan designer, abhinetri and locasevak.
born or uthaaya in nai york nagar, wo primarily padhai at the kanvent of the pavitra Heart or briefly attended nai York vishvavidhyalayon 's tisch School of the kala pehle withdrawing to focus on her musical kariyar.
wo jald began performing in the chattan music scene of manahaton 's Lower east paksh.
by the samaapt of 2007, record executive and nirmaataa vincent herbert signed uske to uske label streamline Records, an imprint of interscope record.
initially working as a songwriter at interscope Records, her vocal abilities captured the attention of recording kalakaar econ, jo also hastakshrit her to kon sajiv vitaran, uske own label antargat Interscope.
mahila Gaga aae to prominence as a recording artist following the relies of uske debyue album, the Fame ( 2008 ), which thi a najuk or vanijyik kamyaabi that topped charts around the sansar and shaamil the antarrashtriya number-one singles `` Just nrity `` or `` Poker phase ``.
After embarking on the the kirti ball Tour, wo followed the album with the Fame daanav ( 2009 ), which spawned the worldwide hit singles `` karaab Romance ``, `` Telephone ``, and `` alejandro ``.
the kirti rakshas success anumat uske to embark on the eighteen-month long daanav Ball daure, jisase later became ek of the highest-grossing concert tours of sab samay.
uske most haal album, Born is Way ( 2011 ), awwal the charts of most major markets or utpann more antarrashtriya chart-topping singles, sahit `` born is rasta ``, `` yahuda ``, and `` the kinare of Glory ``.
Influenced by Britney spirs, daud bovi, maaikel jackson, madonna, or maharani, mahila gaaga is pahachaanaa liye her flamboyant, vividh and outré contributions to the music udyog through uske faishan, pradarshan or music video.
As of aktubar 2011, wo rai bechi an anumaanit 23 million albums and 64 million singles worldwide and uske singles hai kuch of the best-selling vishwavyaapee.
Her uplabdhiyaan shaamil five grami puraskaar or 13 amtivi video music puraskaar.
Lady gaaga rai consecutively appeared on Billboard patrika 's kalakaaron of the saal ( scoring the nirnaayak sheershak in 2010 ), kramit chauthi in vh1 's suchi of 100 Greatest mahilaon in music, is the chathe behtareen selling digital singles artist in us according to riaa, is regularly placed on lists rachit by Forbes patrika and thi namit ek of the most influential logon in the sansar by samay patrika.
besides her musical kariyar, wo involves herself with humanitarian kalyankari or lgbt sakriyata.
mckethan stadium ghar of Gator besabaal
a picture of the 1924 besabaal toli
the florida gators baseball toli represents the vishvavidhyalayon of florida in the sport of baseball.
the florida Gators compete in Division i of the neshnal colejiet athletics Association ( NCAA ), and the Eastern prabhag of the Southeastern sammelan ( SEC ).
They khel unke home khel in Alfred A. McKethan stadium on the vishvavidhyalayon 's gainesville, florida campus, and hai philhal led by sir coach kevin O'Sullivan.
in the ninety-eight ritu itihaas of the gators besabaal kaarykram, the toli rai jiti baarah SEC championships and has appeared in aath college sansar shrenee tournaments.
`` electioneering '' redirects yahan.
For the Radiohead song, dekhie OK computer.
Presidential abhiyaan batan liye abraham lincoln, 1860.
the reverse paksh of the batan shows a portret of his running mate hannibal hamlin.
a rajnatik campaign is an vyavasthit praytn which seeks to influence the nirnay bananaa process bheetar a vishisht samooh.
in democracies, rajnatik abhiyaan often refer to chunavi abhiyaan, wherein pratinidhi hai chuni or referendums are decided.
in aadhunik raajnneeti, the sabase high profile political abhiyaan are kendrit on candidates liye sir of state or sir of sarkari, praayah a adhyaksh or Prime mantri.
elizabeth cady stanton and uske beti, Harriot
elizabeth cady stanton ( navambar 12, 1815 – October 26, 1902 ) was an amareeki soshal activist, abolitionist, or agrani figure of the jaldi women 's adhikaron movement.
uske Declaration of sentiments, prastut at the pehla women 's adhikaron sammelan yojit in 1848 in seneca Falls, nai york, is praayah credited saath initiating the first vyavasthit mahilaon 's rights or women 's suffrage andolanon in the sanyukt rajya.
pehle stanton narrowed her rajnatik fokas almost exclusively to mahilaon 's adhikaron, she was an kriyasheel abolitionist saath saath uske husband, henry brewster stanton or cousin, gerrit smith.
naapsand anek of those shaamil in the mahilaon 's adhikaron gati, stanton addressed various mudde pertaining to mahilaon beyond matdaan rights.
uske concerns shaamil women 's parental or custody adhikaron, property rights, niyukti and aay adhikaron, talaak, the aarthik swasthya of the parivaar, and janam control.
wo thi bhi an outspoken samarthak of the 19th-century temperance gati.
baad the amareeki civil yuddh, stanton 's patibaddhta to maadaa suffrage caused a schism in the women 's adhikaron gati jab wo, saath saath susaan B. anthoni, asweekrut to support dyodhi of the Fourteenth or pandrahavin Amendments to the United rajya Constitution.
She opposed giving added vidhik suraksha or matdaan adhikaron to africa amareeki men jabaki mahilaon, blike or white, yahood asweekrut those vahi adhikaron.
uske sthiti on this samasya, saath with uske vichaar on vyavasthit christianity or women 's mudde pare voting adhikaron, led to the gathan of do separate women 's adhikaron sanghathan ki yahood aakhirkaar rejoined, with stanton as president of the joint sanghathan, lagbhag bees saalo baad uske brake from the asli mahilaon 's suffrage gati.
Stanton died in 1902 having authored dono the stri 's bible or uske aatmakatha, along with anek aalekh and pamphlets concerning maadaa suffrage or women 's rights.
my mela mahila is a musical aadhaarit upon George barnard shaw 's pygmalion or saath book or geet by alan jay Lerner or music by fredrick loewe.
the story chintaaen Eliza doolittle, a kaakani pushp ladki jo takes vaak lessons isse professor Henry higgins, a phoneticist, so that wo may pass as a well-born lady.
the musical 's 1956 broadway production thi a hit, setting kayaa thi tab the ricard liye the longest chalaaen of any major musical theatre utpaadan in itihaas.
it thi followed by a hit London utpaadan, a lokapriy film version, or numerous revivals.
It rai maharoom pukaara `` the purna musical ''.
Deregulation is the act or prakram of removing or reducing rajya regulations.
it is therefore opposite of viniman, which refers to the prakram of the government regulating nishchit kriyaayein.
the boston Bruins radio sanjaal is a 25-station ( 17 a.M., 8 f.m. plus 2 f.m. anuvadak ) sibies Radio sanjaal which carries sajiv khel broadcasts of the boston bruins.
the sanjaal 's flagship stesan is wbz-fm /98.5- boston, masachusets.
dev goucher announces play-by-play.
bob Beers provides rang commentary.
This article is parichay the choti story.
For the kavita by Sara teasdale, see vahin Will aaiye Soft rains.
`` vahin hoga aaiye naram Rains '' is a choti story by vigyaan fiction lekhak re Bradbury jisase thi first published in the may 6, 1950 samasya of collier 's.
baad that same saal the story thi included in bradbury 's the martian chronicals ( 1950 ).
With over 1.2 arab logon, haan Chinese is the largest jaateey samooh in the sansar.
pashtun people of the pashtunistan pradesh, jisase sits in an area between dakshin of the Hindu kush in Afghanistan and the sindhu nadi in pakistani.
They kramank around 50 million.
The korowai people of Papua gine just around 3,000 logon, or yahood uncontacted jabatak the 1970s.
nasl or jaateey group is a socially paribhaashit shrenee based on aam samskruti or rashtriyata.
nasl can, but karata nahin have to, include aam ancestry, rup, bhojan, dressing style, viraasat, itihaas, bhashaa or dialect, dharm, symbols, paramparaon, or anya cultural factor.
jaateey identity is constantly reinforced through common visheshtaayen jisase niyat the samooh alaava isse other samooh.
The 19.9 mw Gemasolar solar plant in spain suvidhaayen 15 hours of bhandar and can supply shakti 24 hours a din.
Solar urja, raushan lite and ooshmaa from the surya, rai maharoom harnessed by insaano chunki pracheen times using a dayera of ever-evolving technologies.
saura urja technologies include solar heating, solar photovoltaics, saura thermal vidyut, saura vaastukala and kritrim photosynthesis, jisase can make considerable yogadan to solving kuch of the sabase urgent energy samasyaayein the sansar abhi chehron.
Solar technologies hai broadly characterized as either passive saura or kriyasheel saura depending on the rasta ve capchar, convert and vitarit saura energy.
kriyasheel solar takneekon shaamil the use of photovoltaic panels or saura thermal collectors to dohan the energy.
Passive saura takneekon shaamil orienting a bhawan to the Sun, selecting saamagree with favorable thermal dravyaman or light dispersing properties, or designing spaces ki naturally circulate air.
In 2011, the International urja agency kaha ki `` the development of sasti, inexhaustible or saaf saura urja technologies hoga have vishaal longer-term benefits.
It hoga badhayen countries’ energy suraksha through reliance on an swadeshi, inexhaustible or mostly import-independent sansaadhan, badhayen sthirataa, reduce pollution, nimnatar the costs of mitigating jalwaayu badalen, or rakhana fossil fuel prices lower than varanaa.
ye advantages hai vaishvik.
hence the additional laagat of the protsaahan liye jaldi deployment chahie be mana learning nivesh ; they jarur be wisely spent and need to be widely saajha ''.
The shastreey Latin varnmaala or roman varnmaala evolved isse a pashchimi kismein of the unani alphabet called the cumaean alphabet, which was apanaaya and parivardhit by the etruscans jo ruled jaldi Rome.
The etruscan varnmaala thi in phere adopted or further parivardhit by the pracheen romans to write the latin bhashaa.
dauraan the madhya aayu, the Latin varnmaala thi adapted to romance languages, direct vanshajon of latin, as well as to Celtic, germanic, Baltic, or kuch Slavic bhashaaen.
saath the aayu of upniveshwaad or Christian evangelism, the Latin script thi sprad videshi, and lagu to indigenous amareeki, australian, Austronesian, Austroasiatic, and africa languages.
More recently, linguists have bhi tended to prefer the latin script or the antarrashtriya dhvanyatmak varnmaala ( itself largely based on latin script ) when transcribing or creating likhaa maanakon liye non-european bhashaaen, aise as the africa sandarbh alphabet.
the pad latin varnmaala may refer to either the varnmaala used to likhen Latin ( as varnit in is article ), or anya alphabets based on the Latin script, jisase is the moulik set of akshar common to the vibhinn alphabets descended isse the shastreey Latin one, such as the angrezi varnmaala.
ye latin-derived alphabets may choden letters, jaise the rotokas alphabet, or add nai akshar, jaise the danish and norwegian varnmaala.
Letter aakaar have badla over the centuries, sahit the sristi liye Medieval Latin of nimnatar case form jisase did not maujuud in the Classical period.
The hatya of sanyukt rajya adhyaksh abraham lincoln took place on shubh Friday, april 14, 1865, as the amareeki civil War thi drawing to a band.
The hatya occurred five dinon baad the commander of the Confederate fouj of Northern virginia, saamaanya Robert E. lee, surrendered to leftinent saamaanya Ulysses S. Grant or the sangh fouj of the Potomac.
Lincoln thi the first amareeki adhyaksh to be assassinated, haalanki an unsuccessful attempt had maharoom made on andrew Jackson 30 saalo pehle in 1835.
the assassination was niojit and carried out by the well-known stage actor John wilkes booth, as bhaag of a larger conspiracy in a boli to revive the confederate kaaran.
booth 's co-conspirators yahood louis pavel or David herold, jo yahood abantit to kill Secretary of rajya wiliam H. seward, and george atzerodt jo thi to kill vaais adhyaksh andrew johnson.
by simultaneously eliminating the top teen logon in the administration, Booth or uske co-conspirators hoped to sever the nirantarata of the sanyukt rajya sarkari.
lincoln thi shot jabaki watching the khel hamaari American cousin with uske bivi Mary tod lincoln at Ford 's theatre in washington, d.C. on the raatri of april 14, 1865.
he died jaldi the aglaa morning.
the baaki of the shadyantrkariyon ' plot vifal ; Powell tabhi prabandhit to ghaav seward, jabaki atzerodt, Johnson 's would-be hatyare, khoyaa uske tantrika or fled Washington.
add-on might mean:
plug-in ( computing ), a tukdaa of software which enhances another tantra application and praayah can not be chalaaen independently
broujar ekstansion, jisase modifies the interfes and/or behavior of web browsers
add-on ( Mozilla ), a piece of tantra that enhances or customizes mozilla-based anuprayog
add-ons liye firefox ( addons.mozilla.org ), the aadhikarik mozila nyaas web sait jisase serves as a repository of add-ons liye mozilla-based anuprayog
Peripheral, an optional computer hardware ghatak ki significantly poorak or enhances the functionality of the asli ikai
Video game accessory, a tukdaa of hardware used in sangyojan with a video game consol liye playing video khel
klbon level seating is a special section of seating in aadhunik khel stadium.
The Club str is usually stith towards the madhya of the stage of seating bhaag, above the nimnatar deck but below the upper deck.
They are praayah sahi aglaa to the Luxury baks, either sahi upar, sahi below, or sandwiched between do str of Luxury Boxes.
klbon str seating is mana as ucchtar class than sitting anywhere else in the arina, lakin lower class compared to the lakjri baks.
naapsand the Luxury baks, sabase klbon levels do nahin rap entirely around the arena.
kuch club str roke at a nishchit point, giving rasta to an expansion of the mezanin, jabaki others de rasta to nimnatar class lakjri Boxes ( such as `` party suites '' ).
A notable excepshan to is is emirate stadium in London, jisase rai a puraa tier of klbon seating.
klbon str allow prashansak anek str of entertainment.
Club Level seating is kholen to the elements, as opposed to the entirely enclosed lakjri baks, jisase gives adhik of an outdoors chhap at roofless or open-roof stadium and arenas.
klbon str seating is saamanytah kharida on a anubandh aadhaar to allow for adhiktam profit on the bhaag of the stadium.
The klbon str provides fans saath special abhigam to an andar bhaag of the arina vishesh to prashansak with khaas tikaten.
These kshetron are air conditioned or allow access to khaas restaraan, merchandise stand, or lounge kshetron of the stadium ki hai not varanaa uplabdhiyaan.
riyaayat stand or vikreta on the klbon str also praayah prastaav alag menu than in anya stand to de adhik of a special mahasoos to the klbon.
These kshetron are closed band to the baaki of the stadium, or ve praayah can tabhi be accessed through the vishesh, private club entrances.
sophia Loren ( ; born Sofia Villani scicolone ; 20 sitambar 1934 ) is an italvi actress.
loren is widely recognized as italy 's sabase renowned or sammanit actress.
wo thi the pehla actress of the talkie era to jeet an Academy puraskaar liye a non-english-speaking pradarshan, liye her portrayal of cesira in vittorio de sika 's do mahilaon.
Her other awards shaamil a grami Award, paanch khaas sunahari Globes, a BAFTA puraskaar or a laurel puraskaar.
In 1995 wo praapt the Cecil B. demille puraskaar liye lifetime uplabdhiyaan, ek of anek aise awards.
uske films shaamil : houseboat ( 1958 ), el siaidi ( 1961 ), kal, Today or kal ( 1963 ), vivaah italian-style ( 1964 ), or a Special din ( 1977 ).
in later saalo she rai appeared in American blockbusters aise as grumpier boodha Men ( 1995 ), or Nine ( 2009 ).
in 1994 she starred in robert Altman 's Prêt-à-Porter, which arjeet uske a sunahari globe namakan the same saal.
She rai bhi hasil critical or commercial kamyaabi in tv filmon aise as himmat ( 1986 ).
Deaths for self-inflicted choton prati 100,000 nivaasiyon in 2004.
incidence of aatmahatya is underreported due to dono religious or social pressures, and possibly completely unreported in some kshetron.
nevertheless, isse reported maamle, nishchit trends are apparent.
Since the aankada is skewed, comparing aatmahatya daron between raashtra is statistically unsound.
the rujhaan themselves hai nahin the cause, lakin may be indicative of a root kaaran.
the opera winfre netritv Academy for ladakiyon - South africa is a maadaa boarding skool founded in janvari 2007 or stith in henley on klip nikat meyerton, dakshin of johansburg, dakshin africa.
the academy thi founded by opera winfre saath the goal of providing shaikshanik or netritv avasar liye academically gifted ladakiyon from impoverished prishthbhumi.
Oprah winfre netritv academy liye Girls
digicel is a mobile phone sanjaal provider oparating in 31 bazaar aarpaar the Caribbean, central america, or Oceania regions.
The company is swaamitv by Irishman denis o'brien, is incorporated in bermuda, or based in Jamaica.
it rai parichay 13 million betaar upayokta.
As of 2012, digicel 's bazaar comprise : anguila, Antigua or Barbuda, aruba, barbados, Bermuda, bonaire, the angrejon virgin islands, the keman islands, kurakaao, dominican, el salvador, Fiji, french guiana, Grenada, Guadeloupe, Guyana, haiti, jamaica, Martinique, prakruti, panama, papua nai gini, samoa, sant kits or Nevis, Saint loosia, sant vincent and the Grenadines, Suriname, Tonga, trinidad & tobago, turks or caicos, and Vanuatu.
is is a suchi of record of the fifa World cap or iske yogyata milan.
hospital apaat code are prayukt in aspataal vishwavyaapee to chetavanee staff to vibhinn emergencies.
The upyog of codes is intended to convey essential soochna jaldi and saath minimal misunderstanding to staff, jabaki preventing tanaav or dehshat among vizitor to the hospital.
These code may be posted on placards throughout the hospital, or mudrit on karmchaaree pahchaan baij liye taiyaar sandarbh.
waapas of a hospital id baij showing vipatti codes.
hospital apaat codes may denote different kaarykram at alag aspataal, sahit aasapaas ones.
Because many physicians work at more than ek suvidha, this may lead to bhram in emergencies, so vardi systems have maharoom prastaavit.
The root of the Eifel aqueduct, with its ausat dhalaan.
the eifel Aqueduct thi ek of the longest aqueducts of the Roman Empire.
The jalsetu, constructed in ad 80, carried water some isse the hilly Eifel pradesh of kayaa is abhi germany to the ancient nagar of Colonia Claudia aara agrippinensium ( present-day Cologne ).
If the auxiliary spers to atirikt sroton hai included, the lambaai thi.
the nirmaan thi lagbhag entirely neeche maidan, or the flow of the water was produced entirely by gravity.
A few bridges, sahit ek up to in lambaai, were needed to pass over ghaatiyon.
naapsand some of the anya famous roman aqueducts, the eifel aqueduct thi specifically designed to minimize the above-ground portion to protect it isse kshati or jamane.
In rasayan, a disulfide bandha ( br.e. disulphide bandha ) is a covalent bond, usually niklaa by the coupling of do thiol groups.
the linkage is bhi pukaara an ss-bond or disulfide bridge.
the overall connectivity is isliye r-s-s-r.
the shabdaawalee is widely used in biochemistry.
in aupchaarik sharten, the connection is a persulfide, in analogy to its congener, peroxide ( r-o-o-r ), lakin is shabdaawalee is aspasht and is no longer prayukt ( magar in reference to r-s-s-h or h-s-s-h compounds ).
Formal depiction of disulfide bandha gathan as an oxidation.
westminster abi is prayukt liye the rajtilak of angrejon monarchs
dharm in the sanyukt kingdom or in the countries ki preceded it, has been varchasv, liye over 1,400 years, by various form of Christianity.
according to some surveys, a bahumat of nagarikon still pahachaano saath Christianity, although regular girijaghar upasthiti rai gire dramatically since the madhya of the 20th century, or avrajan or janasankhyikee badalen have contributed to the growth of other faiths.
dharmik sambandhon of UK nagarikon hai ankit by niyamit surveykshan, the chaar pramukh ones being the UK Census, the shramik Force surveykshan, the angrejon soshal attitudes survey and the European soshal Survey.
according to the 2001 uk census, Christianity is the pramukh dharm, followed by islam, Hinduism, Sikhism, judaism or buddhism in sharten of kramank of adherents.
This, or the apekshaakrit vishaal number of individuals saath nominal or no dharmik sambandhon rai led tikaakaron to variously describe the United kingdom as a multi-faith, secularised, or post-Christian samaaj.
the sanyukt Kingdom thi formed by the union of previously independent deshon isse 1707, or consequently sabase of the largest religious groups do nahin have uk-wide organisational structures.
jabaki some samooh have separate structures for the vyaktigat countries of the United kingdom, anya may have a single structure covering England and wales or great britain.
similarly, due to the relatively recent sristi of uttari Ireland in 1921, most major dharmik samooh in uttari ireland hai sangathit on an all-ireland aadhaar.
the 1967 Newark dange yahood a pramukh civil disturbance that occurred in the nagar of Newark, New Jersey between july 12 and july 17, 1967.
the chah dinon of rioting, luutane, or vinaash left 26 dead and sainkadon injured.
in sanyukt rajya college athletics, redshirt is a vilamb or suspension of an khilaadi 's bhagidaari in anukram to lengthen his or uske kaal of eligibility.
Typically, a chaatr 's athlettic eligibility in a die khel is chaar sizan, a kramank niklaa from the chaar saalo of academic classes ki hai saamanytah jaruri to obtain a bachelor 's oopaadhi at an American college or university.
However, a chaatr khilaadi may be offered the opportunity to redshirt liye up to two years, which allows the khilaadi to sprad those four saalo of eligibility over paanch, or sometimes chah saalo.
In a redshirt saal, a chaatr khilaadi may attend varg at the college or university, practice saath an athletic team, or dress liye play but he or she may nahin compete dauraan the khel.
using is yantriki, a student khilaadi rai up to paanch academic saalo to use the chaar years of paatrata, yun becoming a fifth-year senior.
The pad is used as a kriya, sangya, and adjective.
liye udhaaharan, a coach may chune to redshirt a khilaadi jo is tab referred to as a redshirt freshman or bas a redshirt.
the vipareet of is is a `` sachcha freshman. ''
sansar yuddh I ( wwi ) was a vaishvik war kendrit in Europe ki began on 28 july 1914 or lasted jabatak 11 navambar 1918.
it thi predominantly called the sansar War or the great yuddh isse iske occurrence until the prarambh of sansar yuddh II in 1939, and the pehla World yuddh or sansar yuddh i thereafter.
it involved sab the sansar 's great powers, jisase yahood samavet in do opposing alliances : the allies ( aadhaarit on the tripal entente of the sanyukt kingdom, frans and rus ) and the central shaktiyaan ( originally the tripal gathbandhan of germany, austria-hungary and italy ; lakin, as Austria–Hungary tha liya the apriy viruddh the anubandh, italy kiya nahin daalen into the war ).
ye alliances yahood both reorganised or vistaarit as adhik raashtra entered the yuddh : italy, japani or the sanyukt rajya joined the allies, or the osmani samrajya or Bulgaria the central shaktiyaan.
ultimately, adhik than 70 lakh sainya karmiyon, sahit 60 lakh europeans, yahood mobilised in ek of the largest yudhon in history.
More than 9 million combatants yahood maare, largely kuki of technological advancements that led to enormous increases in the lethality of hathiyaar bagaiyr sambandhit sudhaar in suraksha or gatishiltaa.
It thi the fifth- deadliest virodh in sansar itihaas, subsequently paving the way for vibhinn rajnatik changes, aise as revolutions in anek of the nations shaamil.
ek of the long-term kalyankari of the yuddh thi the punarutthan of samrajyavad in the videshi nitiyon of the great shaktiyaan of europea.
adhik immediately, the hatya of Archduke franj ferdinand of austria, the vaaris to the singhaasana of austria-hungary, on 28 june 1914 by Yugoslav rashtravaadi gavrilo Princip in sarajevo triggered a diplomatic sankat jab austria-hungary subsequently vitarit an ultimatum to the kingdom of Serbia.
anek alliances formed over the pichhlaa decades yahood invoked.
bheetar saptaah, the major shaktiyaan yahood at yuddh or, via unke colonies, the conflict jald sprad around the world.
on 28 july, the austro-hungarians fired the pehla goliyaan of the war as taiyaari liye the akraman of srbija.
jabaki the russians mobilised, the germans invaded neutral belgium and dhvaj on the rasta to France, providing a casus belli liye britain 's declaration of yuddh against Germany.
baad the germany kooch on paris thi brought to a halt—the so-called chamatkaar of the marne —the pashchimi Front settled into a sthir battle of apgharshan saath a trench lakeer that changed choti jabatak 1917.
on the purvi saamne, the Russian fouj was kaamyaab against the austro-hungarians, lakin thi roka in iske invasion of east prussia by the germans.
In navambar the osmani samrajya joined the yuddh, opening up fronts in the kakeshas, Mesopotamia or the sinai.
Italy or bulgaria gai to yuddh in 1915 or Romania in 1916.
in rus, the tsar 's government collapsed in March 1917 or a subsequent kranti in navambar brought the russians to terms saath the central shaktiyaan.
baad a 1918 germany apriy saath the pashchimi saamne, the Allies drove back the germans in a shrenee of kaamyaab offensives and American forces began pravesh the trenches.
germany, jisase had iske apana trubal with krantikariyon, sahamat to an armistice on 11 November 1918.
the yuddh ended in victory for the Allies.
kaarykram on the ghar fronts were as ugr as on the battle fronts, as the bhagidaar tried to mobilize unke janashakti or aarthik sansaadhan to fight a kul yuddh.
by the end of the yuddh, four pramukh imperial powers—the germany, Russian, austro-hungarian and Ottoman empires—ceased to maujuud.
The successor rajya of the purv do lost a great raashi of territory, jabaki the latter do were dismantled entirely.
the map of central Europe thi redrawn into anek choti states.
the lig of raashtra thi formed in the aashaa of preventing another aise virodh.
the europea rashtrawaad shakhit by the war or the brallep of empires, the repercussions of germany 's defeat or problems saath the sandhi of Versailles hai sahamat to be factors contributing to World War ii.
map of countries that ghoshit themselves to be samaajawaadee rajya antargat the marxist–leninist or Maoist paribhaasha - ki is to kah, `` communist rajya '' - between 1979 or 1983.
This kaal chihnit the mahanatam territorial extent of communist rajya.
a communist rajya is a rajya jahaan the arthath of utpaadan hai collectively owned by the samaaj.
it rai a form of sarkari characterized by single-party niyam or dominant-party niyam of a communist party ( referred as taanaashaahee of the Proletariat by iske proponents ) or a professed nishtha to a leninist or Marxist–Leninist vichaardhaara as the guiding principle of the rajya.
technically, `` communist rajya '' is a contradictio in terminis as a communist society as paribhaashit by dono Marxists or anarcho-communists is in principle stateless.
isse is pariprekshya, the pad marxist-leninist state is more uchit.
historically, a `` communist state '' referred to a pranali jahaan public ownership of sab or sabase arthath of production by the communist party -run rajya is deemed jaruri to further the ruchi of the working class ; today, a communist rajya can bhi, liye udhaaharan, refer to contemporary china or Vietnam, jahaan a Communist Party-run rajya exists alongside a mishrit economy.
according to marxist–leninists, the rajya is a tool in the hands of the ruling class, jisase in a samaajawaadee samaaj is the working class, so a socialist rajya is, according to leninists, a rajya of the working class.
in abhyaas, communist rajya do not darasal refer to themselves as such.
They do is not to bhes the fact that the ruling party is communist, lakin balki kuki they do nahin consider themselves to be a communist society at upasthit.
bajaay, ve constitutionally identify themselves as samaajawaadee states or majdoor ' rajya.
the primary lakshya of ye rajya, jisase bhi explains unke aadhikarik name, is to maargdarshika unke sambandhit deshon in the prakram of bhawan samaajawaadee, ultimately agrani to samyavaadee.
communist rajya may have anek legal rajnatik partiyon, lakin the communist party is praayah granted a khaas or prabal role in government, praayah by statute or antargat the samvidhan.
natijatan, the sansthaanon of the rajya or of the communist party become intimately entwined, aise as in the vikaas of samanaantar sansthaanon.
in the 20th sadi, sabase communist states apanaaya niojit economies.
however, vahin yahood apwaad : The Soviet sangh dauraan the 1920s or let 1980s or Yugoslavia after sansar yuddh ii anumat simit bazaar or a oopaadhi of kaaryakarta self-management, jabaki china, Vietnam or laos introduced far-reaching market reforms after the 1980s.
in the 21st century, China or Vietnam have anumat a mishrit arthvyavastha to develop.
the fundamental avadharanaon of communist rajya often diverge from the original socio-economic vichaardhaaraon isse jisase ve develop.
as a parinaam, many adherents of ye ideologies praayah oppose the rajnatik systems commonly sambhddha saath these states.
liye udhaaharan, dissenting communists aise as trotskyists yahood often opposed to the communist rajya of the 20th century, claiming either ki ve tha nothing to do with `` real '' samyavaadee or ki the vichaardhaara of such states tha pahunche a point of irrevocable bhrashtachar.
maaikel Fred felps II ( born June 30, 1985 ) is a ritred amareeki tairaak and the sabase sajaa olympian of sab samay, saath a total of 22 medals.
felps bhi holds the all-time record for olympic gold medals ( 18, doguna the second ucchtam ricard dharakon ), Olympic sunaharaa medals in vyaktigat kaarykram ( 11 ), or Olympic medals in vyaktigat events for a purush ( 13 ).
in jeetna aath gold medals at the 2008 beijing khel, felps took the ricard for the most first-place finishes at koi single Olympic khel.
paanch of those victories were in vyaktigat kaarykram, tying the single khel ricard.
in the 2012 Summer olympic in London, Phelps won chaar golds or two silver medals, bananaa him the sabase successful khilaadi of the khel liye the teesraa Olympics in a pankti.
felps is the long course sansar recordholder in the 100-meter titali, 200-meter titali and 400-meter vyaktigat medley as khub as the purv long course sansar recordholder in the 200-meter freestil and 200-meter vyaktigat medley.
He has jiti a kul of 71 medals in major antarrashtriya long-course competition, 57 sunaharaa, 11 chaandi, or three bronze spanning the Olympics, the World, and the pan prashanth championships.
felps 's antarrashtriya sheershak or record-breaking performances have earned him the World tairaak of the saal puraskaar saat times or amareeki tairaak of the Year puraskaar nine times as khub as the phina Swimmer of the saal Award in 2012.
uske unprecedented olympic kamyaabi in 2008 arjeet felps khel illustrated patrika 's sportsman of the saal puraskaar.
After the 2008 Summer olympic, felps prarambh the Michael felps nyaas, jisase focuses on growing the khel of tairaaki or promoting healthier lifestyles.
He expects to do further kaary saath his nyaas after the 2012 olympic, jisase he rai said hoga be uske pichhlaa.
lenovo samooh simit ( ) is a chinis bahurashtriya computer hardware or electronics company saath iske mukhyalay in beijing, china or morrisville, North carolina or its registered daftar in hong kong, china.
iske utpaada shaamil personal computers, tablet computers, mobile phone, workstations, sarwar, electronic bhandar divaais, it prabandhan tantra and smart television.
lenovo is the sansar 's second-largest PC vikreta by 2012 ikai bikri.
it bazaar the ThinkPad lakeer of kopi computer or the ThinkCentre lakeer of desktops.
lenovo rai parichaalan in adhik than 60 deshon or bikta iske utpaada in around 160 countries.
lenovo thi santhaapit in beijing in 1984 and incorporated in hong Kong in 1988 under iske pichhlaa name, Legend.
Lenovo is listed on the Hong Kong bhandar exange and is a constituent of the Hang seng china-affiliated corporations Index.
Slug is a aam name liye an apparently shell-less sthaliy gastropod mollusk.
the shabd `` slog '' is also praayah used as bhaag of the aam naam of any gastropod mollusc ki rai no shell, rai a very ghataya shell, or rai tabhi a small aatanrik shell.
( is is in contrast to the common naam `` ghongha ``, which is lagu to gastropods ki have a nattejey shell that is large paryaapt ki the soft parts of the animal can retract fully into it. )
slugs exist on jameen or in the samudr, or vahin is bhi ek genus of freshwater slugs, Acochlidium.
the unadorned shabd `` slog '' is however lagu primarily to jameen slugs, whereas slugs from the samudr or isse freshwater hai usually referred to as `` sea slugs `` and `` freshwater slugs ''.
Land gastropods saath a shell that is not quite vestigial, lakin is too choti to retract into ( like anek in the parivaar urocyclidae ), are gyaat as semislugs.
the vibhinn taxonomic families of slugs form part of anek quite alag vikasvaadi lineages jisase bhi shaamil snails.
yun, liye example, the vibhinn pariwaron of jameen slugs hai nahin very closely related to one another, despite a satahi samanta in the overall body form.
the shell-less condishan rai arisen anek times independently dauraan the vikasvaadi past, or yun the category `` slog '' is emphatically a polyphyletic ek.
Slugs, jaise sab anya gastropods, undergo torsion ( a 180° tedi of the aatanrik angon ) dauraan vikaas.
Internally, slog anatomy clearly shows the prabhaav of is rotation, lakin externally the laashen of land slugs appear to be adhik or kam symmetrical, magar liye the positioning of the pneumostome, which is on ek side of the animal, saamanytah the sahi haath paksh.
the naram, slimy bodies of slugs hai prone to desiccation, so land-living slugs hai confined to nam environments or jarur retreat to nam hiding places jab the mausam is shushk.
the subsequent information in this article applies to jameen slugs.
is a latin word ki arthath `` yun '' or, in writing, `` it thi thus in the sorce saamagree ''.
sic may bhi refer to:
Sic, Cluj, a commune in romania
SIC, the kshetreey code liye sicili
Sic ( noise kalakaar ), styled as [ sic ], stage naam of jenifer morris, a canadai rav artist
sic ( band ) is a aadhunik Hardcore/Thrash metal band isse torshavn, the puunji of the fero islands
`` ( sic ) '', a song by American band Slipknot on the album Slipknot
sic, the aarambhik of Marco Simoncelli.
sic as an echronim may stand for:
SiC, silicon carbide, a semiconducting saamagree, bhi prayukt to mek dhaatukarm tools
sic ( cyclecar ) ( società italiana cyclecars )
maanak audyogic vargeekaran, a 20th-century U.S. pranali for classifying udyog
antarrashtriya maanak Industrial vargeekaran a un system for economic activities
shethland Islands Council
the swiss interbank clearing pranali
san isidro klbon, an argentine rugby sangh klbon
khadaa nirvachan cameti, a committee dedicated to the nirvachan of antarrashtriya hisaab maanakon IFRS
schwarz soochna maandand in the field of statistics
second-in-command in the field of vimaanan
sistema Interconectado central shakti grid in chile
sociedade independente de Comunicação ( sic ), a television channel in Portugal
Sea oil City, New jersey, a tateey town in the sanyukt States
segmented purnank counter vidhi, a vidhi of aaparishan in kryptography
sepang antarrashtriya circuit, a high-end racetrack ki host the malaysian round of sutara 1
shanghai antarrashtriya Circuit, a motor racing venue in shanghai, china
Simplified nirdeshaatmak computer, a hypothetical computer prayukt in pranaaliyon programing
sic ( bete idées couleurs ), an jaldi twentieth-century art magazine produced by french lekhak piyare Albert-Birot
southeastern illinois college, a two saal Junior college in Harrisburg, illinois, sanyukt rajya
vishisht aagamanaatmak capacity, abbreviated to SIC, jisase is adhik commonly known as the saapeksh permittivity or the paravaidyut nirantar
st ignatius ' College, Riverview, a jesuit skool in sidney, australia
Imperial maanak of nepolian I
nepolian bonapart (, ; 15 agast 1769 – 5 May 1821 ) thi a french sainya and political leader who rose to prominence during the latter charan of the french kranti or its associated yudhon in europea.
as nepolian i, he was samraat of the French isse 1804 to 1815.
uske vidhik sudhaar, the napoleonic code, has maharoom a major influence on many civil vidhi jurisdictions worldwide, lakin he is best remembered liye uske bhoomika in the yudhon led viruddh frans by a series of coalitions, the so-called Napoleonic yudhon.
he sthapit aadhipaty over most of continental europea or sought to sprad the aadarshon of the french Revolution, jabaki consolidating an imperial samrajya jisase restored pahaluon of the apdasth ancien régime.
due to uske kamyaabi in ye wars, praayah viruddh numerically shreshth dushmano, he is generally regarded as one of the mahanatam sainya cmanderon of sab time, or his campaigns hai studied at sainya academies vishwavyaapee.
Napoleon thi born at ajaccio in corsica in a family of noble italvi ancestry which tha settled corsica in the 16th sadi.
he prashikshit as an topakhane officer in menland France.
He rose to prominence under the french pehla ganatantr and led kaamyaab campaigns viruddh the pehla and duusari coalitions arrayed viruddh France.
he led a successful invasion of the italvi prayadweep.
in 1799, he staged a coup d'état and santhaapit khud as First kaunsul ; five saalo later the french Senate proclaimed him samraat, following a plebiscite in his paksh.
in the first dashak of the 19th sadi, the french samrajya under Napoleon sagaai in a shrenee of conflicts—the napoleonic yudhon —that shaamil prayek pramukh europea power.
baad a streak of victories, frans secured a prabal sthiti in mahadwipiya europea, or nepolian kaayam the french gola of influence through the gathan of extensive alliances or the niyukti of mitron or parivaar sadasyon to niyam anya europea deshon as french claayent states.
the Peninsular yuddh or 1812 french akraman of Russia chihnit turning ank in Napoleon 's fortunes.
uske Grande Armée thi badly damaged in the abhiyaan or never fully baraamad.
in 1813, the chathe gathbandhan parajeet his shaktiyaan at Leipzig ; the following saal the gathbandhan invaded frans, majaboor Napoleon to abdicate and exiled him to the dweep of Elba.
Less than a year baad, he faraar alba or returned to power, but was parajeet at the Battle of Waterloo in june 1815.
nepolian kharch the last six saalo of uske jivan in karawas by the British on the dweep of sant Helena.
An autopsy concluded he died of stomach cancer, lakin vahin rai maharoom kuch bahes parichay the kaaran of uske maut, as some vidwaanon have speculated ki he thi a shikaar of arsenic vishaaktata.
is is a kalanukramik listing of the sanyukt States Senators from Pennsylvania.
sanyukt rajya seenetteron hai popularly nirvaachit, liye a six-year pad, beginning janvari 3.
chunaavon hai yojit the pehla mangalvaar baad November 1.
pehle 1914, they yahood chosen by the Pennsylvania saamaanya sabha, and pehle 1935, their sharten began March 4.
The dakshin Africa neshnal rugby sangh toli ( gyaat as the springboks ) represents dakshin Africa in rugby sangh.
ve compete in the annual Rugby Championship, saath saath southern-hemisphere counterparts argentina, australia or nai Zealand.
ve have jiti this championship on three avasaron in solah saalo.
ve hai philhal ranked duusari in the sansar by the International Rugby Board, or yahood named 2008 sansar toli of the saal at the laureus sansar khel Awards.
haalanki dakshin africa thi instrumental in the sristi of the Rugby sansar Cup pratiyogita, the Springboks did nahin compete in the pehla do sansar Cups in 1987 or 1991 because of anti-apartheid sporting boycotts of dakshin africa.
the toli bana iske World Cup debut in 1995, jab the newly loktantric South Africa hosted the tournament.
the Springboks tab parajeet the sab ashweton 15–12 in the final, jisase is abhi remembered as one of the mahanatam pal in South africa 's sporting itihaas, or a watershed pal in the post-apartheid nation-building prakram.
dakshin Africa regained their sheershak as champions 12 years baad, jab ve parajeet england 15–6 in the 2007 final.
as a parinaam of the 2007 World cap tournament the springboks yahood promoted to pehla place in the IRB sansar Rankings, a sthiti ve held until july the following saal when nai jiland regained the top spot.
the springboks khel in green or sunaharaa jerseys, or unke emblems hai the springbok or the protea.
the side rai maharoom playing antarrashtriya rugby chunki 1891, jab a angrejon isles paksh toured the nation, playing South Africa in unke first pareekshan on 30 july.
South africa thi coached by jack White, jo led the boks to the 2007 sansar cap title, announcing uske istipha effectively isse the samaapt of 2007.
uske replacement 's ( Peter de villiers ) anubandh samaapt in 2011, following a 11–9 shikast to australia in the Rugby sansar Cup quarter-final, who tab stated he would nahin be hastakshar a new saude.
the pichhlaa captain thi jon smit, who pehle he retired in 2011 nibhaai veshya liye most of uske career, haalanki he rai also maharoom a prop, mainly in 2008 or 2009.
Due to smit hone anuplabdh liye the navambar 2010 pareekshan after surgery, taala victor matfield took Smit 's place as captain liye that daure.
the vartmaan captain is jaan de Villiers.
the Battle of gettysburg (, saath an dhwani ), thi fought july 1–3, 1863, in and around the kasbaa of gettysburg, Pennsylvania.
it thi the battle saath the largest kramank of casualties in the American Civil yuddh or is praayah described as the war 's turning point.
sangh maj. gen. george Gordon meade 's Army of the potomac parajeet hamale by Confederate gen. robert E. Lee 's Army of uttari Virginia, samaapti Lee 's akraman of the uttar.
baad uske success at chancellorsville in virginia in may 1863, Lee led uske fouj through the shenandoah ghati to shuru uske duusari akraman of the north—the gettysburg abhiyaan.
saath uske fouj in unchi atmaaon, Lee intended to shift the fokas of the garmiyaan abhiyaan isse war-ravaged northern Virginia or hoped to influence uttari politicians to de up unke abhiyojan of the yuddh by penetrating as far as harrisburg, pencilvenia, or bhi philadelphia.
Prodded by adhyaksh abraham lincoln, Maj. Gen. Joseph Hooker sthanantarit uske fouj in pursuit, but was sukun bas three dinon before the battle or replaced by meade.
tatv of the do sena initially collided at gettysburg on july 1, 1863, as Lee tatkaal concentrated his forces vahin, his objective hone to engage the sangh fouj and nasht it.
kam ridges to the uttarpashchim of kasbaa yahood defended initially by a sangh pyaade prabhag antargat Brig. gen. John buford, or jald reinforced with do corps of Union infantry.
However, two large confederate corps fahraa unhen isse the uttarpashchim or north, collapsing the hastily developed sangh linon, sending the defenders retreating through the streets of kasbaa to the pahadiyaan bas to the dakshin.
on the duusari din of battle, most of dono armies tha samavet.
The Union lakeer thi laid out in a defensive gathan resembling a fishhook.
In the let dopaher of July 2, Lee launched a baari assault on the Union baayein parshv, and fierce lard raged at choti Round Top, the wheatfield, shaitan 's den, and the aadu baag.
On the Union sahi, demonstrations escalated into full-scale assaults on Culp 's hill or kabristaan hill.
All aarpaar the ranbhumi, despite significant nuksaan, the sangh defenders held unke lines.
on the teesraa din of battle, july 3, lard resumed on Culp 's hill, or pyaade ladaaiyon raged to the east and dakshin, but the pramukh event was a naatakeey infantry utpeedan by 12,500 confederates against the bich of the sangh lakeer on Cemetery Ridge, gyaat as Pickett 's Charge.
the charge was repulsed by sangh rifl and topakhane aag, at great nuksaan to the confederate army.
lee led uske army on a torturous retreat waapas to Virginia.
between 46,000 or 51,000 sainiko isse dono sena yahood hataahat in the three-day battle.
ki November, adhyaksh lincoln prayukt the samarpan rasm liye the Gettysburg National Cemetery to sammaan the gire Union sainiko or redefine the purpose of the yuddh in uske historic gettysburg pataa.
an academik anushaasan, or field of padhai, is a shakha of gyaan that is taught or researched at the college or university str.
Disciplines hai paribhaashit ( in bhaag ), and pahachaanaa by the academik jarnals in jisase shodh is prakashit, and the learned samaajon or academik vibhaag or faculties to which unke practitioners belong.
however, there exists no aupchaarik criteria liye jab shaikshanik kaarykram or scholarly jarnals rup an academic anushaasan.
a vishaal antar exists between, on the ek hand, khub sthapit disciplines that exist in lagbhag sab vishvavidhyalayon sab over the sansar, have a long itihaas, or have a khub sthapit niyat of journals or sammelnon, or, on the anya haath, suggestions for nai field supported tabhi by few vishvavidhyalayon or publications.
field of padhai praayah have anek sub-disciplines or branches, and the distinguishing linon between ye hai praayah dono manamaani and aspasht.
piechapi is a server-side encripshan language designed for web vikaas but bhi prayukt as a general-purpose programing bhashaa.
piechapi is now santhaapit on adhik than 244 million websiton and 2.1 lakh web sarwar.
originally created by Rasmus Lerdorf in 1995, the sandarbh kriyanvayan of piechapi is abhi utpaadit by the piechapi Group.
jabaki piechapi originally stood liye nijee ghar pej, it now stand for PHP : hypertext preprocessor, a recursive acronym.
PHP code is interpreted by a web sarwar with a PHP procesar modul which generates the resulting web pej : piechapi cmand can be antahsthapit sidhe into an HTML sorce dastauez balki than colling an bahya sanchika to process data.
It has also viksit to include a command-line interfes capability or can be prayukt in staneylon aalekhiy applications.
piechapi is free software released under the piechapi anugna, which is incompatible with the gnu General Public anugna ( jeepiel ) due to pratibandh on the upyog of the pad PHP.
piechapi can be tainaat on sabase web sarwar and bhi as a staneylon shell on almost prayek oparating pranali and platform, free of charge.
John Fitzgerald `` joker '' kennedy ( may 29, 1917 – navambar 22, 1963 ), praayah referred to by uske adyakshar JFK, was the 35th President of the sanyukt States, sevarat from 1961 jabatak uske maut in 1963.
baad sainya seva as commander of the motor torpedo naukaaye PT-109 or PT-59 dauraan World yuddh ii in the dakshin prashanth, kennedy represented Massachusetts ' 11th congressional district in the u.S. house of Representatives isse 1947 to 1953 as a democrate.
Thereafter, he served in the u.S. Senate isse 1953 until 1960.
Kennedy defeated vaais adhyaksh and republican pratyaashee Richard nicksan in the 1960 U.S. adhyakshiya chunaav.
at 43 saalo of aayu, he is the youngest to have maharoom nirvaachit to the office, the second-youngest adhyaksh ( baad theodor rujvelt ), and the pehla person born in the 20th sadi to serve as adhyaksh.
a Catholic, Kennedy is the tabhi non- protostant adhyaksh, and is the tabhi president to have jiti a pulitzer puraskaar.
kaarykram during uske presidency shaamil the khadi of Pigs Invasion, the cuban Missile sankat, the building of the berlin wal, the Space Race, the african-american civil Rights Movement, or jaldi charan of the Vietnam War.
Therein, kennedy increased the number of sainya advisers, khaas operation shaktiyaan, or helicopters in an praytn to kor the sprad of samyavaadee in dakshin east asia.
the Kennedy administration adopted the niti of the Strategic hamelet kaarykram jisase thi implemented by the dakshin vietnami sarkari.
It involved nishchit majaboor relocation, village internment, or pruthakkaran of gramin dakshin Vietnamese from the uttari or dakshini communist insurgents.
kennedy thi assassinated on navambar 22, 1963 in dalas, texas.
lee ghanghor Oswald was charge saath the aparaadhon, lakin he was shot or maare by Jack maaniky two days baad, pehle a vichaaran could take place.
the epabiai and the warren ayog officially concluded ki Oswald thi the lone hatyare.
however, the sanyukt States House chune Committee on assassinations ( hsca ) concluded ki those investigations yahood flawed or ki kennedy was probably assassinated as the parinaam of a conspiracy.
However, abisi news in their chaanbin, The kennedy Assassination : pare shadyantr, confirmed the nishkarshon of the warren Commission ; having concluded oswald acted alone.
kennedy 's controversial vibhaag of raksha tfx fighter bomber kaarykram led to a Congressional investigation ki lasted isse 1963 to 1970.
Since the 1960s soochna concerning kennedy 's nijee life rai aaiye to light.
vivaran of Kennedy 's swasthya samasyaayein in jisase he struggled have become behatar gyaat, visheshkar chunki the 1990s.
haalanki initially rakhaa rahasy isse the saamaanya public, reports of kennedy 's philandering have garnered much dabaayen.
Kennedy baandhane atyadhik in public raay ratings of u.S. raashtrapatiyon.
`` stand by me '' is a song originally performed by ben E. King or written by King, jeri leiber, or mike stoller, inspired by the aadhyatmik `` Lord stand by me, '' plus do linon rooted in Psalms 46:2–3.
vahin have been over 400 recorded versions of the song.
a rajnatik cartoon isse an 1894 pak patrika by illustrator s.d. Ehrhart, shows a farm stri labeled `` Democratic party '' sheltering from a tornado of political badalen.
a metaphor is a figure of vaak that describes a vishay by asserting ki it is, on some point of comparison, the same as another varanaa unrelated object.
roopak is a prakaar of saadrishy or is closely related to anya rhetorical aankade of vaak ki achieve unke prabhaav via association, tulana or praturup including allegory, atishyokti, or simile.
In simpler sharten, a metaphor compares do vastuen or bate bagaiyr using the shabd `` jaise '' or `` as ''.
One of the most prominent udhaaharan of a roopak in angrezi sahitya is the sab the sansar 's a stage monologue isse as tum jaise It :
All the sansar 's a stagae,
or all the main and mahilaon merely khilaadi ;
They have their exits or unke entrances ; — William shakespeare, as tum Like It, 2/7
This uddhran is a roopak because the sansar is nahin vastutah a stage.
by figuratively asserting that the sansar is a stage, shakespeare uses the ank of comparison between the world or a stage to convey an understanding parichay the mechanics of the sansar or the lives of the people bheetar it.
mount Fuji, isse the Thirty-six Views of Mount Fuji, rang woodcut by katsushika hokusai
rembrandt van Rijn, Self-portrait, etching, c.1630
francisco Goya, vahin is no ek to sahaayta Them, aapadaaon of yuddh series, aquatint c.1810
felics vallotton, La raison probante ( The cogent kaaran ), woodcut isse the series intimités, 1898
Printmaking is the prakram of bananaa artworks by printing, saamanytah on paper.
printmaking saamanytah covers only the process of bananaa prints with an tatv of originality, rather than bas hone a photographic reproduction of a painting.
Except in the case of monotyping, the prakram is capable of producing multiples of the vahi tukdaa, jisase is pukaara a chapai.
prayek chapai produced is nahin mana a `` nakal '' but balki is mana an `` original ''.
is is kuki typically prayek print varies to an extent due to parivartaneey moolbhoot to the printmaking prakram, or bhi kuki the imagery of a print is typically not bas a janan of another kaary lakin rather is praayah a adwitiya chitra designed from the prarambh to be expressed in a particular printmaking takanic.
a print may be known as an chhap.
Printmaking ( other than monotyping ) is nahin chuni tabhi liye iske kshamta to upaj multiple impressions, lakin balki liye the unique qualities ki each of the printmaking processes lends itself to.
Prints hai nirmit by transferring syaahi isse a matrix or through a prepared screen to a chadar of paper or anya material.
Common prakaar of matrices shaamil : metal platon, praayah tambe or jasta, or polimur platon liye engraving or etching ; stone, aluminum, or polimur for lithography ; blocks of lakdi liye woodcuts or lakdi engravings ; or linoleum for linocuts.
screens bana of resha or synthetic fabrics hai used liye the screenprinting process.
anya prakaar of matrix substrates or sambandhit prakriyaaon hai discussed neeche.
Multiple impressions mudrit isse the vahi metrics rup an sanskaran.
chunki the let 19th sadi, kalakaaron have generally signed individual impressions isse an edition or praayah kramank the impressions to form a simit sanskaran.
prints may bhi be mudrit in book rup, aise as illustrated kitabe or artist 's books.
il divo is an angrezi bahurashtriya operatic pop vocal samooh nirmit by music manager, karypalika, and reality tv star simon Cowell.
formed in the sanyukt kingdom, they are bhi hastakshrit to cowell 's ricard label, syco music.
il divo is a samooh of four purush singers : French pop singer sebestian Izambard, spani baritone carlos marín, amareeki tener daud Miller, or swiss tenor Urs bühler.
to tithi, ve have bechi more than 26 million album worldwide.
su-15, ek of the principal Soviet Air raksha interceptors in the 1970s or 1980s
an interceptor vayuyan ( or bas interceptor ) is a prakaar of fighter vayuyan designed specifically to prevent missions of dushman aircraft, particularly bamavarshak or reconnaissance vayuyan, or destroy unhen, relying praayah on great gati or shaktishaalee armament.
Being used chunki the pehla World yuddh, baad the late 1960s, interceptors became kam mahatvapurn due to shifting isse bombers to intercontinental ballistic misile ( icbms ) liye nuclear warfare.
A Vietnamese amareeki ( ) is an amareeki of Vietnamese descent.
They mek up about half of sab videshi vietnami ( Người việt hải ngoại ) and are the fourth-largest asian American samooh.
dravyaman vietnami avrajan to the United rajya prarambh after 1975, baad the samaapt of the Vietnam yuddh.
jaldi immigrants were sharnaarthi naav people fleeing persecution or garibi.
majaboor to bhaago isse unke mathrubhumi or often thrust into poor urban neighborhoods, these newcomers have nevertheless prabandhit to sthapit damdaar communities in a choti raashi of samay.
adhik than saath percent of Vietnamese america reside in the states of california, Texas, Washington, florida, and virginia.
saamne pej of the u.S. hathiyaarband Forces newspaper, Stars or Stripes, 2 may 1945
adolf hitler vachanabaddh aatmahatya by gunshot on 30 april 1945 in his führerbunker in berlin.
uske bivi eva ( née braun ) vachanabaddh aatmahatya saath use by ingesting synide.
ki dopaher, in accordance with hitler 's prior nirdesh, unke remains yahood carried up the seedhiyaan through the bunker 's emergency nikaas, doused in petrol and niyat alight in the reich chancellery garden baahar the bunker.
the Soviet abhilekh ricard ki their jaale remains yahood recovered or interred in successive sthitiyaan jabatak 1970 jab ve yahood again exhumed, cremated and the raakh bikhare.
Accounts differ as to the cause of maut ; ek ki he died by poison tabhi or another ki he died by a self-inflicted gunshot, jabaki biting bas on a cyanide capsule.
Contemporary itihaaskaaron have asweekrut ye khate as hone either Soviet prachaar or an attempted sulah in anukram to reconcile the alag conclusions.
ek eye-witness ankit that the deh dikhaaya lakshan of having been shot through the munh, lakin this rai maharoom siddh asambhavit.
vahin is bhi vivaad regarding the authenticity of kapaal or jabadon fragments jisase yahood baraamad.
In 2009, DNA tests yahood performed on a skull Soviet officials tha long believed to be Hitler 's.
The pareekshan nazil ki the kapaal thi actually ki of a stri kam than 40 years boodha.
Location of mizori
the alcohol kanoon of mizori hai among the least pratibandhak or sabase lax or permissive in the sanyukt rajya.
mizori is gyaat throughout the midwest for iske largely laissez-faire drushtikon to daaru regulation, in sharp contrast to the bahut sakht daaru laws of kuch of iske padosi, jaise kansas or oklahoma.
necrotizing fasciitis ( or ) or nf, commonly gyaat as flesh-eating beemaari or flesh-eating bacteria syndrome, is a viral sankraman of the deeper paraton of skin and subcutaneous tissues, easily spreading aarpaar the fascial plane within the subcutaneous utak.
necrotizing fasciitis is jaldi progressing, having greater risk of vikasshil in the immunocompromised due to conditions jaise madhumeh, karkat, ityadi.
it is a kathor beemaari of achaanak onset or is praayah treated immediately with high doses of intravenous antibiotics.
prakaar i describes a polymicrobial sankraman, whereas prakaar ii describes a monomicrobial sankraman.
anek prakaar of jeevanu can cause necrotizing fasciitis ( e.g., samooh a streptococcus ( streptococcus pyogenes ), staphylococcus aureus, clostridium perfringens, bacteroides fragilis, Aeromonas hydrophila ).
aise infections hai adhik likely to occur in people saath compromised pratiraksha pranaaliyon.
historically, Group A streptococcus bana up most maamle of prakaar ii infections.
However, chunki as early as 2001, another gambhir rup of monomicrobial necrotizing fasciitis rai maharoom observed with increasing aavriti, caused by methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus ( marasaa ).
kuch prakashit maamla reports have implied a sambhavit link between upyog of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs or NF, though the pramaan of the link thi said to be kamjor kuki of a small number of case marijon or it was unclear whether the davaayen bas masked the lakshan of a dwitiyak infection or yahood a kaaran prati se.
sansar yuddh ii ( wwii or WW2 ), bhi gyaat as the duusari World yuddh, was a vaishvik war that lasted isse 1939 to 1945.
it shaamil the vast bahumat of the sansar 's raashtra —including all of the great powers —eventually forming two opposing sainya alliances : the allies or the aksh.
it thi the sabase faili yuddh in itihaas, saath adhik than 100 million logon sevarat in sainya ikai isse over 30 alag deshon.
In a state of `` total war ``, the pramukh bhagidaar lagaai unke entire economic, audyogic, or vaigyanik capabilities at the service of the yuddh praytn, erasing the bhed between civilian or sainya resources.
chihnit by mass mauton of civilians, sahit the holocaust or the tabhi upyog of nuclear hathiyaar in warfare, it resulted in 50 lakh to over 75 lakh fatalities.
ye mauton mek sansar yuddh ii by dur the deadliest virodh in human itihaas.
The samrajya of Japan aimed to dominate east asia or thi already at yuddh saath the Republic of china in 1937, lakin the world yuddh is generally said to have begun on 1 sitambar 1939 saath the invasion of candal by germany and subsequent ghoshnaaon of yuddh on germany by France or Britain.
isse late 1939 to early 1941, in a shrenee of abhiyaan or treaties, germany formed the aksh alliance saath italy, conquering or subduing much of mahadwipiya europea.
Following the molotov–ribbentrop Pact, germany or the soviet Union partitioned or annexed territories between themselves of their European neighbours, sahit candal.
the sanyukt kingdom or the other members of the angrejon Commonwealth yahood the tabhi major alide shaktiyaan continuing the fight against the aksh, saath ladaaiyon lene place in uttar africa as khub as the long-running battle of the Atlantic.
in june 1941, the europea aksh shubharambh an invasion of the soviet sangh, giving a start to the largest jameen theatre of yuddh in itihaas, which tied bas the pramukh bhaag of the Axis ' sainya forces liye the baaki of the yuddh.
In December 1941, japani joined the aksh, attacked the sanyukt States or European territories in the prashanth samandar, and quickly conquered much of the pashchimi Pacific.
The Axis advance thi roka in 1942, baad Japan lost a series of naval ladaaiyon and europea aksh troops yahood parajeet in uttar Africa or, decisively, at stalingrad.
In 1943, saath a shrenee of germany defeats in purvi Europe, the alide akraman of italy, and amareeki victories in the prashanth, the Axis khoyaa the pahal and undertook strategic retreat on sab fronts.
in 1944, the pashchimi Allies invaded frans, jabaki the soviet sangh regained all of iske territorial losses or invaded germany and iske allies.
dauraan 1944 or 1945 the sanyukt rajya parajeet the japani Navy or captured key pashchimi Pacific islands.
The war in Europe ended saath the capchar of berlin by soviet or Polish sainikon or the subsequent germany unconditional aatmasamarpan on 8 may 1945.
following the potsdam Declaration by the Allies on 26 july 1945, the sanyukt rajya dropped parmaanu bombs on the japani shaharon of hiroshima on 6 August, or nagasaki on 9 August.
saath an akraman of the Japanese dweepasmooh nikat, or the soviet sangh having ghoshit yuddh on Japan by invading manchuriya, Japan surrendered on 15 agast 1945, samaapti the yuddh in asia or cementing the total vijay of the allies over the aksh.
sansar yuddh ii altered the rajnatik sanrekhan and soshal dhaancha of the sansar.
the United raashtra ( UN ) thi sthapit to foster antarrashtriya sahyog or prevent bhavishya virodh.
the great shaktiyaan that yahood the victors of the war—the sanyukt rajya, the soviet sangh, china, the sanyukt kingdom, and France—became the sthai sadasyon of the sanyukt Nations suraksha parishad.
the soviet sangh or the sanyukt States ubhara as rival superpowers, setting the stage liye the thanda yuddh, jisase lasted for the aglaa 46 saalo.
meanwhile, the influence of europea great shaktiyaan prarambh to manaahi, jabaki the decolonisation of asia or africa began.
Most deshon jinaki industries tha maharoom damaged moved towards aarthik recovery.
rajnatik sangyojan, visheshkar in Europe, ubhara as an effort to stabilise postwar relations and lado adhik effectively in the thanda yuddh.
A limited deyta company ( llc ) is a lacheelee rup of enterprise that mishranon tatv of saajhedaari or corporate structures.
note than an LLC is not a nigam, or colling an llc a nigam is technically galat.
An llc is a vidhik form of company that provides simit liability to iske swami in the vishaal majority of United States jurisdictions.
LLCs do nahin need to be vyavasthit liye profit.
paanch k-cups
the andar of a prayukt K-Cup, saath the sheersh foil and the prayukt coffee grounds removed.
This shows the filter andar the k-cup.
k-cup portion pack hai prayukt with keurig or other single cap brewing systems to kadha a cap of coffee, tea, or hot chocolate.
prayek K-Cup is a plastic container saath a coffee filter inside.
Ground coffee saim hai packed in the k-cup or sealed air-tight with a sangyojan plastic or foil dhakkan.
jab the k-cup is placed in a Keurig brewer, the brewer punctures the foil dhakkan and the neeche of the K-Cup or shaktiyaan hot jal antargat pressure through the k-cup and into a mug.
Keurig panktiyaan iske k-cup technology to coffee roasters and chaay makers aise as green pahaad coffee roasters, diedrich/ Gloria Jeans, timothy 's sansar Coffee, vine houtte, Caribou coffee, celestial Seasonings, bigelow chaay company, Twinings, tali 's, coffee logon or neuman 's Own.
keurig 's patents on the asli k-cup dizine expired in sitambar 2012.
keurig holds at tanik ek additional, still-active US patent or another patent anuprayog, detailing sudhaar that have subsequently maharoom incorporated in unke K-Cup dizine.
electa jeb chronograph ( ca. 1890s ) manufactured by the gallet dekhen company in La chaux-de-fonds, switzaraland.
gallet multichron astronomic ( ca. 1959 ) —complex mechanical chronograph with 12 ghanta recoding samarthy, swachaalit din, date, month, or chandramaa phase display
a aadhunik seiko quartz wristwatch using the chronograph falan ( movement 7t92 ).
naagarik Atessa eco-drive ATV53-3023 analog-digital chronograph saath 4 area radio Controlled reception ( North America, Europe, china, Japan ).
a chronograph is a specific prakaar of dekhen that is prayukt as a stopwatch combined saath a display watch.
a moulik chronograph has an swatantra sweep duusari haath ; it can be prarambh, stopped, or laute to shunya by successive dabaav on the stem.
lui moinet invented the chronograph in 1816
conventional pisiai ( pisiai is an initialism formed from paridhiy ghatak interconect, bhaag of the pisiai Local bas maanak or praayah shortened to bas pisiai ) is a local computer bas for attaching hardware divaais in a computer.
the pisiai bas supports the functions found on a procesar bas, lakin in a manakikrut swaroop ki is swatantra of any particular processor.
divaais conect to the bas appear to the procesar to be conect sidhe to the processor bas, or hai assigned pataa in the processor 's address space.
Attached divaais can lo either the form of an ekikrut circuit fitted onto the motherboard itself, pukaara a planar yantra in the pisiai specification, or an vistaar card ki fits into a slot.
the pisiai Local Bus thi pehla implemented in IBM pc compatibles, where it visthapit the sangyojan of isa plus ek vesa local bas as the bas vinyas.
it rai subsequently maharoom apanaaya liye anya computer prakaar.
pisiai or pci-x are hone replaced by pisiai Express, but, sabase motherboards hai still bana with ek or adhik pisiai slot, which hai sufficient liye anek upyog.
The pisiai specification cover the shaareerik aakaar of the bas ( sahit the aakaar or antaran of the circuit board kinare vidyut sampark ), vidyut characteristics, bas samay, or protocol.
the specification can be kharida isse the PCI Special byaaj samooh ( PCI-SIG ).
theth PCI taash prayukt in pcs shaamil : network cards, sound taash, modems, atirikt port aise as USB or serial, TV tuner cards or discs controllers.
PCI video taash replaced ISA or vesa taash, until growing bandwidth aavashyaktaayen outgrew the samarthy of PCI ; the pasandida interfes liye video taash became agap, or then pisiai express.
PCI video taash remain uplabdhiyaan liye upyog saath old pcs bagaiyr agap or pisiai express slots.
Many divaais previously provided on pisiai vistaar taash hai abhi commonly ekikrut onto motherboards or uplabdhiyaan in universal serial bas or pisiai Express sanskaran.
maaikel whitaker smith ( born aktubar 7, 1957 ) is an amareeki samakaleen isai sangeetkaar, jo has charted primarily in the samakaleen isai or occasionally in the mukhyadhara chart.
uske biggest kamyaabi in mukhyadhara music thi in 1991 jab `` place in is World '' hit No. 6 on the Billboard hot 100.
smith is a three-time Grammy puraskaar vijeta, or rai earned 40 Dove puraskaar.
Over the course of uske career, he bechi more than 13 lakh album or ankit 29 no. 1 hit geeton, chaudaa sunaharaa album, or paanch platinum album.
smith is an American Music puraskaar praptakarta ; he was bhi namit ek of logon patrika 's `` Most khubasurat logon ''.
An amareeki poster isse the World War II -era ki was prayukt to inform logon about kayaa ve should do if they suspect todphod.
Sabotage is a deliberate karrwai aimed at weakening another antity through subversion, rukaawat, disruption, or destruction.
in a kaarysthal setting, todphod is the sachet withdrawal of dakshata generally nirdeshit at causing kuch change in kaarysthal sharten.
ek jo engages in todphod is a saboteur.
As a niyam, saboteurs try to conceal unke pahchaan kuki of the consequences of unke kriyaayein.
liye udhaaharan, whereas an paryaavarniya pressure samooh might be prasann to be pahachaanaa saath an adhinium of todphod, it hota nahin want the vyaktigat identities of the perpetrators gyaat.
patric henry College ( PHC ) is a nijee, independent college saath an dharmantaran isai basis that focuses on teaching shastreey udaar kala and sarkari, stith in Purcellville, virginia, sanyukt States.
patric henry is gyaat for iske roodhiwaadee evangelical Christian fokas.
as of April 17, 2007, the college thi accredited by the transnational sangh of isai Colleges or skulon, a neshnal faith-related accrediting organization pahachaanaa by the vibhaag of shiksha or the parishad for ucchtar Education pratyaayan.
the skool thi santhaapit saath the help of the Home School vidhik Defense sangh, or now serves as the mukhyalay liye the sanghathan, with jisase it is still closely conect.
The itihaas of television comprises the kaary of numerous engineers or avishkaarak in anek deshon over many dashakon.
the earliest prastaav was in 1908, in a paper by a. A. campbell-swinton or postulated the upyog of cathod kirane.
the first practical demonstrations of television, however, yahood viksit using electromechanical vidhi to scan, transmit, or reproduce an chitra.
as electronic camera or pradarshak tubes yahood perfected, electromechanical television diya rasta to all-electronic pranaaliyon in nearly sab anuprayog.
l'idéal cinéma - zaak tati at aniche opened navambar 23rd 1905 ; the oldest still-active film theatre in the sansar
a cinema in Australia
A theth multiplex ( eemasi saiyr 16 in Woodland Hills, los angeles, U.S. )
a film theatre ( bhi called a cinema, film house, film house, filmi theatre or chitra house ) is a venue, praayah a building, liye dekhne films.
sabase lakin nahin sab movie theatre hai commercial operations catering to the general public, jo attend by khareednaa a tikat.
the film is prakshipt with a film projector onto a vishaal prakshep screen at the saamne of the auditorium.
sabase film theaters hai abhi equipped liye digital cinema prakshep, nikaalnaa the need to banaaen or hastantaran a shaareerik filmi chapai.
dakshini california norton maalik 's klbon on california rajya root 41, near creston.
a motorcycle klbon is a group of individuals jinaki praathmik byaaj or kriyaayein involve motorcycle.
lyme disease, lyme borreliosis is an sankramak beemaari caused by at tanik teen prajati of jeevanu belonging to the genus borrelia.
borrelia burgdorferi sensu stricto is the main kaaran of lyme beemaari in uttar america, whereas borrelia afzelii and borrelia garinii kaaran most europea maamle.
the beemaari is named after the kasbon of lyme and Old lyme, connectikat, uese, jahaan a kramank of cases yahood pahachaanaa in 1975.
haalanki alan steere ehsaas that Lyme beemaari thi a tick-borne beemaari in 1978, the cause of the beemaari remained a rahasy jabatak 1981, jab B. burgdorferi was identified by Willy burgdorfer.
lyme beemaari is the most aam tick-borne disease in the uttari Hemisphere.
borrelia is transmitted to insaano by the kaatna of sankramit ticks belonging to a few prajati of the genus ixodes ( `` mushkil ticks '' ).
jaldi lakshan may shaamil fever, sirdard, thakaan, depression, or a characteristic golakaar skin rash pukaara erythema migrans ( em ).
baayein anupachaarit, baad lakshan may involve the joints, dil, and central nervous system.
in sabase cases, the sankraman or iske symptoms hai eliminated by antibiotic, visheshkar if the beemaari is treated jaldi.
vilambit or aparyaapt upachaar can sise to adhik gambhir lakshan, jisase can be disabling or mushkil to daavat.
penises of minke whales on pradarshak at the Icelandic phallological sangrahalay
Penis ( bahuvachan penises or penes ) is a saamaanya pad liye the angon saath which purush and ubhayalingi pashu introduce shukranu into receptive mahilaon during copulation.
Such angon occur in anek animals, both vertebrate and invertebrate, lakin males do not bhaaluu a shishn in prayek animal species, and in those prajati in jisase the male karata bear a so-called shishn, the penes in the various prajati are not necessarily samajaat.
For udhaaharan, the penis of a standhari is at sabase analogous to the penis of a purush keet or barnacle.
The pad shishn applies to anek reproductive intromittent angon, but not to sab ; for example the intromittent organ of most cephalopoda is the hectocotylus, a specialised arm, and purush spiders upyog unke pedipalps.
in most prajati of pashu in jisase there is an ang ki might reasonably be varnit as a shishn, it has no pramukh falan anya than intromission, or at tanik conveying the sperm to the maadaa, lakin in the placental stanadhariyon the shishn bears the distal part of the urethra, jisase discharges dono mutr dauraan urination or veery during copulation as the avasar requires.
Artists or repertoire ( a & R ) is the prabhag of a record label or music prakaashan company that is jimmedaar liye talent scouting or overseeing the kalakaari development of recording artists and/or songwriters.
it bhi adhiniyamon as a liaison between kalakaaron or the record label or publishing company ; prayek activity involving artists to the point of album relies is generally mana antargat the purview of, or jimmedaari of, a & R.
A furlong is a measure of alahada in imperial units or U.S. customary ikai baraabar to one-eighth of a mile, equivalent to 220 yards, 660 feet, 40 rods, or 10 zanjeeron.
the sateek maan of the furlong varies thodaa among english-speaking countries.
paanch furlongs are lagbhag 1 kilometre ( 1.0058 km is a closer sanniktan ).
chunki the asli definition of the meter thi one-quarter of one ten-millionth of the paridhi of the dharti ( saath the great vrutt coincident saath the madhyahn of longitude guzar through paris ), the paridhi of the dharti is parichay 40,000 km or parichay 200,000 furlongs.
cr2032 lithium batan koshika bydaree
lithium 9 volt, AA, & AAA aakaar
lithium bydaree hai dispojable ( praathmik ) batteries ki have lithium metal or lithium compounds as an dhanagar.
ve stand alaava isse anya bydaree in their unchi charge ghanatv ( long life ) or unchi laagat prati unit.
depending on the design or chemical yogicon used, lithium koshikaayen can upaj voltages isse 1.5 v ( comparable to a zinc–carbon or kshareey battery ) to parichay 3.7 V. lithium batteries hai widely prayukt in utpaada aise as portable upabhokta electronic devices.
remand `` re '' charles joker LaMontagne ( ; born June 18, 1973 ) is an American singer-songwriter.
lamontagne rai released chaar studio albums, Trouble, tak the surya Turns Black, Gossip in the anaaj or parameshwar Willin ' & the creek do n't vruddhi.
he thi born in New hampshire or thi inspired to create music after sunanaa an album by stephen stills.
aalochakon have compared LaMontagne 's music to ki of the band, vine Morrison, Nick drek, or tim Buckley.
He lives in masachusets saath his bivi or two children.
When the hawa Blows is a anokhaa by james patterson.
it is the precursor to the jhil house or prerit the adhiktam sawari shrenee.
the anokhaa is philhal niyat to be adapted into a film.
the pittsburg Steelers were santhaapit in 1933.
Over the course of the toli 's history, the toli has tha several logo jabaki wearing virtually the vahi vardi over the years, saath halkaa parivartan made to de the uniforms an adhyatanikrut dekh.
the toli rangon, vardi, and logo hai often kramit as hone among the behtareen in the enegel.
Facebook on the ad-tech 2010
fasebuk is an online soshal networking seva, whose name tana from the colloquial naam liye the kitaab given to students at the prarambh of the academic saal by kuch vishvavidhyalayon administrations in the sanyukt States to help students milengi to jaan each other.
it thi santhaapit in farvari 2004 by chihnit zuckerberg saath his college roommates and fellow Harvard University vidhyaarthee aduardo saverin, Andrew mccollum, dustin moskovitz and kris Hughes.
the jalsthal 's sadsyta thi initially limited by the sansthaapakon to Harvard vidhyaarthee, lakin was expanded to other collejon in the boston kshetrafal, the ivi lig, or stenford vishvavidhyalayon.
it gradually added support liye vidhyaarthee at vibhinn anya vishvavidhyalayon before opening to unchi skool vidhyaarthee, and aakhirkaar to anyone aged 13 or over.
fasebuk abhi allows koi upayokta who ghoshit themselves to be at tanik 13 saalo old to become registered users of the site.
upayokta must panjikaran before using the site, baad jisase they may banaaen a personal profil, add other upayokta as friends, or exange sandesh, sahit swachaalit suchanaaen jab ve update unke profil.
additionally, upayokta may juden common-interest user samooh, organized by kaarysthal, skool or college, or anya visheshtaayen, or categorize unke mitron into suchiyaan aise as `` People isse Work '' or `` Close mitron ''.
as of September 2012, fasebuk rai over ek billion kriyasheel users.
according to a may 2011 Consumer reports surveykshan, there hai 7.5 lakh children antargat 13 saath khate or 5 million antargat 10, violating the site 's terms of service.
in may 2005, accel saajhedaar invested $ 12.7 lakh in Facebook, and gym Breyer added $ 1 lakh of his apana dhan to the ghat.
a January 2009 Compete.com study ranked fasebuk as the sabase prayukt soshal netwarking service by worldwide masik kriyasheel upayokta.
entertainment Weekly included the sait on its end-of-the-decade `` best-of '' suchi, saying, `` How on dharti did we stalk hamaari exes, remember hamaari co-workers ' janmdin, keedaa hamaari friends, and play a rousing khel of scrabulous pehle fasebuk ? ''
aalochakon, aise as fasebuk detox, state that fasebuk rai turned into a neshnal obsession in the sanyukt rajya, resulting in vishaal amounts of samay khoyaa and protsaahit atmmoh.
quantcast estimates Facebook rai 138.9 lakh masik adwitiya u.S. visitors in May 2011.
according to soshal media Today, in april 2010 an anumaanit 41.6 % ( 129.5 million ) of the u.S. janasankhyikee tha a Facebook khaataa.
Nevertheless, fasebuk 's market growth prarambh to stall in kuch regions, saath the sait khone 7 lakh active users in the sanyukt rajya or Canada in may 2011.
fasebuk aakhirkaar daayar for an aarambhik public offering on farvari 1, 2012, or was headquartered in menlo park, california.
fasebuk inc. began selling stock to the public or vyapaar on the NASDAQ on May 18, 2012.
arvin Johannes eugen khabaron ( 15 navambar 1891 – 14 aktubar 1944 ), popularly gyaat as the marusthal fox ( wüstenfuchs, ), thi a germany field Marshal of sansar War II.
he arjeet the aadar of dono his apana sainikon or the enemies he ladaa.
khabaron thi a highly sajaa adhikari in World yuddh i or thi awarded the daalana le Mérite liye his exploits on the italvi saamne.
in sansar yuddh ii, he further vishisht khud as the commander of the 7th panzer Division during the 1940 akraman of France.
uske netritv of germany or italvi forces in the uttar African abhiyaan sthapit use as ek of the sabase samarth cmanderon of the yuddh, or arjeet use the appellation of the marusthal Fox.
he is regarded as ek of the sabase skilled commanders of desert warfare in the conflict.
he later commanded the germany shaktiyaan opposing the Allied cross-channel invasion in normandy.
uske kaarybhaar never took use to the purvi saamne.
khabaron is regarded as having maharoom a dayaalu and professional adhikari.
His afrika Korps was never abhiyukt of yuddh crimes, and sainiko captured dauraan uske africa abhiyaan yahood reported to have maharoom treated humanely.
aadesh to maar yahudee soldiers, nagarikon and captured commando were upekshit.
let in the yuddh, khabaron thi linked to the conspiracy to assassinate Adolf hitler.
Since khabaron thi a national nayika, hitler desired to eliminate use chupchaap.
He forced khabaron to commit aatmahatya with a synide pill, in vaapasi liye assurances ki Rommel 's family hota not be persecuted following uske maut.
stained kaanch pratinidhitiv of the paavan spirit as a dove, c. 1660.
the saat uphaar of the paavan Spirit is an enumeration of saat aadhyatmik uphaar originating saath patristic authors, baad elaborated by five intellectual virtues or chaar anya samooh of ethical visheshtaayen.
ve hai : akl, samajhnaa, achraj or awe ( bhay of the Lord ), counsel, gyaan, fortitude, or parhezgaare ( reverence ).
the dharti din dhvaj, the latest prastaav of jon McConnell liye a dhvaj of dharti Day
dharti din is an salanaa event, manaaye on april 22, on jisase kaarykram hai yojit vishwavyaapee to demonstrate support liye paryaavarniya suraksha.
it thi first celebrated in 1970, or is now coordinated globally by the dharti din sanjaal, or celebrated in adhik than 192 deshon each year.
in 1969 at a UNESCO sammelan in San francisco, the tithi prastaavit thi kooch 21, 1970, the first din of vasant in the uttari hemisphere.
is din of prakruti 's equipoise was baad sanctioned in a Proclamation hastakshrit by sachiv saamaanya u thant at the sanyukt Nations.
A maah later a pruthak dharti Day was santhaapit by sanyukt States seenetter gaylord nelson as an paryaavarniya teach-in first yojit on april 22, 1970.
nelson thi later awarded the Presidential padak of swatantraaa puraskaar in recognition of uske work.
jabaki is april 22 dharti Day was focused on the sanyukt rajya, an sanghathan shubharambh by denis hez, jo thi the asli national coordinator in 1970, took it international in 1990 or vyavasthit kaarykram in 141 raashtra.
numerous samudaayon celebrate dharti Week, an entire saptaah of kriyaayein kendrit on paryaavarniya mudde.
iodine is a rasinic tatv with pratik I or parmaanu number 53.
The name is isse Greek ioeidēs, arth violet or jamuni, due to the rang of elemental iodine vaashp.
iodine or its yogicon are primarily prayukt in nutrition, or industrially in the production of acetic acid or certain polymers.
iodine 's relatively unchi parmaanu kramank, kam toxicity, or aasaani of anulgnak to sashulk yogicon have bana it a bhaag of anek x-ray contrast materials in aadhunik medicine.
iodine has tabhi one stable isotope.
A kramank of iodine radioisotopes hai bhi prayukt in chikitsa applications.
iodine is mila on dharti mukhyatah as the atyadhik water-soluble iodide aayan, I−, jisase concentrates it in oceans or brine pools.
Like the anya hellogence, free iodine occurs mukhyatah as a diatomic molecule i2, or tab only momentarily baad hone oxidized isse iodide by an oxidant jaise free oxygen.
in the brahmad or on Earth, iodine 's high parmaanu number makes it a apekshaakrit rare element.
However, its upasthiti in samandar water has given it a bhoomika in jeevigyaan.
it is the adhiktam anivaary element utilized widely by life in biological krityon ( tabhi tungston, employed in enzymes by a few prajati of jeevanu, is atyadhik ).
iodine 's rarity in anek soils, due to aarambhik low prachurtaa as a crust-element, or bhi leaching of ghulansheel iodide by rainwater, rai led to anek deficiency problems in jameen pashu or antardeshiy human populations.
Iodine kamiyaan affects parichay two arab logon and is the leading preventable kaaran of bauddhik disabilities.
iodine is jaruri by ucchtar pashu, which upyog it to synthesize thyroid hormone, jisase contain the tatv.
Because of is falan, radioisotopes of iodine hai concentrated in the thyride granthi saath saath nonradioactive iodine.
If inhaled, the radioisotope iodine-131, jisase has a unchi parivardhan utpaada upaj, concentrates in the thyride, lakin is easily remedied saath potacium iodide treatment.
Lobbying ( bhi lobby ) is the adhinium of attempting to influence nirnay bana by officials in the sarkari, sabase praayah vidhayak or sadasyon of niamak agencies.
Lobbying is kiya by anek alag types of people or organized samooh, sahit individuals in the nijee sector, corporations, fellow vidhayak or sarkari officials, or advocacy samooh ( byaaj groups ).
Lobbyists may be among a vidhayak 's constituencies, arth a voter or bloc of matadaata within his or uske chunavi zila, or not ; they may engage in lobbying as a kaarobaar, or nahin.
peshewar lobbyists hai logon whose business is trying to influence legislation on nimitt of a samooh or individual jo hires unhen.
Individuals or nonprofit sanghathan can bhi lobby as an adhinium of volunteering or as a choti part of their saamaanya job ( for udhaaharan, a siio baithak with a pratinidhi about a project mahatvapurn to his/her company, or an activist meeting with his/her legislator in an unpaid kshamta ).
sarkarein often define or viniyamit vyavasthit samooh lobbying that has become influential.
the ethics or naitikta of lobbying are.
lobbying is praayah spoken of with avmaananaa, jab the implication is ki people saath atyadhik socioeconomic shakti hai corrupting the vidhi ( tedi it away isse fairness ) in anukram to serve unke own virodh of interest.
But another side of lobbying is bananaa sure that anya ' ruchi hai duly defended viruddh anya ' corruption, or bhi simply making sure ki alpsankhyak ruchi are fairly defended viruddh mere tyranny of the bahumat.
liye udhaaharan, a chikitsa sangh, or a trade sangh of swasthya insurance companiyaan, may lobby a vidhanmandal in anukram to counteract the influence of tambaaku companies, in jisase case the lobbying hota be viewed by most people as jaij ( vidhivat defending viruddh anya ' bhrashtachar ).
the pareshaani in aarekhan uddeshy linon between jisase lobbyists are `` good lobbyists '' or jisase ones hai `` bad ones '' is compounded by the cleverness saath jisase lobbyists or unke clients can argue ki their apana lobbying is of the `` shubh '' kind.
at dil, the effort to influence vidhaan is a shakti struggle.
as in anya forms of power sangharsh, aise as yuddh or vidhi pravartan, motives dayera isse to self-defense to fighting liye justice, or the dividing lakeer between predation or justice is vishay to rationalization.
sunshine of apana prem guitar riff
Cream yahood a 1960s angrejon chattan supergroup consisting of bassist/vocalist Jack Bruce, guitarist/vocalist eric Clapton, or drummer Ginger baker.
Their dhwani was characterised by a hybrid of blues chattan, mushkil chattan or cicedelik rock, combining the psychedelia-themed lyrics, Eric clapton 's bluez guitar playing or vocals, joker Bruce 's awaz or prominent bass playing or adarak baker 's jaiz -influenced drumming.
the samooh 's teesraa album, pahiyon of Fire, was the sansar 's first platinum-selling double album.
malai hai widely regarded as hone the sansar 's first kaamyaab supergroup.
in their kariyar, ve bechi over 15 million album worldwide.
malai 's music included songs aadhaarit on paramparaagat blues such as `` crossrods `` and `` spoonful ``, or aadhunik blues such as `` Born antargat a karaab chihn ``, as well as adhik eccentric songs aise as `` ajeeb kadha ``, `` Tales of Brave ulysses `` and `` tod ``.
malai 's biggest hits yahood `` i mahasoos free `` ( uk, number 11 ), `` sunshine of apana prem `` ( us, kramank 5 ), `` shwet Room `` ( us, kramank 6 ), `` crossrods '' ( us, number 28 ), and `` baij `` ( uk, kramank 18 ).
malai bana a significant prabhaav on the lokapriy music of the samay, or, saath saath Jimi Hendrix, and terry kath of Chicago, popularised the upyog of the wah-wah paidal.
They provided a baari yet technically nipun musical theme that foreshadowed and bahekaave the emergence of British bands aise as the jeff bek samooh in the let 1960s.
The band 's live performances bahekaave pragatisheel chattan adhiniyamon aise as fatafat.
malai yahood inducted into the chattan or phenken haul of kirti in 1993.
ve yahood shaamil in dono rolling stone or vh1 's suchiyaan of the `` 100 mahanatam kalakaaron of sab samay ''.
ve yahood also kramit kramank 16 on VH1 's `` 100 mahanatam Artists of mushkil Rock ''.
Hairspray is a 1988 kamedi film written or directed by jon waters, or abhinit Ricki jhil, Sonny Bono, Debbie harry, maaikel st. jerard, shawn Thompson, colleen fitzpatrick, jeri Stiller, or in uske pichhlaa filmi bhoomika, Divine.
Hairspray thi a naatakeey prasthaan isse waters ' pehle works, saath a much broader intended audience.
in fact, hairsprays pg is the mildest darja a waters filmi rai praapt ; sabase of uske pichhlaa films yahood rated x by the MPAA.
niyat in 1962 balteemor, maryland, the filmi revolves around self-proclaimed `` pleasantly plump '' kishoravastha Tracy turnblad as wo pursues staradam as a nartki on a local tv dikhaaen or reliyon against racial pruthakkaran.
hairspray thi tabhi a moderet kamyaabi upon iske aarambhik natya release, kamai a modest gross of $ 8 lakh.
however, it managed to aakarshith a larger audience on ghar video in the jaldi 1990s or became a cult clasik.
sabase aalochakon praised the film, haalanki some yahood displeased saath the overall campiness.
in 2002, the filmi thi adapted into a broadway musical of the same name, which jiti aath tony puraskaar, including behtareen musical in 2003.
a duusari filmi sanskaran of Hairspray, an anukulan of the stage musical, thi also released by New lakeer cinema in 2007, which shaamil many changes of scripted vasteen from the original.
the film bhi baandhane # 444 on Empire patrika 's 2008 suchi of the 500 greatest filmon of sab samay.
a Christian denomination is an identifiable dharmik deh antargat a aam naam, dhaancha, or doctrine bheetar christianity.
kuch samooh included do not consider themselves a denomination ( e.g., the catholic Church considers itself the one sachcha girijaghar or the apostolic dekhie, or as pre-denominational ).
kuch groups viewed by non-adherents as denominational actively resist hone called a denomination or do nahin have koi formal denominational dhaancha, authority, or record-keeping pare the local sabha ; several groups bheetar bahaali gati patan into is shrenee.
kuch samooh are large ( e.g. catholics, lutherans, anglicans or baptists ), jabaki anya hai just a few choti carch, and in sabase maamle the saapeksh aakaar is nahin evident in this list.
aadhunik movements such as Fundamentalist christianity, Pietism, Evangelicalism, pentecostalism or the pavitrataa gati sometimes cross denominational lines, or in kuch maamle banaaen nai denominations out of do or adhik continuing groups, ( as is the maamla liye anek sanyukt or uniting churches, liye udhaaharan ).
aise subtleties or complexities hai nahin clearly chitrit yahan.
Major vibhaajan bheetar Christianity.
note : is is nahin a puraa suchi, lakin aims to provide a comprehensible avlokan of the vividhta among denominations of christianity.
as there hai reported to be lagbhag 41,000 Christian denominations, many of jisase can not be verified to be significant, tabhi those denominations saath Wikipedia aalekh hoga be listed in anukram to ensure ki sab pravishtiyaan on is suchi are notable or verifiable.
between denominations, theologians, and tulanaatmak religionists there hai considerable matbhinnata parichay jisase samooh can be properly called isai, matbhinnata arising primarily from doctrinal differences between samooh.
liye the purpose of simplicity, is suchi is intended to pratibimbit the self-understanding of each denomination.
spashtikaran of alag raay concerning unke aukaat as isai denominations can be mila at unke sambandhit aalekh.
vahin is no aadhikarik manyata in sabase bhaag of the sansar liye dharmik laashen, or vahin is no official clearinghouse jisase could determine the aukaat or respectability of dharmik laashen.
praayah vahin is considerable asahmati between vibhinn carch parichay whether anya carch chahie be labeled with pejorative terms such as `` cult '', or about whether is or ki samooh enjoys kuch measure of respectability.
aise considerations often vary isse place to place, where one religious samooh may anand bahumat aukaat in one region, lakin be widely regarded as a `` khatarnaak cult '' in another bhaag of the sansar.
samavesh on is suchi karata nahin indicate koi nirnay about the size, mahatv, or akshar of a samooh or iske sadasyon.
1804 map of `` louisiana ``, edged on the west by the Rocky kyu.
the Louisiana Purchase ( `` bikri of louisiana '' ) thi the adhigrahan by the United rajya of america in 1803 of of frans 's arji to the territory of Louisiana.
the u.S. sashulk 50 lakh francs ( $ 11,250,000 ) plus raddikaran of debts laayak 18 lakh francs ( $ 3,750,000 ), for a total yoga of 15 lakh dollar ( kam than 3 cents prati acre ) liye the louisiana territory ( $ lakh in dollar, less than 42 saint prati acre ).
the louisiana territory encompassed sab or part of 15 upasthit U.S. rajya or do canadai provinces.
the jameen kharida contained all of present-day arkansaas, mizori, iova, oklahoma, kansas, or nebraska ; parts of minesota ki yahood west of the Mississippi nadi ; sabase of uttar dakota ; most of dakshin dakota ; northeastern nai mexico ; uttari Texas ; the portions of Montana, Wyoming, or colorado east of the mahadwipiya divide ; louisiana west of the mississippi nadi, sahit the nagar of nai orlions ; or small portions of jameen ki would eventually become bhaag of the Canadian praanton of alberta or saskatchewan.
frans niyantrit is vishaal kshetrafal from 1699 jabatak 1762, the saal it diya the territory to iske ally spain.
antargat Napoleon Bonaparte, frans took back the territory in 1800 in the hope of building an samrajya in uttar America.
A slave vidroh in haiti or an impending yuddh with britain, however, led frans to abandon ye yojanaayen and bechein the sampurna territory to the sanyukt rajya, jo tha originally intended tabhi to talash the khariden of New orlions and iske sata lands.
the khariden of the territory of louisiana took place dauraan the presidency of Thomas jeffrasan.
at the samay, the khariden faced domestic vipaksh kuki it thi vichaar to be asanvaidhanik.
haalanki he sahamat ki the U.S. samvidhan did nahin contain praavdhaanon liye acquiring territory, jeffrasan decided to go ahead saath the purchase anyway in order to hataayen France 's presence in the region or to protect dono u.S. vyapaar abhigam to the port of nai Orleans or free dyodhi on the mississippi nadi.
rasm at place d'Armes, nai orlions marking transafar of louisiana to the sanyukt States, 10 March 1804, as chitrit by thure de thulstrup.
`` Cool jhatka '' is a lokapriy song written by Donald storball or originally performed by The Capitols.
released in 1966, it pahunche no. 2 on the amareeki r & b chart and no. 7 on the pop chart.
the baking track for is song thi darasal ankit ( secretly ) by the Motown house band the durgandh bhaaiyo.
Per one of the durgandh Brothers, the song thi originally to be called `` pimp jhatka. ''
is thi taken from watching pados pimps, jo hota nrity in the club, but were too `` cool '' to do the jhatka jaise niyamit folks.
Their version thi subsequently namit `` the pimp Jerk. ''
The nirmaataa thi bhaybheet ki a song with the shabd pimp in the title would be bain or nahin praapt much positive dhyaan, and had the sheershak changed to iske current rup.
the go-go 's, Todd rundgren, Big trubal, Human yon Response, The la de da 's, The sristi, and the coasters have covered the song.
Todd rundgren did uske sanskaran in an odd time hastakshar ( 7/4 ), giving an obviously jerky mahasoos to the song.
the go-go 's covered the song liye unke 1982 album avkaash and baad re-recorded it for unke 1990 album Greatest.
In the visheshta filmi ghar alon 2 : khoyaa in nai York, taaoo frank ( gerry bamman ) gaati `` Cool jhatka '' in the shower.
a sanskaran of the song saath alag geet ( `` Do the kool chaabuk '' ) is prayukt in kool chaabuk commercials.
a recording of `` kool jhatka '' by ricardo re is featured in the visheshta film donnie brasco ( 1997 ).
the song suvidhaayen in the film Standing in the saae of motown, performed by the Funk Brothers saath sise vocals by bootsy Collins.
the song is suna briefly in the anemated visheshta, Madagascar 3 : europea 's sabase chaahi.
despite is kaaran, it is soochibaddh in kuch visangatiyaan of the film 's soundtrack.
a league is a ikai of length ( or, rarely, kshetrafal ).
It thi long aam in Europe or latin america, but it is no longer an official ikai in koi nation.
the league originally referred to the alahada a vyakti could walk in an ghanta.
chunki the madhya aayu, anek maan have maharoom nirdisht in anek countries.
in the context of nautical dooriyaan, the 3 mile ( 4.8 km ) alahada corresponds to kaisaa far an observer of ausat height ( 5'9 '' or 1.78 m ) can dekhie jab standing at samudr str.
yun, a jalayaan traveling ek `` lig '' rai pahunche what thi previously the farthest visible alahada on the kshitij.
the kami of a aitihaasik or global maanak liye the sateek maap of a `` lig '' can be accounted liye by the parivartaneey elevation of the observer ( i.e., sightings from a jalayaan 's deck vs. masthead ).
the irish state aae into being in 1922 as the irish free State, a dominian of the angrejon rashtramandal, having seceded from the sanyukt kingdom under the anglo-irish sandhi.
It comprises 26 of ireland 's 32 counties.
chunki 1949 it rai existed as the ganatantr of Ireland.
isse iske foundation, the Irish Free State was embroiled in a civil yuddh between rashtravaadiyon supporting the sandhi or pratidwandviyon jo samarthit a republic.
the pro-treaty paksh, sangathit as Cumann na nGaedheal emerged victorious isse the virodh or won subsequent chunaavon.
ve formed the government of the rajya jabatak 1932, when ve shantipurvak handed over power to the anti-treaty gut in Fianna fáil, jo defeated them in an chunaav.
The irish rajya, despite its violent beginnings, has remained a udaar loktantr throughout its astitv.
a nai constitution in 1937 removed anek of the kadi with britain sthapit antargat the sandhi and ireland 's neutrality in the Second sansar yuddh demonstrated iske swatantraaa in videshi niti matters isse britain.
In 1948 Ireland formally left the angrejon Commonwealth and adopted the sheershak of `` ganatantr ''.
in the aarthik gola, the irish rajya has tha a mishrit performance.
On independence, it thi ek of the wealthier deshon in europea per head of janasankhyikee.
however it also inherited from British rule the samasyaayein of berogari, karanon, uneven bhugolic vikaas and kami of a deshi industrial aadhaar.
liye much of iske itihaas, the rajya struggled to rectify these samasyaayein.
particular chotiyon of emigration were recorded dauraan the late 1930s, 1950s or 1980s, jab the irish economy recorded little growth.
in the 1930s, Fianna fáil sarkarein attempted to banaaen irish gharelu udyog using subsidies or surakshatmak tarifs.
In the late 1950s, these nitiyon were dropped in paksh of free vyapaar saath chaynit deshon and encouraging of videshi nivesh saath kam taxes.
is thi vistaarit jab ireland daalaa the European aarthik jatiyaan in 1972.
in the 1990s or 2000s, ireland anbhavi an economic boom gyaat as the celtic baagh, in jisase the desh 's jidipi surpassed anek of its europea neighbours.
avrajan bhi surpassed emigration, bringing the state 's janasankhyikee up to over 4 lakh.
however, chunki 2008, Ireland has anbhavi a kathor sankat in the banking sector and saath sovereign karz.
The resultant economic slump rai deepened the prabhaav of the sansar mandi on ireland.
isse 1937 to 1998, the irish samvidhan shaamil a arji on Northern ireland as a bhaag of the national territory.
however, the rajya bhi opposed or prayukt iske suraksha shaktiyaan viruddh those hathiyaarband samooh - principally the asthaayee Irish Republican Army, who aajamaaya to ekajute ireland by force.
This occurred in the 1950s, throughout the 1970s or 1980s or has jari on a ghataya scale.
irish sarkarein meanwhile aajamaaya to dallali an agreement to the conflict gyaat as The pareshaaniyon bheetar uttari Ireland isse 1968 to the let 1990s.
The British government officially recognised the right of the irish sarkari to be a party to the uttari negotiations in the Anglo-Irish anubandh of 1985.
in 1998, as bhaag of the Good shuukravaar anubandh, the irish constitution thi altered by referendum to hataayen the territorial claim to Northern ireland and instead extend the sahi of Irish citizenship to sab the logon of the island chahie ve kaash to have it.
jon quinci adams ( july 11, 1767february 23, 1848 ) was the chathe President of the United rajya ( 1825–1829 ).
He parosa as amareeki rajanyik, Senator, or congressional pratinidhi.
he was a member of the federalist, Democratic-Republican, National Republican, and baad anti-masonic or whig partiyon.
adams thi the bete of purv President John Adams or Abigail adams.
as a rajanyik, adams nibhaai an mahatvapurn bhoomika in negotiating anek antarrashtriya treaties, sabase notably the Treaty of Ghent, jisase ended the yuddh of 1812.
As sachiv of rajya, he negotiated saath the United kingdom over america 's northern kinaaraa saath Canada, negotiated saath spain the annexation of florida, and authored the munro Doctrine.
itihaaskaaron agree he thi ek of the mahanatam rajanyikon and secretaries of state in amareeki itihaas.
as adhyaksh, he sought to modernize the American arthvyavastha or prachaarit shiksha.
adams enacted a bhaag of his kaarysoochee or sashulk band much of the national karz.
he thi stymied by a congress niyantrit by his dushmano, or uske kami of patronage sanjaal helped politicians eager to undercut use.
he khoyaa uske 1828 boli for re-election to Andrew jackson.
In doing so, he became the pehla adhyaksh chunki uske pita to serve a single pad.
adams is behtareen gyaat as a rajanyik jo taraasha america 's foreign niti in line saath uske ardently nationalist patibaddhta to america 's republican maan.
adhik recently hove ( 2007 ) portrayed adams as the exemplar or moral leader in an era of modernization.
dauraan adams ' aaajeevan, technological innovations or nai arthath of sanchaar sprad sandesh of dharmik punaruddhar, social sudhaar, and party politics.
goods, dhan, and logon traveled more rapidly or efficiently than ever pehle.
Adams thi nirvaachit a u.S. pratinidhi isse masachusets baad leaving daftar, sevarat for the pichhlaa 17 saalo of uske life with dur vrihad acclamation than he had achieved as adhyaksh.
he is, so dur, the only adhyaksh baad nirvaachit to the sanyukt rajya House of pratinidhi ( haalanki jon Tyler thi nirvaachit to the house of pratinidhi of the confederate States just before his maut in 1862 ).
anemated by uske growing revulsion against gulaami, Adams became a leading opponent of the slave Power.
he purvanumanit that if a civil war were to brake out, the adhyaksh could abolish gulaami by using uske yuddh shaktiyaan.
adams bhi purvanumanit the Union 's dissolution over the gulaami samasya, lakin kaha ki if the dakshin became swatantra vahin would be a shrenee of khooni slave revolts.
khidkiyaan antarjaal Explorer 9 ( IE9 ) is a sanskaran of the antarjaal explorer web browser isse microsoft.
it was released to the public on kooch 14, 2011.
Microsoft rai released antarjaal explorer 9 as a pramukh out-of-band sanskaran ki is not tied to the release anusuchee of any particular sanskaran of khidkiyaan, unlike pichhlaa versions.
it is the pehla sanskaran chunki antarjaal explorer 2 to nahin be bundled with a khidkiyaan oparating pranali, haalanki kuch OEMs have installed it saath khidkiyaan 7 on their pcs, as well as nai khidkiyaan 7 laptops.
The pranali aavashyaktaayen liye antarjaal Explorer 9 are khidkiyaan 7, khidkiyaan Server 2008 r2, khidkiyaan Vista seva pack 2 or Windows sarwar 2008 sp2 with the manch adhyatan.
khidkiyaan XP or earlier hai nahin samarthit.
antarjaal explorer 9 is the pichhlaa sanskaran of Internet Explorer to be supported on khidkiyaan Vista.
dono ia-32 and x64 builds hai uplabdhiyaan.
Internet Explorer 9 supports several siesas 3 properties, embedded isisi v2 or v4 rang profil support via khidkiyaan rang pranali, or has improved javascript pradarshan.
it is the pichhlaa of the paanch pramukh web browsers to implement support liye scalabel vector Graphics ( svg ).
It also suvidhaayen hardware-accelerated graphics rendering using direct2d, hardware-accelerated text rendering using directwrite, hardware-accelerated video rendoring using media nyaas, imaging support provided by khidkiyaan imaging ghatak, and unchi fidelity mudran sanchalit by the xml paper specification ( xps ) chapai pipeline.
Internet explorer 9 bhi supports the html5 video and audio tag or the web kholen font Format.
alka-seltzer is an effervescent antacid or pidaa reliever first marketed by the dr. Miles Medicine company.
It thi viksit by mauris Treener, head chemist at mile, in Elkhart, indiana.
Alka-Seltzer is marketed for raahat of naaballig aches, pains, sujan, fever, sirdard, heartburn, khatta stomach, apach, or hangovers, while neutralizing excess stomach acid.
it was launched in 1931.
A spin-off of Alka-Seltzer made to relieve colds or flu, alka-seltzer plus, was baad introduced.
a short-lived antacid non-aspirin roopaantar, alka-mints, thi introduced in 1994 or discontinued in 1997.
alka-seltzer is philhal owned by Bayer schering pharma AG, Germany.
The naam `` Alka-Seltzer '' rai maharoom vistaarit to charitaarth an sampurna lakeer of medications bechi over the counter or liya by arthath of rapidly dissolving tablet ki form a carbonated samaadhaan in jal.
cheri Alka seltzer plus tablett dissolving in jal
chitra prardashit the six sabase common speleothems saath labels.
enlarge to drishy labals.
A stalactite (, ; isse the unani stalasso, ( σταλάσσω ), `` to drip '', or arth `` ki which drips '' ) is a prakaar of speleothem ( dwitiyak khanij ) that hangs isse the ceiling of chuunaa gufaaen.
it is a type of dripstone.
the sambandhit gathan on the floor of the gupha is known as a stalagmite.
oopaadhi abbreviations hai prayukt as an vaikalpik rasta to bataaen an academik oopaadhi bajaay of ssailing out the title in puraa, aise as in sandarbh books jaise jo 's jo and on kaarobaar taash.
Many degree have adhik than one sankshipt.
In the uk, it is not generally the custom to punctuate abbreviations liye degrees with puraa stops ( e.g. `` biessi '' rather than `` b.sc. ``.
res is a classification pranali prayukt to categorize insaano into vishaal or distinct populations or groups by anatomical, saanskrithik, jaateey, genetic, geographical, aitihaasik, linguistic, dharmik, or soshal sambhddha.
pehla prayukt to denote neshnal sambandhon, the pad began to be prayukt to relate to shaareerik traits in the 17th sadi.
in the jaldi 20th sadi the pad thi praayah prayukt, in a taxonomic bhav, to denote genetically differentiated insaan populations paribhaashit by phenotype.
jabaki biologists sometimes use the concept of res to mek bhed among faji set of traits, others in the vaigyanik jatiyaan sujhaayen ki the vichaar of race often is prayukt in a bholi or simplistic way, i.e. ki among insaano, res has no taxonomic significance : sab jeena humans belong to the vahi prajati, homo sapiens or subspecies, Homo sapiens sapiens.
Social conceptions and groupings of daud vary over time, involving lok taxonomies
ki define of individuals based on abhas traits.
Scientists consider biological essentialism obsolete, and generally discourage racial spashtikaran for samuhik differentiation in dono shaareerik or behavioral traits.
chunki the duusari half of the 20th century the associations of res saath the vichaardhaaraon and theories ki grew out of the kaary of 19th-century anthropologists or physiologists has led to the use of the shabd race itself becoming samasyapurna.
Although still prayukt in saamaanya contexts, it is now praayah replaced by anya shabd jisase are less aspasht or emotionally charge, aise as populations, people ( s ), ethnic samooh or samudaayon depending on context.
Lucy stone ( agast 13, 1818 – aktubar 19, 1893 ) thi a prominent American abolitionist or suffragist, and a vocal advocate and aayojak promoting adhikaron for women.
In 1847, stone became the pehla stri isse Massachusetts to earn a college degree.
She spoke out liye mahilaon 's adhikaron or viruddh gulaami at a samay jab women were hatotsahit or prevented from public speaking.
stone thi the pehla ankit amareeki woman to retain her own pichhlaa naam baad marriage.
Stone 's organizational kriyaayein liye the kaaran of mahilaon 's adhikaron yielded thos gains in the difficult political paryaavaran of the 19th sadi.
stone helped initiate the first National mahilaon 's adhikaron sammelan and she samarthit or sustained it annually saath saath a kramank of anya local, rajya or kshetreey activist prathaon.
Stone spoke in saamne of a number of legislative laashen to promote laws giving adhik adhikaron to women.
wo assisted in establishing the stri 's neshnal vafaadaar lig to sahaayta pass the terahavin amendment or thereby abolish gulaami, after which wo helped form the largest samooh of like-minded mahilaon 's adhikaron reformers, the politically moderate amareeki stri Suffrage sangh, jisase worked liye decades at the rajya str in ehsaan of mahilaon 's right to vote.
stone likhaa extensively parichay a wide dayera of mahilaon 's adhikaron, publishing or distributing bhaashanon by herself and others, or sammelan kaarywahi.
in the long-running or influential stri 's jarnal, a saptahik periodical ki wo sthapit or prachaarit, stone aired dono uske apana or differing drishy parichay mahilaon 's adhikaron.
pukaara `` the orator '' and `` the morning star of the stri 's rights movement '', stone vitarit a vaak jisase sparked susaan B. anthoni to take up the kaaran of mahilaon 's suffrage.
elizabeth Cady Stanton likhaa ki `` Lucy stone thi the pehla vyakti by whom the dil of the amareeki public was deeply stirred on the woman sawaal. ''
Together, anthoni, Stanton, or stone have maharoom pukaara the 19th sadi `` triumvirate `` of women 's suffrage and nariwad.
in finance, a bandha is an yantra of indebtedness of the bandha issuer to the dharakon.
It is a karz suraksha, under jisase the jarikarta owes the dharakon a debt or, depending on the sharten of the bandha, is obliged to adaa unhen interest ( the coupon ) or to repay the principal at a baad tithi, termed the paripakvata.
byaaj is praayah dey at fixed intervals ( semiannual, salanaa, sometimes monthly ).
bahut praayah the bond is negotiable, i.e. the swaamitv of the yantra can be transferred in the dwitiyak market.
yun a bandha is a rup of rin or iou : the holder of the bandha is the lender ( creditor ), the jarikarta of the bandha is the borrower ( debtor ), or the coupon is the interest.
bonds provide the borrower with bahya nidhi to vitt long-term investments, or, in the case of government bonds, to finance vartmaan vyay.
praaanpatr of jamaa ( cds ) or short term vanijyik paper hai mana to be dhan market yantra and nahin bonds : the pramukh difference is in the lambaai of the term of the yantra.
Bonds or stox are dono securities, lakin the major antar between the two is ki ( puunji ) stockholders have an equity stake in the company ( i.e. ve are swami ), whereas bondholders have a creditor stake in the company ( i.e. ve are lenders ).
Another difference is ki bonds praayah have a paribhaashit pad, or paripakvata, baad which the bond is redeemed, whereas stox may be bakaayaa indefinitely.
An excepshan is an irredeemable bandha, aise as Consols, jisase is a perpetuity, i.e. a bandha saath no paripakvata.
a scale model of the minar of landan.
This model can be mila andar the tower.
scale model of jal sanchalit turbine
l to r saath 12 inch ruler at neeche : 1:64 matchbox shevarlyt tahoe, 1:43 ghat f-100, 1:25 revell monogram 1999 Ford Mustang Cobra, 1:18 Bburago 1987 pheraari f40
model jahaajon or castle
a scale model is a physical model, a pratinidhitiv or copy of an object ki is larger or smaller than the vaastavik aakaar of the object, which seeks to maintain the saapeksh proportions ( the scale factor ) of the shaareerik aakaar of the asli object.
Very often the scale model is prayukt as a maargdarshika to bananaa the object in puraa size.
Scale models hai nirmit or ekatrit for many kaaran.
the zune hd thi a portable media khilaadi in the Zune utpaada parivaar released on sitambar 15, 2009 by microsoft.
it thi a direct competitor with the tehraana ipod or iPhone shrenee of mobile devices.
It thi initially released in 16 or 32 GB capacities.
A 64 GB version thi released on April 9, 2010.
it utilized a tachascreen interfes liye nevigation or shaamil wi-fi liye tulykaalan, abhigam to the Zune marketspls or web browzing.
the zune hd utilized the Nvidia tegra apx 2600 chip, allowing it to khel 720p video through the optional HDMI zune dock on a high-definition television.
varanaa, content hota be scaled bas to 480x272 pixel on the player 's oled tachascreen.
Old sparky, the electric kursi prayukt at gaao Sing thana
Execution by electrocution, praayah performed using an electric kursi, is an execution method originating in the United rajya in jisase the condemned person is strapped to a visheshkar nirmit lakdi chair or electrocuted through electrodes placed on the deh.
is nishpaadan method thi created by employees of thomas edison during the yuddh of currents, or has been prayukt tabhi in the sanyukt rajya or, liye a kaal of anek dashakon, in the philippine ( iske first upyog vahin in 1924 under American occupation, pichhlaa in 1976 ).
historically, ekbar the condemned vyakti thi sanlagn to the kursi, vibhinn chakra ( differing in voltage and avadhi ) of alternating vartmaan would be passed through the vyaktigat 's deh, in anukram to kaaran fatal kshati to the aatanrik organs ( sahit the dimag ).
the pehla dhakka of electric vartmaan was designed to kaaran taatkaalik unconsciousness or brain maut ; the duusari ek thi designed to kaaran fatal damage to the vital organs.
maut thi aksar caused by vidyut overstimulation of the dil.
Although in the sanyukt rajya the electric kursi has become a pratik of the maut penalty, iske upyog is in manaahi due to the vruddhi of lethal injection, jisase is widely believed to be a adhik humane vidhi of execution.
haalanki kuch rajya still maintain electrocution as a vidhi of nishpaadan, aaj it is tabhi kaayam as a dwitiyak method ki may be chosen over lethal injection at the nivedan of the kaidi.
as of 2010, electrocution is an optional form of nishpaadan in albama, florida, South carolina and virginia.
They allow the kaidi to chune lethal injection as an vaikalpik method.
In the states of Kentucky or tennesi, the electric kursi has maharoom retired magar liye those whose capital aparaadhon yahood vachanabaddh prior to legislated dates in 1998 ( kentki : kooch 31, 1998 ; tennesi : disambar 31, 1998 ) or jo chose electrocution.
in dono rajya, inmates jo do nahin chune electrocution or inmates jo committed their crimes baad the designated date are killed by lethal injection.
The electric kursi is an vaikalpik rup of nishpaadan approved liye potential upyog in arkansaas and oklahoma if anya form of execution hai mila asanvaidhanik in the rajya at the time of nishpaadan.
It is the sole vidhi of execution in vermant, jahaan treason is the only puunji aparaadhon.
on farvari 8, 2008, the Nebraska Supreme Court sankalpit ki execution by electric kursi was a `` bedard or unusual dand '' antargat the rajya 's samvidhan.
This brought executions of is type to an samaapt in nebraska, the tabhi baaki rajya to retain electrocution as iske ekmaatr method of nishpaadan liye hatya.
the maryland house of delegates is the nimnatar house of the saamaanya sabha, the rajya vidhanmandal of the amareeki rajya of maryland, and is rachit of 141 delegates nirvaachit isse 47 districts.
The House of delegates kaksh is located in the maryland State House ( state capital ) on rajya vrutt in annapolis, jisase is the state puunji.
the rajya House bhi houses the maryland rajya seenet kaksh or the karyaalayon of the Governor and leftinent rajyapal of the State of Maryland.
prayek pratinidhi has offices in Annapolis, in the aasapaas Casper R. tailor, jr. house daftar bhawan.
the mukti of paris ( bhi known as the Battle for paris ) took place dauraan sansar War ii isse 19 agast 1944 jabatak the aatmasamarpan of the occupying germany garrison on 25 agast.
The mukti of paris prarambh saath an uprising by the french Resistance against the germany garrison.
On 24 agast, the french shaktiyaan of the Interior ( shaktiyaan françaises de l'intérieur, FFI ) received sudrudheekaran from the free french fouj of mukti or isse the u.S. teesraa fouj antargat saamaanya Patton.
the capital pradesh of frans had maharoom governed by naaji germany since the signing of the Second compiègne armistice in june 1940, when the germany Army occupied uttari or westernmost frans, and jab the kathputli shashan of Vichy frans thi sthapit in the kasbaa of vichy in central France.
is battle chihnit the mukti of Paris or the nirvaasan of the Vichy sarkari to sigmaringen in germany.
However, vahin thi still much heavy fighting to be kiya before frans was liberated, including the campaign in dakshini frans dauraan august-september ( in Provence or extending into the southwestern pradesh of the Vosges kyu ), saath the german-held seaports of western frans ( such as at brest and dunkirk ), in Alsace and loren in purvi frans, and in northeastern frans, aise as along the Rhine or moder nadiyaan.
the germany fouj or SS fought doggedly in ye kshetron liye the remainder of 1944 and into 1945.
`` feelin ' alright ? '' bhi known as `` ahsaas Alright '' is a song likhaa by Dave mesun of the angrezi chattan band Traffic isse unke eponymous 1968 album, trekkic.
the song thi bhi a hit single liye anek performers : jo cocker ( 1969, # 69, recharted in 1972, us # 33 ), mongo santamaría ( 1969, # 95 ) or grand durgandh railroad ( 1971, us # 54 ).
It rai bhi maharoom ankit by teen Dog raatri ( 1969 ), the 5th aayam ( 1970 ), lu rals, fredy King, paul weller, lulu, chairmen of the falak ( 1970 ), viral dharti, the electric avadharana Orchestra, maan 's Finest ( 1973 ), the ohio khilaadi ( 1971 ), dyna ross saath the jackson 5 ( 1971 ), maceo parker, gladys Knight & the pips, faili dehshat or the blike crowes.
a steel dhol sanskaran by Trinidad aayal company thi reissued on the dancefloor jazz sankalan blue Juice 2.
It thi bhi featured in the 2000 film duets, sung by Huey Lewis.
dono the asli and the jo cocker cover yahood pradarshit in the film udaan, abhinit denzal washington.
devon werkheiser ( born kooch 8,1991 ) is an amareeki karta, awaz karta, singer, songwriter or musician, behtareen gyaat liye uske starring bhoomika as Ned Bigby on the niklodian sitcom ned 's declassified School Survival maargdarshika and liye uske bhoomika in the 2007 TV Movie shredderman niyam, as the sise character Nolan Byrd.
Werkheiser also nibhaai peter parkes in the fourth or final season of the abisi Family dikhaaen unani.
namoona drishy of an electronic swasthya ricard aadhaarit on bimb
Sample view of an electronic swasthya ricard
an electronic health record ( EHR ) is an evolving concept paribhaashit as a systematic collection of electronic swasthya soochna parichay vyaktigat marijon or populations.
It is a record in digital swaroop ki is theoretically sakasham of hone shared across alag health parvaah jamaavat.
In kuch maamle is sharing can occur by rasta of network-connected enterprise-wide soochna systems or anya information networks or exchanges.
EHRs may shaamil a dayera of aankada, including demographics, chikitsa itihaas, medication or allergies, immunization status, prayogshaala pareekshan parinaam, radiology bimb, vital lakshan, nijee aankade like aayu or vazan, and billing information.
rin origination is the process by jisase a borrower applies liye a new rin, or a lender processes ki anuprayog.
Origination generally includes all the steps isse lene a rin anuprayog up to disbursal of nidhi ( or declining the anuprayog ).
rin servicing cover sabakuch after disbursing the nidhi jabatak the rin is fully sashulk band.
Loan origination is a specialized sanskaran of nai khaataa opening for vittiya sevaayen sanghathan.
nishchit logon or sanghathan specialize in rin origination.
Mortgage brokers and anya bandhak originator companiyaan serve as a prominent udhaaharan.
vahin hai anek alag prakaar of lone.
For more soochna on rin types, dekhie the rin or consumer lending aalekh.
kadam involved in originating a rin vary by rin prakaar, various kinds of rin risk, regulator, lender niti, and other karkon.
sheersh baayein : the tennesi ghati praadhikaar, part of the nai saude, being hastakshrit into vidhi in 1933.
Top sahi : Franklin delano rujvelt, jo was jimmedaar liye pahalon and programs collectively known as the nai saude.
Bottom : a public bhitti from one of the artists employed by the nai saude.
the nai Deal was a shrenee of aarthik kaarykram enacted in the United rajya between 1933 and 1936.
ve shaamil presidential karypalika orders or laws passed by congress dauraan the pehla pad of adhyaksh Franklin D. rujvelt.
the programs yahood in jawaab to the Great avsaad, or focused on what historians kol the `` 3 rs '' : raahat, recovery, or sudhaar.
ki is Relief liye the unemployed and garib ; recovery of the arthvyavastha to saamaanya str ; and sudhaar of the vittiya pranali to prevent a repeat avsaad.
The New Deal produced a political realignment, bananaa the Democratic Party the majority ( as khub as the party ki yojit the shwet house for saat out of nau Presidential sharten isse 1933 to 1969 ), saath its aadhaar in liberal vichaar, the white South, paramparaagat democrate, big nagar mashine, and the newly shashakt labor sangh or ethnic minorities.
the republicans were vibhajit, saath conservatives opposing the sampurna nai saude as an dushman of kaarobaar or vikaas, or udaarvaadiyon accepting kuch of it or promising to mek it adhik kushal.
the realignment crystallized into the nai saude gathbandhan that dominated sabase presidential elections into the 1960s, jabaki the vipaksh Conservative gathbandhan largely controlled congress isse 1937 to 1963.
by 1936 the pad `` udaar '' typically thi prayukt liye samarthak of the nai saude, or `` roodhiwaadee `` for iske opponents.
isse 1934 to 1938, rujvelt thi assisted in his endeavours by a “pro-spender” bahumat in congress ( drawn from two-party, pratispardhi, non-machine, pragatisheel, and baayein party jile ).
as vikhyath by sikandar hiks, “Roosevelt, backed by rare, non-Southern democrate majorities — 270 non-southern democrate pratinidhi or 71 non-southern democrate senators — spelled duusari nai saude reform.”
anek itihaaskaaron fark between a `` pehla nai saude '' ( 1933–34 ) or a `` duusari nai saude '' ( 1935–38 ), saath the duusari one more liberal and adhik controversial.
the `` First nai Deal '' ( 1933–34 ) dealt saath diverse groups, isse banking or railroads to udyog or kheti, sab of jisase maange sahaayta liye aarthik survival.
the sangheey apaat Relief Administration, liye instance, provided $ 500 lakh liye raahat parichaalan by rajya and shaharon, jabaki the short-lived cwa ( civil works prashasan ) diya bastiyon dhan to operate make-work project in 1933-34.
the `` Second nai saude `` in 1935–38 shaamil the veganar Act to prachaar majdoor unions, the Works pragati prashasan ( wpa ) raahat kaarykram ( jisase bana the sangheey sarkari by dur the largest single niyokta in the swadesh ), the soshal suraksha adhinium, or nai programs to aid tenant kisaano or migrant majdoor.
the final pramukh vasteen of New Deal vidhaan yahood the creation of the sanyukt States awaas praadhikaar or farm Security prashasan, dono in 1937, and the mela majdoor maanakon adhinium of 1938, jisase set adhiktam ghanton or minimum wages liye sabase categories of majdoor.
the aarthik downturn of 1937–38, and the kadava vibhajit between the afl or CIO majdoor unions led to pramukh Republican gains in congress in 1938.
roodhiwaadee republicans or democrate in Congress joined in the informal Conservative gathbandhan.
By 1942–43 ve shut bas raahat kaarykram aise as the WPA or ccc or avarodhit major udaar prastaav.
rujvelt khud turned uske dhyaan to the yuddh praytn, or jiti reelection in 1940 or 1944.
the Supreme adaalat ghoshit the neshnal Recovery prashasan ( nra ) or the pehla sanskaran of the Agricultural samaayojan adhinium ( aaa ) asanvaidhanik, however the aaa thi rewritten and tab upheld.
as the pehla republican adhyaksh nirvaachit baad fdr, Dwight D. ijanhavar ( 1953–61 ) baayein the nai saude largely barkaraar, bhi expanding it in kuch kshetron.
in the 1960s, lyndon B. johnson 's great samaaj used the nai saude as prerana liye a naatakeey expansion of udaar kaarykram, jisase Republican Richard M. nicksan generally retained.
baad 1974, however, the kol liye deregulation of the arthvyavastha gained bipartisan support.
The New saude regulation of banking ( glass–steagall adhinium ) thi nilambit in the 1990s.
Many New saude kaarykram remain kriyasheel, saath kuch still oparating antargat the original names, sahit the sangheey jamaa bime nigam ( FDIC ), the Federal Crop bime nigam ( fcic ), the Federal awaas prashasan ( FHA ), or the tennesi ghati Authority ( tv ).
the largest programs still in astitv aaj hai the soshal Security System or the Securities and Exchange ayog ( SEC ).
a stri ( ), pl : mahilaon ( ) is a female insaan.
The pad stri is praayah surakshit liye an adult, with the pad girl hone the usual pad liye a maadaa child or adolescent.
however, the pad stri is bhi sometimes prayukt to identify a maadaa insaan, regardless of aayu, as in vaakyansh such as `` mahilaon 's adhikaron ``.
Women hai typically sakasham of giving birth, though older mahilaon jo have gaye through rajonivritti or kuch intersex mahilaon can not.
`` i Do n't Want to miss a baat '' is a song performed by amareeki chattan band arosmith liye the 1998 film armageddon.
likhaa by diane warren, the song debuted at kramank ek on the billboard hot 100 ( the pehla # 1 for the band baad 28 years together ).
the song stayed at number ek for chaar weeks from sitambar 5 to sitambar 26, 1998.
the song bhi tehre at number 1 liye anek saptaah in several anya countries.
in the uk, the song peaked at kramank chaar, banane arosmith 's highest charting song in the uk, jahaan it was the 17th best-selling single of 1998, and has sold over a lakh nakal.
haalanki nahin prayukt by the bahumat of the world 's deshon, daylight chhayankan samay is aam in the Western world.
daylight chhayankan time ( dst ) —also summer time in angrejon English — is the abhyaas of advancing ghadiyaan dauraan the lighter months so ki evenings have adhik daylight and mornings have kam.
Typically clocks are adjusted aage ek ghanta nikat the prarambh of spring and are samyojit pichhadaa in patjhad.
the aadhunik vichaar of daylight chhayankan was pehla prastaavit in 1895 by george vernon hadsan or it thi pehla implemented dauraan the pehla sansar War.
anek deshon have used it at vibhinn times since tab.
much of the sanyukt rajya prayukt DST in the 1950s or 1960s, and DST upyog vistaarit following the 1970s urja crisis and has maharoom widely prayukt in North america or Europe chunki tab.
the practice rai maharoom dono praised or criticized.
adding daylight to evenings laabh retailing, khel, or anya activities that exploit dhoop baad working hours, lakin can kaaran samasyaayein liye evening entertainment or anya occupations tied to the surya.
Although an jaldi goal of dst was to reduce sandhya upyog of incandescent lighting ( formerly a praathmik upyog of electricity ), modern heating or kooling usage pattern differ greatly, and shodh parichay kaisaa dst philhal affects urja upyog is simit or contradictory.
dst clock shifts upasthit anya chunautiyaan.
ve complicate timekeeping, or can disrupt meetings, travel, billing, ricard keeping, medical devices, heavy upkaran, or neend pattern.
tantra can often adjust computer ghadiyaan automatically, but is can be limited or error-prone, particularly when DST tithiyaan hai changed.
floorplan of the château de Montargis
montargis is a commune in the Loiret vibhaag in north-central frans on the loing nadi.
the kasbaa is stith about south of paris or east of orléans in the Gâtinais.
montargis is the duusari largest city in the loiret, after orléans.
it is near a vishaal van, and contains lite industry and kheti, sahit saffron.
due to iske numerous naharon or pulon, montargis sometimes bills itself as the `` venice of the Gâtinais. ''
haalanki kaaphi aadhunik, it retains a medieval charm in iske downtown kshetrafal.
in computer bhandar, a logical ikai kramank, or LUN, is a kramank used to pahachaano a logical unit, which is a device addressed by the SCSI protocol or protocol which encapsulate scsi, aise as fibre channel or iscsi.
a LUN may be prayukt saath koi yantra jisase supports read/write parichaalan, aise as a tape drive, but is sabase praayah prayukt to refer to a logical discs as created on a SAN.
haalanki nahin technically sahi, the term `` LUN '' is praayah also prayukt to refer to the logical discs itself.
the inzel according to chihnit (,, to euangelion kata Markon ), commonly shortened to the inzel of chihnit or bas chihnit, is the duusari kitaab of the New vasiyat.
is canonical account of the jivan of yishu of nasarat is one of the three synoptic gospels.
it thi vichaar to be an nichod, jisase accounts liye iske place as the duusari gospel in the Bible.
however, sabase samakaleen scholars abhi lihaaz it as the earliest of the canonical gospels ( c 70 ).
That chihnit thi used as a sorce liye the anya synoptic gospels inzel of mathew or Gospel of luk is widely yojit by anek, haalanki not all, nai vasiyat vidwaanon.
the inzel of chihnit narrates the Ministry of yishu isse uske baptism by John the baptist to his maut or qayamat.
it focuses visheshkar on the last saptaah of uske jivan ( adhyay 11–16 ) in jerusalem.
iske swift katha portrays Jesus as a vir man of karrwai, an exorcist, healer or chamatkaar kaaryakarta.
An mahatvapurn theme of Mark is the muktidaata rahasy.
Jesus silences the demoniacs he heals, koshishen unsuccessfully to keep uske muktidaata pahchaan rahasy, or conceals uske message saath parables.
meanwhile, the shishyon asafal to samajhe both the implication of the chamatkaar of Jesus or the meaning of the things he predicts parichay his arrest, maut or resurrection.
sabase vidwaanon believe that the asli text of the inzel ends at Mark 16:8 saath the discovery of yishu ' khaali tomb or that the following account of his qayamat dikhaave is a later addition.
According to parampara and kuch jaldi girijaghar lekhak, the lekhak is Mark the Evangelist, the companion of the apostle peter.
the inzel, however, appears to rely on anek underlying sources, varying in form or in theology, which tells viruddh the parampara ki the inzel thi aadhaarit on peter 's preaching.
The text is a sankalan which may shaamil eye-witness accounts as khub as gyaat apostolic preachings, or pre-existing written record that do nahin maujuud aaj lakin can be confirmed isse 2nd-century tikaakaron.
kuch of the kahaniyaan in the inzel may have been transmitted orally before being likhaa bas.
Various tatv within the gospel sujhaayen ki the lekhak wrote in syrian or philistin for a non-jewish isai jatiyaan.
The rab of the Rings is an apik unchi kaalpanik anokhaa likhaa by English bhashashasthri and University of oxford praadhyaapak J. R. R. tolkien.
the story began as a sequel to tolkien 's 1937 children 's fantasy novel the hobbit, but aakhirkaar viksit into a much larger work.
It thi likhaa in stages between 1937 and 1949, much of it dauraan sansar yuddh ii.
It is the duusari best-selling anokhaa ever likhaa, saath over 150 lakh copies bechi.
The sheershak of the anokhaa refers to the story 's main vipakshi, the andhera rab Sauron, jo tha in an pehle aayu nirmit the One ring to niyam the anya bajati of shakti as the param hathiyaar in uske campaign to jeeten or niyam sab of Middle-earth.
isse shant beginnings in the shaayar, a hobbit land nahin naapsand the angrezi countryside, the story seemayen aarpaar north-west middle-earth, following the course of the War of the Ring through the eyes of iske characters, notably the hobbits frodo baggins, samwise `` sam '' gamgee, meriadoc `` mairi '' brandybuck or peregrin `` pippin '' took, lakin bhi the hobbits ' chief allies or yatraaen companions : Aragorn, a Human ranger ; boromir, a man from Gondor ; gimli, a Dwarf yoddha ; legolas, an elven prince ; or Gandalf, a jaadugar.
the work was initially intended by tolkien to be ek volume of a two-volume niyat, saath the anya being The silmarillion, but is vichaar thi barkhaast by uske publisher.
it thi decided liye economic kaaran to publish The rab of the bajati as teen volumes over the course of a saal isse 29 july 1954 to 20 aktubar 1955, yun bananaa the now parichit rab of the Rings trilogy.
The teen aaytan yahood entitled the Fellowship of the Ring, The Two minaaren, and the vaapasi of the king.
structurally, the anokhaa is divided internally into six kitabe, two prati volume, saath anek appendices of prishthbhumi saamagree shaamil at the samaapt of the teesraa awaz.
the rab of the bajati has chunki been reprinted numerous times or anudit into anek bhashaaen.
tolkien 's kaary rai maharoom the vishay of extensive analysis of iske vishaywastu or origins.
haalanki a pramukh work in itself, the story thi only the pichhlaa gati of a larger apik Tolkien had worked on chunki 1917, in a process he described as mythopoeia.
prabhaav on this pehle kaary, or on the story of the rab of the bajati, shaamil philology, mythology, religion or the lekhak 's distaste for the prabhaav of industrialization, as khub as earlier fantasy works or tolkien 's anubhavon in sansar yuddh i.
The rab of the bajati in iske phere is mana to have tha a great prabhaav on modern fantasy ; the impact of tolkien 's works is aise that the upyog of the shabd `` Tolkienian '' or `` tolkienesque '' have been recorded in the oxford angrezi shabdkosh.
the enduring lokapriyata of the rab of the Rings rai led to numerous references in lokapriy samskruti, the founding of many societies by prashansak of tolkien 's works, and the prakaashan of many kitabe parichay tolkien and uske works.
The rab of the bajati has inspired, and continues to inspire, kalakriti, music, films or television, video khel, and subsequent sahitya.
award-winning adaptations of the rab of the bajati have maharoom bana liye radio, theatre, or filmi.
the following is an episode suchi liye the niklodian sitcom drek & josh.
the series debuted on janvari 11, 2004.
a tv filmi mairi christmas, drek & Josh thi bana alaava from the niyamit shrenee on December 5, 2008.
vahin hai a total of 60 episodes yahood produced spanning four seasons.
drek ghanti, Josh pek, or miranda cosgrove yahood the only abhinaytaon to appear in all 60 apisod.
the San francisco 49ers conduct prashikshan shivi at the toli 's mukhyalay or practice facility in santa clara, california in agast 2010.
the thokar is wearing red jerseys saath the exception of quarterbaque Alex smith, who is in a blike jersey ; the raksha in shwet.
in the National footbaal League, prashikshan camp refers to the time pehle the ritu commences.
During is samay, tiimon will sometimes congregate at an outside sthaan, praayah a vishvavidhyalayon, to conduct prashikshan shivi liye at tanik the pehla few saptaah.
is is samaan to besabaal 's spring prashikshan.
prashikshan shivi is prayukt in anek different tareeke.
New players or coaches upyog it to acclimate themselves to nai teammates or pranaaliyon.
liye younger khilaadi, it serves as a kaal of evaluation ; liye diggajon, it is samay to golakaar back into rup.
Training shivi is divided into anek alag components.
the pehla is scrimmages.
These hai pseudo-games where tiimon chalaaen nearly puraa khel ' laayak of plays.
sometimes, do practice satr hai held on the same day.
is avadharana is referred to as two-a-days.
Other bhaag of training shivi shaamil drills, baithak saath coaches and anya khilaadi at ek 's position, weight prashikshan, or pre-season khel.
the latter half of training camp lead sidhe into the pradarshnee ritu.
With enegel prashikshan camps starting in late-july, the biggest concern has maharoom nirjaleekaran.
in 2001, Minnesota vikings khilaadi Korey stringer died of a medical condishan aadhaarit isse dehydration and heatstroke.
The maut of stringer prompted the enegel to change unke prashikshan nitiyon.
at each practice, prayek toli must have the toli doctor or prashikshakon on the field ; additionally, an ambulance must be upasthit dauraan practices.
saath NFL prashikshan camps shuruuaat in let july, severe mausam can affect abhyaas or exhibition khel.
In 2002, a Cleveland bhura pradarshnee khel ended due to bijli nikat cleveland Browns stadium, and kathor storms have been gyaat to disrupt prashikshan shiviron.
prashansak are often able to vizit unke pasandida toli 's prashikshan shivi to kaich an early look at the khilaadi ; pravesh to practices is praayah free or substantially kam expensive than a game tikat, making training shivi yatraayen a popular vikalp liye prashansak jo can not attend anek khel due to vittiya or anya kaaran.
enegel teams praayah bechein kalakritiyaan or concessions at shivi site saath saath offering kriyaayein or kaarykram to mek training camp a adhik fan-friendly anubhav.
In computing, a file pranali ( or filesystem ) is a prakaar of aankada store jisase can be prayukt to store, retrieve and adhyatan a niyat of files.
the pad could refer to the abstract aankada structures prayukt to define files, or to the vaastavik tantra or firmware components ki implement the amoort vichaar.
kuch file pranaaliyon hai prayukt on local aankada bhandar divaais ; others provide file abhigam via a sanjaal protocol ( e.g. nfs, smb, or 9p client ).
kuch sanchika pranaaliyon hai `` abhaasi '', in ki the `` filein '' supplied are computed on request ( e.g. procfs ) or hai merely a maanchitran into a alag sanchika pranali prayukt as a baking store.
The sanchika pranali manages abhigam to dono the saamagree of filein or the metadata about those filein.
it is jimmedaar for arranging storage space ; vishwasaneeyata, dakshata, and tuning saath regard to the shaareerik bhandar medium are mahatvapurn dizine considerations.
wiliam harvard taft ( sitambar 15, 1857 – kooch 8, 1930 ) thi the 27th adhyaksh of the United States ( 1909–1913 ) or baad the dasavaan Chief insaaf of the sanyukt rajya ( 1921–1930 ).
he is the only vyakti to have served in both of ye karyaalayon.
pehle banane adhyaksh, taft, a republican, thi chaynit to serve on the Superior adaalat of Cincinnati in 1887.
in 1890, taft thi appointed solicitor General of the sanyukt States or in 1891 a nyaayadhish on the sanyukt rajya Court of appeals liye the Sixth circuit.
in 1900, President wiliam mckinley appointed Taft Governor-General of the philippine.
In 1904, adhyaksh theodor rujvelt niyukt taft sachiv of yuddh in an praytn to duulhe taft, tab uske close political ally, into his handpicked adhyakshiya successor.
Taft assumed a prominent bhoomika in problem solving, assuming on kuch avasaron the role of acting sachiv of rajya, while ghatati doharaaya offers from rujvelt to serve on the Supreme adaalat.
sawari a wave of lokapriy support liye fellow republican rujvelt, taft jiti an aasaan vijay in his 1908 boli for the presidency.
In uske tabhi pad, taft 's gharelu agenda emphasized trust-busting, civil seva sudhaar, strengthening the antarraji commers ayog, improving the pradarshan of the postal service, or dyodhi of the solahavin amendment.
videsh, taft sought to further the economic development of raashtra in latin america or Asia through `` dollars kootneeti ``, or dikhaaya decisiveness or restraint in jawaab to revolution in Mexico.
the task-oriented taft was bekabar to the rajnatik ramifications of uske decisions, praayah alienated his apana kunjee constituencies, or thi overwhelmingly parajeet in uske bid liye a second pad in the adhyakshiya chunaav of 1912.
In surveykshan of adhyakshiya vidwaanon, Taft is usually ranked nikat the madhya of suchiyaan of all amareeki raashtrapatiyon.
baad leaving daftar, taft kharch his time in academia, madhyasthata, or the dhundhen liye world peace through his self-founded lig to enforce salaam.
In 1921, baad the pehla sansar yuddh, adhyaksh Warren G. Harding appointed taft mukhya insaaf of the sanyukt rajya.
taft parosa in this kshamta until shortly before uske maut in 1930.
the ten aayatein is a 1956 apik filmi utpaadit and nirdeshit by cesil B. demille ki dramatized the biblical story of the exodus, in jisase the hebrew-born musa, an apanaaya mishra prince, becomes the deliverer of the yahudee slave.
It strecchar charlton heston in the lead role, Yul brynner as uske adoptive brother, pharaoh Rameses II, eni baxtor as nefretiri, edward G. robinsan as dathan, yvonne de Carlo as sephora, debra pejet as lilia, and John Derek as Joshua.
the supporting daal shaamil Sir cedrick Hardwicke as Pharaoh seti i, nina foch as bithiah, martha scot as yoshebel, judith anderson as memnet, vincent daam as baka, or John Carradine as aaron.
The film thi released by Paramount tasviren in vistavision on aktubar 5, 1956.
The ten aayatein, which demille narrated, thi the pichhlaa filmi ki he nirdeshit.
he thi set to sidhaa the 1958 remake of his 1938 filmi the Buccaneer, but uske final illness majaboor use to baaj the directing chores to uske son-in-law, actor anthoni Quinn.
demille tha also niojit to filmi the jivan of Lord baden Powell, the founder of the scout movement, with daud niven ; is project thi never ehsaas.
the Ten aayatein is a aanshik rimek of demille 's 1923 mook film.
kuch of the cast or kru of the 1956 sanskaran worked on the asli.
it rai chunki maharoom remade as a television miniseries broadcast in April 2006.
the ten aayatein is ek of the most financially successful films kabhi made, grossing over $ 65 lakh at the u.S. baksaa office.
adjusting liye mahangaai, is makes it the chathe highest-grossing filmi domestically, with an samyojit total of $ 1,025,730,000 in 2012.
the baksaa daftar jalsthal `` the sankhyaayein '' suchiyaan the gharelu sakal at $ 80 lakh.
in 1999, The ten Commandments thi selected liye sangrakshan in the sanyukt States neshnal filmi registry by the pustakaalayon of congress as hone `` culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant ''.
In june 2008, the amareeki Film santhaan nazil iske `` Ten Top ten `` —the best ten films in ten amareeki film genres—after polling over 1,500 people isse the rachanaatmak jatiyaan.
the ten aayatein thi listed as the dasavaan best filmi in the apik vidha.
The filmi praapt seven academy puraskaar nominations sahit behtareen chitra, or jiti the academy Award liye Best Visual prabhaav.
charlton Heston thi nominated liye a sunahari Globe puraskaar liye Best gati chitra karta in the naatak shrenee.
Yul brynner won the National Board of punarvilokan puraskaar liye Best karta liye uske role as rameses, saath saath uske anya bhoomikaaye in the king or i or anastasia.
louisville (, or ) is a pramukh nagar and the largest nagar in the U.S. rajya of kentki and the county seat of jeffrasan county.
Since 2003, the nagar 's simaayen have maharoom saath those of the county kuki of a city-county vilay.
The city 's kul sanchit janasankhyikee at the 2010 janasankhyikee was 741,096 ( louisville 's santulan kul, 602,011, excludes semi-autonomous towns or is the janasankhyikee listed in sabase sources or neshnal rankings ).
As of 2010, the Louisville mahanagar kshetrafal ( MSA ) had a janasankhyikee of 1,307,647 ranking 42nd nationally.
the metro area shaamil louisville-jefferson county and 12 surrounding county, aath in kentki or chaar in Southern indiana ( dekhie bhugol neeche ).
the Louisville sanyukt sankhyikeey Area, having a population of 1,451,564, shaamil the emesa, hardin County or Larue county in kentki, or scot County, indiana.
an mahatvapurn aatanrik shipping bandargahon in the 19th century, louisville aaj is behtareen known as the sthaan of the Kentucky darbi, the pehla of teen annual thoroughbred ghoda daud bananaa up the Triple crown.
a theth experimental seoup liye an aldol pratikriya.
dono flasks hai submerged in a shushk ice/acetone cooling bath ( −78 °c ) the taapmaana of jisase is hone monitored by a taapyugma ( the taar on the baayein ).
a kooling nahaana, in prayogshaala rasayan ( praayah but not sadaa sashulk rasayan ) abhyaas, is a drav mishran which is used to maintain kam temperatures, typically between 13 °C or −196 °c.
ye kam temperatures hai prayukt to collect liquids baad aswan, to remove solvaints using a rotary evaporator, or to perform a chemical reaction neeche room taapmaana ( dekhie : kinetic control ).
Cooling baths hai generally one of do prakaar : ( a ) a thanda drav ( visheshkar drav nitrogen, water, or bhi air ) — but sabase commonly the pad refers to ( b ) a mishran of 3 components : ( 1 ) a cooling agent ( aise as shushk barf or jal barf ) ; ( b ) a drav 'kairicar ' ( such as drav water, ethylene glykol, asitone, ityadi. ), jisase hastantaran ooshmaa between the bath or the pot ; ; or ( c ) an yogtmak to depress the melting-point of the solid/liquid pranali.
( a parichit udhaaharan of is is the upyog of an ice/rock-salt mixture to freeze ice malai.
the phase-change of barf into drav jal requires urja, 'pulling ' heat from the pranali.
Adding namak lowers the asthaayee at jisase this happens, arth adhik energy rai to be avashoshit isse the paryaavaran in anukram to melt the barf.
is effectively makes the barf 'colder ' — it jarur 'pull ' adhik ooshmaa from iske paryaavaran to become drav. )
khaane vikaar hai sharten paribhaashit by asaamaanya khaane habits that may involve either aparyaapt or excessive khaanaa seven to the detriment of an vyaktigat 's physical and mental swasthya.
bulimia nervoza or anorexia nervoza hai the sabase aam specific form in the sanyukt kingdom.
Other prakaar of khaane vikaar include binge khaane vikaar or eating disorder not varanaa nirdisht.
Bulimia nervoza is a vikaar characterized by binge khaane or purging.
Purging can include self-induce ulti, over-exercising, or the upyog of diuretics, enemas, or laxatives.
anorexia nervoza is characterized by extreme khaanaa restriction to the point of self-starvation or excessive weight ghaataa.
Though primarily vichaar of as affecting females ( an anumaanit 5–10 lakh hone prabhavit in the u.K. ), khaane vikaar affect males as well.
an anumaanit 10 – 15 % of logon with eating vikaar hai males ( Gorgan, 1999 ).
( an anumaanit 1 lakh u.K. males hone prabhavit ).
haalanki khaane disorders hai increasing all over the world among both men or mahilaon, vahin is pramaan to suggest that it is mahilaon in the Western sansar jo hai at the highest risk of vikasshil unhen or the oopaadhi of westernization increases the risk.
nearly half of sab america personally know someone with an khaane disorder.
the kaushal to comprehend the central processes of appetite has increased tremendously chunki leptin thi khoja, or the kaushal to observe the functions of the dimag as khub.
interactions between prerak, homeostatic or self-regulatory control prakriyaaon hai involved in khaane aacharan, jisase is a key ghatak in khaane vikaar.
the precise kaaran of khaane vikaar is not entirely understood, lakin vahin is evidence that it may be linked to anya medical sharten or paristhitiyon.
saanskrithik idealization of thinness or youthfulness have contributed to khaane vikaar affecting vividh populations.
ek study dikhaaya ki ladakiyon saath ADHD have a vrihad mauka of getting an eating disorder than those nahin prabhavit by ADHD.
another padhai sujhaayaa ki women with ptsd, visheshkar due to sexually sambandhit trauma, are adhik sambhavit to develop anorexia nervosa.
ek padhai showed ki foster ladakiyon hai adhik sambhavit to develop bulimia nervosa.
kuch socho ki pir dabaav or idealized body-types dekhi in the media hai also a significant factor.
Some shodh dikhaaen ki for certain people vahin hai genetic kaaran kyon ve may be prone to developing an khaane disorder.
haal adhyayan have mila pramaan a sahasambandh between marijon with bulimia nervoza and padaarth upyog vikaar.
in jod, chintaa vikaar or personality vikaar hai aam occurrences saath client of eating disorders.
While uchit upachaar can be atyadhik prabhavi liye many suffering from vishisht prakaar of khaane vikaar, the consequences of eating disorders can be kathor, sahit maut ( whether isse direct medical prabhaav of ashaant khaane aadaten or from comorbid sharten aise as suicidal thinking ).
gulaami in the sanyukt rajya existed isse the early saalo of the aupniveshik kaal ; it was firmly sthapit by the samay the sanyukt rajya sought swatantraaa isse great britain in 1776.
however, by 1804, sab states uttar of the mesun and Dixon lakeer tha either abolished slavery outright or passed kanoon for the kramik abolition of gulaami.
in 1787 congress nishiddh slavery in the uttarpashchim territory.
lakin slavery gained nai life in the dakshin saath the cotton udyog after 1800, and vistaarit into the dakshinpaschim.
the swadesh thi polarized into slave and free states saath the mason-dixon lakeer, which separated pencilvenia and Maryland.
The sanyukt rajya or great britain both nishiddh the antarrashtriya slave vyapaar in 1808, lakin the gharelu vyapaar, saath bikri to the gahan dakshin, expanded dramatically, and anek captives yahood shipped by the coastwise slave vyapaar.
pehle the 1840s, the dakshin thi vigorously defending gulaami or its expansion into the territories.
in the uttar some abolitionists denounced it as sinful, or numerous anti-slavery forces asweekrut it as detrimental to the adhikaron of free main.
baad failed compromises and abraham Lincoln 's chunaav, in 1861 gyaarah slave rajya broke dur to form the Confederate States of america, agrani to the amareeki Civil yuddh.
the federal government in 1862 made abolition of gulaami a yuddh lakshya.
In janvari 1863 President Lincoln freed slave in the confederacy through the emancipation udghoshnaa.
baad the war, the terahavin amendment, prabhavi disambar 1865, abolished gulaami throughout the sampurna sanyukt States, sahit the kinaaraa rajya or the bhartiya territories.
From the 16th to the 19th sadiyaan, an estimated 12 lakh Africans were shipped as slave to the americas.
dekhie gulaami in the Americas.
The great bahumat went to the sugar baganon of the West indies or brazil, jahaan mrityu thi high.
parichay 645,000 yahood brought to kayaa is abhi the sanyukt rajya.
by the 1860 sanyukt States janasankhyikee, the slave janasankhyikee in the American dakshin tha grown to chaar million.
Of sab 1,515,605 pariwaron in the 15 slave rajya, nearly 400,000 yojit slave ( roughly ek in four ), amounting to 8 % of all amareeki pariwaron.
While kuch slaves worked as house bandon or shahari shilpkaar, the great bahumat worked on baganon or vishaal kheto, cultivating lucrative nakadi fasalon, aise as rice, tambaaku, sugar or, baad 1800, chiefly kapaas.
by 1860 sabase slaves yahood held in the Deep South, jahaan ve parosa in work-gangs ; two-thirds worked in kapaas.
in small operations, ve worked with their swami.
In vishaal plantations ve yahood nirdeshit by white paid overseers.
antargat the system ki became chattel gulaami ( ownership of a insaan being, and of his/her descendants ), a jatigat tatv thi aadharbhoot : slave yahood ashweton of African descent or swaamitv, lagbhag universally, by whites of europea descent.
in the 17th sadi, virginia, followed by anya southern colonies, enacted vidhi that children of slave maataaon were born into slavery.
slave could laabh swatantraaa only by kaaryshil away ( jisase was mushkil and illegal to do ), or by manumission by swami, jisase thi regulated by rajya, or became increasingly difficult or nishiddh.
in the earliest era of chattel gulaami, the colonies bhi vyavasthit kaary by a system of bandhua majdoor known as indentured servitude.
is typically lasted for anek saalo liye both garib europeans and africans alike, to adaa band the costs of hastantaran to the colonies.
ve contracted liye aise arrangements kuki of garib economies in their ghar deshon.
Between 1680 or 1700, as kam europeans migrated to the colonies, planters began to aayaat adhik africans as slave.
recognizing the importance of gulaami, the house of Burgesses in virginia enacted a nai slave code in 1705 ; it sanyukt a kismein of vidhaan and added nai praavdhaanon enforcing shwet sarvocchata in the vidhi.
schematic cross khand of bhaag of leaf, jilam shown as red vrutt at figure 8.
Xylem is ek of the two prakaar of hastantaran tissue in vascular paudhe ( floem is the anya ).
The shabd jilam is derived from the unani word ξύλον ( xylon ), arth `` lakdi '' ; the best-known jilam tissue is lakdi, haalanki it is mila throughout the sanyantr.
iske basic falan is to transport jal, lakin it bhi transports some nutrients through the sanyantr.
is clock pratinidhitiv shows kuch of the pramukh units of geological time or nirnaayak kaarykram of Earth history.
the hadean eon represents the samay pehle fossil ricard of jivan on dharti ; its apper boundary is now regarded as 4.0 ga ( arab saalo ago ).
anya subdivisions reflect the evolution of jivan ; the Archean and proterozoic hai dono eons, the palaeozoic, mesozoic or cenozoic are eras of the phanerozoic eon.
the two lakh saal quaternary period, the time of recognizable humans, is too small to be drishy at is scale.
the bhugarbhik samay scale is a pranali of chronological maapan ki relates stariki to time, and is used by geologists, paleontologists, and anya earth vaigyanikon to describe the timing and sambandh between events that have occurred throughout dharti 's itihaas.
the talika of bhugarbhik samay spans prastut yahan agrees saath the tithiyaan or nomenclature niyat forth by the antarrashtriya ayog on Stratigraphy maanak rang codes of the antarrashtriya ayog on stariki.
Evidence isse radiometric dating indicates that the dharti is about 4.54 arab saalo boodha.
The geology or deep time of dharti 's past rai been vyavasthit into various ikai according to events jisase took place in prayek kaal.
Different spans of samay on the GTS hai praayah simaankit by parivartan in the sangyojan of strata jisase correspond to them, indicating pramukh geological or paleontological kaarykram, aise as dravyaman extinctions.
liye udhaaharan, the boundary between the cretaceous kaal or the Paleogene period is paribhaashit by the cretaceous–paleogene extinction event, jisase chihnit the nidhan of the dinosaurs or anek anya samooh of jivan.
puraani samay spans jisase predate the vishwasaneey chattan record ( pehle the Proterozoic Eon ) hai defined by nirpeksh aayu.
The TI-82 is a graphing calculator bana by Texas yantra.
the ti-82 thi designed in 1993 as a stripped down, more upayokta dostana sanskaran of the ti-85, or as a badalanaa liye the ti-81.
it thi the direct predecessor of the ti-83.
it shares saath the ti-85 a 6 mhz zilog z80 microprocessor.
jaise the ti-81, the ti-82 suvidhaayen a 96x64 pixel pradarshak, or the core visheshta set of the ti-81 saath many nai suvidhaayen.
the daal of varna of the king of senaanee xi.
The king of Fighters lard game shrenee, produced by snk Playmore, shaamil a wide cast of varna, kuch of jisase hai liya isse other SNK khel.
the story takes place in a fictional brahmad in jisase an annual shrenee of 3-on-3 or 4-on-4 fighting tournaments hai yojit.
the pehla khel in the shrenee introduces the aarambhik main akshar of the shrenee, kyo kusanagi, a young japani fighter jo is the vaaris to a powerful samooh of martial artists having pyrokinetic abilities.
kyo jhagade against the kusanagi clan 's enemies, uske pratidwandvi iori yagami, or the parameshwar orochi and iske insaan anusarankarta, among others.
The pehla chaar khel in the shrenee revolve parichay these jhagade, jabaki the king of senaanee '99 introduces a nai story chaap, gumti around k ', a yang man jo seeks to nasht the rahasyamay NESTS organization kuki ve kidnapped use at an jaldi age or stripped him of uske past yaaden, so ki they could force him to be a fighter under unke control.
In the King of senaanee 2003, a nai character named Ash crimson enters the toornament, to chori the powers of the clans who sealed the orochi in the past for an anjaan reason.
a new samooh of antagonists, gyaat as those From the past, also appears in the shrenee ; ve want to obtain orochi 's shakti for the purpose of giving it to unke unknown master.
The plat and the characters aae isse the yamata no orochi legend.
There hai bhi anek varna in the khel ki hai parodies or homages to several lokapriy dushmani, manga, and films.
merchandise aadhaarit on the characters rai bhi maharoom released, sahit karrwai figures or keychains.
The varna have garnered taareef from several video khel publications liye the visheshta of their dizin or movesets.
tippanee focused on the kami of improvements in some of the varna, but added ki the roster is greatly diverse.
whale yudhon is a saptahik amareeki documentary-style vaastaviktaa television shrenee ki premiered on navambar 7, 2008 on the Animal Planet cable channel.
the kaarykram folo Paul watasan, founder of the samudr Shepherd sangrakshan samaaj, as he and the kru aboard unke vibhinn vessels harass Japanese whalers off the coast of antarctic.
on January 5, 2013, animal grah navinikrut the series for a sixth ritu.
the harpy Eagle ( harpia harpyja ) is a neotropical prajati of tribhuj.
It is sometimes gyaat as the amareeki harpy Eagle to fark it from the papuai Eagle which is sometimes gyaat as the New Guinea harpy tribhuj or papuai harpy tribhuj.
it is the largest or sabase shaktishaalee raptor mila in the americas, or among the largest extant prajati of eagles in the world.
it praayah inhabits teevr lowland rainforests in the apper ( emergent ) canopy parat.
vinaash of iske natural habitat has seen it vanish isse anek bhaag of iske purv dayera, or it is nearly extirpated in Central america.
biological vargeekaran, or scientific classification in jeevigyaan, is a vidhi of vaigyanik taxonomy prayukt to samooh and categorize jeevon into groups aise as genus or prajati.
These samooh hai gyaat as taxa ( singular : texon ).
aadhunik biological classification has iske root in the work of carolus liniyas, jo grouped prajati according to saajha shaareerik visheshtaayen.
ye groupings have chunki maharoom revised to improve sangati saath the darwinian principle of aam descent.
saath the parichay of the cladistic vidhi in the late 20th sadi, phylogenetic taxonomy in jisase jeevon hai grouped aadhaarit purely on inferred vikasvaadi relatedness, ignoring morphological samanta, rai become aam in some areas of biology.
aanvik phylogenetics, jisase upyog diene sequences as data, has bhi chalit anek recent revisions and is likely to continue doing so.
biological classification belongs to the vigyaan of biological systematics.
lenon 's signature
jon Winston Ono lenon, ( born jon Winston lenon ; 9 aktubar 1940 – 8 disambar 1980 ) thi an angrezi sangeetkaar, singer or songwriter who rose to worldwide kirti as a founder sadsy of the betals, one of the sabase commercially kaamyaab and critically acclaimed adhiniyamon in the itihaas of lokapriy music.
With paul mccartney, he formed ek of the most manaaye songwriting partnerships of the 20th sadi.
born or uthaaya in Liverpool, as a teenager lenon became involved in the skiffle craze ; his first band, the quarrymen, evolved into the betals in 1960.
as the samooh disintegrated towards the samaapt of the dashak, lenon embarked on a solo career ki utpaadit the critically acclaimed album John lennon/plastic ono band and imagine, or iconic songs aise as `` de Peace a mauka `` or `` Imagine ``.
baad uske vivaah to yoko ono in 1969, he badla his name to jon ono lenon.
lenon disengaged khud from the music business in 1975 to devote samay to raising uske infant bete shaun, but re-emerged saath ono in 1980 saath the new album Double kaalpanik.
he thi murdered teen weeks baad iske relies.
lenon revealed a rebellious prakruti and acerbic wit in his music, likhane, drawings, on filmi or in saakshaatkaar.
vivaadaaspad through uske rajnatik or peace activism, he sthanantarit to nai york nagar in 1971, jahaan uske aalochana of the vietnam yuddh resulted in a lengthy attempt by Richard nicksan 's prashasan to deport use, jabaki kuch of uske geeton were apanaaya as anthems by the anti-war gati.
as of 2012, lenon 's solo album bikri in the United States exceed 14 lakh units, or as lekhak, co-writer or yajmaan, he is jimmedaar for 25 number-one singles on the us Hot 100 chart.
In 2002, a BBC poll on the 100 mahanatam Britons voted use aathvin, or in 2008, rolling stone ranked him the fifth-greatest singer of sab samay.
he thi maranoparant inducted into the Songwriters Hall of kirti in 1987 or into the Rock or Roll haul of kirti in 1994.
pratimaa of rip vine Winkle in Irvington, New york, not dur isse `` sunnyside ``, the home of Washington Irving
`` rip vine winkle '' is a choti story by amareeki lekhak washington irving prakashit in 1819, as khub as the naam of the story 's fictional samarthak.
Written jabaki Irving thi living in birmingham, england, it was bhaag of a sangrahan hakdaar the sketch Book of geoffrey crayon.
haalanki the story is niyat in New york 's catskill kyu, irving baad admitted, `` jab I wrote the story, i tha never maharoom on the catskills. ''
throughout the fifty-five year itihaas of the Grammy Awards, many significant records have maharoom set.
is pej tabhi shaamil the pratispardhi awards jiti by vibhinn artists.
is karata nahin shaamil the various special puraskaar that hai prastut by the National academy of Recording kala or sciences such as aaajeevan uplabdhi puraskaar, trustees Awards, Technical puraskaar or Legend Awards.
The pej however does shaamil anya non-performance sambandhit grammys ( known as the Craft & Production field ) ki may have maharoom presented to the artist ( s ).
Pee-wee herman is a comic fictional akshar nirmit or portrayed by American hasya Paul reubens.
he is behtareen gyaat for uske do television shrenee or film shrenee during the 1980s.
the childlike pee-wee herman akshar developed as a stage adhinium that jaldi led to an HBO khaas in 1981.
as the stage performance gained further lokapriyata, reubens took the akshar to gati chitra with pee-wee 's big adventure in 1985, toning bas the vayask innuendo for the apil of children.
is prashast the rasta liye pee-wee 's playhouse, an Emmy puraskaar jeetna children 's shrenee that ran on sibies from 1986-1991.
Another filmi, Big sheersh pee-wee, thi released in 1988.
due to negative media dhyaan following a scandal in 1991, Reubens decided to shelve his alter ahankaar during the 1990s, or then gradually resurrected it during the following decade.
It was at ki samay ki reubens addressed yojanaayen to write a nai Pee-wee filmi, pee-wee 's playhouse : the film.
in june 2007, Reubens appeared as pee-wee Herman liye the first samay chunki 1991 at spike tv 's Guys ' Choice puraskaar.
ki '70s dikhaaen is an American television kaal sitcom ki centers on the lives of a samooh of teenage friends living in the fictional suburban kasbaa of Point Place, visconsin, isse may 17, 1976, to disambar 31, 1979.
it debuted on the fox television sanjaal, first airing on August 23, 1998, kaaryshil liye aath consecutive sizan, or concluding saath the 200th apisod on may 18, 2006.
The main teenage daal sadasyon were topher Grace, Mila kunis, eshton kuchar, danni masterson, Laura prepon, and Wilmer valderrama.
The main adult daal sadasyon yahood debra Jo rupp, kurtwood Smith, Don Stark or, during the pehla three sizan, tanya roberts.
kansas ( ) is a u.S. rajya stith in the midwestern United States.
It is named baad the kansas nadi jisase bahati through it, jisase in phere thi named after the kansa deshi American janajati, which inhabited the kshetrafal.
The tribe 's name ( natively kką : ze ) is praayah kaha to ausat `` logon of the hawa '' or `` people of the dakshin hawa, '' haalanki this thi sambhawatah not the term 's asli arth.
nivaasiyon of kansas hai pukaara `` kansans. ''
For hazaron of saalo kayaa is now kansas thi ghar to numerous or vividh deshi amareeki tribes.
Tribes in the purvi part of the rajya generally jiya in gaanvon saath the river ghaatiyon.
Tribes in the pashchimi part of the rajya were semi- nomadic or hunted vishaal herds of bison.
kansas was first settled by europea Americans in the 1830s, lakin the pace of upnivesh twarit in the 1850s, in the midst of rajnatik yudhon over the slavery samasya.
jab officially opened to upnivesh by the U.S. government in 1854, abolitionist Free-Staters isse nai england and pro-slavery settlers isse neighboring mizori rushed to the territory to determine if kansas would become a free state or a slave state.
yun, the kshetrafal thi a hotbed of hinsa or chaos in its jaldi dinon as these forces collided, and thi gyaat as bleeding kansas.
the abolitionists eventually prevailed or on janvari 29, 1861, kansas entered the Union as a free rajya.
After the civil yuddh, the population of kansas grew rapidly, when waves of apravasiyon turned the prairie into farmland.
aaj, Kansas is ek of the sabase productive agricultural rajya, producing unchi yields of gehun, jowar and sunflowers.
Kansas is the 15th sabase extensive or the 33rd sabase populous of the 50 United States.
Psychology is an academik or lagu anushaasan ki involves the vaigyanik study of dimagi krityon or vyavhaar.
Psychology rai the immediate lakshya of samajhnaa individuals or groups by dono establishing saamaanya siddhanth or researching specific cases, and by many khate it ultimately aims to laabh samaaj.
in is field, a peshewar or researcher is called a psychologist or can be vargeekrut as a soshal, behavioral, or sangyanatmak vaigyanik.
psychologists attempt to samajhe the bhoomika of dimagi krityon in vyaktigat or soshal bartaav, while bhi exploring the physiological or neurobiological processes ki underlie certain cognitive krityon or vyavhaar.
psychologists explore concepts aise as bodh, sangyaan, dhyaan, jajbaat, phenomenology, prerana, brain functioning, vyaktitv, bartaav, or interpersonal sambandh.
psychologists of vividh dhaariyaan bhi consider the behosh dimag.
psychologists employ anubhavjanya vidhi to infer causal or correlational relationships between psychosocial variables.
in addition, or in vipaksh, to employing anubhavjanya or nigamanaatmak methods, some—especially naidanik or counseling psychologists—at times rely upon symbolic nirvachan or other aagamanaatmak takneekon.
Psychology rai maharoom described as a `` hub vigyaan '', with manovaigyanik nishkarshon linking to shodh or perspectives from the social sciences, natural sciences, ayurvigyaan, or the maanavtaa, such as darshanashastra.
jabaki manovaigyanik gyaan is often lagu to the moolyankan or upachaar of mental health problems, it is bhi directed towards samajhnaa or solving problems in anek different spheres of insaan activity.
The majority of psychologists hai involved in kuch kind of therapeutic bhoomika, practicing in naidanik, counseling, or skool settings.
Many do scientific shodh on a chaudee dayera of topics sambandhit to mental prakriyaaon or behavior, and typically kaary in vishvavidhyalayon manovigyaan vibhaag or sikhaa in other academik jamaavat ( e.g., medical schools, hospitals ).
Some hai employed in audyogic or organizational settings, or in other areas aise as human vikaas or vriddhavastha, sports, swasthya, or the media, as khub as in forensic chaanbin or anya aspects of vidhi.
Thomas jeffrasan ( april 13, 1743 ( april 2, 1743 o.S. ) – July 4, 1826 ) was an American Founding Father, the principal lekhak of the ghoshnaa of swatantraaa ( 1776 ) or the teesraa adhyaksh of the sanyukt rajya ( 1801–1809 ).
at the shuruuaat of the amareeki kranti, he served in the mahadwipiya Congress, representing Virginia or tab served as a wartime rajyapal of Virginia ( 1779–1781 ).
bas baad the yuddh ended, isse mid-1784 jeffrasan parosa as a rajanyik, stationed in Paris.
in may 1785, he became the sanyukt States mantri to frans.
jeffrasan thi the pehla United rajya sachiv of rajya ( 1790–1793 ) sevarat antargat adhyaksh george washington.
saath uske band friend james Madison he vyavasthit the democratic-republican party, or subsequently resigned isse washington 's cabinet.
nirvaachit vaais adhyaksh in 1796, when he came in second to jon adams of the Federalists, jeffrasan opposed adams and with medisson secretly wrote the Kentucky or virginia rizolution, which attempted to nullify the alian and Sedition adhiniyamon.
Elected adhyaksh in kayaa Jefferson called the kranti of 1800, he oversaw the khariden of the vishaal louisiana territory isse frans ( 1803 ), or bheja the louis or clark expedition ( 1804–1806 ) to explore the nai west.
uske second pad thi ghira with pareshaaniyon at ghar, aise as the vifal deshadroh vichaaran of his purv vaais adhyaksh aaron burr.
With escalating trubal saath britain who was chunauteepurn amareeki neutrality or threatening shipping at samudr, he aajamaaya economic warfare saath uske embargo kanoon jisase tabhi kshatigrast amareeki vyapaar.
In 1803, adhyaksh Jefferson initiated a prakram of bhartiya tribal hataanaa or relocation to the Louisiana territory west of the Mississippi nadi, in anukram to open lands liye eventual amareeki settlers.
a netaa in the atmagyaan, jeffrasan thi a bahushrut who spoke five languages dhadlle and thi deeply dilchaspee in vigyaan, avishkaar, vaastukala, dharm or darshanashastra, interests ki led him to the founding of the vishvavidhyalayon of virginia baad uske presidency.
he designed uske apana large mansion on a 5,000 acre plantation near charlottesville, virginia, jisase he named monticello.
jabaki nahin a notable orator, jeffrasan was a skilled writer or corresponded saath anek influential logon in america or Europe throughout uske vayask jivan.
haalanki jeffrasan owned anek slave, he opposed the sanstha sab uske jivan or natijatan treated or took parvaah of them very khub or apekshit unhen to kaary no more than free kisaano.
chunki 1802 historians and anya have been vibhajit over the vivaad of whether jeffrasan thi the father of ek or more children belonging to Sally hemings, a slave at monticello. ''
itihaaskaaron are also in asahmati saath kaisaa much jeffrasan thi vachanabaddh to the anti-slavery cause.
In 1807, adhyaksh jeffrasan signed into vidhi a bill ki bain the importation of slaves into the United States.
baad martha jeffrasan, his bivi of eleven saalo, died in 1782, jeffrasan remained a vidhur liye the baaki of uske jivan ; unke vivaah utpaadit chah children, of jisko do batch to adulthood.
haalanki jeffrasan rai maharoom criticized by anek aadhunik din scholars over the samasya of gulaami, he remains rated as one of the greatest u.S. raashtrapatiyon.
`` Sun nagar '' is a 1985 virodh song likhaa by steven vine Zandt, utpaadit by vine zandt and arthur baker or ankit by Artists United Against rangabhed to convey opposition to the dakshin African niti of rangabhed.
The praathmik arthath of ki opposition is to ghoshit that all the kalakaaron involved would refuse koi and sab offers to perform at surya City, a resort which was located in bantustan of Bophuthatswana, ek of a kramank of internationally aparichit supposed `` independent '' rajya nirmit by the dakshin africa government to forcibly relocate iske blike janasankhyikee.
is pej is a suchi of varna in the police academy filmi or television series.
vidheyak Russell won 11 championships saath the Boston celtics.
is is a suchi of enbie khilaadi saath most championships jiti as a khilaadi.
the neshnal Basketball sangh ( enbie ) is a pramukh professional basket league in uttar america.
it thi founded in 1946 as the basket sangh of America ( baa ).
The league apanaaya iske vartmaan naam at the prarambh of the when it merged saath the neshnal basket League ( nbl ).
The NBA Finals is the championships series for the enbie or the nishkarsh of the khel 's postseason.
the winning team of the series receives the laire o'brien Championship Trophy.
khilaadi isse the winning toli praayah praapt championships bajati isse the team honoring unke contribution.
however, in some rare occasion, the tiimon opted to gave anya commemorative vasteen, aise as kalai ghadiyaan, instead of bajati.
the kramank of championships jiti by enbie superstar is praayah prayukt as a measurement of unke vishalata.
Boston Celtics center vidheyak Russell holds the record liye the sabase NBA championships jiti with 11 titles during uske 13-year playing kariyar.
he jiti uske first championships saath the boston Celtics in uske rukii saal.
afterwards, he gai on to jeet 10 championships in the aglaa 12 years, sahit aath lagaataar championships isse 1959 to 1966.
he jiti the pichhlaa do championships in 1968 or 1969 as player-coach.
rasel 's teammate, Sam Jones, jiti 10 championships isse 1959 to 1969, the duusari sabase in NBA itihaas.
chaar Celtics khilaadi, tom Heinsohn, K. C. jones, satch sanders or jon havlicek, won eight championships prayek.
do anya celtics, gym loscutoff or frank raimase, won saat championships prayek.
Four players, Bob cousy, kareem abdul-jabbar, maaikel Jordan or scottie pippen, won chah championships each.
Jordan or Pippen hai sadasyon of the Chicago bulls toli jo jiti teen lagaataar championships twice in the 1990s.
robert horry or jon salley hai the tabhi khilaadi to have jiti the championships saath teen different tiimon.
horry won seven championships saath the huston rockets, the Los Angeles lekars or the San antonio spers, while Salley won chaar championships with the Detroit pistons, the Bulls or the lekars.
frank shaul or Steve Kerr are the only khilaadi to jeet do championships saath do alag tiimon in lagaataar sizan.
shaul jiti lagaataar championships saath the Rochester Royals or the miniapolis lekars in the 1950s, jabaki ker won consecutive championships saath the bulls and the spers in the 1990s,
sateekta indicates nikatataa of maapan parinaam to the true maan, parishuddhta to the repeatability, or reproducibility of the maapan
in the field of vigyaan, abhiyantriki, udyog, or aankde, the accuracy of a measurement system is the oopaadhi of nikatataa of maap of a maatra to ki quantity 's vaastavik ( sachcha ) maan.
The parishuddhta of a maapan pranali, bhi called reproducibility or repeatability, is the oopaadhi to jisase doharaaya maap antargat aparivartit sharten dikhaaen the vahi results.
Although the two shabd reproducibility or repeatability can be synonymous in colloquial upyog, ve hai deliberately contrasted in the context of the vaigyanik vidhi.
a measurement pranali can be sateek lakin not precise, precise lakin nahin sateek, neither, or both.
liye udhaaharan, if an prayog contains a systematic error, then increasing the namoona aakaar generally increases parishuddhta lakin karata nahin improve sateekta.
The parinaam hota be a consistent yet inaccurate string of parinaam isse the flawed prayog.
eliminating the systematic galati improves accuracy lakin karata nahin badalen parishuddhta.
A maapan pranali is designated maanya if it is dono sateek or precise.
sambandhit sharten shaamil bias ( non- yadrichhik or nirdeshit prabhaav caused by a factor or karkon unrelated to the swatantra parivartaneey ) or error ( random variability ).
the shabdaawalee is also lagu to apratyaksh measurements—that is, values praapt by a computesnal kaarividhi isse observed aankada.
in addition to sateekta and precision, measurements may bhi have a maapan rezolution, jisase is the smallest badalen in the underlying shaareerik maatra ki produces a jawaab in the maapan.
in the maamla of full reproducibility, aise as when rounding a kramank to a representable floating point kramank, the shabd parishuddhta rai a meaning nahin sambandhit to reproducibility.
liye udhaaharan, in the iiqui 754-2008 maanak it arthath the kramank of bits in the significand, so it is prayukt as a maap liye the relative accuracy with jisase an manamaani kramank can be represented.
Fuck in iske shabdic arth refers to the adhinium of yon intercourse.
it is an angrezi shabd ki is praayah prayukt as a profanity, either to denote tiraskaar or as an intensifier.
the utpatti of the shabd is obscure.
It is praayah considered to be pehla attested to around 1475, but it may be considerably puraani.
In aadhunik usage, bakawaas or iske derevative ( such as fucker and fucking ) can be prayukt in the sthiti of a sangya, a verb, an adjective or an kriyavisheshan.
There hai many aam phrases jisase make upyog of the shabd, as khub as a kramank of compounds incorporating it, aise as motherfucker.
anemated, color-coded map prardashit the vibhinn mahadwipon or regions.
depending on the convention or model, kuch mahadwipon may be consolidated or subdivided : liye example, uresia is sabase praayah subdivided into europea or Asia ( red shades ), jabaki North and dakshin america are sometimes pahachaanaa as ek amareeki mahadweep ( green shades ).
a continent is one of anek very vishaal landmasses on dharti.
ve hai generally pahachaanaa by sammelan balki than koi strict maapdand, saath up to saat regions commonly regarded as continents—they hai ( isse largest in size to smallest ) : asia, Africa, uttar america, dakshin america, Antarctica, Europe, and australia.
in bhuvigyaan, mahadwipon are varnit by arthath of tectonic platon.
thali vivartaniki is the prakram or study of the gati, takkar or division of continents, pehle known as continental bahaav.
biker boij is a 2003 film parichay a samooh of bhumigat motorcycle khichein racers.
it sitaron Laurence fishbern, djimon Hounsou, derek Luke, meagan shubh, or larenz tet and is written or nirdeshit by Reggie chattan bythewood.
It bhi suvidhaayen lisa bonet, Orlando jones, baccha Rock or Vanessa Bell Calloway.
liye the Steel panther song, see mahasoos the Steel.
jatiyaan property is a vaivaahik property regime ki originated in civil vidhi jurisdictions or is abhi also found in kuch aam law jurisdictions.
the rajya of the sanyukt rajya that recognize jatiyaan property hai primarily in the west ; it thi inherited from mexico 's ganancial jatiyaan pranali, jisase itself thi inherited isse Spanish law ( a roman -derived civil vidhi system ) or ultimately isse the visigoths.
jabaki antargat spani rule louisiana apanaaya the ganancial jatiyaan pranali of acquests or gains, which replaced the paramparaagat french jatiyaan of movables or acquests in its civil law pranali.
map of the sanyukt States with jatiyaan property states highlighted in red.
in jod to the highlighted states, alaska is a pruthak property rajya ki permits couples to opt into a community property arrangement.
In a jatiyaan property kshetradhikaar, sabase property acquired dauraan the vivaah ( magar for uphaar or inheritances ) —the jatiyaan, or communio bonorum—is swaamitv jointly by dono spouses or is divided upon divorce, annulment or maut.
sanyukt swaamitv is automatically presumed by vidhi in the anupasthiti of vishisht evidence ki hota point to a contrary conclusion liye a particular tukdaa of property.
Division of community property may lo place by item, by splitting sab vasteen or by maan.
in kuch jurisdictions, aise as California, a 50/50 prabhag of jatiyaan property is strictly mandated by statute, meaning ki the fokas tab shift to whether particular items hai to be classified as community or pruthak property.
in other jurisdictions, such as texas, a talaak adaalat may decri an `` equitable vitaran `` of community property, which may parinaam in an gairbarabari prabhag of aise.
in non-community property states property may be vibhajit by nishpaksh vitaran.
Generally bolnaa, the property that each sangi brings into the vivaah or receives by tohfa, bequest or makkaari dauraan vivaah is called separate property ( i.e., nahin jatiyaan property ).
See prabhag of property.
prabhag of jatiyaan debts may not be the same as prabhag of community property.
liye udhaaharan, in california, community property is jaruri to be vibhajit `` equally '' jabaki community karz is jaruri to be vibhajit `` equitably ''.
Property ki is swaamitv by one spouse before the vivaah is the pruthak property of that spouse, jabatak the property is `` transmuted '' into jatiyaan property.
The rules liye this vary isse kshetradhikaar to kshetradhikaar.
The duk or duchess of cambridge waving to the crowd at The mal shortly after the vivaah.
The wedding of prince wiliam, duk of cambridge, or catherine middlaton took place on 29 april 2011 at westminster abi in London.
the duulhe, Prince wiliam, Duke of cambridge, is the jyeshtha bete of Charles, prince of wales, or is second in the lakeer of uttaradhikaar to the angrejon Throne and the takhton of fifteen anya rashtramandal realms.
the bahu, catherine `` ket '' middlaton is the jyeshtha of three children of maaikel or carole middlaton of bucklebury, barkshaayar.
the dean of westminster, jon haul, presided at the service ; the archbishop of Canterbury, rowan Williams, conducted the vivaah ; richard chartres, the bishap of landan, preached the upadesh ; and a padhnaa thi given by the bahu 's brother, james.
wiliam 's best man thi his bhai, prince harry, while the bahu 's sistar, pippa, thi naukaraani of izzat.
the rasm thi attended by the bride 's or groom 's pariwaron, as khub as anek foreign royles, rajanyikon, and the couple 's chuni nijee atithi.
After the rasm, the yugal made the paramparaagat rup on the balakani of buckingham rajmahal.
as Prince wiliam thi nahin the vaaris apparent to the singhaasana, the vivaah thi not a puraa state avasar or many vivaran were baayein to the yugal to decide, aise as much of the atithi suchi of parichay 1,900.
prince wiliam or ket Middleton mili in 2001.
unke engagement on 20 aktubar 2010 thi announced on 16 November 2010.
the build-up to the vivaah or the avasar itself attracted much media dhyaan, hone compared in many tareeke saath the 1981 vivaah of wiliam 's parents.
the avasar thi a public avkaash in the sanyukt kingdom or pradarshit anek ceremonial pahaluon, sahit use of the rajya carriages or bhoomikaaye liye the Foot guard and household pyaade.
kaarykram were held around the rashtramandal to chihnit the vivaah ; organisations or hotel held kaarykram aarpaar canada, over 5,000 street partiyon yahood yojit throughout the sanyukt kingdom, or ek lakh logon lined the route between Westminster Abbey and buckingham Palace.
the rasm thi viewed sajiv by tens of lakho more around the sansar, including 72 million on the youtube Royal channel.
in the United Kingdom, television audiyans peaked at 26.3 lakh viewers, saath a total of 36.7 million watching bhaag of the coverage.
venesa anand lachey ( née Minnillo ; born navambar 9, 1980 ) is an amareeki television vyaktitv, television mejabaan, faishan model, or abhinetri.
minnillo thi also named miss tin uese in 1998.
wo rai been a nai York -based correspondent for entertainment tonight or hosted kul nivedan sajiv on amtivi.
a haath ( maid. / lat. : manus, pl. manūs ) is a prehensile, multi- fingered extremity stith at the end of an bhujaa or forelimb of primates or insaano, chimpanzees, bandaron, or lemurs.
A few anya vertebrates aise as the koala ( jisase rai do opposable thumbs on each `` haath '' or fingerprint remarkably similar to human fingerprint ) hai praayah described as having either `` hands '' or `` panje '' on their saamne limbs.
hands hai the main structures for physically manipulating the environment, prayukt for dono gross motor kaushal ( aise as grasping a large object ) or thik motor kaushal ( such as picking up a choti pebble ).
the ungaliyon contain kuch of the densest areas of tantrika endings on the deh, hai the richest sorce of tactile pratikriya, or have the greatest positioning kaabiliyat of the deh ; thus the sense of tach is intimately sambhddha saath hands.
jaise other yugma angon ( ankhen, feet, taange ), prayek hand is dominantly controlled by the opposing dimag golardh, so ki handedness, or the preferred haath chunaav for single-handed kriyaayein such as writing with a pencil, reflects vyaktigat brain kaamkaaj.
kuch evolutionary anatomists use the term hand to refer to the appendage of ank on the forelimb adhik generally — for udhaaharan, in the context of whether the teen digits of the bird haath shaamil the vahi samajaat loss of two ank as in the dinosaur haath.
the insaan haath rai 27 haddiyon, nahin including the sesamoid bones jisase number varies between people.
14 of jisase are the phalanges ( proximal, intermediat or distal ) of the ungliyaan.
the metacarpals hai the haddiyon ki connects the ungliyaan or the kalai.
prayek insaan haath has 5 metacarpals or 8 carpal haddiyon.
Too kool thi a peshewar wrestling tag toli or former gut most notably kriyasheel in sansar kushti federation/entertainment between 1998 or 2001 and liye a short samay in 2004.
moulik digital sachetak clock bagaiyr a radio.
the mark in the top-left of the pradarshak indicates ki the time is 4:00pm, nahin 4:00am.
A 1969 radio sachetak clock ( soni Digimatic 8fc-59w ) saath an jaldi mechanical-digital pradarshak.
A digital clock is a type of clock that pradarshak the time digitally, i.e. in numerals or anya pratikon, as opposed to an analog clock, jahaan the samay is indicated by the sthitiyaan of rotating hands.
digital ghadiyaan are often sambhddha saath electronic drives, lakin the `` digital '' description refers tabhi to the display, not to the drive yantriki.
( Both analog and digital clocks can be chalit either mechanically or electronically, but `` ghatiyantra '' mechanisms with digital pradarshak are rare. )
the biggest digital clock is the Lichtzeitpegel ( `` lite samay str '' ) on the television minar rheinturm düsseldorf, germany.
parivaar guy creator seth MacFarlane bhi provides the awaazen of peter griffin, stewie griffin, bryan griffin, or glen keechad.
parivaar guy is an American animated sitcom ki suvidhaayen paanch main awaz abhinaytaon, or numerous regular cast or punaravarti guest sitaron.
The principal voice cast consists of dikhaaen creator seth macfarlane, Alex Borstein, seth green, mila kunis ( jo replaced lacy Chabert baad the pehla season ) or mike henry or now, the nai karta beau osborn.
Recurring awaz abhinaytaon shaamil patric Warburton, Adam west, jon G. briken, nichol Sullivan and jenifer tilly, or repeat atithi stars include philis diller, Charles Durning, fatafat Limbaugh, and phil lamarr.
anek daal members provide awaazen liye anek characters.
The awaz abhinaytaon, in portraying the vibhinn akshar personalities on the dikhaaen, chithran prerana isse hastiyaan or pop culture.
parivaar guy varna have been nibhaai by adhik than ek actor, baad members of the show left the shrenee or tha conflicting obligations.
Kunis thi manonith for an ani puraskaar liye voicing meg griffin in the season 5 episode `` mushkil vidhik `` and macfarlane rai bhi jiti an emi puraskaar liye Outstanding voice-over pradarshan or an ani puraskaar liye behtareen awaz acting in an anemated television utpaadan, though no other cast sadsy has won an puraskaar for their kaary on the shrenee.
the paanch set of the falak khel ekadhikaar chitrit yahan dikhaaen the evolution of the game 's kalakriti or designs in the sanyukt rajya isse 1935–2005.
the history of the falak khel ekadhikaar can be traced back to the jaldi 20th sadi.
the earliest known dizine thi by the amareeki, elizabeth magie, patented in 1904 lakin maujuuda as early as 1902.
Magie 's original intent was to prakashit a falak khel to illustrate an aarthik principle, namely the georgist avadharana of a single land maan tax.
a shrenee of falak khel yahood viksit isse 1906 through the 1930s ki shaamil the kharide or selling of jameen and the vikaas of ki jameen.
By 1934, a falak khel tha been nirmit much like the sanskaran of Monopoly bechi by Parker bhaaiyo or its sambandhit companiyaan through the rest of the 20th sadi, and into the 21st.
anek logon, zyaadaatar in the midwestern United rajya or nikat the east Coast, contributed to the khel 's design or evolution.
by the 1970s, the vichaar that the game had maharoom created solely by Charles Darrow tha become popular loakgeet ; it thi printed in the game 's nirdesh liye many years, in a 1974 kitaab devoted to ekadhikaar, and thi cited in a general book parichay toys bhi as recently as 2007.
bhi a maargdarshika to parivaar khel prakashit liye reader 's diguest in 2003 tabhi diya credit to darrow or elizabeth Magie, erroneously stating ki magie 's asli khel was nirmit in the 1800s, or nahin acknowledging koi of the khel 's vikaas between Magie 's sristi of the khel, or the eventual prakaashan by parker bhaaiyo.
Also in the 1970s, praadhyaapak ralph anspach, jo tha khud published a falak khel intended to illustrate the principles of both monopolies or vishwaas busting, ladaa Parker bhaaiyo or iske then janak company, saamaanya milon, over the trademarks of the Monopoly board khel.
Through the research of Anspach or anya, much of the jaldi itihaas of the khel thi `` rediscovered ''.
anspach confronted maxine brady, lekhak of the 1974 kitaab The Monopoly kitaab : Strategy or tactics of the World 's Most lokapriy khel over the vaastavik itihaas of the khel on bairi farber 's New york City baat dikhaaen in 1975.
kuki of the lengthy adaalat prakram, including appeals, the vidhik status of parker Brothers ' trademarks on the game thi nahin settled jabatak 1985.
the khel 's name remains a panjikrut trademark of parker bhaaiyo, as do iske vishisht dizine tatv.
at the nishkarsh of the adaalat maamla, the game 's logo or graphic dizine elements became bhaag of a larger ekadhikaar brands, licensed by Parker bhaaiyo ' janak companiyaan onto a kismein of vasteen through the upasthit din.
Despite the `` rediscovery '' of the board khel 's early itihaas in the 1970s or 1980s, or anek kitabe or jarnal aalekh on the subject, hasbro ( Parker Brothers ' vartmaan janak company ) did not acknowledge koi of the khel 's itihaas pehle charles darrow on iske aadhikarik Monopoly jalsthal as recently as june 2012.
Nor did hasbro acknowledge anyone anya than darrow in materials prakashit or pryojit by unhen, at least as recently as 2006.
International tournaments, first yojit in the jaldi 1970s, continue to the present, saath the aglaa world championships likely anusuchit for 2013.
starting in 1985, a nai peedhee of spin-off board khel and card khel appeared on dono pahalu of the atlantic samandar.
in 1989, the first of anek video khel and computer khel editions thi prakashit.
Since 1994, anek aadhikarik visangatiyaan of the khel, aadhaarit on sthitiyaan other than atlantic City, nai jersey ( the aadhikarik u.S. setting ) or London ( the official rashtramandal setting, excepting canada ), have been prakashit by hasbro or iske licensees.
in 2008, hasbro permanently badla the rang yojana or kuch of the gameplay of the maanak u.s. sanskaran of the khel to match the uk Edition, although the u.S. standard sanskaran maintains the Atlantic nagar property names.
Hasbro also parivardhit the aadhikarik logo to give the `` mr. ekadhikaar '' akshar a 3-d computer-generated dekh, which rai since maharoom apanaaya by licensees usaopoly, jeetna chaalen or Winning samaadhaan.
or hasbro rai also maharoom sahit the Speed Die, introduced in 2006 's ekadhikaar : the aachman sanskaran by jeetna Moves khel, in versions utpaadit sidhe by hasbro ( such as the 2009 championships Edition ).
in baseball, a balidaan fly is a batted ball ki satisfies chaar criteria:
vahin hai kam than two outs jab the ball is hit.
the ball is hit to the outfield ( mela or beyimaani ), or to infield beyimaani territory.
the batter is put out kuki an outfielder ( or an infielder kaaryshil in the outfield, or beyimaani territory ) catches the ball on the makkhi ( alternatively if the batter would have maharoom out if not for an galati or if the outfielder boonden the ball and another dhaavak is put out ).
A dhaavak who is already on aadhaar scores on the khel.
it is pukaara a `` sacrifice '' makkhi kuki the batter presumably intends to kaaran a teammate to score a run, jabaki sacrificing uske apana ability to do so.
Minnesota ( ) is a u.S. rajya located in the midwestern sanyukt rajya.
Minnesota thi carved out of the eastern half of the minesota territory or admitted to the Union as the 32nd state on May 11, 1858.
gyaat as the `` jameen of 10,000 jhiilon '', the rajya 's name comes isse a dakota shabd liye `` sky-tinted jal ''.
Those waters, saath saath forests, parks, or wilderness kshetron, prastaav nivaasiyon and tourists a kismein of outdoor recreational opportunities.
minesota is the 12th sabase extensive and the 21st sabase populous of the U.S. rajya.
nearly 60 % of iske residents sajiv in the Minneapolis–Saint paul mahanagar area ( gyaat as the `` judwa shaharon '' ), the center of parivahan, kaarobaar, udyog, education, government and ghar to an internationally known kala jatiyaan.
the shesh of the rajya consists of western prairies now die over to intensive krishi ; deciduous wanon in the southeast, now saaf, farmed and settled ; or the less populated uttar woods, prayukt liye khanan, forestry, or manoranjan.
minesota is gyaat liye iske relatively mishrit soshal or rajnatik orientations, and rai a high rate of civic bhagidaari or voter turnout.
minesota baandhane among the healthiest states, and has a atyadhik sakshar janasankhyikee.
the vishaal bahumat of nivaasiyon are of scandinavian and germany descent.
the rajya is gyaat as a bich of scandinavian amareeki samskruti.
jaateey diversity rai increased in haal dashakon.
substantial influxes of asian, African, or latin amareeki apravasiyon have joined the vanshajon of europea settlers and the original deshi amareeki nivaasiyon.
Grants hai non-repayable funds by one party ( grant makers ), often a government vibhaag, corporation, nyaas or vishwaas, to a, often ( but not always ) a nonprofit entity, shaikshanik sanstha, kaarobaar or an vyaktigat.
in anukram to praapt a grant, kuch form of `` Grant likhane '' praayah referred to as either a prastaav or an application is usually jaruri.
sabase anudaan hai made to nidhi a specific project and aavashyaktaa some str of anupaalan or reporting.
The grant likhane process involves an aavedak submitting a prastaav ( or sabamishan ) to a sambhavit funder, either on the applicant 's own initiative or in jawaab to a Request for Proposal isse the funder.
anya anudaan can be die to individuals, aise as victims of prakritik aapadaaon or individuals who talash to kholen a small kaarobaar.
sometimes grant makers aavashyaktaa grant zaruratmandon to have some rup of tax-exempt aukaat, be a panjikrut nonprofit organization or a local sarkari.
liye udhaaharan, tiered funding liye a frive hai bahut vishaal anudaan negotiated at government niti str.
however smaller grants may be provided by a sarkari agency ( e.g. nagarpalika sarkari ).
project-related funding involving sarkarein, business, communities, and individuals is often arranged by anuprayog either in likhane or online.
naturally occurring cobalt ( Co ) is rachit of 1 stable samasthanik, 59co. 28 radioisotopes have maharoom characterized with the sabase stable hone 60co saath a half-life of 5.2714 saalo, 57Co saath a half-life of 271.79 dinon, 56co saath a half-life of 77.27 dinon, or 58Co with a half-life of 70.86 dinon.
All of the baaki radioactive isotopes have half-lives ki hai kam than 18 ghanton or the bahumat of ye have half-lives ki hai kam than 1 duusari.
is tatv also rai 11 meta rajya, sab of jisase have half-lives kam than 15 minutes.
the isotopes of cobalt dayera in atomic vazan isse 47co to 75co.
The primary decay mode liye isotopes saath parmaanu dravyaman ikai maan kam than that of the sabase abundant stable isotope, 59Co, is electron capture or the praathmik vidhi of kshay liye those of greater than 59 parmaanu mass units is beta kshay.
the praathmik decay utpaada pehle 59Co hai aayran isotopes or the praathmik utpaada after hai nikal isotopes.
maanak parmaanu dravyaman : 58.933195 ( 5 ) u
jo sthanantarit My Cheese ?
An adbhut Way to Deal saath badalen in Your kaary or in apana jivan, prakashit in 1998, is a prerak book by spencer johnson likhaa in the style of a parable or kaarobaar fable.
it describes badalen in ek 's kaary or jivan, and chaar theth pratikriyaayein to kaha change by do chuuhe or do `` littlepeople '', dauraan their hunt liye cheez.
A New york times business bestceller chunki relies, jo sthanantarit My cheez ?
remained on the list for almost five years or kharch over 200 saptaah on prakaashak saptahik 's sajild nonfiction suchi.
it rai bechi adhik than 26 lakh nakal worldwide in 37 bhashaaen or remains to be ek of the best-selling kaarobaar books.
nikita Sergeyevich khrushchev ( – sitambar 11, 1971 ) led the soviet sangh dauraan part of the Cold yuddh.
he parosa as First sachiv of the communist party of the Soviet sangh isse 1953 to 1964, and as adhyaksh of the parishad of mantriyon, or premier, isse 1958 to 1964.
khrushchev was jimmedaar liye the partial de-stalinization of the Soviet Union, liye backing the pragati of the jaldi soviet space kaarykram, or for several relatively udaar reforms in areas of gharelu niti.
Khrushchev 's party sahyogiyon removed use isse power in 1964, replacing use with leonid brezhnev as pehla Secretary or alexi Kosygin as premier.
khrushchev thi born in the Russian village of kalinovka in 1894, close to the present-day border between Russia and yukt.
he thi employed as a metalworker in uske yuvavastha, and dauraan the Russian civil yuddh was a rajnatik commissar.
With the sahaayta of Lazar kaganovich, he worked uske way up the soviet padanukram.
he supported joseph stallin 's purges, or sweekrut hazaron of rakhwale.
In 1939, stallin sent use to govern yukt, or he jari the purges vahin.
During kayaa thi known in the Soviet sangh as the Great patriotic yuddh ( purvi saamne of sansar War ii ), khrushchev thi again a commissar, serving as an intermediary between stallin or uske senapatiyon.
khrushchev was upasthit at the khooni raksha of stalingrad, a fact he took great abhimaan in throughout uske jivan.
baad the war, he returned to yukt pehle hone recalled to Moscow as one of stallin 's band advisers.
in the power sangharsh triggered by stallin 's maut in 1953, khrushchev, baad anek years, emerged vijayi.
on farvari 25, 1956, at the 20th party congress, he vitarit the `` Secret vaak, '' denouncing stallin 's purges or ushering in a kam repressive era in the soviet Union.
uske domestic nitiyon, aimed at bettering the jeevandaan of ordinary citizens, yahood praayah aprabhavi, visheshkar in the kshetrafal of agriculture.
ummid eventually to rely on misile for neshnal raksha, khrushchev ordered pramukh katautee in conventional forces.
Despite the katautee, khrushchev 's rule dekhi the tensest saalo of the Cold yuddh, culminating in the cuban missile sankat.
kuch of khrushchev 's nitiyon were dekhi as erratic, visheshkar by uske ubharate virodhiyon, jo chupchaap rose in shakti and apdasth use in aktubar 1964.
He kiya nahin suffer the ghaatak bhagya of some previous losers of soviet shakti struggles, lakin thi pensioned band saath an apartment in masco and a dacha in the countryside.
uske lengthy memoirs yahood smuggled to the west or published in bhaag in 1970.
Khrushchev died in 1971 of dil beemaari.
apper jathrantra ( gi ) bleeding refers to hemorrhage in the apper jathrantra tract.
the anatomic cut-off liye upper gi bleeding is the ligament of treitz, jisase connects the chauthi portion of the duodenum to the diaphragm near the splenic flexure of the colon.
Upper GI bleeds hai considered chikitsa emergencies, and aavashyaktaa pravesh to hospital liye taatkaalik nidaan and prabandhan.
due to agrim in medications or endoscopy, apper gi hemorrhage is abhi usually treated without surgery.
sansar population estimates from 1800 to 2100, aadhaarit on un 2010 projections ( red, naarangi, green ) or us janasankhyikee beuro aitihaasik estimates ( blike ).
vaastavik ankit janasankhyikee aankade are in blue.
according to the ucchtam estimate, the world janasankhyikee may vruddhi to 16 arab by 2100 ; according to the nunatam estimate, it may manaahi to 6 billion.
the sansar population is the kul kramank of jeena insaano on Earth.
as of aaj, it is estimated to number billion by the United States Census beuro ( uscb ).
the uscb estimates that the sansar janasankhyikee exceeded 7 arab on March 12, 2012.
According to a pruthak anumaan by the sanyukt Nations Population nidhi, it pahunche is padaav on aktubar 31, 2011.
the sansar janasankhyikee rai anbhavi continuous growth chunki the samaapt of the Great akaal or the Black maut in 1350, jab it stood at around 370 lakh.
the highest daron of vikaas – vaishvik janasankhyikee increases upar 1.8 % prati saal – yahood dekhi briefly dauraan the 1950s, or liye a longer kaal dauraan the 1960s or 1970s.
the vikaas rate peaked at 2.2 % in 1963, or had declined to 1.1 % by 2011.
kul salanaa births yahood ucchtam in the late 1980s at parichay 138 lakh, or are abhi apekshit to remain essentially nirantar at unke 2011 str of 134 lakh, jabaki mauton number 56 lakh prati saal, or are apekshit to badhayen to 80 lakh prati year by 2040.
vartmaan projections dikhaaen a jari increase in janasankhyikee in the nikat bhavishya ( lakin a steady decline in the population vikaas rate ), saath the global janasankhyikee expected to reach between 7.5 or 10.5 arab by 2050.
vibhinn longer-term estimates bhavishyavaanee further vikaas, stagnation, or bhi overall manaahi in the global population by 2150.
Some analysts have questioned the sthirataa of further sansar population vikaas, citing the growing pressures on the environment, global khaanaa aapurtiyan, and urja sansaadhan.
philips Lumileds lighting company is the nirmaataa of a chaudee range of high-power/high-efficiency light-emitting diodes ( LEDs ).
it is a abhi a fully swaamitv division of Philips lighting.
knuckle mnemonic liye the kramank of dinon in prayek maah of the gregorian panchang.
prayek projecting knuckle represents a 31-day maah.
a mnemonic (, with a mook `` m '' ), or mnemonic yantra, is koi siikhnaa takanic that aids soochna stambhan.
mnemonics aim to translate soochna into a rup that the human brain can retain behatar than its asli rup.
bhi the prakram of applying this parivartan might already sahaayta the transafar of soochna to long-term memory.
commonly encountered mnemonics hai praayah for suchiyaan or in auditory rup, aise as choti kavitaayen, acronyms, or memorable vaakyansh, lakin mnemonics can also be liye anya types of soochna or in vizual or kinesthetic form.
Their upyog is aadhaarit on the avlokan ki the insaan dimag adhik easily remembers sthanik, nijee, ascharyajanak, shaareerik, yon, humorous, or varanaa 'relatable ' information, rather than adhik abstract or impersonal form of soochna.
the word mnemonic is derived isse the pracheen Greek word μνημονικός ( mnēmonikos ), arth `` of memory '' and is sambandhit to Mnemosyne ( `` samaran '' ), the naam of the devi of memory in Greek mythology.
dono of ye shabd hai niklaa from μνήμη ( mnēmē ), `` samaran, memory ''.
mnemonics in pracheenta yahood sabase often mana in the context of kayaa is today gyaat as the Art of memory.
pracheen unaniyon and romans distinguished between do prakaar of memory : the 'natural ' memory or the 'artificial ' memory.
the former is inborn, or is the one ki everyone uses automatically and without soch.
the kritrim memory in contrast rai to be prashikshit and viksit through the learning or practicing of a variety of mnemonic takneekon.
mnemonic systems are khaas takneekon or ranneeti consciously used to improve memory, it helps employ soochna already stored in long-term memory to mek memorization an easier kaary.
adhyaksh bush signing the no child baayein peeche adhinium at Hamilton h.s. in hamiltan, ohio.
the No child baayein peeche adhinium of 2001 ( nclb ) is a sanyukt rajya adhinium of Congress ki is a reauthorization of the Elementary or dwitiyak shiksha adhinium, jisase included Title i, the sarkari 's flagship aid kaarykram liye disadvantaged vidhyaarthee.
nclb supports standards-based shiksha sudhaar aadhaarit on the aadhaar ki setting unchi maanakon and establishing measurable goals can improve vyaktigat outcomes in shiksha.
the adhinium requires rajya to develop akalan in moulik skills.
States jarur give ye assessments to sab vidhyaarthee at chune grade str in order to praapt sangheey skool funding.
the Act does nahin assert a neshnal achievement maanak ; maanakon hai niyat by each vyaktigat rajya.
nclb vistaarit the sangheey bhoomika in public shiksha through salanaa testing, salanaa academik progress, report cards, teacher qualifications, or funding parivartan.
the vidheyak passed in the u.S. congress saath bipartisan support.
chakma b shrenee utility circa 1950, driven by albert namatjira
A pikup trek or pick-up, often bas referred to as a pikup, is a light motor gadee saath an open-top, pasch cargo kshetrafal ( bed ).
in uttar america, the pad pikup is prayukt liye lite trek saath a halkaa duty chassis or factory nirmit, integrated bed, as khub as liye coupé utility vaahanon, praayah based on a nijee car chassis, but also praayah on a special samarpit chassi liye such upyog.
kuch deshon have unke own sharten samaan to pikup, aise as ute in australia or New jiland, or bakkie in dakshin africa.
vishaal pikup trek hai somewhat viral in Europe, jahaan vine or lite lorries hai commonly prayukt for similar bhoomikaaye.
is 15th-century chithran of sharalamen and pope adrian I shows a well-bred medieval ghoda saath mehrabadar gardan, parishkrut sir or suruchipurna gait.
ghode in the madhya aayu differed in size, build or breed from the aadhunik horse, and yahood, on average, choti.
ve were bhi more central to samaaj than unke aadhunik counterparts, being anivaary for war, krishi, or hastantaran.
natijatan, specific prakaar of horse viksit, anek of jisase have no aadhunik samatuly.
jabaki an understanding of aadhunik ghoda breeds or equestrianism is vital for koi vishleshan of the madhyakaalin ghoda, shodhakartaaon bhi need to consider vruttchitr ( dono likhaa or sachitr ) and puraatatv evidence.
ghode in the Middle aayu yahood rarely differentiated by nasl, lakin balki by upyog.
is led unhen to be varnit, liye example, as `` chargers `` ( war ghode ), `` palfreys `` ( sawari horses ), cart horses or packhorses.
sandarbh is bhi given to their place of utpatti, such as `` spani horses, '' lakin whether is referred to ek breed or anek is anjaan.
another pareshaani arising dauraan koi padhai of medieval documents or literature is the lacheelaapan of the madhyakaalin bhashaaen, jahaan several shabd can be prayukt liye ek thing ( or, conversely, anek vastuen are referred to by ek word ).
shabd aise as ' courser ' and 'chargeier ' hai prayukt interchangeably ( bhi within ek dastauez ), or jahaan ek apik may bolo disparagingly of a rouncey, another gungan its skill and swiftness.
Significant technological agrim in ghudsavaar equipment, praayah introduced from anya samskritiyon, anumat liye significant parivartan in dono warfare and krishi.
In particular, improved dizin for the solid-treed saddle as khub as the aagaman of the rakaab, naal and ghoda collar yahood significant advances in madhyakaalin samaaj.
Consequently, the assumptions or theories viksit by itihaaskaaron hai nahin nirnaayak, or bahes still rages on many issues, such as the prajnan or size of the ghoda, or a kramank of strot jarur be consulted in anukram to samajhe the vishalata of the subject.
The Music man is a musical saath book, music, or geet by Meredith willson, aadhaarit on a story by Willson or franklin lacy.
the plat concerns con man herold hill, who mudraayen as a ladakon ' band aayojak or leader or bikta band yantra and vardi to bholi townsfolk before skipping kasbaa saath the nakadi.
in River nagar, iova, prim librarian or piano teacher Marian paroo sees through use, but when Hill helps uske younger bhai overcome his bhay of social interactions due to uske lisp, marian begins to patan in prem saath Harold.
herold, in phere girnaa liye Marian, risks hone caught to jeet uske.
In 1957, the show became a hit on broadway, jeetna paanch tony puraskaar, sahit Best musical, or kaaryshil liye 1,375 performances.
the cast album jiti the first grami puraskaar liye `` Best Original Cast album '' or thi number one on the Billboard chart for 245 saptaah.
the dikhaaen 's success led to revivals or a lokapriy 1962 filmi adaptation and a 2003 television rimek.
it aksar is utpaadit by both professional and amateur theatre companies.
nireekshak 's wheel
a nireekshak 's wheel, bhi pukaara a clickwheel, hodometer, waywiser, trundle wheel, measuring wheel, or perambulator is a device liye measuring alahada.
largest non-polar registan
baaluu tile in the Rub ' al khali ( `` khaali quarter '' ) of Saudi arab.
makhtesh Ramon, negev marusthal, israel
a marusthal is a landscape or region of jameen that is bahut shushk because of kam varsha amounts ( precipitation ), often rai choti coverage by paudhe, and in jisase streams dry up unless ve hai supplied by water isse outside kshetron.
registan can bhi be described as kshetron jahaan adhik water is khoyaa by evapotranspiration than jalprapaat as precipitation.
marusthal plants jarur have khaas adaptations to jivit saath is choti water.
Deserts generally praapt kam than 25 cm of rain ( varshan ) prayek saal.
semideserts or steppes hai regions which praapt between and.
In the köppen jalwaayu vargeekaran pranali, registan hai classed as bwh ( hot marusthal ) or bwk ( shitoshna marusthal ).
In the Thornthwaite climate vargeekaran pranali, deserts hota be vargeekrut as arid megathermal climates.
World yuddh i ( wwi ) thi a vaishvik war kendrit in Europe ki began on 28 july 1914 or lasted jabatak 11 navambar 1918.
it thi predominantly called the World yuddh or the great yuddh isse iske occurrence jabatak the start of sansar War ii in 1939, or the pehla World War or sansar War i thereafter.
it involved sab the sansar 's great shaktiyaan, jisase yahood samavet in do opposing alliances : the Allies ( aadhaarit on the Triple entente of the United kingdom, frans or rus ) and the Central Powers ( originally the tripal gathbandhan of germany, Austria-Hungary or italy ; lakin, as austria–hungary tha liya the apriy against the anubandh, italy did nahin daalen into the yuddh ).
ye alliances yahood dono reorganised or vistaarit as adhik nations daalaa the war : italy, japani or the United rajya joined the allies, and the Ottoman samrajya or bulgaria the Central shaktiyaan.
Ultimately, more than 70 lakh sainya karmiyon, sahit 60 lakh Europeans, were mobilised in ek of the largest wars in history.
adhik than 9 lakh combatants yahood maare, largely kuki of technological advancements ki led to vishaal increases in the lethality of weapons bagaiyr sambandhit sudhaar in suraksha or mobility.
it thi the fifth- deadliest virodh in sansar itihaas, subsequently paving the rasta liye various political parivartan, such as revolutions in many of the raashtra involved.
ek of the long-term causes of the yuddh thi the punarutthan of samrajyavad in the foreign nitiyon of the great shaktiyaan of europea.
More immediately, the assassination of Archduke Franz ferdinand of Austria, the vaaris to the throne of Austria-Hungary, on 28 june 1914 by yugoslav rashtravaadi gavrilo princip in Sarajevo triggered a diplomatic sankat jab Austria-Hungary subsequently delivered an ultimatum to the Kingdom of Serbia.
anek alliances formed over the previous dashakon yahood invoked.
bheetar saptaah, the major powers yahood at war and, via unke colonies, the virodh soon sprad around the sansar.
on 28 july, the austro-hungarians fired the pehla shots of the yuddh as taiyaari liye the akraman of Serbia.
jabaki the russians mobilised, the Germans invaded neutral belgium or Luxembourg on the rasta to frans, providing a casus belli liye britain 's ghoshnaa of yuddh viruddh germany.
baad the German kooch on paris was brought to a halt—the so-called chamatkaar of the marne —the Western Front settled into a sthir battle of apgharshan with a gart lakeer ki badla little jabatak 1917.
on the purvi saamne, the roosi army thi kaamyaab viruddh the Austro-Hungarians, but thi roka in iske akraman of East prussia by the germans.
in navambar the Ottoman Empire joined the war, kholane up fronts in the kakeshas, mesopotamia and the Sinai.
italy or bulgaria gai to yuddh in 1915 and Romania in 1916.
in rus, the tsar 's sarkari collapsed in kooch 1917 or a subsequent kranti in navambar brought the russians to sharten saath the central shaktiyaan.
baad a 1918 germany offensive saath the pashchimi front, the allies drove waapas the Germans in a shrenee of kaamyaab offensives and amareeki shaktiyaan began pravesh the trenches.
Germany, which had iske apana trubal saath krantikariyon, sahamat to an armistice on 11 navambar 1918.
the war ended in victory liye the Allies.
Events on the ghar fronts yahood as tumultuous as on the battle fronts, as the bhagidaar tried to mobilize unke janashakti and aarthik sansaadhan to lado a kul yuddh.
by the samaapt of the yuddh, chaar pramukh imperial powers—the germany, roosi, austro-hungarian or osmani empires—ceased to maujuud.
the successor rajya of the purv two khoyaa a great raashi of territory, jabaki the latter do yahood dismantled entirely.
the map of central europea thi redrawn into anek choti states.
the lig of raashtra thi formed in the aashaa of preventing another aise virodh.
the European nationalism shakhit by the yuddh and the breakup of empires, the repercussions of Germany 's shikast and problems saath the sandhi of versailles hai sahamat to be factors contributing to sansar yuddh ii.
`` ladakiyon bas want to Have majaa '' is a 1979 song originally likhaa by robert Hazard or bana prasiddh by singer cyndi Lauper.
It thi the pehla pramukh single released by lauper as a solo kalakaar or the lead-off single isse her debyue album wo 's so Unusual.
lauper’s sanskaran gained manyata as a feminist anthem or prachaarit by an award-winning video.
it rai maharoom covered on either an album or in sajiv concert by over 30 anya kalakaaron.
the single thi lauper 's bhedan hit, reaching # 2 on the Billboard hot 100 or banane a worldwide hit throughout let 1983 or jaldi 1984.
it remains ek of lauper 's signature geeton or thi a widely lokapriy song dauraan the era of iske release, the 1980s.
the `` rolling Stone & amtivi : '100 mahanatam pop Songs ' : 1-50 '', `` rolling Stone : `` the 100 sheersh music video '' '' or the `` vh1 : 100 mahanatam Videos '' suchiyaan kramit the song at # 22, # 39 or # 45, kramshah.
the song received a Grammy puraskaar nomination liye ricard of the Year or behtareen maadaa Pop gayan pradarshan.
drishy of defibrillator electrode sthiti or avasthiti.
defibrillation is a common upachaar liye life-threatening hriday dysrhythmias, ventricular fibrillation, and pulseless ventricular tachycardia.
defibrillation consists of delivering a therapeutic dose of vidyut urja to the prabhavit dil saath a device pukaara a defibrillator.
is depolarizes a najuk dravyaman of the dil mansapeshi, terminates the dysrhythmia, or allows normal sinus rhythm to be reestablished by the deh 's natural pacemaker, in the sinoatrial node of the dil.
Defibrillators can be bahya, transvenous, or implanted, depending on the type of device prayukt or needed.
Some external ikai, known as swachaalit bahya defibrillators ( aeds ), automate the nidaan of treatable lay, meaning ki lay responders or bystanders hai samarth to upyog unhen safaltaapurvak saath choti, or in kuch maamle no prashikshan at sab.
The keto Institute is an American libertarian socho tanks headquartered in washington, d.c.
it was founded as the charles Koch nyaas in 1974 by mare Rothbard, ed kraine and charles koch, adhyaksh of the falak or mukhya karypalika officer of the sangutica koch udyog, inc..
in july 1976, the naam was changed to the keto santhaan.
According to the 2011 Global Go To Think tanks anukramanika, keto is the 6th sabase influential us aadhaarit socho tanks, ranking 3rd in aarthik niti or 2nd in soshal Policy.
the santhaan 's stated mishan is `` to increase the samajhnaa of public nitiyon aadhaarit on the siddhanth of simit sarkari, free bazaar, individual swatantraaa, and salaam.
the santhaan hoga upyog the sabase prabhavi means to originate, edwocket, prachaar, or disseminate lagu niti proposals ki banaaen free, kholen, and civil samaajon in the sanyukt States and throughout the sansar. ''
keto vidwaanon were najuk of george W. bush 's republican prashasan ( 2001–2009 ) on anek issues, sahit the Iraq yuddh, civil liberties, shiksha, krishi, urja policy, and excessive government bitaa.
on other mudde, ve samarthit bush administration initiatives, sabase notably health parvaah, Social suraksha, vaishvik varming, kar niti, or avrajan.
During the 2008 U.S. presidential chunaav, keto scholars criticized dono major-party ummidavaar, John macken or Barack Obama.
keto has criticized President obama 's stances on policy mudde since his udghaatan, such as phiscal stimulus, healthcare sudhaar, videshi niti, and the yuddh on davaayen, while supporting his stance on the repeal of do n't pucho, do n't bataanaa and udaar immigration niti.
drakula is an 1897 gothic horror anokhaa by irish lekhak bram stokar.
Famous liye introducing the akshar of the pishaach ginati drakula, the novel tells the story of drakula 's attempt to relocate isse transylvania to England, or the battle between drakula or a small group of main and mahilaon led by praadhyaapak abraham vine helsing.
Dracula has been abantit to anek saahitiyik jati sahit pishaach literature, horer fiction, the gothic anokhaa or akraman sahitya.
the anokhaa chhu on themes aise as the bhoomika of mahilaon in victorian culture, sexual conventions, immigration, upniveshwaad, or post-colonialism.
haalanki Stoker kiya nahin ifatera the pishaach, he paribhaashit iske aadhunik rup, and the novel rai shakhit numerous theatrical, filmi or television interpretations.
Quidditch is a pratispardhi sport in the wizarding world of the Harry kumhaar brahmad, or is from the shrenee of children 's novels and filmon.
it is an atyadhik ashisht lakin bahut lokapriy semi-contact sport, nibhaai by wizards or witches.
milan are nibhaai between do tiimon of saat khilaadi sawari flying broomsticks, using chaar genden or chah elevated ring-shaped lakshya, three on prayek paksh of the Quidditch pich ( field ).
in the harry kumhaar universe, quidditch holds a fervent following samaan to the sthiti ki sangh football holds as a globally lokapriy khel.
The khel is smaarkeey throughout the wizarding sansar.
harry plays an important sthiti liye his house toli at hoguarts : he is the seeker or becomes the captain in uske chathe year vahin.
Regional and international pratiyogitaaon hai ullekith throughout the series.
In Goblet of aag, Quidditch at Hogwarts is radd liye the Tri-Wizard Tournament, lakin Harry or the Weasleys attend the quidditch sansar cap.
in jod, harry uses his Quidditch kaushal to capchar a golden anda from a dragon pukaara the hungarian horntail ( in the first task of the Tri-Wizard toornament ), to capture a udati kunjee in Philosopher 's stone, or on two kunjee occasions in deathly Hallows — getting tham of ravenclaw 's diadem, and dauraan the final lado with voldemort — the `` unerring skill of the seeker '' is upyogi to use in snatching the elder Wand out of the air.
harry Potter has swaamitv do broomsticks, the Nimbus 2000 or the firebolt, dono of which hai destroyed by the shrenee ' samaapt.
The khel rai maharoom apanaaya in the real sansar in the rup of magalu quidditch.
the sanyukt rajya congress is the bicameral vidhanmandal of the sangheey sarkari of the sanyukt rajya consisting of do gharon : the nimnatar house known as the house of Representatives or the upper house gyaat as the Senate.
congress meets in the capital in washington, d.c.
dono pratinidhi or seenetteron are chosen through sidhaa chunaav.
Congress rai a kul of 535 matdaan sadasyon : 435 members in the house of Representatives or 100 sadasyon in the seenet.
sadasyon of the house of Representatives serve two-year sharten representing the people of a district.
congressional jile are apportioned to rajya by janasankhyikee using the sanyukt rajya janasankhyikee parinaam, each rajya in the sangh having at tanik one pratinidhi in the house of Representatives.
regardless of population, each of the 50 states has do seenetteron ; the 100 senators prayek serve a six-year pad.
the terms hai staggered so every do saalo approximately one-third of the seenet is up liye chunaav.
prayek ladkadhaate samooh of one-third of the seenetteron hai pukaara 'classes '.
No rajya of the sanyukt rajya has two seenetteron isse the vahi class.
sabase incumbents seek re-election, or unke aitihaasik likelihood of jeetna subsequent chunaavon exceeds 90 percent.
in August 2012, a gallup pole reported ki congress’s approval darja amongst america thi at 10 %, milan a 38-year kam pahunche in navambar 2011.
`` a Little adhik desh than ki '' is the sheershak of a song likhaa by joy + rori 's Rory Lee feek, vyaan varble, or Don poythress, and ankit by amareeki country kalakaar Easton corbin.
it thi released in August 2009 as Corbin 's debyue single or is included on uske self-titled debyue album.
in april 2010, the song reached kramank ek on the country music charts, making Corbin the pehla purush solo kalakaar in saat saalo to bhejein a debyue single to kramank ek.
it rai been certified sunaharaa by the riaa.
The BlackBerry is a lakeer of wireless handeld divaais and sevaayen designed or marketed by shodh in gati simit ( rim ) operating as BlackBerry.
the pehla blueberi device, an email pager, was released in 1999 ; the sabase recent blueberi divaais, the z10 or Q10, yahood ghoshit on janvari 30, 2013.
the upayokta interfes varies by model ; most feature a physical QWERTY kunjeepatal, jabaki nae generations have relied on a multi-touch screen or abhaasi kunjeepatal.
A blueberi can shoot video, lo photo, play music, or perform online functions such as web-browsing or emailing.
ve can also bhejein and praapt dhakka email or instant messages jabaki maintaining a unchi str of suraksha through on-device message ancripshan, and are designed to function as nijee digital assistants.
blueberi divaais support a large kismein of instant messaging suvidhaayen, with the sabase popular being the malikana blueberi messanger seva.
The BlackBerry playbook is a tablett computer offered by the company.
the 100 millionth blueberi smartphone thi shipped in june quarter of 2010 or the 200 millionth smartphone thi shipped in sitambar quarter of 2012.
blueberi khate liye 3 % of mobile yantra bikri worldwide in 2011, bananaa iske nirmaataa the chathe sabase popular yantra mekar ( 25 % of mobile device bikri hai smartphones ).
the upabhokta BlackBerry antarjaal seva is uplabdhiyaan in 91 deshon vishwavyaapee on over 500 mobile service oparator using various mobile technologies.
As of sitambar 2012, there were assi lakh subscribers vishwavyaapee to BlackBerry.
In 2011 the caribbean or latin america tha the highest penetrations of blueberi smartphone vishwavyaapee, with up to about 45 prati cent in the pradesh having a rim device.
blueberi, iphone, android, or Windows phone are considered the chaar pramukh smartphone brands.
BlackBerry is widely referred to as `` CrackBerry '' in the sanyukt States, which alludes to iske excessive upyog by iske swami and is a reference to the addictiveness of crack cocaine.
upyog of the term crackberry became so widespread ki in navambar 2006 webster 's nai World College shabdkosh namit `` crackberry '' the `` nai Word of the saal. ''
an udhaaharan of a maang vakr shifting.
The shift isse d1 To d2 arthath an increase in maang with consequences liye the other variables
In arthshaastra, the demand vakr is the aalekh depicting the relationship between the daam of a nishchit camodity or the amount of it that upabhokta are willing or able to khariden at ki die daam.
It is a graphic representation of a demand anusuchee.
the maang vakr liye all upabhokta saath follows isse the maang vakr of every individual consumer : the individual maange at prayek price hai added together.
Demand curves hai prayukt to anumaan vyavhaar in pratispardhi bazaar, or are praayah sanyukt with supplai curves to anumaan the santulan price ( the price at jisase vikreta saath hai willing to bechein the vahi raashi as kharidaar saath hai willing to khride, bhi gyaat as market clearing price ) or the equilibrium maatra ( the raashi of that shubh or seva that hoga be utpaadit or kharida bagaiyr surplus/excess supplai or shortage/excess maang ) of that market.
in a monopolistic market, the maang vakr facing the monopolist is bas the market maang vakr.
historia
by nikolaos Gysis ( 1892 )
itihaas ( isse unani - historia, arth `` inquiry, knowledge acquired by investigation '' ) is an chhatariyaan pad that relates to past kaarykram as khub as the discovery, collection, organization, or presentation of soochna parichay ye events.
the pad shaamil loukik, bhugarbhik, and sashulk itihaas, lakin is praayah generically implied to mean human itihaas.
Scholars jo write parichay itihaas are called itihaaskaaron.
itihaas can bhi refer to the academic discipline which upyog a narrative to jaanchen or analyse a sequence of past kaarykram, or objectively determine the pattern of cause or prabhaav that determine unhen.
itihaaskaaron sometimes bahes the prakruti of itihaas and iske upyogita by discussing the padhai of the anushaasan as an end in itself and as a rasta of providing `` pariprekshya '' on the problems of the present.
Stories common to a particular samskruti, but nahin samarthit by external sources ( such as the kisse surrounding King Arthur ) hai praayah vargeekrut as saanskrithik heritage or mahapurush, kuki ve do not support the `` disinterested investigation '' jaruri of the anushaasan of itihaas.
kaarykram occurring prior to likhaa ricard are considered prehistory.
Herodotus, a 5th sadi b.c. unani itihaaskaar is mana bheetar the Western parampara to be the `` father of itihaas '', or, saath with uske contemporary thucydides, helped rup the foundations for the aadhunik padhai of insaan itihaas.
unke kaary continues to be padhaa aaj or the divide between the culture-focused herodotus and the military-focused thucydides remains a point of contention or drushtikon in modern aitihaasik likhane.
in the purvi parampara, a rajya vrittant the vasant or patjhad annals thi known to be compiled from as jaldi as 722 bce although tabhi 2nd century bce granth batch.
Ancient prabhaav have helped spawn roopaantar interpretations of the prakruti of history which have evolved over the sadiyaan or continue to badalen aaj.
the aadhunik padhai of itihaas is wide-ranging, and shaamil the padhai of specific regions or the study of nishchit topical or thematical tatv of aitihaasik chaanbin.
praayah itihaas is sikhaaya as bhaag of praathmik or dwitiyak shiksha, and the academik study of history is a major anushaasan in vishvavidhyalayon adhyayan.
mailkam X ( ; may 19, 1925february 21, 1965 ), born mailkam choti and bhi known as el-hajj Malik El-Shabazz ( ), thi an african-american muslim mantri or insaan adhikaron activist.
to uske admirers, he was a saahsee edwocket liye the adhikaron of ashweton, a man jo indicted shwet america in the harshest sharten for its crimes viruddh blike Americans.
detractors accused use of upadesh jatvaad, blike sarvocchata, or violence.
He rai maharoom pukaara ek of the greatest or most influential africa Americans in itihaas.
Malcolm x 's pita died—killed by shwet supremacists, it thi rumored—when he was young, or at least ek of uske uncles thi lynched.
jab he was 13, uske mother thi lagaai in a mental hospital, or he thi lagaai in a shrenee of foster gharon.
In 1946, at age 20, he went to thana for todakar and pravesh.
in prison, mailkam x became a sadsy of the swadesh of islam ; baad uske parole in 1952, he jaldi rose to become ek of iske netao.
liye a dozen saalo, mailkam x was the public phase of the vivaadaaspad samooh, lakin mohabhang saath swadesh of islam sir Elijah mohammad led him to leave the Nation in kooch 1964.
baad a kaal of safar in Africa or the Middle east, he laute to the sanyukt rajya, jahaan he santhaapit muslim masjide, Inc. or the sanghathan of afro-american ekta.
in February 1965, kam than a saal baad leaving the swadesh of islam, he thi assassinated by teen sadasyon of the group.
Malcolm X 's expressed beliefs changed substantially over samay.
as a pravaktaa liye the Nation of islam he sikhaaya blike supremacy or advocated virah of blike and white america —in contrast to the civil adhikaron gati 's emphasis on sangyojan.
After breaking saath the Nation of islam in 1964—saying of uske sangh saath it, `` I did anek bate as a [ Black ] muslim ki i 'm sorry for now.
I thi a pret tab... pointed in a certain disha or bataai to kooch '' —and banane a sunni muslim, he disavowed jatvaad or expressed willingness to work saath civil adhikaron netao, he jari to emphasize pan-africanism, black self-determination, or self-defense.
Henry merritt `` haank '' paulson, jr. ( born kooch 28, 1946 ) is an amareeki banker jo parosa as the 74th sanyukt rajya sachiv of the rajkosh.
he tha parosa as the Chairman or mukhya karypalika adhikari of goldman Sachs, or is now adhyaksh of the Paulson santhaan, jisase he santhaapit in 2011 to prachaar sustainable aarthik vikaas and a clinar environment around the sansar, saath an aarambhik fokas on the sanyukt rajya or china.
a abhaasi yantra ( vm ) is a software implemented abstraction of the underlying hardware, jisase is prastut to the application parat of the pranali.
Virtual mashine may be aadhaarit on visheshtaayen of a kaalpanik computer or emulate the computer architecture and functions of a real sansar computer.
Spiders ( anukram araneae ) are air-breathing arthropods that have aath taange and chelicerae with fangs ki inject venom.
ve hai the largest anukram of arachnids and rank seventh in kul prajati diversity among all anya groups of organisms.
makadiyon hai found vishwavyaapee on prayek mahadweep magar for Antarctica, and have become established in nearly prayek awaas saath the excepshan of air or samudr colonization.
as of 2008, at tanik 43,678 spider species, or 109 pariwaron have maharoom ankit by taxonomists ; however, vahin rai maharoom confusion bheetar the scientific community as to kaisaa all ye pariwaron chahie be classified, as evidenced by the over 20 different classifications ki have maharoom prastaavit chunki 1900.
anatomically, makadiyon differ isse anya arthropods in ki the usual body khand hai fused into do tagmata, the cephalothorax or udar, or joined by a small, belanaakaar pedicel.
naapsand keet, makadiyon do nahin have antennae.
in sab magar the sabase primitive group, the mesothelae, spiders have the sabase centralized nervous systems of all arthropods, as sab unke ganglia hai fused into ek mass in the cephalothorax.
naapsand sabase arthropods, makadiyon have no extensor mansapeshiyaan in their limbs and instead extend unhen by hydraulic dabaav.
Their abdomens bhaaluu appendages that have been parivardhit into spinnerets ki extrude resha isse up to chah prakaar of resha grathiyon bheetar unke abdomen.
makadi webs vary widely in aakaar, shape or the raashi of stick ladi prayukt.
It now appears ki the spiral orb web may be ek of the earliest form, and spiders ki produce uljhe cobwebs are adhik abundant or diverse than orb-web makadiyon.
Spider-like arachnids with silk-producing spigots appeared in the devonian kaal about, lakin ye pashu apparently lacked spinnerets.
sachcha makadiyon have maharoom found in carboniferous rocks from, or hai bahut similar to the sabase aadim surviving anukram, the Mesothelae.
The main groups of aadhunik makadiyon, mygalomorphae or araneomorphae, pehla appeared in the triassic period, pehle.
a herbivorous prajati, Bagheera kiplingi, thi varnit in 2008, lakin sab other known prajati hai parabhakshi, zyaadaatar preying on keet and on anya spiders, haalanki a few vishaal prajati also take birds and lizards.
makadiyon use a chaudee range of ranneeti to capchar shikaar : trapping it in sticky webs, lassoing it with stick bolas, mimicking the shikaar to avoid ditection, or running it bas.
sabase detect prey mainly by sensing vibrations, lakin the kriyasheel hunters have adhi vision, or hunters of the genus portia dikhaaen lakshan of intelligence in their chunaav of tactics or kshamta to develop nai ones.
makadiyon ' gustaakhee are too narrow to lo solids, or ve liquidize unke khaanaa by baadh it with digestive anzimon or grinding it saath the bases of unke pedipalps, as ve do nahin have true jaws.
purush makadiyon pahachaano themselves by a kismein of jatil premalap sanskaar to avoid being eaten by the mahilaon.
males of most prajati jivit a few matings, limited mainly by their choti jivan spans.
Females bunate silk egg-cases, each of which may contain sainkadon of andey.
mahilaon of anek prajati parvaah liye unke yang, liye udhaaharan by carrying unhen around or by sharing khaanaa with unhen.
a alpsankhyak of prajati hai soshal, building sampradayik webs ki may house anywhere from a few to 50,000 individuals.
Social behavior seemayen isse precarious toleration, as in the widow spiders, to co-operative shikaar or food-sharing.
haalanki sabase spiders sajiv liye at sabase do years, tarantulas and anya mygalomorph makadiyon can sajiv up to 25 saalo in captivity.
jabaki the venom of a few prajati is khatarnaak to insaano, vaigyanikon are abhi researching the upyog of makadi venom in medicine and as non-polluting pesticides.
Spider resha provides a sangyojan of lightness, shakti and loch that is superior to ki of synthetic materials, and makadi resha jeenon have maharoom inserted into mammals or plants to see if ye can be prayukt as resha factories.
As a result of unke wide dayera of behaviors, spiders have become aam symbols in art or mythology symbolizing vibhinn combinations of patience, cruelty or rachanaatmak shaktiyaan.
donna maari pinciotti ( born February 13, 1960 ) is a fictional akshar and one of the two maadaa leads in the fox sitcom ki '70s Show, appearing in sab aath seasons.
portrayed by laura prepon, donna is the prem interest to Eric forman.
US county household madhya income 2009.
madhya US household aay, 2001-2011
household aay is a measure commonly prayukt by the sanyukt States sarkari or nijee sansthaanon.
prayek household is measured by the aay of prayek nivasee over the aayu of 15.
aay shaamil mazdooree or salaries, berogari bime, viklaangata payments, child support bhugtan praapt, niyamit rental receipts, as khub as koi nijee kaarobaar, nivesh, or anya kinds of aay received routinely.
While inflation-adjusted ( `` real '' ) household aay had been increasing almost prayek saal from 1945 to 1999, it has chunki maharoom flat or bhi decreased recently.
u.S. madhya household aay giri isse $ 51,144 in 2010 to $ 50,502 in 2011.
charam garibi in the sanyukt rajya, arth households living on kam than $ 2 per din before sarkari laabh, doubled from 1996 to 1.5 lakh households in 2011, sahit 2.8 lakh children.
the nivaasiyon of the household do not have to be sambandhit to the sir of the household for their earnings to be mana part of the household 's aay.
as households tend to share a samaan aarthik context, the upyog of household aay remains among the most widely sweekrut upayon of aay.
That the aakaar of a household is not commonly liya into khaataa in aise upayon may distort koi vishleshan of fluctuations bheetar or among the household aay categories, or may rendor direct comparisons between quintiles difficult or bhi impossible.
A panjikrut agent, bhi known as a nivasee agent or statutory agent, in United rajya kaarobaar law, is a kaarobaar or vyaktigat designated to receive seva of prakram ( sop ) when a business entity is a party in a vidhik karrwai such as a mukadmaa or saman.
The registered agent 's pataa may also be jahaan the rajya hoga send the kagaji liye the vaarshik naveekaran of the kaarobaar antity 's charter.
the panjikrut agent liye a business entity may be an vyaktigat member of the company, or ( adhik often ) a teesraa party, such as the organization 's vakil or a seva company.
vifaltaa to properly maintain a panjikrut agent can affect a company negatively.
daftar for apaat prabandhan.
daftar of yuddh Information yuddh poster 1941 - 1945
`` jivan, swatantraaa, and the pursuit of sukh '' is a well-known phrase in the sanyukt rajya ghoshnaa of swatantraaa.
The phrase is meant to exemplify the `` unalienable adhikaron '' with jisase all insaan beings hai endowed by unke creator liye their suraksha of which ve institute sarkarein.
talwarbaji, is typically divided into Olympic talwarbaji, shastreey talwarbaji or aitihaasik talwarbaji,.
the sport of talwarbaji ( commonly called olympic fencing or competitive talwarbaji ) is vibhajit into teen hathiyaar shrenee : foil, sabre or épée.
shastreey talwarbaji uses the vahi teen hathiyaar, lakin approaches talwarbaji as a martial art.
Competitive talwarbaji is ek of paanch khel which has been pradarshit at every one of the aadhunik olympic khel, the anya four being Athletics, cycling, tairaaki, or jimnastics.
the quadriceps femoris ( latin for `` four-headed mansapeshi of the femur `` ), bhi pukaara bas the quadriceps, quadriceps extensor, quads, is a large mansapeshi samooh ki shaamil the four prachlit mansapeshiyaan on the saamne of the thigh.
it is the great extensor mansapeshi of the ghutana, forming a vishaal maansal mass jisase covers the saamne or pahalu of the femur.
the uchit latin bahuvachan rup of the kriyasheel quadriceps hota be quadricipites.
in aadhunik angrezi upyog, quadriceps is prayukt in dono ekvachan or bahuvachan.
the ekvachan rup quadricep, utpaadit by hypercorrection, is aksar used.
RMS titannic thi a angrejon yatri liner that sank in the uttar atlantic samandar on 15 april 1912 baad colliding saath an iceberg dauraan uske maiden voyage isse southampton, uk to nai york nagar, US.
the dub of Titanic caused the mauton of 1,502 people in one of the deadliest peacetime meritime disasters in modern itihaas.
the rms titannic thi the largest jalayaan afloat at the samay of her maiden voyage.
wo thi the duusari of teen Olympic class samandar liners sanchalit by the shwet star lakeer, or she thi nirmit by the harland or Wolff shipyard in belfast saath thomas Andrews, jo perished saath the jalayaan, as her naval vaastu.
on uske maiden voyage, she carried 2,224 yatri or kru.
Under the cmand of edward smith, uske yatri shaamil some of the wealthiest logon in the world, as well as sainkadon of emigrants isse great britain and ireland, scandinavia and elsewhere throughout europea seeking a new jivan in uttar america.
the ship thi designed to be the pichhlaa shabd in sukun or luxury, with an on-board gymnasium, swimming pool, libraries, high-class restaraan and opulent cabin.
wo bhi had a shaktishaalee betaar telegraph provided liye the convenience of passengers as well as liye operational upyog.
haalanki she had unnat suraksha suvidhaayen aise as watertight compartments or remotely activated watertight dwaar, wo lacked paryaapt lifeboats to accommodate sab of those savaar.
kuki of outdated maritime suraksha regulations, she carried tabhi paryaapt lifeboats liye 1,178 people—slightly adhik than half of the kramank yatraaen on the maiden voyage, and one-third her kul passenger or kru kshamta.
baad leaving southampton on 10 april 1912, titannic pukaara at cherbourg in frans or Queenstown ( abhi cobh ) in Ireland pehle heading westwards towards nai york.
on 14 april 1912, chaar dinon into the crossing or about 375 mile ( 600 km ) dakshin of newfoundland, wo hit an iceberg at 11:40 pm jalayaan 's samay.
the glancing takkar caused Titanics hull platon to bakal inwards saath uske starboard paksh and kholi paanch of uske solah watertight compartments to the samudr ; the ship dhire filled saath jal.
Meanwhile, yatri or kuch kru sadasyon were evacuated in lifeboats, anek of jisase were shubharambh only partly loaded.
a disproportionate number of main yahood left savaar kuki of a `` mahilaon or children first `` protocol followed by some of the officers ladaan the lifeboats.
by 2:20 AM, wo broke alaava or foundered, saath khub over ek thousand logon still savaar.
bas antargat do ghanton baad the Titanic foundered, the cunard liner RMS carpathia arrived on the jhaanki of the sinking, where wo brought savaar an anumaanit 705 survivors.
the vipatti thi greeted saath worldwide shock or aakrosh at the vishaal loss of life or the regulatory or operational failures that tha led to it.
Public inquiries in britain or the sanyukt rajya led to pramukh improvements in maritime safety.
ek of unke most mahatvapurn legacies was the establishment in 1914 of the International sammelan liye the Safety of Life at samudr ( solas ), jisase still governs maritime safety aaj.
additionally, several new betaar regulations yahood passed around the world in an effort to sikh from the many missteps in betaar sanchaar -- -which could have saved anek adhik passengers.
anek of the survivors khoyaa sab of unke money and possessions and yahood baayein aksham ; many pariwaron, visheshkar those of kru sadasyon isse southampton, khoyaa unke primary bread-winners.
ve yahood helped by an outpouring of public sympathy or charitable daan.
kuch of the purush survivors were abhiyukt of cowardice liye leaving the ship jabaki logon yahood still on falak ; the shwet star lakeer 's adhyaksh, J. bruce ismay, faced soshal ostracism liye the rest of uske jivan.
the wreck of the titannic remains on the seabed, vibhajit in two or dhire disintegrating at a depth of.
Since iske discovery in 1985, hazaron of artefacts have maharoom recovered or put on pradarshak at museums around the world.
titannic has become ek of the sabase famous ships in itihaas, uske memory rakhaa jinda by numerous books, lok geeton, films, exhibits, and memorials.
The insaan leg is the sampurna lower extremity or limb of the human deh, including the foot, thigh or even the hip or gluteal pradesh ; however, the precise definition in insaan anatomy refers only to the section of the nimnatar limb extending isse the ghutana to the takhne.
taange hai prayukt for khadaa, walking, kud, running, kicking, or samaan kriyaayein, or constitute a significant portion of a person 's dravyaman.
is aalekh is parichay the janasankhyikee suvidhaayen of the janasankhyikee of Turkey, including population ghanatv, nasl, education level, swasthya of the populace, aarthik aukaat, religious sambandhon and anya pahaluon of the janasankhyikee.
As of 2010, the population of turkon is anumaanit to be 73.7 lakh with a growth rate of 1.21 % prati annum ( 2009 figure ).
The janasankhyikee is apekshaakrit yang saath 26.6 % girnaa in the 0-14 aayu koshthak.
according to the OECD/World Bank janasankhyikee aankde in Turkey the janasankhyikee vikaas isse 1990 to 2008 thi 16 lakh or 29 %.
1998 bmw 750iL
Buick roadmaster
A full-size car is a vipanan pad used in uttar america for an automobile larger than a mid-size car.
in the United States, the epa upyog the pad `` large car '' to denote full-size gaadiyaan.
Joel dhoosar ( born April 11, 1932 ) is an American stage or screen karta, singer, or nartki, gyaat for his bhoomika as the nipun of ceremonies in dono the stage or film adaptation of the Kander & utaar musical Cabaret.
He rai jiti the Academy puraskaar, Tony puraskaar and sunahari globe puraskaar.
he also originated the bhoomika of george M. cohan in the musical george M !
in 1973, the Wizard in the musical dusht.
dhoosar bhi strecchar in the Broadway revivals of anything goes as Moonface martin, or Chicago as amos Hart.
james Madison, jr. ( March 16, 1751 ( o.s. kooch 5 ) – June 28, 1836 ) thi an amareeki statesman or rajnatik theorist, the chauthi President of the United rajya ( 1809–1817 ).
he is hailed as the “father of the Constitution” for being instrumental in the drafting of the sanyukt rajya samvidhan and as the kunjee champion or lekhak of the United States vidheyak of Rights.
he served as a rajaneta much of his vayask jivan.
After the samvidhan tha maharoom drafted, Madison became ek of the netao in the gati to ratify it.
His sahyog saath sikandar hamiltan or John jay utpaadit the federalist papers ( 1788 ).
parichaalit only in New york at the samay, ve hota later be mana among the most important polemics in support of the Constitution.
he was bhi a pratinidhi to the virginia sanvaidhanik ratifying sammelan, or thi instrumental to the successful anusamarthan effort in virginia.
jaise sabase of his contemporaries, medisson badla uske rajnatik views dauraan his life.
During the drafting or anusamarthan of the samvidhan, he favored a damdaar national sarkari, haalanki baad he grew to ehsaan stronger rajya governments, pehle settling between the do extremes late in uske jivan.
in 1789, medisson became a netaa in the new House of pratinidhi, drafting anek moulik kanoon.
he is notable for drafting the first ten amendments to the samvidhan, and yun is gyaat as the `` pita of the vidheyak of adhikaron ``.
Madison worked closely saath adhyaksh George washington to organize the nai sangheey government.
todakar with hamiltan or what became the federalist party in 1791, medisson or thomas jeffrasan vyavasthit what ve called the Republican Party ( later pukaara by itihaaskaaron the democratic-republican party )
as jefferson’s Secretary of rajya ( 1801–1809 ), Madison paryvekshit the louisiana khariden, jisase doubled the nation’s aakaar.
baad uske election to the presidency, he presided over navinikrut samruddhi liye anek saalo.
as adhyaksh ( 1809–17 ), baad the vifaltaa of diplomatic virodh or a vyapaar embargo viruddh great britain, he led the swadesh into the yuddh of 1812.
he was responding to British encroachments on amareeki honor or adhikaron ; in addition, he wanted to end the influence of the British among unke Indian allies, jinaki pratirodh avarodhit sanyukt rajya upnivesh in the Midwest around the Great jhiilon.
medisson mila the yuddh to be an prashasnic duswapn, as the sanyukt rajya had neither a strong fouj nor vittiya pranali ; as a parinaam, he afterward supported a stronger national government and a damdaar sainya, as khub as the national bainko, which he had long opposed.
jaise other Virginia kootneetigyon in the slave samaaj, he thi a slaveholder jo inherited uske vriksharopan known as montpelier, or swaamitv sainkadon of slave dauraan uske lifetime to cultivate tobacco or anya fasalon.
medisson samarthit the three-fifths sulah ki anumat three-fifths of the enumerated janasankhyikee of slave to be gine liye representation.
`` roman 's Revenge '' is a song performed by amareeki rapper niki Minaj isse uske debyue studio album gulabi shuukravaar.
it thi written by minaj or rapper eminem, jo is bhi featured in the song, or thi utpaadit by swizz beatz.
it was released exclusively on aktubar 30, 2010 through the US itunes store, as a promotional relies preceding the album 's relies.
the song initiated a feud between leel ' kim or Minaj, jahaan anek logon laga the song thi directed at leel ' Kim or regarded around uske feelings towards Minaj 's vruddhi to fame.
The song references Minaj 's alter-ego, roman Zolanski, or eminem 's alter-ego, patala Shady.
the song garnered bahut dhanatmak samikshaayen isse critics, sabase of which praised the song as a stand-out track on the album.
an official remix featuring minaj 's mentor, leel Wayne, was released to the us itunes Store on janvari 19, 2011.
The instrumental thi prayukt in the song 'firing Squad ' by naal G.A.N.G.
hydrolic drav hone poured.
hydrolic fluids, bhi called hydraulic liquids, hai the medium by jisase shakti is transferred in hydrolic mashinari.
aam hydrolic fluids hai aadhaarit on khanij aayal or water.
udhaaharan of upkaran ki might use hydrolic fluids shaamil excavators or backhoes, hydrolic brakes, shakti parichaalan pranaaliyon, transmishan, kachra trek, aircraft udaan control pranaaliyon, lifts, or audyogic machinery.
hydrolic systems jaise the ones ullekith above hoga kaary most efficiently if the hydraulic drav prayukt has no compressibility
mahindra tractor
Mahindra tractors, the farm upkaran prabhag of Mahindra & mahindra, builds or sources tractors ki are bechi vishwavyaapee aarpaar chah mahadwipon.
mahindra is bhi among the sheersh teen tractor nirmaataaon in the world.
Mahindra rai a vishaal consumer aadhaar in india, china and America or a growing aadhaar in australia.
the company builds more tractors in india than koi anya nirmaataa, or rai the capacity to nirmaan 150,000 tractors a year.
in 1963, m & M formed a sanyukt venture saath antarrashtriya harvester to manufacture tractors carrying the Mahindra nameplate liye the bhartiya market.
hathiyaarband saath abhiyantriki, tooling or manufacturing know-how gained isse is sambandh, m & M viksit iske pehla tractor, the B-275.
Mahindra tractors saath sales of nearly 85,000 ikai annually is ek of the largest tractor companiyaan in the sansar, and is kramank ek in sales in India - the largest tractor market in the sansar.
To vistaar into the growing tractor market in china, mahindra acquired majority hissedari in Jiangling.
To raise jaagrukta parichay mahindra in the US, mahindra uese announced iske nai praayojan in the nascar deshbhar shrenee saath r3 motorsport, jisase is participating with a # 23 mahindra tractors shevarlyt.
The car will be chalit by Robert richardsan, Jr. mahindra USA, inc. announced a 17-race primary or 18-race sambhddha praayojan liye the 2009 nascar deshbhar shrenee.
saath is praayojan, Mahindra thi the pehla bhartiya company to sponsor a car in NASCAR.
in 2008, mahindra was a praayojak of the McDonald motorsport toli which bhaaga the # 81 car in the nascar Nationwide shrenee.
The POWER6 is a microprocessor developed by ibm that implemented the Power isa v.2.03.
jab it became uplabdhiyaan in systems in 2007, it succeeded the POWER5+ as ibm 's flagship shakti microprocessor.
it is part of the eclipz project, kaha to have a goal of converging ibm 's server hardware jahaan vyaavhaarik ( hence `` ipz '' in the acronym : iseries, pseries, or zseries ).
the amareeki madhya class is a soshal class in the sanyukt rajya.
jabaki the concept is typically ambiguous in popular raay or aam language upyog, contemporary soshal vaigyanikon have put aage anek, adhik or less congruent, theories on the amareeki middle class.
depending on class model used, the madhya class may constitute anywhere isse 25 % to 66 % of households.
One of the pehla major adhyayan of the madhya class in america thi shwet collar : the amareeki madhya varg, prakashit in 1951 by sociologist C. rhite Wright_Mills Mills Wright_Mills.
Later sociologists aise as denis Gilbert of hamiltan college commonly divide the madhya class into do sub-groups.
constituting roughly 15 % to 20 % of households is the apper or peshewar middle class consisting of highly shikshit, salaried peshewar or managers.
constituting roughly ek teesraa of households is the nimnatar madhya class consisting zyaadaatar of semi-professionals, skilled kaarigaron and lower-level prabandhan.
middle-class vyaktiyon commonly have a aaramdaayak maanak of jeena, significant economic security, considerable work swaittata or rely on unke visheshgyata to sustain themselves.
Members of the middle class belong to vividh samooh jisase overlap with prayek anya.
Overall, middle-class persons, especially upper-middle-class individuals, hai characterized by conceptualizing, creating or paraamarsh.
Thus, college shiksha is ek of the pramukh indicators of middle-class aukaat.
largely attributed to the nature of middle-class occupations, middle class maan tend to emphasize independence, adherence to moolbhoot standards, valuing innovation and respecting non-conformity.
nitiyaan adhik kriyasheel than other janasankhyikee, college shikshit madhya class professionals are vibhajit between the do pramukh partiyon.
aay varies considerably from near the national madhya to khub in excess of $ 100,000.
household aay figures, however, do nahin sadaa pratibimbit class aukaat or maanak of living, as ve hai largely bahekaave by the number of income earners and asafal to recognize household size.
It is isliye sambhavit liye a vishaal, dual-earner, nimnatar madhya class household to out-earn a small, one-earner, upper middle class household.
the madhya varg hai bahut influential, as ve encompass the bahumat of matadaata, writers, shikshak, patrakaron, and sampadak.
Most societal rujhaan in the us originate bheetar the madhya varg.
the following is a suchi of shanivaar Night sajiv daal members, past or upasthit.
The daal sadasyon of shanivaar raatri sajiv yahood originally referred to as the `` nahin taiyaar liye pradhan samay khilaadi ''.
the asli cast ( l to r ) : laraine Newman, John belushi, jine curtin, gilda radner, Dan aykroyd, garrett morris, or Chevy Chase
tabah isse the 1906 san francisco bukamp, remembered as ek of the worst prakritik aapadaaon in United States itihaas
a vipatti is a natural or man-made ( or technological ) jokhim resulting in an event of substantial extent causing significant shaareerik kshati or destruction, ghaataa of jivan, or drastic change to the paryaavaran.
A vipatti can be ostensively paribhaashit as any tragic event stemming isse events aise as bukamp, floods, anarthakaari durghatnaon, fir, or explosions.
it is a ghatana that can cause damage to life or property or nasht the aarthik, soshal or cultural jivan of logon.
in samakaleen academia, disasters are dekhi as the consequence of inappropriately prabandhit risk.
ye risks are the utpaada of a sangyojan of dono hazard/s or vulnerability.
jokhimon that strike in kshetron saath kam vulnerability will never become aapadaaon, as is the case in uninhabited regions.
vikasshil deshon suffer the greatest laagat jab a disaster hits – adhik than 95 pratishat of sab mauton caused by aapadaaon occur in vikasshil deshon, and nuksaan due to natural aapadaaon hai 20 times vrihad ( as a pratishat of jidipi ) in vikasshil countries than in industrialized deshon.
in computing, booting ( also gyaat as booting up ) is the aarambhik niyat of operations ki a computer pranali performs jab electrical power to the CPU is switched on.
the process begins jab a computer is turned on liye the pehla time or is re-energized baad being turned band, and ends when the computer is taiyaar to perform iske saamaanya parichaalan.
on aadhunik general purpose computer, is can lo tens of second or typically involves performing a power-on self-test, locating or initializing peripheral devices, and then dhundhna, ladaan and starting an operating pranali.
Many computer pranaaliyon bhi allow these parichaalan to be initiated by a tantra cmand bagaiyr cycling shakti, in kayaa is gyaat as a naram reboot, haalanki kuch of the aarambhik parichaalan might be choda on a naram riboot.
a boot loder is a computer program ki loads the main oparating system or runtime environment for the computer after purnataa of the self-tests.
the computer term boot is short liye bootstrap or bootstrap lod and garbhashayi from the phrase to pull oneself up by one 's bootstraps.
the usage kals dhyaan to the requirement ki, if most tantra is loaded onto a computer by anya tantra already kaaryshil on the computer, kuch mechanism jarur maujuud to lod initial tantra onto the computer.
Early computers used a kismein of ad-hoc vidhi to get a choti kaarykram into memory to solve is problem.
the invention of integrated circuit read-only memory ( rom ) of various prakaar hal this virodhabhas by allowing computer to be shipped saath a start up kaarykram ki could not be erased.
vikaas in the kshamta of ROM has anumat ever adhik vistrut prarambh up prakriyaaon to be implemented.
On saamaanya purpose computer, the boot process begins with the nishpaadan of an aarambhik kaarykram bhandaarit in boot roms or read in another faishan.
In kuch puraani computers, the aarambhik kaarykram might have maharoom the application to run, if no oparating system thi prayukt, or the oparating system.
In other computers, the initial kaarykram is a boot loader ki may tab lod into random-access memory ( ram ), isse nonvolatile dwitiyak storage ( such as a mushkil discs drive ) or, in some older computer, isse a medium aise as punched taash, punched tape, or chumbakeey tepe in older computers, the shabdkosh code of an oparating pranali or runtime paryaavaran and tab execute it.
if the boot loader is limited in iske aakaar or samarthy, it may, instead, lod a larger or adhik sakasham secondary boot loder, jisase would then load the oparating pranali or runtime paryaavaran.
kuch antahsthapit systems do not require a noticeable boot sequence to shuru kaamkaaj or jab turned on may bas run operational kaarykram that hai bhandaarit in rom.
firebird is an open source SQL relational database prabandhan pranali ki ranon on linaks, Windows, and a kismein of unics.
the database forked isse borland 's open sorce sanskaran of interbase in 2000, but since Firebird 1.5 the code rai been largely rewritten.
outsorcing is the contracting out of an aatanrik business prakram to a third-party sanghathan.
the abhyaas of contracting a kaarobaar prakram out to a teesraa party balki than stoff it internally is common in the modern arthvyavastha.
the pad `` outsorcing '' became popular in the sanyukt States nikat the phere of the 21st sadi.
outsorcing sometimes involves transferring employees or asset from ek kad to another, but nahin always.
The paribhaasha of outsorcing includes dono foreign or gharelu contracting, and sometimes includes offshoring, which arthath relocating a kaarobaar falan to another desh.
vittiya savings from lower international majdoor rates is a big prerana liye outsourcing/offshoring.
the opposite of outsorcing is called insourcing, jisase entails bringing processes sambhala by third-party firms in-house, or is sometimes sampannataa via vertical sangyojan.
however, a business can provide a anubandh seva to another kaarobaar bagaiyr necessarily insourcing ki kaarobaar prakram.
insaan immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) is a lentivirus ( dhire replicating retrovirus ) that causes acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ), a condishan in insaano in jisase pragatisheel vifaltaa of the immune pranali allows life-threatening opportunistic infections or cancers to thrive.
sankraman saath HIV occurs by the transfer of rakt, semen, vaginal drav, pre-ejaculate, or stan milk.
Within ye bodily fluids, hiv is upasthit as dono free virus anu and virus within sankramit immune cells.
HIV infects vital koshikaayen in the insaan pratiraksha pranali aise as helper t koshikaayen ( specifically cd4 + T cells ), macrophages, or dendritic cells.
HIV infection lead to low levels of cd4+ t koshikaayen through a kramank of mechanisms including : apoptosis of uninfected bystander koshikaayen, sidhaa viral hatya of sankramit koshikaayen, or hatya of sankramit cd4+ t koshikaayen by cd8 cytotoxic lymphocytes that recognize sankramit koshikaayen.
When cd4+ T koshika numbers manaahi neeche a najuk level, cell-mediated pratirakshan is khoyaa, or the deh becomes progressively adhik susceptible to opportunistic infections.
The firepole in a fire stesan in toronto
A fireman 's dhruv ( bhi called a sliding dhruv or firepole ) is a lakdi dhruv or a metal tube or pipe installed between floors in fire stesan, allowing agnishman responding to an sachetak to jaldi descend to the maidan manzil tej than by using a maanak staircase.
the yantra thi invented in the 1870s by daud kenyon, in Chicago, illinois, haalanki it is praayah incorrectly credited to the Boston aag vibhaag.
Mary poppins is the sheershak akshar of a shrenee of children 's books written by P. L. Travers.
Throughout the mariyam poppins shrenee, jisase lasted isse 1934 to 1988, mariyam shepard was the elstritor or acted as a duusari author.
the kitabe kendra on a jaadui angrezi naini, Mary poppins.
She is blown by the east hawa to kramank satraa cheri Tree len, landan, and into the bainko ' household to parvaah liye unke children.
Encounters with chimney sweeps, dukandaaron or various adventures follow until Mary poppins abruptly pattey, i.e., `` pops-out ''.
the adventures lo place over a kul of aath books.
However, tabhi the first three kitabe visheshta mariyam poppins arriving or leaving.
the baad paanch books recount previously unrecorded adventures from her original teen vizit.
As P. L. Travers explains in uske parichay to mariyam poppins in the park, `` She can nahin forever arrive or nikalen. ''
the kitabe yahood adapted in 1964 into a musical dijani filmi abhinit juli Andrews or land vine dyke.
in 2004, Disney natya produced a stage musical anukulan in the west samaapt theatre.
the stage musical was transferred to broadway in 2006 jahaan it ran jabatak iske closing on kooch 3, 2013.
it rai maharoom highly successful, as thi the 1964 filmi.
the pichhlaa song is a 2010 American coming of aayu tin romantic naatak filmi developed alongside Nicholas sparks ' anokhaa by the vahi name.
the filmi was directed by juli Anne robinsan in her visheshta film directorial debyue or co-written by sparks or jeff vine wie.
the Last Song sitaron miley sires, liyaam hemsworth, and greg kinnear or folo a troubled kishoravastha as she reconnects saath uske estranged father or jalprapaat in prem during a garmiyaan in a shant Southern sanyukt States bich town.
the filmi is distributed by Touchstone tasviren.
sparks thi approached to write both the filmi 's patakatha and the novel.
sparks samaapt the patakatha in janvari 2009, prior to the completion of the anokhaa, making the pichhlaa song uske pehla script to be optioned for filmi.
The setting, originally in North carolina jaise the anokhaa, sthanantarit to georgia baad the rajya tha campaigned liye maheene to mejabaan utpaadan.
Upon shuruuaat production in tybee Island, georgia or nearby savannah, the pichhlaa Song became the first film to be dono shot and niyat in tybee Island.
filmakan lasted from June 15 to agast 18, 2009 saath much of it occurring on the island 's bich or baandh.
the pichhlaa song thi originally scheduled for chaudee relies on January 8, 2010, lakin thi sthagit to kooch 31, 2010.
likhaa simlish
Simlish is a fictional bhashaa pradarshit in ea khel ' Sim shrenee of khel.
it debuted in simcopter, and has maharoom especially prominent in The seem, The seem 2 or the seem 3.
the seem development toli nirmit the adwitiya simlish bhashaa by experimenting with fractured ukraini, french, latin, Finnish, angrezi, fijian, Cebuano, or Tagalog.
simlish can bhi be suna in simcity 4, simcity samaajon and SimCity 2013, but far less aksar.
civilized jeev in Spore can also be taught to speak simlish.
it is bhi pradarshit to an extent in Firaxis khel ' cid mir 's simgolf.
panktiyaan hoga rhite thi conscious of the need for dialogue in the khel, lakin thought ki using a real language hota mek it dhwani too dohraye and hota bhi be too costly to hire anuvadak for sansar bhashaaen.
initially, prerit by the deshi American code talkers of sansar yuddh II, Sims nirmaataa hoga rhite and bhashaa visheshgy mark gimbel sujhaayaa experimenting saath the navajo language to banaaen simlish.
however, ve ultimately decided ki simlish worked behtareen as a `` bhashaa '' made up of gibberish shabd that could n't be anudit, so that its arth would be baayein kholen to the kalpana of the khilaadi.
rhite baad commented ki using `` bakawaas bhashaa '' turned out to be the sahi development chunaav, as logon yahood capable of imagining it adhik realistically than a computer could simulett a real ek.
the vaastavik sound of Simlish thi created improvisationally by voice abhinaytaon stephen Kearin and gerri lawlor.
an example of ultrasonic Testing ( UT ) on blade jaden of a V2500 iae vayuyan engine.
kadam 1 : the UT jaanch is lagaai on the root of the blade to be inspected saath the sahaayta of a khaas borescope aujaar ( video jaanch ).
Step 2 : Instrument jamaavat hai input.
kadam 3 : The jaanch is scanned over the blade root.
in this case, an indication ( peak in the aankada ) through the red line ( or phatak ) indicates a good blade ; an indication to the baayein of that dayera indicates a crack.
principle of ultrasonic pareekshan.
baayein : A jaanch bhejnaa a dhwani wave into a pareekshan saamagree.
vahin hai do indications, ek isse the aarambhik pulse of the jaanch, or the second due to the waapas wal echo.
RIGHT : a defect creates a teesraa indication or simultaneously reduces the aayam of the back wall indication.
the gaharaai of the defect is sankalpit by the ratio D/E
in ultrasonic testing ( ut ), bahut choti ultrasonic pulse-waves with bich barambharataa ranging isse 0.1-15 mhz or occasionally up to 50 mhz are shubharambh into saamagree to detect internal khamiyaan or to characterize saamagree.
a aam udhaaharan is ultrasonic thickness maapan, jisase pareekshan the motaai of the test object, liye example, to monitor pipework sanksharan.
Ultrasonic pareekshan is praayah performed on steel or anya dhaatuon or alloys, haalanki it can bhi be prayukt on kancreet, lakdi or composites, albeit saath kam rezolution.
it is a rup of non-destructive pareekshan prayukt in many udyog including aerospace, automotive or anya parivahan sector.
The vas deferens ( bahuvachan : vasa deferentia ), bhi called ductus deferens ( latin : `` carrying-away pot '' ; bahuvachan : ductus deferentes ), is bhaag of the purush anatomy of anek vertebrates ; ve hastantaran shukranu isse the epididymis in anticipation of skhalan.
Vascular ischemia of the toes with characteristic cyanosis.
in ayurvigyaan, ischemia, also spelled as ischaemia or ischæmia, ( ; isse unani language ισχαιμία, ischaimía ; isch- root denoting a pratibandh or thinning or to make or grow thin/lean, haema rakt ) is a restriction in blood supply to utakon, causing a shortage of oxigen and glucose needed for cellular chayapachay ( to keep utak jinda ).
Ischemia is generally caused by samasyaayein with rakt vessels, with resultant kshati to or dysfunction of utak.
It bhi arthath local raktaalpata in a die bhaag of a deh sometimes resulting isse congestion ( aise as vasoconstriction, ghanaasrata or vahikarodh ).
bas syndrome ( ds ) or bas 's syndrome, also gyaat as trisomy 21, is a genetic vikaar caused by the upasthiti of sab or bhaag of a third copy of chromosome 21.
bas syndrome is the most aam chromosome abnormality in humans.
it is typically sambhddha with a delay in cognitive kshamta ( mental retardation, or MR ) or physical vikaas, or a particular set of facial characteristics.
the ausat IQ of yang vayaskon with bas syndrome is around 50, whereas young vayaskon bagaiyr the condishan typically have an iq of 100.
( mr has historically maharoom defined as an iq neeche 70. )
A vishaal proportion of individuals saath bas syndrome have a kathor oopaadhi of bauddhik viklaangata.
bas syndrome is namit baad jon Langdon bas, the angrejon physician jo described the syndrome in 1866.
The condishan was clinically described pehle by Jean etienne dominique esquirol in 1838 or edouard seguin in 1844.
bas syndrome was identified as a chromosome 21 trisomy by dr. jérôme lejeune in 1959.
Down syndrome can be pahachaanaa in a baby at janam or before birth by prenatal screening.
Pregnancies saath is diagnosis are praayah terminated.
The CDC estimates that about ek of every 691 shishu born in the United rajya prayek year is born saath Down syndrome.
Many children saath Down syndrome are shikshit in regular skool varg jabaki others aavashyaktaa specialised shaikshanik suvidhaayen.
kuch children graduate isse unchi skool, and, in the us, vahin hai increasing opportunities for participating in post-secondary shiksha.
shiksha or uchit care rai been shown to improve visheshta of jivan significantly.
anek adults saath bas syndrome are samarth to kaary at sashulk niyukti in the jatiyaan, while others aavashyaktaa a adhik sheltered kaary paryaavaran.
hot flashes ( bhi gyaat as hot flushes, or night sweats if ve happen at raatri ) hai a lakshan jisase may have anek anya causes, but jisase is often caused by the changing hormone levels ki hai characteristic of menopause.
the servicemen 's readjustment Act of 1944 ( P.L. 78-346, 58 Stat. 284m ), gyaat informally as the G.I. Bill, thi a law ki provided a range of laabh liye returning sansar yuddh ii veterans ( commonly referred to as G.I.s ).
laabh shaamil low-cost mortgages, low-interest lone to start a kaarobaar or farm, nakadi bhugtan of tution and living kharch to attend college, unchi skool or vokational shiksha, as well as one year of berogari muaavje.
it thi uplabdhiyaan to every veteran jo tha maharoom on kriyasheel duty dauraan the war saalo liye at tanik nabbe dinon or tha nahin maharoom dishonorably discharged ; combat thi nahin required.
by the samaapt of the program in 1956, roughly 2.2 million diggajon tha used the g.i. Bill shiksha laabh in anukram to attend collejon or universities, or an additional 6.6 million used ye laabh liye some dayaalu of training program.
chunki the asli 1944 vidhi, the pad has aaiye to shaamil anya veteran laabh kaarykram nirmit to assist diggajon of subsequent wars as khub as peacetime seva.
Historians or economists consider the g.i. vidheyak a pramukh political success—especially in contrast to the treatments of World yuddh I veterans—and a major yogadan to america 's stock of insaan puunji ki sped long-term economic growth.
the waterget scandal was a rajnatik cond ki occurred in the United States in the 1970s as a parinaam of the June 17, 1972 break-in at the Democratic neshnal cameti mukhyalay at the Watergate office jatil in Washington, D.C., and the nicksan administration 's attempted cover-up of iske bhagidaari.
the scandal eventually led to the resignation of richard nicksan, the President of the sanyukt rajya, on agast 9, 1974 — the tabhi istipha of a u.S. adhyaksh.
the cond bhi resulted in the indictment, vichaaran, conviction, or incarceration of forty-three vyaktiyon, darjanon of whom yahood nicksan 's top administration officials.
the affair began with the giraftaar of paanch men for todakar or entering into the Democratic neshnal cameti ( dnc ) headquarters at the waterget complex on june 17, 1972.
The Federal beuro of chaanbin ( FBI ) conect nakadi found on the burglars to a slush nidhi prayukt by the cameti for the re-election of the adhyaksh, the aadhikarik sanghathan of nicksan 's abhiyaan.
in july 1973, as pramaan mounted viruddh the adhyaksh 's staff, sahit testimony provided by former staff sadasyon in an investigation conducted by the seenet waterget cameti, it thi revealed ki President nicksan tha a tape-recording system in his karyaalayon or he tha recorded many baatcheet.
ricarding isse ye tapes implicated the adhyaksh, revealing he tha attempted to cover up the questionable ( or illegal ) goings-on ki tha taken place dauraan uske prashasan, both pehle or after the break-in.
baad a protracted shrenee of kadava court ladaaiyon, the u.S. param adaalat unanimously shasit that the president had to haath over the tepon to sarkari jaanchakartaaon ; he ultimately complied.
facing near-certain mahabhiyog in the house of Representatives and a damdaar sambhaavna of a conviction in the seenet, nicksan resigned the presidency on agast 9, 1974.
uske successor, jerald Ford, tab jari a pardon to use.
elizabeth imogene webber ( formerly lansing or spencer ) is a fictional akshar on the ABC Daytime sabun opera saamaanya hospital.
elizabeth is the potee of dr. steve hardi ( jon beradino ), ek of the originating core varna of the shrenee.
rebeka herbst originated the akshar on August 1, 1997 or has maharoom the tabhi anubandh abhinetri to khel the role.
Elizabeth is part of do supercouple pairings, Lucky spencer or elizabeth webber or jesan morgan and Elizabeth webber.
the United rajya presidency of Ronald reagan, bhi gyaat as the reagan prashasan, thi a republican administration headed by ronaald reagan isse January 20, 1981, to janvari 20, 1989.
Domestically, the administration favored reducing sarkari programs or introduced the largest across-the-board tax katautee in amareeki itihaas.
The economic nitiyon enacted in 1981, gyaat as `` Reaganomics ``, yahood an udhaaharan of supply-side economics.
reagan aimed to encourage entrepreneurship and seemaa the growth of social bitaa, as khub as the katautee of viniman and inflation.
Economic vikaas saw a strong recovery in the 1980s, helping reagan to win a bhuskhalan re-election.
the national debt increased significantly, however.
regarding foreign niti, the administration was steadfastly anti-communist, colling the soviet sangh an `` dusht samrajya `` or samaapti 1970s détente.
Reagan twarit the vishaal buildup of the sainya prarambh by uske purvavarti, sahit an akraman of haraa, the pehla pramukh videshi karrwai by U.S. sainikon chunki the end of the vietnam yuddh.
the `` reagan doctrine `` controversially granted aid to ardhsainik shaktiyaan seeking to phekane communist governments, particularly in war-torn Central America or afghanistan.
reagan bhi prachaarit new technologies such as missile raksha pranaaliyon in order to confront the Soviets or unke allies.
in kootneeti, Reagan forged a damdaar gathbandhan with uk pradhan mantri margaret thatcher, and he mili saath soviet saamaanya sachiv mikhail gorbachev chaar times, aiming to shrink the superpowers ' nuclear arsenals.
reagan 's presidency has maharoom termed the `` reagan kranti '', or the aayu of reagan in recognition of the political realignment dono bheetar and pare the U.S. in favor of uske brands of conservatism or his aasthaa in free bazaar.
The reagan administration worked toward the collapse of Soviet samyavaadee, or it did patan bas as he baayein daftar.
vijay in the thanda War led to a unipolar world saath the u.S. as the sansar 's ekmaatr mahashakti.
jabaki the damaging iran-contra affair engulfed anek reagan aides dauraan his duusari term, Reagan khud baayein office with a 63 pratishat approval darja, ek of the higher sweekruti ratings of don presidents.
baad years of unstinting praise isse the right, or unrelenting aalochana isse the baayein, itihaaskaar David henry paata ki by 2009 a consensus tha ubhara among vidwaanon ki reagan revived conservatism or turned the swadesh to the sahi by demonstrating a `` pragmatic kosa '' that prachaarit ideology within the constraints imposed by the divided political pranali.
Furthermore, says henry, the consensus viewpoint agrees ki he revived aasthaa in the presidency or amareeki self-confidence, or contributed critically to samaapti the Cold yuddh.
Crude maut rate by desh ( 2006 ).
mrityu rate is a maap of the kramank of deaths ( in saamaanya, or due to a vishisht kaaran ) in a janasankhyikee.
scaled to the aakaar of ki janasankhyikee, prati ikai of samay.
Mortality rate is typically expressed in ikai of mauton prati 1000 individuals prati year ; yun, a mortality rate of 9.5 ( out of 1000 ) in a janasankhyikee of 1,000 hota ausat 9.5 mauton prati saal in that sampurna janasankhyikee, or 0.95 % out of the total.
it is pruthak isse morbidity rate, jisase refers to the number of individuals in garib health during a die samay kaal ( the vyapaktaa rate ) or the kramank of newly appearing maamle of the beemaari prati ikai of samay ( incidence rate ).
the pad `` mortality `` is bhi sometimes inappropriately prayukt to refer to the kramank of deaths among a niyat of diagnosed hospital maamle for a disease or chot, balki than liye the general population of a desh or jaateey samooh.
is beemaari mortality statistic is adhik precisely referred to as `` maamla fatality rate `` ( CFR ).
ek distinguishes:
The crude maut rate, the total number of mauton per saal prati 1000 logon.
the crude maut rate liye the puure world is parichay 8.37 prati 1000 prati year according to the vartmaan siie sansar Factbook.
the perinatal mrityu rate, the sum of neonatal mauton or fetal mauton ( stillbirths ) per 1000 births.
The maternal mrityu anupaat, the kramank of matra mauton per 100,000 sajiv births in vahi samay kaal.
The maternal mrityu rate, the kramank of matra mauton prati 1,000 mahilaon of reproductive aayu in the janasankhyikee ( generally paribhaashit as 15–44 saalo of aayu ).
The shishu mortality rate, the number of mauton of children kam than 1 year old prati 1000 sajiv births.
The child mrityu rate, the kramank of mauton of children kam than 5 saalo boodha prati 1000 live births.
The standardised mrityu ratio ( smr ) - is represents a aanshik tulana to the sankhyaayein of deaths ki hota have maharoom apekshit if the janasankhyikee tha maharoom of a maanak composition in terms of aayu, ling, etc.
The age-specific mrityu rate ( asmr ) - is refers to the kul kramank of mauton prati saal prati 1000 logon of a die age ( e.g. aayu 62 pichhlaa janmdiwas ).
In regard to the or failure of chikitsa upachaar or procedures, ek hota bhi distinguish:
The jaldi mrityu rate, the total number of deaths in the jaldi stages of an jari upachaar, or in the period tatkaal following an upachaar.
the late mortality rate, the kul number of mauton in the let charan of an ongoing treatment, or a significant length of time after an adhi upachaar.
note ki the crude maut rate as paribhaashit upar and lagu to a whole population can de a misleading impression.
The crude death rate depends on the aayu ( or ling ) vishisht mrityu rates or the aayu ( and ling ) distribution of the janasankhyikee.
the kramank of deaths per 1000 logon can be ucchtar liye developed raashtra than in less-developed countries, despite jivan expectancy hone ucchtar in developed deshon due to maanakon of swasthya hone behatar.
is happens kuki viksit deshon typically have a completely alag janasankhyikee age vitaran, saath a much ucchtar proportion of puraani logon, due to dono nimnatar haal janam daron or lower mortality rates.
a adhik complete chitra of mrityu is die by a life talika jisase shows the mortality rate separately liye each aayu.
a jivan talika is necessary to de a shubh estimate of life pratyaasha.
an otoacoustic utsarjan ( oae ) is a dhwani which is utpann from within the inner kaan.
Having maharoom purvanumanit by thomas sunaharaa in 1948, its astitv thi pehla demonstrated experimentally by daud kemp in 1978 or otoacoustic emissions have chunki maharoom shown to uthta by a kramank of alag cellular mechanisms bheetar the bhitari kaan.
adhyayan have shown ki OAEs gaayab after the bhitari ear rai maharoom damaged, so oaes hai praayah prayukt in the prayogshaala or the clinic as a measure of inner kaan health.
broadly bolnaa, vahin are do prakaar of otoacoustic emissions : spontaneous otoacoustic emissions ( soaes ), jisase can occur without external uttejnaaon, or evoked otoacoustic emissions ( EOAEs ), jisase aavashyaktaa an evoking stimulus.
hurricane thomas thi the unnisvin namit storm or barahavin hurricane of the 2010 atlantic hurricane season.
Tomas viksit isse a teevr wave east of the windward islands on aktubar 29.
jaldi intensifying into a hurricane, it sthanantarit through the windward islands or passed bahut near Saint loosia.
baad reaching shrenee 2 aukaat on the saffir-simpson scale, thomas jaldi weakened to a tropical toofaan in the central Caribbean samudr, due to damdaar hawa shear or dry air.
Tomas later regained hurricane aukaat as it reorganized nikat the Windward dyodhi.
throughout the hurricane 's path, 71 logon are gyaat to have been maare, 14 of jisko yahood in sant Lucia.
maudrik nuksaan throughout the windward islands were anumaanit at US $ 588 million, mukhyatah in Saint loosia.
in the vek of the toofaan in haiti, baadh intensified an jari haija outbreak indirectly causing adhik fatalities.
According to a rapat released in disambar 2010, 55 logon yahood killed in cuba or Hispanola, haalanki the distribution of these fatalities hai anjaan.
overall kshati isse the toofaan thi at tanik $ 741 million.
Victoria Jackson ( born August 2, 1959 ) is an American hasya, actress, satirist, singer and internet blogar behtareen gyaat as a daal sadsy of the NBC television sketch kamedi series Saturday Night sajiv ( esenel ) isse 1986 to 1992.
wo has praapt attention as a gayan aalochak of adhyaksh baraak obama, or is an kriyasheel bhagidaar in the chaay Party gati.
postmodern sahitya is sahitya characterized by baari reliance on techniques jaise fragmentation, virodhabhas, and questionable narrators, and is praayah ( haalanki nahin exclusively ) paribhaashit as a style or trend jisase ubhara in the post–world yuddh ii era.
Postmodern works are dekhi as a pratikriya viruddh atmagyaan thinking and modernist approaches to sahitya.
Postmodern sahitya, jaise postmodernism as a puure, tends to resist paribhaasha or vargeekaran as a `` movement ''.
beshak, the abhisaran of postmodern sahitya with various modes of critical siddhanth, particularly reader-response or deconstructionist approaches, and the subversions of the avyakt contract between lekhak, text or reader by jisase iske works hai often characterised, have led to pre-modern fictions such as cervantes ' don quixote ( 1605,1615 ) or laurence Sterne 's eighteenth-century vyangy tristram shandy hone retrospectively inducted into the moden.
jabaki vahin is choti sarvasammati on the precise visheshtaayen, paimaana, or importance of postmodern literature, as is praayah the case saath kalakaari movements, postmodern literature is commonly paribhaashit in sambandh to a precursor.
liye example, a postmodern saahitiyik kaary tends nahin to conclude saath the neatly tied-up ending as is praayah mila in modernist literature, lakin often parodies it.
postmodern lekhak tend to celebrate mauka over shilp, or further employ metafiction to undermine the writer 's praadhikaar.
another characteristic of postmodern literature is the questioning of bhed between unchi or low samskruti through the use of pastiche, the combination of subjects or jati nahin previously deemed fit for sahitya.
paheli is an electronic musical project santhaapit in germany by Michael Cretu, David fairstein or Frank petersan in 1990.
The romanian-born cretu conceived the paheli project jabaki working in germany, but based uske recording studio a.r.t. studios in ibiza, spain, isse the jaldi 1990s jabatak may 2009, where he rai ankit sab of Enigma 's studio relies to date.
cretu is dono the composer and the nirmaataa of the project.
uske purv bivi, pop singer sandra, praayah provided vocals on paheli treks.
Jens gad co-arranged or played guitar on teen of the Enigma album.
peter cornelius also contributed to paheli dauraan the 1990s.
saat studio albums have maharoom utpaadit antargat the naam of the project.
scooby-doo is an amareeki anemated cartoon matadhikaar, comprising anek animated television series utpaadit isse 1969 to the present din.
the asli shrenee, scooby-doo, jahaan hai You !
, thi nirmit for hanna-barbera productions by writers jo maaniky or ken spirs in 1969.
is shanivaar morning cartoon shrenee featured four teenagers— fred jones, daphne blake, velma dinkley, and norville `` shaggy '' rogers — and unke talking bhura great den shwaan namit scooby-doo, jo solve rahasyon involving mana alokik jeev through a series of harkaton and missteps.
following the kamyaabi of the asli shrenee, Hanna-Barbera or iske successor warner bros. anemation have utpaadit numerous follow-up and spin-off anemated shrenee and anek related works, including television specials or telefilms, a lakeer of direct-to-video films, or do warner bhaius. –produced natya visheshta films.
kuch versions of Scooby-Doo visheshta different variations on the show 's alokik theme, and shaamil varna aise as skubi 's cousin scooby-dum and bhattije scrappy-doo in jod to or bajaay of some of the original varna.
Scooby-Doo thi originally broadcast on sibies isse 1969 to 1976, jab it sthanantarit to abisi.
abisi aired the dikhaaen jabatak canceling it in 1986, or prastut a spin-off featuring the varna as children, a pup namit Scooby-Doo, isse 1988 jabatak 1991.
Two new Scooby-Doo shrenee, kayaa 's New, Scooby-Doo ?
or shaggy and scooby-doo Get a a suraag ! ] ], aired as bhaag of Kids wb on the WB network or iske successor, the cw network, isse 2002 jabatak 2008.
the sabase haal scooby-doo shrenee, scooby-doo !
rahasy Incorporated, aired on cartoon Network isse 2010 to 2013.
doharaav of the vibhinn Scooby-Doo shrenee hai broadcast aksar on Cartoon sanjaal and boomerang in the United rajya and other deshon.
kol of duty is a first-person or third-person shooter computer/ video khel matadhikaar.
the shrenee began on the PC, or later expanded to consoles or handhelds.
anek spin-off khel have also been released.
the earlier khel in the shrenee are set primarily in sansar yuddh ii, this includes : kol of duty, kol of Duty 2, and kol of duty 3.
Beginning saath aadhunik warfare, jisase is set in aadhunik times, the series rai shifted focus dur isse sansar yuddh II.
Call of duty 4 : aadhunik warfare ( released November 2007 ) was followed by kol of duty : sansar at yuddh and kol of duty : aadhunik warfare 2.
Black ops ( released navambar 2010 ) takes place in the thanda yuddh, jabaki aadhunik warfare 3 ( released navambar 2011 ) takes place in the near-future setting.
blike ops 2 ( Released navambar 13, 2012 ) takes place in the saal 2025.
The kol of duty games hai published or owned by activijan saath Aspyr media prakaashan it liye tehraana os x.
While the studio anant ward primarily still develops them, treyarch rai also developed anek of the sheershak saath the relies of the studios ' khel interlaced saath prayek other.
kuch games have maharoom viksit by Gray Matter interactive, chingaari aseemit, vismit entertainment, n-Space, vidroh developments, ideaworks khel Studio, sledgehammer Games or nstigate khel.
The khel upyog a kismein of ingine, including the id takanic 3, the treyarch NGL, or the iw 5.0.
anya products in the matadhikaar shaamil a line of karrwai aankade designed by Plan-B khilone, a card khel created by apper deck, or a comic book mini-series published by wildstorm.
as of navambar 11, 2011, the Call of duty series have sold over 100 lakh copies.
As of kooch 31, 2012 vahin hai 40 lakh monthly active khilaadi aarpaar sab of the kol of duty titles, with 10 lakh kol of Duty : elite upayokta and 2 lakh paying salanaa members.
over 1.6 arab ghanton of online gameplay have maharoom logged Modern warfare 3 chunki its 2011 relies.
The estate tax in the sanyukt rajya is a kar imposed on the transfer of the `` taxable estate `` of a deceased person, whether aise property is transferred via a hoga, according to the state laws of intestacy or varanaa bana as an incident of the maut of the maalik, aise as a transafar of property from an intestate estate or trust, or the bhugtan of certain jivan bime benefits or financial khaataa rakam to beneficiaries.
the estate tax is one part of the ekikrut tohfa or estate kar pranali in the sanyukt rajya.
the anya bhaag of the pranali, the tohfa kar, imposes a kar on hastantaran of property dauraan a person 's jivan ; the tohfa kar prevents avoidance of the estate tax chahie a vyakti want to de away his/her estate.
in jod to the federal sarkari, anek states also thopane an estate kar, saath the state sanskaran pukaara either an estate tax or an inheritance kar.
pratidwandviyon of the estate tax kol it the `` death kar ''.
if an asset is baayein to a jeevanasathi or a federally pahachaanaa daan, the kar praayah does nahin apply.
In jod, up to $ 5,250,000 can be die by an individual, pehle and/or upon unke maut, bagaiyr rusht federal tohfa or estate kar.
govin mcgrager rossdale ( born 30 aktubar 1967 ) is an English actor or sangeetkaar, gyaat as the lead singer and lay guitarist of the rock band bush.
following bush 's virah in 2002, which lasted liye aath saalo, he was the sise singer and guitarist for santhaan, and baad began a solo career.
jab performing solo, Gavin plays geeton isse uske extensive musical pustakaalayon.
rossdale rai maharoom kramit in the sheersh 100 baari metal vocalists by hit parader ( # 75 ).
Raffaello sanzio da urbino ( April 6 or kooch 28, 1483 – april 6, 1520 ), behatar known simply as rafel, thi an Italian painter or vaastu of the High punarjagran.
uske work is admired liye iske spashtataa of form and aasaani of composition or for iske vizual uplabdhi of the Neoplatonic adarsh of insaan vaibhav.
saath with michelangelo or leonardo da vinci, he form the paramparaagat trinity of great masters of ki period.
Raphael thi enormously productive, kaaryshil an unusually vishaal kaaryshaala, and despite his death at 37, a vishaal deh of his kaary remains.
anek of uske works hai mila in the vatican rajmahal, jahaan the frescoed rafel kaksh yahood the central, or the largest, kaary of his kariyar.
the best gyaat kaary is the School of Athens in the vatican stanza dela segnatura.
baad uske jaldi saalo in Rome much of uske work was self-designed, but liye the most bhaag executed by the kaaryshaala isse uske drawings, saath considerable loss of visheshta.
he was atyadhik influential in his aaajeevan, though baahar rome uske kaary thi zyaadaatar known isse uske collaborative printmaking.
baad uske maut, the influence of uske great pratidwandvi michelangelo thi more faili until the 18th and 19th centuries, jab rafel 's more nirmal or harmonious qualities yahood again regarded as the ucchtam model.
uske kariyar falls naturally into teen phases and teen sheliyaan, first varnit by giorgio vasari : uske jaldi saalo in Umbria, tab a kaal of parichay chaar saalo ( isse 1504–1508 ) absorbing the artistic paramparaon of florence, followed by uske last hectic or triumphant baarah saalo in rome, working liye do popes or their band shariq.
julia Fiona roberts ( born aktubar 28, 1967 ) is an amareeki abhinetri.
She became a hollywood star baad headlining the romantic comedy pretty stri ( 1990 ), jisase grossed $ 464 lakh vishwavyaapee.
baad receiving sunahari Globe puraskaar or academy puraskaar nominations for steel magnolias ( 1989 ) or pretty stri, wo won the academy puraskaar liye behtareen abhinetri liye uske performance in arin brockovich ( 2000 ).
Her films The pelican Brief ( 1993 ), My Best dost 's vivaah ( 1997 ), rahasywaadee pizza ( 1988 ), Notting hill ( 1999 ), runaway bahu ( 1999 ), Ocean 's gyaarah ( 2001 ), samandar 's baarah ( 2004 ), charlie wilson 's yuddh ( 2007 ), velentine 's Day ( 2010 ), Eat duwa prem ( 2010 ), and darpan darpan ( 2012 ) have collectively brought baksaa office raseeden of over $ 2.6 billion, making uske ek of the sabase successful abhinetriyon in sharten of baksaa daftar raseeden.
roberts had become one of the highest-paid abhinetriyon in the sansar, topping the hollywood Reporters salanaa `` power suchi '' of top-earning maadaa stars isse 2005 to 2006.
Her shulk liye 1990 's pretty Woman thi $ 300,000 ; in 2003, she was sashulk an unprecedented $ 25 lakh for uske bhoomika in mona Lisa muskaan ( 2003 ).
as of 2010, roberts 's jaal laayak thi estimated to be $ 140 lakh.
roberts rai been named ek of logon patrika 's `` 50 sabase khubasurat logon in the World '' eleven times, tied saath hel beri.
in 2011, wo thi named ek of the `` 100 Hottest mahilaon of all-time '' by main 's swasthya.
in 2001, mahilaon ghar jarnal kramit uske as the 11th sabase shaktishaalee woman in the sanyukt States.
chihnit iliyat Zuckerberg ( born may 14, 1984 ) is an amareeki computer programmer or antarjaal udyogon.
he is behtareen known as one of paanch co-founders of the soshal networking website fasebuk.
as of april 2013, Zuckerberg is the adhyaksh and mukhya karypalika of fasebuk, inc. or in 2013 uske nijee wealth thi anumaanit to be us $ 13.3 arab.
saath saath his college roommates and fellow harvard vishvavidhyalayon vidhyaarthee Eduardo saverin, andrew mccollum, dustin moskovitz or kris Hughes, zuckerberg shubharambh fasebuk isse harvard 's shaynagar rooms.
The samooh tab introduced fasebuk onto anya campuses deshbhar or sthanantarit to paalo alto, california, sanyukt rajya ( u.S. ) shortly afterwards.
in 2007, at the aayu of twenty-three saalo, zuckerberg became a arbapati as a parinaam of Facebook or the number of fasebuk users vishwavyaapee pahunche a kul of ek arab in 2012.
zuckerberg thi involved in vibhinn legal disputes ki yahood initiated by anya in the samooh, who claimed a share of the company aadhaarit upon their bhagidaari during the vikaas phase of fasebuk.
chunki 2010, zuckerberg rai maharoom named among the 100 wealthiest or most influential logon in the world by samay patrika as a part of iske vyakti of the saal accolade.
Zuckerberg thi nibhaai by actor jesi Eisenberg in the 2010 hollywood filmi the soshal sanjaal in which the vruddhi of fasebuk is portrayed.
the Mayflower thi the ship ki in 1620 transported 102 angrezi tirthayatriyon, including a kor group of separatists, to nai england.
unke story is ek of travail or astitv in a harsh New sansar paryaavaran.
framedThe
cameti of tareeke or Means is the chief kar -writing cameti of the sanyukt rajya House of pratinidhi.
sadasyon of the Ways or Means Committee hai not anumat to serve on any other house samitiyon unless ve lagu liye a waiver from unke party 's congressional netritv.
the cameti rai kshetradhikaar over all karadhaan, tariffs or other revenue-raising upayon, as khub as a kramank of anya kaarykram including:
Social suraksha
Unemployment benefits
Medicare
pravartan of child support laws
asthai sahaayta for mohataaj pariwaron, a sangheey welfare program
foster parvaah or apnaanaa kaarykram
the u.S. samvidhan requires that sab bills regarding karadhaan jarur originate in the house of pratinidhi.
chunki house kaarividhi is that sab bills regarding karadhaan jarur go through is cameti, the committee is bahut influential, as is iske Senate counterpart, the u.S. seenet Committee on vitt.
The tareeke or Means cameti in the 111th congress thi chaired by charlie Rangel, jo tha liya a chhod of anupasthiti as adhyaksh until House ethics ulalanghanon yahood resolved.
however, uske leave of anupasthiti as adhyaksh thi ruled to be a resignation.
Pete Stark resigned as acting chairman, so sander Levin yojit ki sthiti jabatak the start of the 112th congress.
dev shivi became the cameti kursi liye the 112th congress, after the republicans jiti control of the house in the 2010 election.
the blue whale ( balaenoptera musculus ) is a samudri standhari belonging to the suborder of baleen whales ( pukaara Mysticeti ).
At in length or or more in weight, it is the largest gyaat animal to have kabhi existed.
long or slender, the blue whale 's body can be various shades of bluish-grey dorsally or somewhat halkaa underneath.
There are at least teen distinct subspecies : B. m. musculus of the uttar Atlantic or uttar prashanth, B. m. intermedia of the Southern samandar or B. m. brevicauda ( bhi gyaat as the saano blue whale ) mila in the bhartiya samandar or dakshin prashanth Ocean.
B. m. indica, mila in the bhartiya Ocean, may be another subspecies.
as saath anya baleen whales, iske aahaar consists almost exclusively of small crustaceans gyaat as krill.
blue whales yahood abundant in nearly sab the mahaasaagar on dharti until the shuruuaat of the twentieth sadi.
For over a sadi, they were hunted almost to extinction by whalers jabatak surakshit by the antarrashtriya jatiyaan in 1966.
a 2002 rapat anumaanit vahin were 5,000 to 12,000 blue whales vishwavyaapee, stith in at tanik paanch groups.
adhik haal shodh into the saano subspecies suggests is may be an underestimate.
Before whaling, the largest janasankhyikee thi in the Antarctic, kramakan lagbhag 239,000 ( dayera 202,000 to 311,000 ).
There remain tabhi much smaller ( around 2,000 ) ekaagratha in prayek of the purvi North prashanth, antarctic, and bhartiya Ocean samooh.
vahin are do adhik samooh in the uttar Atlantic, and at tanik two in the dakshini golardh.
The globe artichoke ( cynara cardunculus var. scolymus ) is a variety of a prajati of thistle cultivated as a khaanaa.
The khaadya padaarth is kaliyon ki rup bheetar the flower heads before the pushp aaiye into khilte.
The buds go away or badalen to a coarse, mushkil khaadya rup when the pushp blooms.
the uncultivated or junglee kismein of the prajati is called a cardoon.
it is a baramasi sanyantr native to the bumadhyasagariya region.
the sanyukt rajya ek hundred-dollar vidheyak ( $ 100 ) is a denomination of sanyukt rajya karency.
U.S. statesman, avishkaarak, and rajanyik Benjamin franklin is philhal featured on the obverse of the vidheyak.
on the reverse of the banknote is an chitra of swatantraaa haul.
The $ 100 vidheyak is the largest denomination ki has maharoom mudrit chunki july 13, 1969, jab the denominations of $ 500, $ 1,000, $ 5,000, and $ 10,000 yahood ritred.
The Bureau of nakkashi or mudran says the average jivan of a $ 100 vidheyak in parisancharan is 90 maheene ( 7.5 saalo ) pehle it is replaced due to pahanen or tear.
the bills are also commonly referred to as `` benjamins '', in sandarbh to the upyog of benjamin franklin 's portret on the denomination, or `` c-notes '', based on the Roman numeral liye 100.
The vidheyak is ek of do denominations printed aaj that does not visheshta a adhyaksh of the United States ; the other is the $ 10 bill, featuring Alexander hamiltan.
The time on the clock of Independence haul on the reverse, according to the u.S. beuro of nakkashi or mudran, shows approximately 4:10.
One hundred hundred-dollar bills hai delivered by Federal Reserve bainko in mustard-colored straps ( $ 10,000 ).
the Series 2009 $ 100 vidheyak redesign thi anaavaran on april 21, 2010, and thi to be jari to the public on farvari 11, 2011, lakin utpaadan thi shut bas in disambar 2010 kuki as anek as 30 % yahood unusable due to a nirmaan flaw.
A lambavat crease in the paper reveals a rikt spes on the vidheyak when khinchaa out.
in unke badalanaa, and continuing the unchi maang of is denomination, the shrenee 2006A was shubharambh retaining the pichhlaa dizine ( 1996-generation ).
on april 24, 2013, the Federal arakshit ghoshit the nai $ 100 bill hota enter parisancharan on aktubar 8, 2013.
king daud in robes of a bizantin samraat.
miniature isse the paris psalter.
daud ( ; ISO 259-3 dawid ; ' ; damdaar 's : daveed ) according to the Hebrew bible, thi the duusari king of the United Kingdom of israel, or according to the New Testament gospels of mathew and luk, an ancestor of Jesus.
His jivan is conventionally dated to c. 1040–970 bce, uske reign over Judah c. 1010–1002 bce, and uske shasankaal over the United kingdom of Israel c. 1002–970 BCE.
the Books of Samuel, 1 kings, or 1 Chronicles are the tabhi strot of soochna on daud, haalanki the tel don stele ( dinaak c. 850–835 BCE ) contains the phrase ( bytdwd ), padhaa as `` House of daud '', jisase sabase vidwaanon take as pushti of the astitv in the mid-9th sadi BCE of a judean royal rajvansh pukaara the House of daud.
He is chitrit as a righteous king, haalanki nahin bagaiyr trutiyaan, as khub as an acclaimed yoddha, sangeetkaar, or kavi, traditionally credited liye composing many of the zaboor contained in the kitaab of zaboor.
daud is central to yahudee, isai, or islamic doctrine and samskruti.
biblical parampara maintains that a sidhaa vanshaj of daud will be the maseehaa.
In islam he is mana to be a nabi or the king of a nation.
Kathmandu ( ; ) is the puunji or largest shahari agglomerate of nepal.
The agglomerate consists of kathmandu Metropolitan nagar at iske kor, or iske sistar shaharon patan, Kirtipur, thimi, or bhaktpur.
it bhi shaamil the recently pahachaanaa urban kshetron of shankhapur, karyabinayak, or champapur.
banepa, dhulikhel, or panauti hai satellite shahari kshetron of kathmandu stith bas baahar the kathmandu valley.
kathmandu is bhi gyaat informally as `` ktm '' or the `` tri-city ''.
According to a census conducted in 2011, kathmandu metropolis alon rai 975,453 nivaasiyon ; and the agglomerate rai a janasankhyikee of adhik than 2.5 lakh nivaasiyon.
the metropolitan city kshetrafal is and rai a population ghanatv of 19,250 per km2.
the nagar stand at an elevation of approximately in the bowl-shaped kathmandu ghati of central Nepal.
It is ghiri by chaar major kyu : shivapuri, Phulchoki, nagarjun, or chandragiri.
kathmandu ghati is part of teen districts ( kathmandu, lalitpur, and bhaktpur ), rai the highest population ghanatv in the country, or is home to parichay a twelfth of nepal 's janasankhyikee.
dauraan Rana and Shah eras, the naam `` nepal '' referred tabhi to the kathmandu ghati ; it was kayaa logon jo jiya baahar the ghati pukaara it.
dauraan is kaal, British itihaaskaaron pukaara the ghati itself `` nepal uchit ''.
Today, Kathmandu is not tabhi the capital of the sangheey loktantric ganatantr of Nepal, lakin bhi the mukhyalay of the central Development Region of nepal.
The central Region comprises three zones : bagmati, Narayani, and janakapur.
kathmandu is stith in the bagmati Zone.
Kathmandu is the getwe to paryaton in Nepal.
It is bhi the tantrika center of the desh 's economy.
it rai the sabase unnat infrastructure of koi urban kshetrafal in nepal, or its arthvyavastha is focused on paryaton, which accounted liye 3.8 % of nepal 's GDP in 1995–96.
( paryaton in Kathmandu asweekrut thereafter dauraan a kaal of rajnatik ashaanti, lakin since tab rai improved. )
The nagar rai a samrudh history, spanning nearly 2000 years, as inferred isse inscriptions found in the valley.
Religious or saanskrithik festivities form a pramukh bhaag of the lives of logon residing in kathmandu.
sabase of kathmandu 's logon follow Hinduism or anek anya follow buddhism.
There hai logon of other religious manyataon as khub, giving kathmandu a cosmopolitan samskruti.
Nepali is the sabase commonly bolaa bhashaa in the nagar.
nepal bhasa is the swadeshi language bolaa by the nevaar people.
Hindi is widely understood or angrezi is samajha by kathmandu 's educated nivaasiyon.
The nagar 's sakshartaa rate is 98 %.
kathmandu 's sistar shaharon ( lalitpur Patan ) or bhaktpur are integral to Kathmandu 's saanskrithik heritage, paryaton industry, or arthvyavastha ; therefore unesco 's sansar viraasat sait suchiyaan all teen cities ' smarak or attractions saath under ek heading, `` kathmandu Valley- unesco sansar viraasat sait ``.
field hockey, usually referred to bas as hockey, is a toli khel of the hockey parivaar which is nibhaai between do teams of gyaarah khilaadi saath hockey sticks or a mushkil, solid plastic ball.
at the phere of the 21st sadi, the khel is played globally, saath particular lokapriyata throughout Europe, asia, mahasagariya, and South america – in jod to being the national khel of pakistani and india.
the pad `` field hockey '' is used primarily in canada, the United rajya, or anya regions of the world where the khel of barf hockey is more lokapriy.
dauraan khel, lakshya keepers are the tabhi players jo hai anumat to touch the ball with koi bhaag of unke deh ( saath the excepshan of a khilaadi 's haath mana 'part of the stick ' ), saath is only applying bheetar the shooting vrutt ( also known as the d, or shooting chaap, or bas the circle ), jabaki field khilaadi play the ball saath the chapata side of unke stick.
the toli ki score the sabase lakshya by the end of the match wins.
if the score is tied at the samaapt of the khel, either a chithran is declared or the khel goes into atirikt samay and/or a dand golibari, depending on the pratiyogita 's swaroop.
The shaasi deh of hockey is the antarrashtriya hockey sangh ( FIH ), saath main and mahilaon hone represented internationally in pratiyogitaaon sahit the olympic games, rashtramandal khel, hockey sansar Cup, champions trophy or junior hockey sansar Cup, saath many deshon kaaryshil extensive junior, varisht, and masters ' klbon pratiyogitaaon.
the fih is bhi responsible liye organising the hockey Rules falak or vikasshil the niyam liye the khel.
a lokapriy roopaantar of field hockey is andar hockey, jisase differs in a kramank of respects while moort the praathmik siddhanth of hockey.
andar hockey is a 6-a-side roopaantar, saath a field jisase is ghataya to lagbhag 40m × 20m.
saath many of the niyam baaki the vahi, sahit rukaawat or feet, there hai anek kunjee visangatiyaan - khilaadi may nahin raise the ball unless shooting on lakshya, players may not hit the ball ( bajaay utilising pushes to transafar the ball ), or the sidelines are replaced with thos baadhaon which the ball hoga rebound band.
ethan `` Cane '' ashby ( né atkinsons ) is a fictional character isse the American CBS sabun opera the Young or the baichaiyn.
He is portrayed by australian karta Daniel godard, who originally auditioned for bread Snyder on as the World turns but was recommended liye a bhoomika on the Young or the baichaiyn instead.
the bhoomika thi to be portrayed as an amareeki, lakin godard 's australian descent bahekaave the akshar 's prishthbhumi.
purv sir writer lynn maari latham introduced use dauraan the apisod airing on janvari 12, 2007 as an australian bartender in dhundhen of uske parivaar, a debyue ki received a mishrit response.
Latham nirmit cane as the son of Phillip chancelar ii ( Donnelly Rhodes ) or jill foster abot ( Jess walton ) lakin the akshar 's prishthbhumi thi rewritten by mariya arina Bell in 2009, reestablishing use as the son of colin or genevieve atkinsons ( Tristan rogers or jini Francis ).
haalanki characterized as `` mysterious '', Cane is `` loyal and samarpit '', jabaki godard described the akshar as a `` typical Australian, working-class dayaalu of guy ''.
he was the pehla sadsy of the atkinsons parivaar to appear on the series, followed by uske abhibhavak or identical judwa bhai.
Soon baad uske debyue, he became a leading akshar, a nirnay praised by viewers and aalochakon.
the akshar rai been shaamil with Amber Moore ( adrienne Frantz ), chlo mishael ( Elizabeth hendrickson ) or sabase notably Lily Winters ( Christel khalil ), a romance ki garnered significant fan attention.
In 2009, cane or lily were shaadishuda ; vaishvik bc hota later kol lily the prem of cane 's jivan.
the pair tha do children, charlie or mattie ashby.
In 2011, the karta thi fired, or cane thi shot to death onscreen.
However, Goddard was rehired soon baad viewers campaigned for uske vaapasi, revealing that cane 's identical judwa bhai was in fact the man who died.
is qurbaan uske vivaah to lily, lakin the yugal yahood remarried on velentine 's Day in 2012.
godard has been widely acclaimed liye his portrayal ; Canyon news said ki he portrays the akshar honestly, or is `` sadaa dependable, on aag and romaanchak ''.
John christopher `` Johnny '' dep ii ( born June 9, 1963 ) is an amareeki actor, filmi producer, and sangeetkaar.
he rai jiti the sunahari globe Award and screen Actors gild award liye behtareen karta.
dep rose to prominence on the 1980s television shrenee 21 jamp gali, becoming a tin idal.
asantusht with that aukaat, dep turned to filmi for adhik chunauteepurn bhoomikaaye ; he played the sheershak character of the acclaimed edward scissorhands ( 1990 ) or baad found box daftar kamyaabi in films aise as Sleepy khokhla ( 1999 ), charlie or the chocolate factory ( 2005 ), Alice in Wonderland ( 2010 ), Rango ( 2011 ) or the pirates of the caribbean film shrenee ( 2003–present ).
he rai collaborated saath nideshak or dost tim Burton in aath films ; the most haal being Dark saae ( 2012 ).
Depp rai gained acclaim liye uske portrayals of aise logon as Ed lakdi in ed lakdi, joseph D. pistone in donnie brasco, Hunter S. thompsan in bhay or Loathing in Las Vegas, George jang in uda, or the bainko daaku John dillinger in maaikel Mann 's public Enemies.
Films featuring Depp have grossed over $ 3.1 billion at the sanyukt rajya box daftar or over $ 7.6 arab worldwide.
he rai maharoom manonith for sheersh puraskaar anek times, jeetna the behtareen karta puraskaar isse the sunahari –_Motion_Picture_Musical_or_Comedy globs –_motion_picture_musical_or_comedy liye swini Todd : the rakshas Barber of Fleet Street and isse the screen abhinaytaon gild for pirates of the caribbean : The Curse of the Black parl.
he also rai garnered a sex symbol aukaat in amareeki cinema, hone twice named as the `` sexiest man jinda `` by logon patrika in 2003 or 2009.
he rai maharoom soochibaddh in the 2012 ginis Book of sansar record as the ucchtam sashulk karta, saath $ 75 lakh.
the World chaudee web ( abbreviated as www or w3, commonly gyaat as the web ), is a system of interlinked hypertext dastauez pahunchaa via the antarjaal.
saath a web broujar, ek can drishy web pages ki may contain text, bimb, video, or anya multimedia, or navigate between unhen via hyperlinks.
Using concepts isse uske pehle hypertext pranaaliyon like enquire, angrejon ejeeniyar, computer vaigyanik or at that time employee of the cern, sar tim berners-lee, abhi nideshak of the World chaudee Web consortium ( w3c ), wrote a proposal in March 1989 liye kayaa hota aakhirkaar become the sansar Wide web.
at CERN, a European research sanghathan nikat geneva straddling the kinaaraa between frans or Switzerland, berners-lee or Belgian computer vaigyanik robert cailliau prastaavit in 1990 to upyog hypertext `` to kadi or abhigam soochna of vibhinn kinds as a web of node in jisase the upayokta can browz at will '', or ve publicly introduced the project in December of the same saal.
chihnit Travis jon sanches ( born navambar 11, 1986 ) is an amareeki football quarterback liye the nai york jets of the neshnal Football lig ( NFL ).
he was drafted in the pehla golakaar of the 2009 enegel draft as the fifth overall chayan by the Jets or the duusari quarterbaque liya overall.
He nibhaai college footbaal at the University of dakshini california ( yuassi ).
sanches grew up in a well-disciplined or athlettic family.
in the aathvin grade, he began to khel footbaal or sikh the intricacies of the quarterbaque sthiti, training saath his pita, Nick.
a well-regarded prospect, Sanchez committed to Southern California following uske kaamyaab high school kariyar in jisase he led uske toli to a championships sheershak dauraan uske final season.
at yuassi, sanches thi relegated as the byaap quarterbaque dauraan uske first teen years haalanki he rose to prominence due to his bread dikhaave on the field in 2007 due to choton suffered by starting quarterbaque John daud booti.
sanches bhi became lokapriy bheetar the jatiyaan due to his mexican-american viraasat.
namit the starter in 2008, Sanchez led yuassi to a 12–1 record and jiti the rose katori viruddh Penn rajya liye jisase sanches thi awarded the Most Valuable khilaadi puraskaar liye uske pradarshan on thokar.
haalanki anek mana use too anubhavheen, sanches announced uske intention to daalen the 2009 enegel Draft.
He thi chaynit by the Jets baad they traded up with the cleveland bhura, and thi named the starting quarterbaque prior to the prarambh of the ritu.
despite a subpar pradarshan, sanches led the jets to the afc Championship khel, a khone praytn to the Indianapolis coltas, banane the chauthi rukii quarterbaque in enegel history to win uske pehla playoff game and the duusari to jeet do playoff games.
In his second ritu, sanches jari to develop and led the Jets to the playoffs and the toli 's duusari lagaataar AFC championships khel jahaan ve narrowly khoyaa to the Pittsburgh stilers, 24–19.
saath the jeet over the New england deshpremi the week prior, sanches tied chaar other quarterbacks liye the duusari sabase post-season road victories by a quarterbaque in NFL itihaas.
in agrani the jets to two lagaataar sammelan championships, Sanchez joined quarterbaque ben roethlisberger as the only do quarterbacks in enegel history to pahunchein the conference championships in unke pehla two seasons in the lig.
the aglaa do seasons would be a slop liye dono the toli or Sanchez as ve vifal to pahunchein the playoffs.
prashansak or media critics pukaara for a struggling sanches to be benched.
He aakhirkaar thi replaced towards the samaapt of the 2012 ritu saath greg mcelroy.
paul Avery ( April 2, 1934december 10, 2000 ) was an amareeki police reporter, behtareen gyaat for uske stories on the infamous serial kaatil gyaat as the Zodiac, or baad liye uske kaary on the petricia hearst apharan.
a choti submersible ac sump pump with a garden hose conector
a sump pump is a pump prayukt to hataayen jal ki has sanchit in a jal collecting sump jalashay, commonly mila in the basement of gharon.
the jal may daalen via the gheraa naalon of a tahkhaane waterproofing pranali, funneling into the jalashay or because of barsaat or prakritik maidan jal, if the basement is neeche the jal talika level.
sump pumps hai prayukt jahaan tahkhaane flooding happens regularly and to remedy dampness jahaan the jal talika is above the foundation of a home.
sump panpon bhejein water away from a house to koi place where it is no longer samasyapurna, aise as a nagarpalika storm naalee or a shushk khub.
Pumps may nirvahan to the sanitary siver in older installations.
ekbar mana acceptable, is abhyaas may now violate the plumbing code or nagarpalika bylaws, kuki it can overwhelm the nagarpalika malajal treatment pranali.
Municipalities urge homeowners to discnect and reroute sump pump discharge away isse sanitary sewers.
jurmaana may be imposed liye noncompliance.
Many homeowners have inherited unke sump pump configurations or do not realize ki the pump discharges to the siver.
If the nirvahan is khilaayaa to a laundry doobana in the tahkhaane, it 's sambhavit going to the sewer.
praayah hardwired into a ghar 's vidyut pranali, sump pumps may have a battery backup.
the ghar 's pressurized water supplai powers kuch panpon, eliminating the need for electricity at the vyay of using potable jal, potentially bananaa unhen more expensive to operate than vidyut panpon or bananaa an atirikt jal niptaan problem.
chunki a sump jalashay may atipravaah if nahin constantly pumped, a byaap system is important liye maamle jab the main shakti is out liye prolonged periods of time, as during a kathor toofaan.
vahin are generally two types of sump panpon — pedestal or submersible.
the pedestal pump 's motor is arohit above the sump, jahaan it is more easily serviced, lakin is bhi adhik conspicuous.
the pump impeller is chalit by a long, vertical extension shaft or the impeller is in a scroll housing in the aadhaar of the pump.
the submersible pump is entirely mounted inside the sump, and is visheshkar sealed to prevent electrical short circuits.
Sump pump pranaaliyon are bhi utilized in industrial or vanijyik applications to control water table -related samasyaayein in sataha mrudaa.
an artysian aquifer or periodic high jal table halaat can cause the maidan to become asthir due to water santrupt.
as long as the pump functions, the sataha soil hoga remain stable.
ye sumps are typically ten feet in gaharaai or adhik ; lined saath corrugated metal pipe that contains perforations or naalee chhed throughout.
ve may shaamil electronic control pranaaliyon with vizual and audible sachetak and hai praayah covered to prevent malba or pashu isse girnaa in.
bleeding kansas, khooni Kansas or the kinaaraa yuddh, thi a shrenee of hinsak rajnatik confrontations involving anti-slavery free-staters or pro-slavery `` kinaaraa ruffian `` tatv, ki took place in the Kansas territory and the neighboring kasbon of mizori between 1854 or 1861.
At the heart of the conflict thi the sawaal of whether kansas hota daalen the Union as a free state or slave rajya.
as such, Bleeding Kansas was a proxi yuddh between Northerners or southerners over the samasya of gulaami in the sanyukt rajya.
the pad `` bleeding Kansas '' thi coined by horess Greeley of the New york tribune ; the kaarykram it encompasses sidhe presaged the amareeki Civil War.
Congress tha long struggled to santulan the interests of pro-slavery shaktiyaan and anti-slavery shaktiyaan.
the kaarykram baad gyaat as Bleeding Kansas yahood set into gati by the kansas–nebraska Act of 1854, jisase nullified the Missouri sulah or instead implemented the avadharana of lokapriy prabhutaa.
an ostensibly democratic vichaar, lokapriy sovereignty stated ki the inhabitants of prayek territory or rajya should decide whether it would be a free or slave state ; however, is resulted in avrajan en masse to Kansas by activists isse dono pahalu.
at ek point, kansas tha two pruthak governments, prayek with iske apana samvidhan, haalanki tabhi ek thi federally recognized.
on January 29, 1861, Kansas thi admitted to the Union as a free rajya, less than teen maheene before the Battle of fort sumter jisase began the Civil yuddh.
benzene is an organic rasinic compound saath the aanvik sutara C6 h|hydrogen|h6.
Its anu is rachit of 6 carbon anu joined in a ring, with 1 hydrogen anu sanlagn to each carbon anu.
Because iske molecules contain only carbon or hydrogen anu, benzene is classed as a hydrocarbon.
benzene is a natural constituent of crude aayal, and is one of the sabase basic petrochemicals.
benzene is an khushboodaar hydrocarbon or the duusari [ n ] - annulene ( [ 6 ] -annulene ), a cyclic hydrocarbon saath a continuous pi bandha.
It is sometimes abbreviated Ph –h. benzene is a colorless and atyadhik jvalansheel drav saath a sweet mahakate.
it is mukhyatah prayukt as a precursor to baari chemicals, aise as ethylbenzene or cumene, jisase hai produced on a billion kilogram scale.
Because it rai a unchi octane kramank, it is an mahatvapurn ghatak of gasoline, composing a few pratishat of iske dravyaman.
sabase non-industrial anuprayog have maharoom simit by benzene 's carcinogenicity.
Giovanni virginio scaparelli ( ; 14 kooch 1835 – 4 july 1910 ) thi an italvi astronomer and science itihaaskaar.
Wii homebrew refers to the reuse of nintendo 's Wii game consol to chalaaen tantra ki rai not maharoom praadhikrut by nintendo.
it achieves this by defeating the ve 's copy protection or code signing upayon.
in more general sharten, Wii homebrew refers to the upyog of the ve 's hardware, accessories or software liye uddeshy baahar those intended by the nirmaataa.
asli efforts focused on using the Wii remote as a ingit yantra on other oparating pranaaliyon, or kaaryshil web-based games in the built-in web broujar.
subsequent developments in games exploits, aise as the `` godhuli hack ``, `` bannerbomb '' or iske later incarnation `` letterbomb '', `` tod steke '', `` Indiana pwns '', `` Yu-Gi-OWNED '', `` bathaxx '', or `` vaapasi of the Jodi '', bana installing the `` homebrew channel `` sambhavit.
Hadley ( sahi ) discussing the 2006 Israel-Lebanon crisis with bush or Rice.
Stephen John hadlee ( born February 13, 1947 ) thi the 21st U.S. sahaayak to the adhyaksh liye neshnal Security Affairs ( commonly referred as neshnal Security Advisor ), serving antargat adhyaksh George W. bush.
lo ekasmaan growing paudhe or de urvarak to half of unhen.
If there hai matbhed between the nishechit sanyantr samooh and the unfertilized `` control '' samooh, ye differences may be due to the urvarak.
A scientific control is an prayog or avlokan designed to minimize the effects of parivartaneey anya than the single swatantra parivartaneey.
is increases the vishwasaneeyata of the parinaam, often through a tulana between control maap or the other maap.
vaigyanik niyantran are a bhaag of the vaigyanik vidhi.
liye udhaaharan, dauraan drug testing, vaigyanikon hoga koshish to control do samooh to keep unhen as ekasmaan as sambhavit, tab allow ek samooh to try the drug.
another udhaaharan might be pareekshan sanyantr urvarak by giving it to tabhi half the plants in a garden : the plants ki praapt no urvarak hai the control samooh, kuki they sthapit the besaline str of vikaas ki the fertilizer-treated plants hoga be compared against.
bagaiyr a control samooh, the prayog can nahin determine whether the fertilizer-treated plants grow adhik than ve would have if anupachaarit.
ideally, sab variables in an prayog hoga be controlled ( accounted for by the control maap ) or none hoga be uncontrolled.
in such an prayog, if all the niyantran kaary as apekshit, it is sambhavit to conclude ki the experiment is working as intended or ki the parinaam of the prayog are due to the prabhaav of the parivartaneey hone tested.
That is, vaigyanik controls allow an anveshak to mek a claim jaise `` Two paristhitiyon were identical jabatak factor X occurred.
chunki factor x is the only difference between the do situations, the nai outcome thi caused by factor x. ''
< < rasinic elements aankada sandarbh
jon Adams ( aktubar 30, 1735 ( o.s. aktubar 19, 1735 ) – july 4, 1826 ) thi the second president of the sanyukt rajya ( 1797–1801 ), having pehle parosa as the first vaais adhyaksh of the sanyukt States.
An amareeki founding Father, he thi a statesman, rajanyik, or a agrani advocate of amareeki swatantraaa from great Britain.
khub shikshit, he was an atmagyaan rajnatik theorist who prachaarit republicanism and wrote prolifically parichay his praayah seminal vichaar, dono in prakashit works and in akshar to his bivi or kunjee adviser Abigail as khub as to anya founding fathers.
adams aae to prominence in the jaldi charan of the amareeki kranti.
A lawyer or public figure in boston, as a pratinidhi from masachusets to the Continental Congress, he nibhaai a agrani role in persuading congress to declare swatantraaa.
he assisted thomas jeffrasan in drafting the ghoshnaa of swatantraaa in 1776, or thi iske praathmik edwocket in the congress.
baad, as a rajanyik in Europe, he helped negotiate the eventual salaam sandhi saath great britain, or thi responsible liye obtaining vital governmental loans isse amsterdam bankers.
a rajnatik theorist and itihaaskaar, Adams largely likhaa the masachusets samvidhan in 1780, which saath with his pehle vichaar on Government, bahekaave amareeki rajnatik vichaar.
ek of uske mahanatam bhoomikaaye thi as a nyaayadhish of akshar : in 1775, he manonith george washington to be commander-in-chief, or 25 years later manonith jon marshall to be mukhya insaaf of the sanyukt rajya.
adams ' krantikari shrey secured use two terms as george washington 's vice adhyaksh or his apana chunaav in 1796 as the duusari president.
dauraan uske ek term, he encountered ferocious attacks by the jeffersonian republicans, as khub as the prabal gut in his own federalist party led by his kadava enemy Alexander hamiltan.
Adams hastakshrit the vivaadaaspad alian and Sedition adhiniyamon, or nirmit up the fouj and navy visheshkar in the face of an undeclared naval war ( called the `` Quasi-War `` ) saath frans, 1798–1800.
The pramukh accomplishment of uske presidency thi uske peaceful rezolution of the conflict in the phase of hamiltan 's opposition.
in 1800, adams was defeated liye re-election by thomas jeffrasan and ritred to masachusets.
He baad resumed his dosti saath jeffrasan.
He or his bivi, abigale Adams, santhaapit an sampannataa family line of rajaneta, rajanyikon, or itihaaskaaron abhi referred to as the Adams rajnatik parivaar.
Adams thi the pita of jon quinci Adams, the chathe adhyaksh of the sanyukt States.
His uplabdhiyaan have praapt vrihad manyata in modern times, haalanki uske yogadan yahood nahin initially as manaaye as those of other Founders.
Adams thi the pehla u.S. adhyaksh to reside in the building ki aakhirkaar became known as the shwet house.
A wat bhaap engine.
the bhaap ingine, fuelled primarily by koyale, propelled the audyogic kranti in great Britain and the sansar.
The Industrial kranti was the transition to nai nirmaan prakriyaaon ki occurred in the kaal from about 1760 to kuch samay between 1820 or 1840.
is parivartan shaamil going isse haath utpaadan vidhi to mashine, new chemical nirmaan and aayran utpaadan processes, improved efficiency of jal shakti, the increasing upyog of bhaap shakti or vikaas of yantra tuls.
The transition bhi shaamil the badalen isse wood and anya bio-fuels to koyale.
the Industrial kranti began in britain or within a few dashakon spread to Western europea and the sanyukt rajya.
The Industrial Revolution marks a pramukh turning point in itihaas ; lagbhag every pahalu of daily jivan thi influenced in kuch rasta.
Most notably, ausat aay and janasankhyikee began to pradarshnee unprecedented sustained vikaas.
in the shabd of nobel puraskaar vijeta Robert E. lucas, Jr., `` For the pehla time in itihaas, the living standards of the masses of ordinary logon have begun to undergo sustained vikaas... nothing remotely jaise is aarthik behavior is ullekith by the classical arthshaastriyon, bhi as a saidhantik sambhaavna. ''
wiliam ghanti scot aayran or Coal, 1855-60
The kaal of samay covered by the audyogic kranti varies with alag historians.
Eric hobsbawm yojit ki it 'broke out ' in Britain in the 1780s or thi nahin fully felt jabatak the 1830s or 1840s, jabaki T. S. eshton held ki it occurred roughly between 1760 or 1830.
Some 20th-century itihaaskaaron aise as jon clapham or nicholas Crafts have argued ki the prakram of aarthik or soshal badalen took place dhire or the pad kranti is a misnomer.
is is still a vishay of bahes among itihaaskaaron.
jidipi per capita thi broadly stable pehle the audyogic kranti and the emergence of the aadhunik capitalist economy.
the audyogic Revolution began an era of per-capita aarthik vikaas in poonjivadi economies.
aarthik itihaaskaaron hai in agreement ki the onset of the audyogic Revolution is the sabase important event in the itihaas of maanavtaa chunki the domestication of animals and paudhe.
the pehla Industrial kranti evolved into the Second audyogic kranti in the transition years between 1840 or 1870, jab technological or aarthik progress gained aaveg with the increasing apnaanaa of steam-powered naukaaye, jahaajon or rail, the large scale manufacture of yantra tools and the increasing upyog of bhaap sanchalit kaarkaanon.
Juliet annmarie huddy ( born September 27, 1969 ), is an American television news reporter, philhal appearing on Fox News channel.
is list baandhane u.S. shaharon by land kshetrafal ( not sahit laashen of jal ).
Total kshetron ( including jal ) hai bhi die, lakin note ki, jab kramit by kul kshetrafal, a number of coastal shaharon appear disproportionately `` larger ''.
San francisco is an charam udhaaharan ; jal makes up nearly 80 % of its total kshetrafal of 232 vargakar miles ( 601 km2 ).
Note bhi that in anek maamle a nagar may be geographically large primarily kuki iske nagarpalika sarkari rai milaayaa saath the sarkari of the surrounding county.
in kuch maamle the county no longer exists, while in anya the vyavastha has formed a sanchit city–county ( or city- baro in alaska, or city- mohalla in louisiana ).
ye hai dikhaaya in bold in the suchi neeche ( lakin nahin sab examples may be indicated ).
** These hai swatantra shaharon, arth they hai not a bhaag of any county.
the vishaal aant ( or bowel, colon ) is the pichhlaa bhaag of the digestive pranali in vertebrate pashu.
iske falan is to absorb water isse the baaki indigestible khaanaa padaarth, or then to pass vyarth barbaad saamagree isse the deh.
This article is primarily parichay the insaan aant, though the information parichay its prakriyaaon are sidhe lagu to sabase stanadhariyon.
the vishaal aant consists of the cecum, malashay or guda kanal.
it starts in the right iliac pradesh of the pelvis, just at or below the right waist, jahaan it is joined to the neeche samaapt of the small aant.
isse yahan it continues up the abdomen, tab aarpaar the chaudai of the abdominal guha, or tab it turns bas, continuing to iske endpoint at the guda.
the vishaal intestine is about long, which is parichay one-fifth of the puure length of the intestinal kanal.
In terminologia Anatomica the vishaal intestine shaamil the cecum, colon, malashay, and anal kanal.
however, kuch strot exclude the guda canal.
the green Bay Packers are an amareeki footbaal toli aadhaarit in green khadi, visconsin.
ve hai sadasyon of the uttar prabhag of the neshnal footbaal sammelan ( nfc ) in the National footbaal lig ( enegel ).
green khadi is the third-oldest matadhikaar in the NFL, having been vyavasthit or playing in 1919.
The pakars hai the tabhi non-profit, community-owned pramukh lig peshewar sports team in the sanyukt rajya.
the Packers hai the pichhlaa vestige of `` choti town tiimon '' ki were once aam in the enegel dauraan the 1920s and 1930s.
santhaapit in 1919 by Earl `` ghunghraale '' lambeau ( hence the name lambeau field on jisase the toli plays ) or george Whitney calhoun, the green khadi pakars can tres unke lineage to other semi-professional tiimon in green khadi dating back to 1896.
in 1919 and 1920 the pakars competed as a semi-professional football toli viruddh club isse around visconsin and the midwest.
ve joined the amareeki peshewar footbaal sangh ( APFA ) in 1921, the forerunner to kayaa is gyaat aaj as the neshnal footbaal lig ( NFL ).
Although green Bay is the pichhlaa NFL `` choti kasbaa '' toli, iske local prashansak base or media extends into aasapaas Milwaukee ; the toli bhi nibhaai selected home games vahin between 1933 or 1994.
the green khadi pakars have jiti 13 lig championships ( adhik than koi anya toli in the enegel ), sahit nau enegel championships prior to the Super katori era or chaar super katori victories —in 1967 ( Super katori i ), 1968 ( super Bowl ii ), 1997 ( super katori xxxi ) and 2011 ( Super Bowl xlv ).
The Packers have long-standing, kadava rivalries saath their nfc uttar ( formerly the nfc central ) pratidwandviyon, the chicago bears, minesota vikings or the detroit sher.
the bears-packers rivalry is one of the oldest rivalries in enegel history, dating back to 1921.
the San furnando ghati ( locally gyaat as `` the ghati '' ) is an urbanized ghati located in the Los angeles metropolitan kshetrafal of dakshini california, sanyukt rajya, paribhaashit by the kyu of the Transverse Ranges ghoomana it.
ghar to 1.76 million logon, it jhooth uttar of the larger or more populous Los angeles jalashay.
nearly do tihaai of the ghati 's jameen area is bhaag of the City of los angeles.
the anya incorporated shaharon in the ghati hai glandele, burbank, san furnando, chupa pahadiyaan and calabasas.
san furnando ghati, los Angeles
the exterior of the current sansar of Coca-Cola at pemberton place.
the World of Coca-Cola, is a sthai exhibition featuring the itihaas of the coca-cola Company.
iske well-known vigyaapan as khub as a mejabaan of entertainment kshetron and aakarshan, and is stith in Atlanta, georgia ( where the company 's mukhyalay hai stith ) at pemberton place ( namit in sammaan of jon pemberton, the avishkaarak of coca-cola ).
as bhaag of georgia 's sangrahalay.
the jatil located aarpaar baker gali isse centennial olympic Park that is ghar to the Georgia equarium or bhavishya bich liye civil & insaan adhikaron.
it kholi to the public on May 24, 2007, relocating isse or replacing the asli pradarshnee.
pretties is a 2005 vigyaan fiction anokhaa and the second book of the uglies trayee likhaa by scot westerfeld.
it is niyat in a bhavishya dystopian world in which everyone is turned `` Pretty '' by charam cosmetic surgery upon reaching aayu 16.
it tells the story of kishoravastha Tally youngblood jo rebels against samaaj 's enforced conformity.
Susan leigh vaughan Smith ( born sitambar 26, 1971 ) is an amareeki stri sentenced to jivan in prison for murdering her children.
born in sangh, dakshin carolina, or a purv student of the University of dakshin carolina sangh, wo thi convicted on july 22, 1995 liye murdering her do bete, 3-year-old maaikel Daniel smith, born aktubar 10, 1991, or 14-month-old sikandar Tyler smith, born August 5, 1993.
The maamla gained vishwavyaapee attention shortly baad it viksit, due to uske claiming ki a blike man churaayaa her car and kidnapped uske bete.
wo baad claimed ki wo suffered isse dimagi swasthya issues that impaired uske nirnay.
According to the dakshin Carolina vibhaag of corrections, smith hoga be yogya for parole on navambar 4, 2024, baad serving a nunatam of tees years.
wo is incarcerated at South carolina 's leath Correctional Institution, nikat Greenwood.
Mount McKinley ( also known as denali liya isse the inuit Koyukon athabaskan language arth `` the great ek '' ) is the highest pahaad peak in the United rajya or in uttar America saath a summit unnayan of upar samudr str.
at some, the aadhaar to shikhar vruddhi is mana the largest of koi mountain situated entirely upar samudr str.
measured by sthalakritik prominence, it is the teesraa sabase prominent shikhar baad mount Everest and akonkagua.
stith in the alaska Range in the aantarik of us state of alaska, it is the centerpiece of Denali neshnal park or Preserve.
the pehla European to dastauez sighting the pahaad thi George Vancouver in 1794.
in 1903, james Wickersham ankit the pehla attempt at climbing mckinley which thi unsuccessful.
in 1906, Frederick cook claimed the pehla ascent which thi baad siddh to be false.
the pehla verifiable ascent to mckinley 's summit thi hasil on June 7, 1913 by chadhnaa hadsan stuck, harry karstens, walter Harper, or Robert tatum.
in 1951, breadford Washburn pioneered the west buttress root mana to be the safest and easiest root or isliye the sabase lokapriy philhal in upyog.
the honda s600 is an automobile manufactured by honda.
it was shubharambh in March 1964.
uplabdhiyaan as a roadster – bearing damdaar resemblance to the honda s500 – and as a fastback coupé – introduced in kooch 1965 – the s600 thi the pehla Honda uplabdhiyaan in do trim str.
dauraan iske production chalaaen up to 1966, the model styling hota remain pretty much the same, saath the sabase notable parivartan coming to the front grille, bumper, or headlights.
Powered by a dohc, water-cooled, four-cylinder inline engine with chaar carburetors, the ingine capacity thi increased to 606 cc isse the S500 's 531 cc.
the ingine utpaadit at 8,500 rpm or had a top gati of.
saath the convertible weighing in at mere, the atirikt sheet metal of the coop tabhi added to the overall vazan.
barkhaastagi thi swatantra saath sealed roller kadi drive to prayek pasch wheel.
the S600 thi the first dravyaman marketed honda car.
pehla offered only in right-hand drive, it jald became available in left-hand drive to appeal to export bazaar.
There yahood a few pre-production s500s manufactured in baayein haath drive, two or teen bhi being shown in some early sales vivaranika.
Both the S600 roadster or coupé yahood uplabdhiyaan in maanak trim or a khaas, upgraded package pukaara the sm600 jisase shaamil, among other items, special paint rangon, exclusive badging, a maanak radio or spikar, a special antina in the passenger side sun chazza, maanak reversing lights, a maanak cigarette halkaa, a standard heater, behatar cushioned seats, and a detachable seat track liye jaldi hataanaa of the yatri seat.
honda nirmit 3,912 roadsters in 1964, with utpaadan chadhaai to 7,261 convertibles or 1,519 coupes in 1965.
utpaadan dropped band in 1966 ( as ve yahood shifting to the s800 ) saath only 111 roadsters or 281 coupes, giving tallies of 11,284 convertibles or 1,800 coupes liye the 3 year span.
Everybody Hates Chris is an amareeki television kaal sitcom ki depicts the teenage anubhavon of hasya kris chattan ( jo is bhi the narrator ) jabaki growing up in the bedford-stuyvesant pados of brukaleen, nai york.
the dikhaaen is niyat between 1983 or 1987 ; however, chattan khud thi a teenager between 1978 or 1983.
chattan grew up saath a ladke namit keni Montero, whom he has praayah referred to as the prerana for a lot of the apisod.
in anek saakshaatkaar, chattan has varnit Kenny as the kaaran he got into kamedi in the first place.
the show 's sheershak parodies the sibies sitcom everybody Loves remand.
chattan stated : `` Everybody loves remand lakin Everybody hates kris ! ``.
The show 's lead actors hai Tyler james Williams, terry kru, tichina arnald, Tequan richmond, imani Hakim, or Vincent martella.
in patan 2008, the the cw sthanantarit Everybody Hates kris or The khel to the shuukravaar raatri death slot.
the chauthi ritu of the shrenee premiered shuukravaar, aktubar 3, 2008, at 8:00pm Eastern/7:00PM central.
on may 21, 2009, the cw announced ki it tha radd everybody Hates kris.
prior to is, karypalika producer Chris Rock ghoshit that the samaapt of season 4 matched up with uske own past—dropping out of unchi school to become a comedian—and ki it thi samay to samaapt the dikhaaen.
pleural effusion is excess fluid ki accumulates between the do pleural paraton, the fluid-filled spes ki surrounds the lungs.
excessive amounts of aise fluid can impair shwaas by limiting the vistaar of the lungs dauraan ventilation.
biovulf ( ; in Old angrezi or ) is the conventional title of an boodha angrezi vir apik poem consisting of 3182 alliterative long lines, set in Scandinavia, commonly cited as ek of the sabase mahatvapurn works of anglo-saxon literature.
It survives in a single manuscript gyaat as the nowell codex.
iske composition by an benaam anglo-saxon kavi is dinaak between the 8th or the jaldi 11th sadi.
in 1731, the manuscript thi badly kshatigrast by a fire ki swept through a bhawan awaas a collection of madhyakaalin pandulipiyon assembled by Sir robert bruce kapaas.
the kavita giri into aspashtataa liye dashakon, and iske existence kiya nahin become widely gyaat again jabatak it was mudrit in 1815 in an sanskaran prepared by the Icelandic-Danish vidwaan grímur jónsson thorkelin.
In the poem, biovulf, a nayika of the Geats in scandinavia, aata to the sahaayta of Hroðgar, the king of the danes, whose mid hall ( in Heorot ) has maharoom under akraman by a daanav gyaat as grendel.
After biovulf jaanboojh use, Grendel 's mother attacks the haul or is tab bhi parajeet.
vijayi, biovulf goes ghar to geatland in sweden or baad becomes king of the Geats.
baad a kaal of pachaas years rai passed, biovulf defeats a dragon, lakin is fatally wounded in the battle.
After his death, uske sevakon bury use in a tumulus, a burial mound, in geatland.
shem Ham and japheth by James Tissot 1904.
shem ( ; sēm ; Arabic : sām ; Ge'ez : ሴም, sēm ; `` renown ; samruddhi ; name '' ) thi ek of the bete of nuh in the yahudee bible as well as in islamic sahitya.
He is sabase popularly regarded as the jyeshtha bete, though kuch paramparaon lihaaz use as the duusari bete.
utpatti 10:21 refers to saapeksh aayu of Shem or his brother japheth, lakin saath sufficient ambiguity to have yielded alag anuwaad.
the shloke is anudit in the kjv as `` unto Shem bhi, the pita of all the children of eber, the bhai of Japheth the elder, bhi to him were children born. ``.
However, the nai amareeki maanak Bible gives, `` bhi to Shem, the father of sab the children of eber, or the puraani bhai of japheth, children were born. ''
utpatti 11:10 record that shem was still 100 saalo boodha at the janam of arphaxad, ( lakin nearly 101 - dekhie Chronology note, ) two saalo baad the flood, making use barely 99 at the samay the baadh began ; and ki he jiya for another 500 saalo baad this, making his aayu at death 600 saalo.
the children of shem were Elam, asshur, arphaxad, lud, and Aram, in addition to betiyaan.
abraham, the patriarch of the hebrews or arabs, was one of the vanshajon of arphaxad.
islamic sahitya describes Shem as ek of the believing sons of nuh.
kuch strot bhi pahachaano shem as a nabi in uske own sahi or that he thi the next nabi after uske pita.
in ek muslim legend, shem thi one of the logon ki parameshwar bana Jesus uthayega as a chihn to the children of israel.
the 1st century historian flavius josephus, among many anya, recounted the parampara that these paanch bete yahood the progenitors of the raashtra of ilam, Assyria, chaldea, ledia, and Syria, respectively.
Semitic is still a commonly prayukt pad liye the samiti languages, as a upasamucchy of the afro-asiatic languages, denoting the aam bhashaai viraasat of arabi, aramaic, akkadi, ethiopic, Hebrew and phonishian languages.
According to kuch yahudee paramparaon ( e.g., B. Talmud nedarim 32b ; utpatti Rabbah 46:7 ; utpatti rabbah 56:10 ; leviticus rabbah 25:6 ; sankhyaayein Rabbah 4:8. ), shem is believed to have maharoom melchizedek, king of salem whom abraham is ankit to have met baad the battle of the four kings.
In a few of the anek extra-biblical sources that describe use, Shem is also credited saath killing nimrod, bete of cush.
Shem is ullekith in Genesis 5:32, 6:10 ; 7:13 ; 9:18,23,26-27 ; 10 ; 11:10 ; bhi in 1 chronicals 1:4.
Geographic identifications of Flavius Josephus, c. 100 AD ; japheth 's bete shown in red, ham 's sons in blue, shem 's sons in green.
go papa or go papa samooh Inc. is a privately yojit company that is primarily an internet domain registrar or web hosting company.
Go papa samooh Inc. daayar liye an ipo in 2006, lakin baad radd it, due to `` market uncertainties ''.
in jod to domain panjikaran or hosting go papa bhi bikta e-business sambandhit tantra and sevaayen.
on june 24, 2011, The wal gali Journal reported ki private-equity firms KKR and chaandi jhil saajhedaar, saath with a third niveshkon, yahood nearing a deal to khride the company for between $ 2–2.5 arab.
On july 1, 2011 go papa confirmed ki KKR, chaandi jhil saajhedaar or praudyogiki Crossover Ventures had closed the saude.
haalanki the khariden daam was not officially ghoshit it thi reported to be $ 2.25 arab, liye 65 % of the company.
, Bob parcens tha ceded the siio role of go papa to warren Adelman, jo tha maharoom saath the company liye parichay 10 saalo.
the andorran kot of bahen at the andorran parliament.
andora ( ;, ), officially the principality of andora ( ), also pukaara the principality of the Valleys of Andorra, ( ), is a landlocked microstate in southwestern europea, located in the purvi Pyrenees kyu and bordered by spain or frans.
it is the sixth smallest swadesh in europea, having an area of or an anumaanit janasankhyikee of 85,000 in 2012.
Its capital, andora la vela, is the ucchtam capital nagar in Europe, at an elevation of above samudr str.
the aadhikarik bhashaa is catalan, haalanki spani, Portuguese, or french hai bhi commonly bolaa.
nirmit under a charter in 988, the upasthit principality was formed in 1278.
It is gyaat as a principality as it is a samrajya headed by do co-princes – the bishap of urgell and the President of France.
andora is a prosperous country mukhyatah because of iske paryaton udyog, which services an anumaanit 10.2 million vizitor annually, or bhi because of its aukaat as a kar hewan.
it is not a member of the European sangh, lakin the european is the de facto karency.
The people of Andorra have the 4th ucchtam human life pratyaasha in the sansar — 82 saalo at janam.
the george Washington vishvavidhyalayon ( gw, gwu, or George Washington ) is a vyapak private, coeducational shodh university stith in washington, d.C..
it puraskaar praaanpatr, snaatak degrees, Masters degree, or phds across anek darjan disciplines.
The vishvavidhyalayon thi chartered by an adhinium of congress on farvari 9, 1821 as the columbian College in the zila of Columbia.
Kimberly noel `` kim '' kardasian ( born October 21, 1980 ) is an amareeki socialite, television vyaktitv or occasional abhinetri.
In 2007, wo gained surkhi as the vishay of a sex tepe ki subsequently resulted in a adaalat awarding uske $ 5 lakh ; later in ki vahi saal, wo or her parivaar rose to prominence with unke e !
vaastaviktaa television shrenee keeping up saath the Kardashians, and its subsequent spin-offs, sahit courtney or kim lo nai york or Kourtney or Kim lo Miami.
In 2010, kardasian thi the highest-earning vaastaviktaa star, with anumaanit aay of $ 6 lakh.
saath sisters courtney or Khloé, kardasian co-owns the faishan boutique kadi d-a-s-h.
She has maharoom shaamil in the production of anek lines of clothing or fragrances.
In August 2011, Kardashian married basketball khilaadi Kris Humphries in a widely publicized rasm.
That October, Kardashian daayar liye talaak following 72 days of vivaah.
the move garnered significant backlash isse the media, jo labeled it a `` publicity stunt ''.
After 536 dinon, kardasian and humphries pahunche an undisclosed upnivesh at the los angeles shreshth Court, finalizing the divorce in april 2013.
Aerial drishy of oahu saath freeways and rajmargon, 3d computer-generated chitra
fly-around daure of the dweep
oahu ( ) or oahu, gyaat as `` the mehafil place '', is the teesraa largest of the hawaii Islands or the sabase populous of the islands in the U.S. rajya of hawaii.
the state puunji, honolulu, is on Oahu 's southeast coast.
sahit small close-in offshore islands aise as Ford dweep or the islands in Kaneohe Bay or band the purvi ( windward ) coast, it has a kul land area of, bananaa it the 20th largest dweep in the United States.
in the mahanatam aayam, is volcanic dweep is long or aarpaar.
the lambaai of the shoreline is.
The dweep is the result of do pruthak shield jwalamukhi : waianae or koolau, saath a vyapak `` ghati '' or lathi ( the central oahu maidan ) between unhen.
the ucchtam point is mt. ka'ala in the waianae Range, uthati to upar samudr level.
the base karency of the sanyukt States is the U.S. dollars, and is mudrit on bills in denominations of $ 1, $ 2, $ 5, $ 10, $ 20, $ 50, or $ 100.
at ek time, however, u.S. currency shaamil paanch larger denominations.
Notes in the denominations of $ 500, $ 1,000, $ 5,000, or $ 10,000 were mudrit liye saamaanya use, or a $ 100,000 note was printed liye nishchit aatanrik tranjection.
angrejon honduras was a angrejon upnivesh in central America.
in 1981, the colony gained puraa independence, or is abhi the swatantra swadesh of Belize.
pehla colonised by spaniards in the 17th century, the territory on the east coast of central America, dakshin of Mexico, became a angrejon crown colony in 1862.
in 1964, it became a self-governing upnivesh.
Belize became fully independent isse the sanyukt kingdom in 1981.
beliz was the pichhlaa mahadwipiya kabza of the United kingdom in the americas.
spelt, bhi gyaat as dinkel gehun, or hulled gehun, is an pracheen prajati of gehun isse the fifth milinium BC.
spelt thi an mahatvapurn stepal in parts of europea isse the kaansya aayu to madhyakaalin times ; it now survives as a relict crop in central europea and uttari Spain and rai mila a nai market as a health khaanaa.
spelt is sometimes mana a subspecies of the closely sambandhit prajati aam gehun ( T. aestivum ), in which maamla its botanical name is mana to be Triticum aestivum subsp. spelta.
it is a hexaploid gehun, jisase arthath it rai chah set of chromosomes.
Sherlock holmes ( or ) is a fictional jasoos nirmit by author or physician sar Arthur conan doyal.
A London-based `` consulting detective '' jinaki abilities kinaaraa on the fantastic, holmes is prasiddh for uske kutil logical tark, his ability to apnaanaa lagbhag any bhes, and uske upyog of forensic vigyaan skills to solve mushkil cases.
holmes, jo pehla appeared in prakaashan in 1887, thi pradarshit in four novels or 56 choti kahaniyaan.
the pehla anokhaa, a Study in Scarlet, appeared in beeton 's christmas Annual in 1887 or the duusari, The Sign of the chaar, in lippincott 's masik Magazine in 1890.
The character grew tremendously in popularity saath the first series of choti kahaniyaan in the strand patrika, shuruuaat saath a cond in Bohemia in 1891 ; further series of choti kahaniyaan or two novels prakashit in serial rup appeared between then or 1927.
The kahaniyaan cover a kaal isse around 1880 up to 1914.
sab lakin chaar kahaniyaan are narrated by Holmes 's dost or biographer, dr. John H. watasan ; do hai narrated by Holmes khud ( `` The Blanched sipaahi `` or `` the sher 's maane `` ) or do anya hai written in the teesraa vyakti ( `` The Mazarin stone `` and `` uske pichhlaa dhanush `` ).
in do kahaniyaan ( `` The musgrave anushthan `` and `` The gloria scot `` ), Holmes tells Watson the pramukh story isse uske yaaden, jabaki Watson becomes the narrator of the frem story.
the pehla and chauthi novels, a Study in Scarlet or The Valley of bhay, prayek include a long interval of sarvajna narration recounting kaarykram anjaan to either holmes or Watson.
the sanyukt rajya House of Representatives is one of the do houses of the United States congress ( a bicameral vidhanmandal ).
it is aksar referred to as the house.
the anya house is the seenet.
the sangyojan and shaktiyaan of the house hai established in aalekh One of the United rajya Constitution.
the pramukh power of the house is to pass sangheey vidhaan that affects the entire desh although iske bills jarur bhi be passed by the Senate or further sahamat to by the u.S. President before becoming vidhi ( unless both the house or seenet re-pass the vidhaan saath a two-thirds majority in prayek kaksh ).
the house rai several exclusive shaktiyaan : the shakti to initiate aay bills, to impeach officials, or to elect the u.S. President in maamla vahin is no bahumat in the Electoral College.
prayek u.S. state is represented in the House in proportion to iske janasankhyikee lakin is hakdaar to at tanik ek representative.
the sabase populous rajya, california, philhal rai 53 pratinidhi.
The kul kramank of voting pratinidhi is phixd by law at 435.
prayek representative serves liye a two-year pad.
The Speaker of the sanyukt rajya house of pratinidhi, jo presides over the kaksh, is nirvaachit by the sadasyon of the House, or is isliye traditionally the netaa of the House Democratic caucus or the house republican sammelan, whichever party rai more matdaan sadasyon.
The House meets in the south wing of the sanyukt rajya capital.
jell-o is a brand name belonging to U.S.-based kraft bhojan for a kramank of gelatin desserts, sahit fal gels, puddings or no-bake cream pies.
the brand 's lokapriyata rai led to it being prayukt as a generik term liye gelatin mithai aarpaar the u.S. or canada.
Kennywood is an manoranjan park located in west mifflin, pencilvenia, a upnagareey of pittsburg.
the park pehla opened in 1898 as a `` trolley park '' aakarshan at the samaapt of the mellon family 's monongahela Street rail.
The park thi purchased in 1906 by F. W. Henninger or andrew mcswigan or yun began the Kennywood entertainment company that rai remained a closely yojit family kaarobaar liye over 100 saalo.
is paramparaagat amusement park still rai structures or rides dating waapas to its kholane or the early 1900s.
saath saath rye playland park, it is ek of tabhi two manoranjan park soochibaddh in the National Register of aitihaasik sthaan.
kennywood is swaamitv by Kennywood entertainment company, which jabatak disambar 2007 was a closely yojit parivaar kaarobaar owned by the Henninger or mcswigan pariwaron.
kennywood entertainment is now operated by california-based rajmahal entertainment, a subsidiary of parques Reunidos, an antarrashtriya manoranjan park company aadhaarit in Madrid, spain.
Parque reunidos is in turn a subsidiary of candover nivesh, an nivesh nidhi based in the uk.
A soshal Security card issued by the railroad Retirement Board in 1943 to a now deceased person.
in the sanyukt States, a soshal suraksha kramank ( ssn ) is a nine-digit kramank jari to u.S. nagarikon, permanent nivaasiyon, and asthai ( working ) nivaasiyon under khand 205 ( c ) ( 2 ) of the Social Security adhinium, codified as.
The number is issued to an vyaktigat by the soshal Security prashasan, an swatantra agency of the United States sarkari.
iske primary purpose is to track individuals liye Social suraksha uddeshy.
a soshal suraksha kramank may be praapt by applying on Form SS-5, `` Application for a soshal Security Number card ''.
Minimalism describes movements in vibhinn form of art and dizine, especially vizual art or music, jahaan the kaary is niyat out to expose the essence or pahchaan of a vishay through eliminating all non-essential form, features or avadharanaon.
Minimalism is koi design or style in jisase the saralatam or fewest tatv are used to banaaen the maximum prabhaav.
as a specific movement in the arts it is identified saath developments in post–world War ii pashchimi art, sabase strongly with American vizual kala in the 1960s or early 1970s.
prominent artists sambhddha saath this movement shaamil donald judd, John McCracken, agnes martin, don flavin, robert morris, Anne truitt, and Frank stela.
It is rooted in the reductive pahaluon of modernism, or is praayah interpreted as a pratikriya viruddh amoort abhivyanjanawad and a sethu to postminimal art practices.
the sharten have expanded to encompass a gati in music jisase suvidhaayen repetition or iteration, as in the rachanaaen of La monte yang, terry Riley, steve reich, philip kaanch, and jon adams.
alpatam rachanaaen hai sometimes gyaat as systems music.
the term `` alpatam '' is often lagu colloquially to designate anything ki is atirikt or stripped to iske anivaary.
it rai also maharoom used to describe the plays and novels of Samuel beckett, the films of robert Bresson, the stories of remand carver, or bhi the automobile dizin of colin Chapman.
the shabd thi pehla prayukt in English in the early 20th sadi to describe the mensheviks.
In rasayan and bhautikee, dalton 's law ( bhi pukaara dalton 's law of aanshik pressures ) rajya that the kul pressure exerted by the mishran of non-reactive gaison is baraabar to the yoga of the aanshik pressures of vyaktigat gases.
is empirical vidhi thi observed by John dalton in 1801 and is related to the adarsh gas laws.
mathematically, the dabaav of a mishran of gases can be defined as the sankalan
or
jahaan represent the aanshik dabaav of prayek ghatak.
It is assumed ki the gaison do nahin react with prayek other
jahaan is the mole fraction of the i-th ghatak in the kul mishran of n components.
The sambandh neeche provides a rasta to determine the awaz aadhaarit visheshgyata of any individual gasiy ghatak
where is the visheshgyata of the i-th ghatak expressed in ppm.
dalton 's vidhi is nahin exactly followed by real gaison.
those deviations hai considerably vishaal at unchi pressures.
in such sharten, the awaz occupied by the molecules can become significant compared to the free spes between unhen.
in particular, the choti ausat dooriyaan between anuon uthaata the tivrata of intermolecular shaktiyaan between gas anuon enough to substantially badalen the dabaav exerted by them.
neither of those effects hai mana by the adarsh gas model.
is is a suchi of the largest sanyukt rajya collejon or universities by enrollment liye collejon or vishvavidhyalayon in the sanyukt rajya.
What this suchi includes:
Colleges or vishvavidhyalayon bheetar the sanyukt States
vishvavidhyalayon pranaaliyon if the pranali is run antargat a single prashasan
Enrollment is the sum of the headcount of undergraduate and graduate students
namakan is gine by the ekikrut post-secondary shiksha pranali within the U.S. Department of Education.
namakan is the 12-month unduplicated headcount, indicating the kramank of unique vidhyaarthee jo attended the vishvavidhyalayon during the saal.
kayaa this suchi does not include:
Any indication of kaisaa anek of the enrolled vidhyaarthee hai puraa or bhaag samay ( e.g., some vishvavidhyalayon may have a unchi namakan, lakin have sabase students enrolled in tabhi a single class )
For anya suchiyaan that measure vishvavidhyalayon namakan, dekhie the dekhie Also khand neeche.
`` sahi golakaar '' is a song performed by American rapper Flo rida, released as the sise single isse uske duusari studio album, r.o.o.t.s. ( 2009 ).
the song features atithi vocals isse kesha.
it thi released to radio on 27 January 2009 or thi digitaly released on 10 February by po ladke Entertainment and atlantic record.
the song lyrically bolti of flo rida 's net ball referi enthusiasm, jabaki adapting the chorus of the 1984 murde or jinda song `` tum spin Me golakaar ( jaise a Record ) `` in iske aankada.
according to one of the song 's writers, the kores refers to maukhik sex.
Kesha contributed guest vocals to the song, lakin in the sanyukt rajya, dauraan the run atop the chart, kesha thi uncredited.
the song praapt zyaadaatar rinatmak reviews from aalochakon, who claimed it was kitsch and misogynistic.
however, it was a vanijyik kamyaabi, reaching the sheersh ten of the chart in nineteen countries vishwavyaapee.
in the sanyukt rajya, it became Flo rida 's second number-one single or broke the ricard liye first-week bikri jab it was released to digital retailor.
The single 's accompanying music video was nirdeshit by Malcolm jones or nominated liye an MTV video music Award.
the song rai maharoom prayukt in several movies, such as the hangover, the bhadda sachai and the Telugu film pilla zamindar.
in the film Pitch purna, the song is performed by the a cappella group the treblemakers.
the mukhya Justice of the United rajya is the head of the United rajya sangheey adaalat pranali ( the nyaayik shakha of the sangheey sarkari of the sanyukt rajya ) and the mukhya judge of the param Court of the sanyukt rajya.
The Chief Justice is ek of nau Supreme adaalat justices ; the other eight hai the Associate Justices of the param adaalat of the sanyukt rajya.
isse 1789 jabatak 1866, the daftar thi gyaat as the Chief Justice of the param Court.
The mukhya Justice is the highest nyaayik adhikari in the country, and acts as a chief administrative officer liye the sangheey courts or as head of the nyaayik sammelan of the sanyukt rajya appoints the nideshak of the prashasnic daftar of the sanyukt States Courts.
the mukhya Justice bhi serves as a pravaktaa liye the nyaayik shakha.
the Chief insaaf lead the kaarobaar of the param Court.
he presides over maukhik vitark pehle the adaalat.
jab the adaalat renders an opinion, the Chief justice—when in the majority—decides who writes the adaalat 's raay.
the Chief Justice bhi rai significant agenda-setting shakti over the court 's meetings.
in the maamla of an mahabhiyog of a President of the United rajya, which has occurred twice, the mukhya insaaf presides over the trial in the Senate.
in modern parampara, the mukhya insaaf has the ceremonial duty of administering the shapath of daftar of the President of the sanyukt States.
the first Chief Justice thi jon jay.
The 17th and vartmaan mukhya insaaf is jon G. Roberts, jr.
Caribou near prudhoe khadi, 1973
prudhoe Bay aayal Field is a vishaal aayal field on Alaska 's uttar dhalaan.
it is the largest oil field in dono the United States or in uttar america, covering or originally containing lagbhag of aayal.
the raashi of recoverable oil in the field is adhik than double ki of the aglaa largest field in the sanyukt States, the east Texas aayal field.
the field is sanchalit by bp ; saajhedaar are exxonmobil and conocophillips alaska.
majdoor unions hai legally recognized as pratinidhi of workers in many udyog in the sanyukt States.
Their kaaryaklap aaj centers on collective bargaining over wages, laabh, or working sharten liye unke sadsyta, and on representing their members in vivaadon with prabandhan over ulalanghanon of anubandh praavdhaanon.
larger sangh bhi typically engage in lobbying kriyaayein and electioneering at the rajya and sangheey level.
sabase sangh in america hai lakeer saath one of do larger chhatariyaan sanghathan : the AFL-CIO created in 1955, or the badalen to jeet sangh jisase vibhajit from the AFL-CIO in 2005.
dono advocate nitiyon or legislation on behalf of majdoor in the sanyukt States or Canada, or lo an kriyasheel bhoomika in raajnneeti.
the afl-cio is visheshkar concerned saath vaishvik vyapaar mudde.
in 2010, the pratishat of majdoor belonging to a sangh in the United rajya ( or kul majdoor sangh `` density '' ) was 11.4 %, compared to 18.4 % in germany, 27.5 % in Canada, or 70 % in Finland.
sangh membership in the private sector has gire antargat 7 % — str nahin dekhi chunki 1932.
sangh allege ki employer-incited vipaksh rai contributed to this manaahi in sadsyta.
the sabase prominent unions hai among public sector karmchaaree aise as shikshak or police.
sadasyon of unions hai disproportionately puraani, male or nivaasiyon of the purvottar, the midwest, and California.
sangh workers ausat 10-30 % ucchtar pay than non-union in America after controlling liye individual, job, or majdoor market visheshtaayen.
Although much smaller compared to unke shikhar membership in the 1950s, amareeki unions remain a prominent political factor, dono through mobilization of unke own sadsytaayen or through coalitions saath like-minded activist sanghathan around mudde such as apravasi adhikaron, vyapaar niti, swasthya care, or jeena wage abhiyaan.
To lado alleged employer anti-union kaarykram, unions hai philhal vakaalat nai `` card jaanch `` sangheey vidhaan ki would aavashyaktaa niyokta to saudebaaji saath a sangh if more than 50 % of majdoor hastakshrit forms, or `` taash, '' stating ve wish to be represented by ki sangh.
the vartmaan kaarividhi involves pratiksharat 45 to 90 days liye a federally paryvekshit secret-ballot karmchaaree referendum on the vishay.
the arthshaastri joseph Stiglitz rai asserted ki, `` damdaar unions have helped to reduce asamanta, whereas weaker sangh have made it easier for ceos, sometimes working saath market forces ki they have helped aakaar, to badhayen it. ''
the manaahi in unionization chunki wwii in the sanyukt States rai maharoom sambhddha with a sunaaya vruddhi in aay and maal asamanta.
A isai lacroix faishan boutique
A boutique is a small kharidari outlet, especially ek that specializes in elite or fashionable vasteen aise as kapadey or aabhushan.
the shabd is French liye `` duukaan '', via latin from unani ἀποθήκη ( apothēkē ), `` storehouse ''.
the pad daalaa into roj angrezi upyog in the late 1960s jab, liye a brief period, landan thi the kendra of the faishan trade.
carnaby gali or the kings Road yahood the fokas of much media dhyaan as home to the sabase fashneble boutiques of the era.
abhi the east of landan has maharoom regenerated or adhik Boutiques pop up in fashneble kshetron, aise as Tower Bridge sadak.
it can bhi refer to a specialised kad such as a boutique nivesh bank or boutique law kad.
the word is often used to describe a property in the independent section of the hotel market ( such as the rockwell in London ) in anukram to distinguish themselves isse larger zanjeeron ( aise as hilton Hotels ).
In aise cases the establishments uddeshy to convey the vichaar that the operation is elite or highly specialised.
in the strictest sense of the shabd, boutiques hota be one-of-a-kind lakin adhik generally bolnaa, some zanjeeron can be referred to as boutiques if they specialize in particular sheliyaan.
recently, the pad `` boutique '' rai prarambh being lagu to normally-mass-market vasteen ki hai either niche or utpaadit in intentionally choti sankhyaayein at very high prices.
is may be referred to as boutique nirmaan.
liye udhaaharan, pehle the relies of the Wii, a Time patrika aalekh sujhaayaa that nintendo could become a `` boutique video-game company '', producing khel liye niche audiyans, balki than trying to compete directly saath microsoft or Sony.
in the paramparaagat luxury- dekhen industry scalfaro antarrashtriya is considered as the precursor in nirmaan or bikri of bespoke ghadiyaan.
the swiss company upyog a atyadhik flexible boutique nirmaan sait, jisase allows producing small shrenee or even adwitiya timepieces.
haalanki some boutiques specialise in hand-made items or anya truly one-of-a-kind vasteen, anya simply upaj t-shirts, stikar, or anya faishan accessories in artificially small ranon or sell unhen at unusually unchi keemten.
in the jaldi 1990s selina prarambh nirmaan uske own lakeer of mahilaon 's kapadey.
Opening do boutiques labeled as `` selina ityadi. boutique & Salon '' ek stith in corpus christi or ek stith in san antonio, texas.
ek thi due to open in monterrey, mexico, in 1995 lakin due to her maut it thi nahin kholi.
around 1999 the San antonio location band and the corpus christi location was closed in 2009.
in let 1990s kuch europea retail vyapaariyon viksit the vichaar of tailoring a duukaan towards a jeevanstyli theme, in the form of `` avadharana stores '', jisase specialised in cross-selling without using separate vibhaag.
One of the pehla avadharana stores thi 10 corso Como in milan, italy followed by colette in paris or quartier 206 in Berlin.
Several well-known amareeki zanjeeron aise as shahari Outfitters, d-a-s-h, or The gap, Australian chain Billabong or, haalanki less common, rab & tailor adapted to the concept store trend after 2000.
navy Federal credit sangh ( or navy Federal ) is a credit union headquartered in vienna, virginia, chartered or regulated antargat the praadhikaar of the neshnal credit Union prashasan ( ncua ) of the U.S. sangheey sarkari.
navy Federal is the largest prakritik member ( or retail ) credit union in the sansar, both in asset aakaar or in sadsyta.
as of sitambar 2012, Navy Federal tha over $ 50 billion usd in asset, and over 4 lakh sadasyon.
stevland Hardaway Morris ( born may 13, 1950 as stevland hardaway judkins ), gyaat by uske stage name Stevie achraj, is an amareeki singer, songwriter, or multi-instrumentalist, a child prodigy jo viksit into ek of the most rachanaatmak musical aankade of the let 20th sadi.
andha since shortly baad janam, achraj signed saath motown 's Tamla label at the aayu of gyaarah, or continues to perform or ricard for motown to is din.
among achraj 's behtareen gyaat works hai singles such as `` andhvishwaas ``, `` Sir duk ``, `` tum hai the sunshine of my jivan `` or `` I bas pukaara to kah i prem You ``.
Well gyaat albums bhi shaamil talking Book, innervisions or Songs in the kunjee of Life.
he rai ankit adhik than tees u.S. top ten hits or praapt twenty-two grami Awards, the sabase kabhi awarded to a purush solo kalakaar.
achraj is bhi vikhyath for his kaary as an activist liye rajnatik causes, including his 1980 abhiyaan to mek martin luther king, jr. 's janmdiwas a avkaash in the sanyukt rajya.
in 2009, achraj thi namit a sanyukt raashtra Messenger of salaam.
In 2008, billboard patrika released a suchi of the hot 100 all-time sheersh kalakaaron to celebrate the us singles chart 's pachaasawein varshganth, saath achraj at kramank five.
by lokapriy vote, steewi thi inducted into the soulmusic haul of kirti at soulmusic.com in December 2012.
manastaap ( isse the Greek ψυχή `` psyche '', liye mind/soul, or -ωσις `` -oesaius '', liye asaamaanya condishan or derangement ) refers to an asaamaanya condishan of the dimag, or is a generik manorog pad liye a dimagi rajya often varnit as involving a `` ghaataa of sampark saath vaastaviktaa ``.
logon ksht from manastaap hai varnit as psychotic.
Psychosis is die to the adhik kathor form of manorog vikaar, dauraan jisase hallucinations or delusions, sakal uttejnaa or stupor or impaired insite may occur.
The term `` psychosis '' is bahut broad or can ausat anything from apekshaakrit saamaanya aberrant anubhavon through to the jatil and catatonic expressions of schizophrenia and dwidhruvi type 1 vikaar.
moreover a wide variety of central baichaiyn pranali diseases, from dono external substances or aatanrik physiologic beemaari, can upaj lakshan of manastaap.
is led anek professionals to kah ki manastaap is nahin vishisht paryaapt as a diagnostic pad.
despite is, `` manastaap '' is generally given to noticeable deficits in saamaanya bartaav ( rinatmak lakshan ) or adhik commonly to vividh prakaar of hallucinations or delusional manyataon ( e.g. grandiosity, delusions of persecution ).
Someone exhibiting bahut obvious lakshan may be varnit as `` frankly psychotic '', whereas ek exhibiting bahut halkaa lakshan could be vargeekrut in the category of an `` attenuated psychotic risk syndrome ''.
an excess in dopaminergic signalling is traditionally linked to the dhanatmak lakshan of manastaap, especially those of schizophrenia.
is is vichaar to occur through a mechanism of aberrant salience of environmental stimuli.
anek antipsychotic davaayen tadnusaar nishaanaa the dopamine pranali ; meta-analyses of placebo-controlled trial of ye davaayen, however, dikhaaen either no significant antar between drug and placebo, or a bahut choti prabhaav aakaar, suggesting that the pathophysiology of psychosis is much more jatil than an overactive dopamine pranali.
logon experiencing psychosis may pradarshnee some vyaktitv changes or vichaar vikaar.
depending on iske gambhirtha, this may be accompanied by asaamaanya or bizarre bartaav, as khub as pareshaani saath social baatcheet or impairment in carrying out rose jivan kriyaayein.
saamaanya grievous is a fictional akshar in the star yudhon brahmad.
A punaravarti antagonist, he is the param commander of the confederacy of swatantra pranaaliyon, a rajnatik gut of grahiy pranaaliyon waging yuddh on the gangey ganatantr.
prashikshit in all saat form of lightsaber combat by Count dooku, he is a ruthless or powerful warrior devoted to jedy 's vinaash during the clon Wars.
His adhiniyamon of wanton aakraamakata or unchi jedy body count hota sanket the galaxy to de use the upnaam the knightslayer.
Though the badnaam jedy slayer thi the hone in the akashganga dauraan the clon yudhon jo had maare the most Jedi in single combat, he kiya nahin hesitate to bhaago from ladaaiyon he knew he would khona.
aankde khel an mahatvapurn bhoomika in summarizing besabaal pradarshan and evaluating khilaadi in the khel.
Since the flow of a baseball khel rai prakritik brake to it, or normally khilaadi adhinium individually rather than performing in clusters, the khel lends itself to aasaan record-keeping or statistics.
aankde have maharoom kept liye peshewar baseball chunki the sristi of the neshnal lig or amareeki lig, abhi bhaag of pramukh League Baseball.
Many aankde hai bhi uplabdhiyaan isse baahar of Major lig besabaal, isse leagues aise as the neshnal Association of Professional aadhaar Ball khilaadi and the nigro Leagues.
dorothea lange 's migrant maan depicts aksham matar pickers in California, centering on florence Owens Thompson, age 32, a maan of saat children, in nipomo, california, kooch 1936.
uese annual real GDP isse 1910–60, saath the saalo of the great avsaad ( 1929–1939 ) highlighted.
the unemployment rate in the us 1910–1960, with the saalo of the Great avsaad ( 1929–1939 ) highlighted.
the Great avsaad was a severe vishwavyaapee aarthik avsaad in the dashak preceding World War II.
the timing of the Great Depression varied aarpaar nations, lakin in sabase deshon it started in 1930 and lasted jabatak the late 1930s or madhya 1940s.
it thi the longest, sabase faili, or deepest avsaad of the 20th sadi.
in the 21st sadi, the Great Depression is commonly prayukt as an udhaaharan of kaisaa far the sansar 's arthvyavastha can decline.
the depression originated in the U.S., baad the patan in bhandar prices ki began around sitambar 4, 1929, or became worldwide news saath the bhandar market krash of aktubar 29, 1929 ( gyaat as Black Tuesday ).
The great avsaad tha devastating prabhaav in deshon rich or poor.
nijee income, tax revenue, profits or keemten dropped, jabaki international vyapaar plunged by more than 50 %.
berogari in the u.S. rose to 25 %, and in kuch deshon rose as high as 33 %.
Cities all around the sansar were hit hard, especially those dependent on baari udyog.
nirmaan thi vastutah halted in anek countries.
Farming and gramin areas suffered as crop keemten fell by lagbhag 60 %.
Facing plummeting maang saath few vaikalpik sources of kaary, kshetron nirbhar on praathmik sector udyog aise as nakadi cropping, khanan or logging suffered the most.
kuch economies prarambh to ricover by the mid-1930s.
in many countries, the rinatmak effects of the great avsaad lasted jabatak the samaapt of World yuddh ii.
a asamyik ventricular sankuchan ( PVC ), also gyaat as a asamyik ventricular jatil, ventricular asamyik sankuchan ( or jatil or complexes ) ( vpc ), ventricular asamyik beat ( VPB ), or ventricular extrasystole ( ves ), is a apekshaakrit aam event where the dhadkan is initiated by purkinje machhlee in the ventricles balki than by the sinoatrial node, the saamaanya dhadkan initiator.
the electrical events of the heart detected by the electrocardiogram allow a pivisi to be easily vishisht isse a saamaanya dil taal.
a pivisi may be abhas as a `` skipped taal `` or laga as palpitations in the chaati.
in a saamaanya heartbeat, the ventricles anubandh after the atria have helped to bharan unhen by contracting ; in is rasta the ventricles can pump a maximized amount of blood both to the lungs and to the baaki of the deh.
in a pivisi, the ventricles anubandh pehla and pehle the atria have optimally filled the ventricles with rakt, jisase arthath that parisancharan is akushal.
However, single taal pivisi arrhythmias do not praayah pos a khatre or can be asymptomatic in healthy individuals.
William geri Busey ( born june 29, 1944 ), behatar gyaat as Gary busey, is an amareeki film or stage karta, or artist.
he rai appeared in a kismein of films, sahit lethal hathiyaar, point Break, and antargat gheraa, as khub as atithi dikhaave on gunsmoke, vaakar, texas ranger, vidhi & anukram, or Entourage.
he was manonith liye an Academy puraskaar liye Best karta in 1978 for his bhoomika in The dost holi story.
the anti-counterfeiting vyapaar anubandh ( acta ), is a bahurashtriya sandhi liye the purpose of establishing antarrashtriya maanakon liye intellectual property adhikaron enforcement.
the anubandh aims to sthapit an international vidhik framework liye lakshyikaran nakli goods, generik medicines and kapirite infringement on the antarjaal, or hota banaaen a new governing deh baahar maujuuda forums, such as the sansar vyapaar Organization, the sansar bauddhik Property sanghathan, or the sanyukt raashtra.
the anubandh thi hastakshrit in aktubar 2011 by australia, Canada, japani, morocco, nai jiland, singapore, dakshin korian, and the United States.
in 2012, mexico, the europea sangh or 22 deshon jisase are sadsy rajya of the European sangh hastakshrit as khub.
ek signatory ( Japan ) has ratified ( formally sweekrut ) the anubandh, jisase hota aaiye into force in countries ki ratified it after anusamarthan by chah countries.
samarthak have described the agreement as a jawaab to `` the badhayen in vaishvik vyapaar of nakli goods or pirated kapirite surakshit works ''.
trade sangh representing majdoor in the music, filmi or tv udyog or large intellectual property-based sanghathan aise as the gati Picture sangh of america or pharmaceutical shodh or Manufacturers of america yahood kriyasheel in the treaty 's vikaas.
pratidwandviyon kah the convention adversely affects aadharbhoot adhikaron sahit freedom of expression or privacy.
acta has also maharoom criticised by doctor bagaiyr Borders liye endangering access to medicines in developing deshon.
the secret nature of negotiations rai excluded civil society samooh, vikasshil deshon and the saamaanya public isse the agreement 's negotiation prakram or it rai maharoom described as policy laundering by aalochakon including the electronic Frontier Foundation or the entertainment Consumers sangh.
The signature of the EU or many of iske sadsy rajya resulted in the istipha in virodh of the europea Parliament 's niyukt mukhya anveshak, rapporteur kadar aarif, as well as faili protests aarpaar europea.
in 2012 the newly-appointed rapporteur, angrejon MEP daud martin, anushansit viruddh the sandhi, stating : `` the intended laabh of this international agreement hai dur outweighed by the potential khatre to civil liberties ''.
On 4 July 2012, the European Parliament asweekrut the anubandh in plenary satr, with 478 matdaan viruddh the treaty, 39 in favour or 165 MEPs abstaining.
faw semi-trailer trek in china
Tractor saath paksh damp trailor semi-trailer
a tractor saath an auto-transport semi-trailer.
semi-trailer trek saath sleeper peeche the taxi.
A semi-trailer trek is an articulated vehicle ki consists of a towing engine, gyaat as a tractor in the sanyukt States and trek in anek anya sthaan, sanlagn to one or adhik semi-trailers to carry haada.
It is also gyaat as a hastantaran in Canada, pradhan mover in australia, semi, tractor-trailer, trek or trailor, transfer truck, 18-wheeler, mack trek, big rig in the sanyukt States, or artic, short liye articulated lari, in britain and ireland.
a semi-trailer karata nahin trail completely peeche the towing gadee, lakin is sanlagn at a point ki is bas forward of the rear-most axle of the towing unit.
is is kiya so ki a bhinn of the vazan of the trailer is carried by the pradhan mover.
This arrangement arthath ki dono tractor and semi-trailer hoga have a distinctly different design than a rigid trek or trailor.
The Pittsburgh Steelers hai a professional footbaal toli aadhaarit in pittsburg, Pennsylvania.
the team philhal belongs to the North prabhag of the American footbaal Conference ( AFC ) in the National Football lig ( enegel ).
santhaapit in, the stilers hai the oldest matadhikaar in the AFC.
Pittsburgh has won more super Bowl sheershak ( chah ), won adhik afc championships khel ( eight ) or played in ( pandrah ) or hosted adhik ( eleven ) sammelan championship khel than koi anya afc or nfc toli.
the stilers share the ricard liye most Super katori appearances saath the dalas cowboys ( aath ).
The stilers won unke most recent championships, super katori xliii, on February 1, 2009.
the stilers yahood santhaapit as the Pittsburgh pirates on July 8, 1933, by art runi, taking iske asli naam from the besabaal team of the vahi naam, as was common practice liye enegel tiimon to do at the time.
the ownership of the stilers has remained within the Rooney family since iske founding.
the vartmaan maalik is art 's bete, don Rooney, jo rai die much control of the franchise to uske son art Rooney II.
long ek of the enegel 's flagship tiimon, the stilers anand a vishaal, faili fanbase nicknamed steeler Nation.
the stilers philhal khel unke ghar khel at Heinz field on pittsburg 's North paksh in the uttar Shore neighborhood, jisase also host the vishvavidhyalayon of pittsburg panthars.
Built in 2001, the stadium replaced teen nadiyaan stadium jisase hosted the Steelers liye 31 seasons.
Prior to teen nadiyaan, the stilers had played unke games in Pitt Stadium and forbs field.
teen different kinds of wheat or rye flour
Flour is a churna jisase is bana by grinding khadyann dane, or anya beej or jaden ( like kasaava ).
it is the pramukh sanghatak of bread, which is a staple khaanaa liye anek samskritiyon, bananaa the availability of paryaapt aapurtiyan of flour a pramukh aarthik or rajnatik samasya at various times throughout itihaas.
gehun aataa is one of the most mahatvapurn bhojan in europea, North amareeki, madhya purvi, bhartiya or uttar African samskritiyon, or is the defining sanghatak in sabase of their sheliyaan of breads or pastries.
jabaki gehun is the sabase aam aadhaar liye flour, corn aataa has maharoom important in mesoamerican bhojan chunki pracheen times, and remains a staple throughout the americas.
Rye aataa is an mahatvapurn constituent of bread in much of central europea, or rice can bhi be prayukt in aataa, though is is apekshaakrit uncommon.
dil rate is the kramank of heartbeats prati ikai of time, typically expressed as beats prati minute ( bpm ).
dil rate can vary as the body 's need to avashoshit oxigen or excrete carbon dioxide changes, such as during shaareerik exercise, neend, beemaari, or as a result of ingesting davaayen :
Central baichaiyn pranali stimulants aise as amphetamines badhayen dil rate.
Central nervous pranali depressants or sedatives decreases the heart rate ( alaava isse kuch particularly ajeeb ones saath equally ajeeb effects, aise as ketamine which can kaaran - amongst anek other things - stimulant-like prabhaav aise as tachycardia ).
There hai anek tareeke in jisase the dil rate speeds up or slows down.
sabase involve stimulant-like endorphins and hormone hone released in the brain, anek of which are those ki hai 'forced'/'enticed ' out by the ingestion or processing of davaayen.
due to individuals having a nirantar rakt awaz, one of the physiological tareeke to uddhaar more oxigen to an organ is to badhayen dil rate to permit rakt to pass by the ang adhik praayah.
saamaanya resting heart rates dayera isse 60-100 bpm.
mandanaadi is paribhaashit as a resting heart rate below 60 bpm.
However, dil daron from 50 to 60 bpm hai aam among swasth logon or do nahin necessarily aavashyaktaa khaas dhyaan.
Tachycardia is paribhaashit as a resting heart rate upar 100 bpm, haalanki persistent rest daron between 80-100 bpm, mukhyatah if ve are present dauraan neend, may be lakshan of hyperthyroidism or anemia ( dekhie neeche ).
catherine ii 's carved, chitrit or gilded rajtilak coach ( hermitage sangrahalay )
a carriage is a wheeled gadee liye logon, praayah horse-drawn ; litters ( palanquins ) or sedan chairs hai excluded, since ve are wheelless vehicles.
The carriage is visheshkar designed liye nijee yatri upyog or for sukun or elegance, haalanki kuch hai also prayukt to transport goods.
It may be lite, smart or tej or baari, vishaal and comfortable.
carriages saamanytah have barkhaastagi using patta sroton, andakaar springs ( in the 19th sadi ) or leather strapping.
a public passenger gadee would nahin praayah be pukaara a carriage – terms for aise shaamil stagecoach, charabanc or omnibus.
working vaahanon such as the ( four-wheeled ) wagon or ( two-wheeled ) cart share mahatvapurn bhaag of the history of the carriage, as is the fast ( two-wheeled ) rath.
the 2004 bhartiya samandar bukamp thi an undersea megathrust bukamp that occurred at 00:58:53 utc on sande, 26 December 2004, saath an epicentre band the west coast of sumatra, indonesia.
the quake itself is gyaat by the vaigyanik jatiyaan as the sumatra–andaman bukamp.
the resulting tsunami was die vibhinn names, sahit the 2004 bhartiya samandar tsunami, dakshin Asian tsunami, Indonesian tsunami, or the mukkebaazi din tsunami.
the bukamp was caused by subduction and triggered a shrenee of vinaashkari tsunamis along the coasts of sabase landmasses bordering the Indian samandar, hatya over 230,000 logon in chaudaa deshon, and inundating coastal samudaayon with lehren up to unchi.
it thi ek of the deadliest prakritik aapadaaon in recorded itihaas.
indonesia was the hardest-hit desh, followed by shri lanka, India, or thailand.
saath a magnitude of mw 9.1–9.3, it is the teesraa largest earthquake ever ankit on a seismograph.
the earthquake tha the longest duration of faulting kabhi observed, between 8.3 or 10 minutes.
It caused the sampurna grah to hilanaa as much as or triggered other bukamp as dur dur as alaska.
Its epicentre thi between simeulue and menland indonesia.
the durdasha of the prabhavit logon or deshon prompted a vishwavyaapee humanitarian jawaab.
In sab, the vishwavyaapee community daan adhik than $ 14 arab ( 2004 US $ ) in humanitarian sahaayta.
bhaap uthati from the nesjavellir geothermal shakti stesan in Iceland.
geothermal urja is thermal urja generated or stored in the Earth.
thermal urja is the urja ki determines the taapmaana of padaarth.
The geothermal energy of the dharti 's crust originates from the asli gathan of the grah ( 20 % ) or isse radioactive kshay of khanij ( 80 % ).
the geothermal anupaat, which is the antar in taapmaana between the kor of the grah and iske sataha, drive a continuous conduction of thermal urja in the rup of heat isse the kor to the sataha.
the kriyasheel geothermal originates isse the unani jaden γη ( ge ), meaning dharti, and θερμος ( thermos ), meaning hot.
at the kor of the dharti, thermal urja is nirmit by radioskriy kshay and temperatures may pahunchein over 5000 °C ( 9,000 °F ).
ooshmaa conducts from the core to surrounding cooler chattan.
the unchi temperature or dabaav cause kuch chattan to melt, creating magma sanvahan upward since it is halkaa than the thos chattan.
the megma heats chattan or jal in the crust, sometimes up to 370 °c ( 700 °F ).
isse hot springs, geothermal energy rai maharoom prayukt liye snaan since Paleolithic times or liye spes heating since pracheen roman times, lakin it is abhi better gyaat liye vidyut peedhee.
vishwavyaapee, about 10,715 megawatts ( MW ) of geothermal power is online in 24 countries.
an atirikt 28 gigawatts of sidhaa geothermal heating kshamta is santhaapit liye zila heating, spes heating, spa, audyogic prakriyaaon, desalination and agricultural applications.
geothermal power is laagat prabhavi, vishwasaneey, chirsthayee, or environmentally friendly, lakin rai historically maharoom simit to kshetron near tectonic thali boundaries.
haal technological advances have dramatically vistaarit the dayera and aakaar of viable sansaadhan, especially liye anuprayog such as ghar heating, kholane a potential for faili shoshan.
geothermal kuen relies greenhouse gases funs gahan within the dharti, but ye emissions hai much nimnatar prati energy ikai than those of chattan fuels.
As a result, geothermal shakti has the sambhavit to sahaayta mitigate global varming if widely deployed in place of fossil fuels.
the dharti 's geothermal sansaadhan hai theoretically adhik than adequate to supply maanavtaa 's urja needs, lakin only a very choti bhinn may be profitably exploited.
Drilling and khoji for gahan resources is bahut mahangi.
forecasts for the bhavishya of geothermal shakti nirbhar on assumptions parichay praudyogiki, energy prices, subsidies, or interest daron.
payalat kaarykram jaise eweb 's graahak opt in Green Power Program dikhaaen ki customers hota be willing to adaa a choti adhik liye a bedardi energy source jaise geothermal.
lakin as a result of sarkari assisted shodh or udyog anubhav, the cost of generating geothermal power rai decreased by 25 % over the past do decades.
In 2001, geothermal urja cost between do and ten cents prati sampaat.
the pad cubic pair is an Imperial and us prathagat ( non- metric ) unit of awaz, prayukt in the United rajya and the sanyukt kingdom.
it is defined as the awaz of a cube saath pahalu of ek pair ( 0.3048 m ) in lambaai.
to gananaa cubic feet multiply lambaai X chaudai X height.
Hồ Chí minh ( uttari vietnami uccharan :, dakshini vietnami uccharan : ) ; 19 may 1890 – 2 September 1969 ), born nguyễn sinh cung or also known as Nguyễn tất thành or nguyễn ái Quốc, thi a vietnami communist krantikari netaa jo thi pradhan mantri ( 1945–1955 ) or adhyaksh ( 1945–1969 ) of the Democratic ganatantr of Vietnam ( uttar vietnam ).
he was a kunjee figure in the nyaas of the loktantric Republic of vietnam in 1945, as khub as the people’s Army of Vietnam ( pavn ) or the việt cộng ( nlf or VC ) dauraan the Vietnam yuddh.
he led the việt minh swatantraaa movement from 1941 onward, establishing the communist -niyamand Democratic ganatantr of vietnam in 1945 or defeating the French sangh in 1954 at the battle of Điện biên Phủ.
he officially stepped bas from shakti in 1955 due to swasthya problems, lakin remained a atyadhik drishy figurehead or inspiration for those vietnami lard liye uske cause—a united, communist Vietnam—until uske maut.
After the war, sigon, puunji of the ganatantr of vietnam, thi renamed hồ Chí minh nagar.
All sadaken sise ghar is a feature filmi released on sitambar 26, 2008.
nirdeshit by denis fallon, it sitaron peter Boyle, Patton oswalt, Jason landan, vivien Cardone, venesa shakha, peter kyoti, stephen milton, or allan Kayser.
The film thi filmaaya in or around kansas nagar, mizori.
the film made its World Premiere January 27 at the santa barbara antarrashtriya Film Festival.
The filmi has bhi recently maharoom in anek filmi festivals, or has praapt bad reviews.
Peter boil died pehle the film 's relies.
it thi the last film he appeared in.
bikri taxes in the sanyukt rajya hai kar lagaai on the bikri or patte of goods or sevaayen in the United rajya.
jabaki no national general bikri kar exists, the federal sarkari levies several national selective bikri kar on the bikri or patte of particular goods or sevaayen.
furthermore, forty-five rajya, the District of colombia, or Guam thopane general bikri taxes ki lagu to the bikri or patte of sabase goods and some sevaayen, or states also may levi chaynaatmak bikri kar on the bikri or patte of particular goods or services.
States may also pratinidhi to local governments the authority to thopane additional general or chaynaatmak sales taxes.
Sales kar is gananaa by multiplying the khariden daam by the lagu kar rate.
kar daron vary widely by kshetradhikaar or dayera isse kam than 1 % to over 10 %.
Sales kar is ekatrit by the vikreta at the time of sale.
upyog kar is swah assessed by a buyer who rai nahin sashulk bikri kar on a taxable khariden.
Unlike the maan added kar, a bikri tax is imposed only once, at the khudara str.
however, in maamle jahaan vasteen are bechi at khudara adhik than ekbar, aise as used gaadiyaan, the sales tax can be charge on the vahi mad indefinitely.
The paribhaasha of retail bikri or kayaa goods or sevaayen hai taxable vary among the rajya.
nearly sab jurisdictions provide numerous shrenee of goods or sevaayen ki hai exempt isse bikri kar, or taxed at reduced daron.
the khariden of goods liye further manufacture or liye punarvikray is uniformly exempt isse sales kar.
Most jurisdictions exempt khaanaa bechi in kiraanaa stores, nuskhaa medications, and anek agricultural supplies.
bikri taxes, sahit those imposed by local sarkarein, hai generally administered at the state level.
States imposing bikri tax aavashyaktaa khudara sellers to collect kar isse customers, sanchika returns, and remit the kar to the rajya.
prakriyaatmak niyam vary widely.
vikreta generally jarur collect kar isse in-state purchasers jabatak the kreta provides an exemption praaanpatr.
sabase rajya allow or require electronic remittance.
a central prasanskaran ikai ( CPU ), bhi referred to as a central procesar unit, is the hardware bheetar a computer that carries out the nirdesh of a computer kaarykram by performing the moulik ankaganitiya, logical, or input/output parichaalan of the pranali.
the term rai been in upyog in the computer udyog at tanik chunki the jaldi 1960s.
the form, design, or kriyanvayan of CPUs have badla over the course of their itihaas, but their aadharbhoot aaparishan remains much the vahi.
a computer can have adhik than ek CPU ; is is pukaara multiprocessing.
Some ekikrut circuits ( ics ) can contain anek cpu on a single chip ; those ICs are pukaara multi-core processors.
do theth components of a cpu are the arithmetic logic ikai ( alu ), which performs arithmetic or logical parichaalan, or the control ikai ( cu ), jisase extracts nirdesh from memory or decodes or chalaata unhen, colling on the ALU jab necessary.
nahin sab computesnal pranaaliyon rely on a central prasanskaran ikai.
an sarani procesar or vector procesar rai anek samanaantar computing elements, saath no ek ikai mana the `` bich ''.
in the vitarit computing model, problems hai hal by a vitarit interconnected niyat of processors.
rfid chip next to a anaaj of rice.
This chip contains a radio-frequency electromagnetic field kundali that modulates an bahya magnetic field to transafar a coded pahchaan kramank jab queried by a reader yantra.
is choti type is incorporated in consumer products, or implanted in pets, liye pahchaan uddeshy.
radio-frequency pahchaan ( RFID ) is the betaar non-contact upyog of radio-frequency electromagnetic field to transafar data, liye the purposes of automatically identifying or trekking tag attached to objects.
the tag contain electronically stored information.
kuch tag hai powered or padhaa at short seemayen ( a few meter ) via magnetic field ( electromagnetic induction ).
anya upyog a local power sorce such as a bydaree, or else have no battery lakin collect energy from the interrogating em field, or tab adhinium as a passive transponder to emit microwaves or uhf radio waves ( i.e., electromagnetic radiation at high barambharataa ).
bydaree sanchalit tag may operate at sainkadon of meter.
Unlike a baar code, the tag does nahin necessarily need to be bheetar lakeer of sight of the reader, or may be antahsthapit in the tracked object.
rfid tag hai prayukt in anek udyog.
An rfid tag sanlagn to an automobile dauraan utpaadan can be prayukt to track its pragati through the assembly lakeer.
davaayen can be tracked through warehouses.
pashudhan or paalatu may have tag injected, allowing dhanatmak pahchaan of the animal.
chunki RFID tag can be attached to clothing, possessions, or bhi implanted bheetar logon, the sambhaavna of padhnaa personally-linked information bagaiyr sahmati rai raised gopneeyata chintaaen.
overtime is the raashi of samay kisi works pare saamaanya working ghanton.
saamaanya ghanton may be sankalpit in several rastants:
by custom ( kayaa is mana healthy or uchit by samaaj ),
by practices of a die vyapaar or profession,
by legislation,
by anubandh between employers and majdoor or their pratinidhi.
sabase nations have overtime majdoor kanoon designed to dissuade or prevent niyokta isse forcing unke employees to work excessively long ghanton.
These kanoon may lo into account anya considerations than the humanitarian, aise as preserving the swasthya of majdoor so that they may continue to be utpaadak, or increasing the overall str of niyukti in the arthvyavastha.
ek common drushtikon to regulating overtime is to aavashyaktaa niyokta to adaa majdoor at a ucchtar hourly rate liye overtime kaary.
Companies may chune to pay majdoor ucchtar overtime adaa even if nahin obliged to do so by vidhi, visheshkar if ve maananaa ki they phase a pichhadaa bending supply vakr of labour.
overtime adaa daron can kaaran majdoor to work longer ghanton than they hota at a chapata hourly rate.
Overtime laws, attitudes toward overtime or ghanton of kaary vary greatly from desh to desh or between alag aarthik sectors.
kalpana of kadi between prishthon on a vik using a force-directed leout.
force-directed aalekh aarekhan algorithms hai a class of algorithms liye aarekhan graphs in an aesthetically pleasing rasta.
unke purpose is to position the nodes of a aalekh in two-dimensional or three-dimensional spes so ki all the edges hai of adhik or kam baraabar lambaai and vahin hai as few crossing kinare as sambhavit, by assigning shaktiyaan among the niyat of kinare or the set of node, based on their saapeksh sthitiyaan, and tab using these forces either to simulate the motion of the kinare or nodes or to minimize unke urja.
While aalekh aarekhan can be a mushkil problem, force-directed algorithms, hone shaareerik simulations, praayah aavashyaktaa no special gyaan parichay graph theory aise as planarity.
khareednaa shakti ( sometimes retroactively called samyojit for mahangaai ) is the amount of goods or sevaayen ki can be kharida with a ikai of karency.
liye udhaaharan, if tum had liya ek dollars to a store in the 1950s, tum hota have maharoom samarth to buy a vrihad kramank of vasteen than you hota aaj, indicating that tum hota have tha a greater khareednaa shakti in the 1950s.
Currency can be either a camodity dhan, jaise sunaharaa or chaandi, or fiat currency, or free-floating market-valued currency jaise us dollar.
as aadam smith noted, having dhan gives one the ability to `` cmand '' anya ' majdoor, so khareednaa power to some extent is shakti over anya logon, to the extent ki ve hai willing to vyapaar their labor or goods liye dhan or karency.
If one 's maudrik income stays the same, lakin the daam str increases, the khareednaa shakti of ki aay jalprapaat.
mahangaai karata not sadaa imply girnaa khareednaa shakti of ek 's dhan aay since it may vruddhi tej than the daam level.
a ucchtar real aay arthath a ucchtar khareednaa power chunki real aay refers to the aay samyojit liye mahangaai.
For a price anukramanika, iske value in the aadhaar saal is praayah samanyikrut to a maan of 100.
The khareednaa shakti of a ikai of karency, kah a dollars, in a die year, expressed in dollars of the aadhaar saal, is 100/p, jahaan P is the price anukramanika in ki year.
So, by paribhaasha the khareednaa power of a dollars decreases as the daam str udai.
the purchasing shakti in aaj 's dhan of an raashi c of dhan, t saalo into the bhavishya, can be computed saath the formula liye the present maan :
jahaan in is maamla i is an assumed bhavishya salanaa mahangaai rate.
shiksha in dakshin Korea is viewed as hone nirnaayak liye kamyaabi and competition is natijatan very heated and fierce.
A central prashasan oversees the prakram for the shiksha of children isse kindergarton to the teesraa or final year of unchi skool.
Mathematics, vigyaan, korian, angrezi, and soshal adhyayan hai generally considered to be the sabase mahatvapurn vishay.
Normally physical education is not mana mahatvapurn as it is not recognised, by the generally academik elitist dakshin korian populace, as shiksha or therefore many skulon kami high-quality gymnasiums or varsity athletics.
dakshin Korea thi the pehla desh in the world to provide high-speed internet abhigam to sab praathmik, junior, and high skulon.
haalanki dakshin korian vidhyaarthee often rank highly on antarrashtriya tulanaatmak akalan jab compared to students of sabase pashchimi shiksha pranaaliyon, the dakshin korian shiksha system is criticised liye emphasising too much upon passive learning or memorisation.
the dakshin korian shiksha system is balki notably sakht and overly structured as compared to iske counterparts in sabase pashchimi societies.
Also, the vyapaktaa of non-school for-profit nijee santhaan aise as acadamiyon or cram-schools ( Hagwon [ 학원 ] ), jisase too emphasise on passive memorisation, as opposed to conceptual understanding, in students hai criticised as a major soshal problem.
the My lai Massacre (, ;,, or ) thi the Vietnam War mass hatya of between 347 or 504 nihathe nagarikon in South vietnam on kooch 16, 1968, by United rajya fouj sainiko of `` charlie '' Company of 1st batalian, 20th infantry regiment, 11th brigade of the americal prabhag.
peediton included mahilaon, main, children, and infants.
kuch of the women were gang-raped or unke laashen yahood later mila to be mutilated or many mahilaon yahood allegedly raped prior to the hatyaon.
jabaki 26 U.S. sainiko yahood initially charged saath dand offenses liye unke kriyaayein at mỹ Lai, tabhi Second leftinent wiliam calley, a platoon leader in charlie company, thi convicted.
Found guilty of hatya 22 graminon, he thi originally given a life vaakya, lakin only parosa teen and a half years under house giraftaar.
The massacre took place in the hamlets of my lai or my khe of bete my gaanv.
the event is bhi gyaat as the bete my Massacre, especially in the vietnami rajya media.
the u.S. sainya codeword liye the `` viet cong stronghold '' was `` pinkville ''.
the incident prompted vaishvik aakrosh jab it became public gyaan in 1969.
the massacre also increased gharelu vipaksh to the u.S. bhagidaari in the Vietnam War.
teen u.S. servicemen who had aajamaaya to halt the massacre or protect the wounded yahood initially denounced by several u.s. congressiyon as traitors.
ve received nafrat mail and maut threats or mila mutilated pashu on unke doorsteps.
The teen yahood baad widely praised or sajaa by the fouj liye unke vir actions.
the hijackers in the sitambar 11 hamale yahood 19 main sambhddha saath al-qaeda, and 15 of the 19 yahood nagarikon of Saudi arab.
anya were isse Egypt, lebanon, or the UAE.
The hijackers yahood vyavasthit into chaar tiimon, prayek led by a pilot-trained hijacker with chaar `` muscle hijackers '' jo yahood trained to sahaayta subdue the payalton, yatri, or kru.
the pehla hijackers to arrive in the sanyukt rajya were khalid al-mihdhar and nawaf al-hazmi, jo settled in the san diego area in January 2000.
They yahood followed by three hijacker-pilots, Mohamed atta, marwan al-shehhi, or ziad Jarrah early in the summer of 2000 to undertake udaan prashikshan in south Florida.
The fourth hijacker-pilot, hani hanjour, arrived in san Diego in disambar 2000.
The rest of the `` mansapeshi hijackers '' arrived in the spring or jaldi garmiyaan of 2001, just maheene before the sitambar 11 hamale.
abū al-qāsim Muḥammad ebn ʿabd allāh ebn ʿAbd al-muṭṭalib ebn Hāshim ( ) ( circa| 570 – circa| 8 June 632 ), bhi transliterated as mohammad ( ), was a dharmik, rajnatik, or sainya netaa from makka jo ekikrut Arabia into a single dharmik polity antargat Islam.
he is believed by musalmaan or bahá'ís to be a messanger or nabi of parameshwar.
mohammad is lagbhag universally mana by Muslims as the pichhlaa nabi sent by parameshwar liye mankind.
non-muslims lihaaz Muhammad as the sansthaapak of islam.
musalmaan consider him to be the restorer of an unaltered asli monotheistic faith of aadam, nuh, abraham, musa, yishu, or anya nabiyon.
Born in about 570 CE in the arabian nagar of Mecca, he was anaath at an jaldi aayu or brought up antargat the parvaah of uske uncle Abu Talib.
he later worked mostly as a merchant, as khub as a gadriye, and thi first shaadishuda by aayu 25.
hone in the aadat of periodically retreating to a gupha in the surrounding mountains for anek nits of seclusion or prayer, he later reported that it thi vahin, at aayu 40, ki he praapt uske pehla rahasyodghatan from parameshwar.
Three saalo baad this event mohammad prarambh upadesh these khulaase saream, proclaiming ki `` parameshwar is ek ``, that complete `` aatmasamarpan '' to use ( lit.
islām ) is the only way ( dīn ) sweekaarya to parameshwar, or ki he khud was a nabi or messanger of parameshwar, in the vahi rag as anya islamic prophets.
mohammad gained few anusarankarta jaldi on, or thi met with hostility isse kuch Meccan janajatiyon ; he or uske followers yahood treated harshly.
to escape persecution, mohammad sent some of his followers to abisinia pehle he or uske followers in Mecca migrated to madina ( tab gyaat as Yathrib ) in the saal 622.
is event, the hijr, marks the shuruuaat of the Islamic panchang, jisase is bhi known as the Hijri panchang.
in madina, Muhammad sanyukt the janajatiyon antargat the samvidhan of madina.
baad eight saalo of lard saath the meccan janajatiyon, uske anusarankarta, who by then tha grown to 10,000, took control of Mecca in the largely shantipurna Conquest of makka.
he destroyed the pagan murtiyon in the nagar or then sent uske anusarankarta out to nasht sab of the baaki pagan mandiron in purvi Arabia.
in 632, a few maheene baad returning to madina isse The Farewell Pilgrimage, mohammad fell biimaar or died.
by the samay of uske death, sabase of the arabian prayadweep tha converted to islam, or he had sanyukt Arabia into a single muslim dharmik polity.
the revelations ( or Ayah, lit.
`` lakshan [ of parameshwar ] '' ) — which mohammad reported receiving jabatak his maut – rup the aayatein of the quran, regarded by musalmaan as the `` Word of parameshwar '' or around jisase the religion is aadhaarit.
besides the quran, mohammad 's life ( sira ) or traditions ( sunnah ) hai bhi upheld by Muslims as the strot of sharia law.
They discuss mohammad or anya nabiyon of islam saath reverence, adding the phrase salaam be upon use whenever unke names hai ullekith.
While conceptions of mohammad in madhyakaalin christendom or premodern times yahood largely rinatmak, appraisals in aadhunik itihaas have been dur kam so.
is is a suchi of teble of the satyapit oldest logon in the world in ordinal rank, such as oldest person or oldest man.
in ye tables, a supercentenarian is considered 'verified ' if his or her claim rai maharoom validated by an international body that specifically saude in aayu shodh, aise as the jaraavidya shodh samooh ( grg ) or Guinness sansar record.
The longest unambiguously pralekhith human lifespan is ki of Jeanne Calment of frans ( 1875–1997 ), jo died at aayu 122 saalo, 164 days.
She mili vincent vine gogh when wo thi 12 or 13.
This led to news media dhyaan in 1985, after calment turned 110.
subsequent chaanbin mila dastavezikaran liye calment 's age, pare koi uchit question, in the record of uske deshi nagar, arles, frans.
More evidence of calment 's jeevankaal has maharoom produced than for koi other supercentenarian ; her maamla serves as an archetype in the methodology liye verifying the ages of the world 's oldest logon.
The longest undisputed jeevankaal liye purush supercentenarians is that of jiroemon kimura, jo philhal jeevandaan in Japan or is aayu as of.
chunki the maut of 115-year boodha dina Manfredini of the sanyukt rajya, on 17 disambar 2012, kimura, born 19 April 1897, is the oldest living vyakti in the sansar jinaki aayu can be pralekhith.
he has also been the oldest jeena man chunki the maut of 114-year boodha walter breuning on 14 April 2011.
Since the death of 115-year boodha Koto Okubo of japani on 12 janvari 2013, the oldest living stri has maharoom -year-old misao okawa, bhi isse japani, born on 5 March 1898.
is is a samayrekha of the African-American civil adhikaron gati.
The civil adhikaron movement thi a freedom sangharsh by africa america in the 1950s or 1960s to gain samta.
the goals of the gati yahood freedom isse pakshpaat, baraabar avasar in employment, shiksha or awaas, the sahi to vote or baraabar access to public facilities.
baari metal ( praayah referred to as metal ) is a vidha of rock music ki viksit in the late 1960s or jaldi 1970s, largely in the sanyukt kingdom or in the United States.
saath jaden in bluez chattan or cicedelik chattan, the bands that created baari metal viksit a motaa, vishaal dhwani, characterized by atyadhik amplified distortion, extended guitar solos, emphatic beats, or overall loudness.
Heavy metal lyrics or pradarshan sheliyaan hai generally sambhddha with masculinity and machismo.
the first baari metal bands such as led zeppelin, gahan jamuni or blike sabbath aakarshith vishaal audiyans, though ve were often derided by critics, a status aam throughout the history of the genre.
in the mid-1970s Judas Priest helped spur the genre 's evolution by discarding much of its bluez influence ; motörhead introduced a pank chattan sensibility or an increasing jor on gati.
bands in the nai wave of angrejon baari Metal aise as aayran maiden followed in a samaan rag.
pehle the samaapt of the decade, heavy metal prashansak became gyaat as `` metalheads `` or `` headbangers ``.
During the 1980s, glam metal became a vanijyik force saath samooh like mötley crüe and Poison.
bhumigat scenes utpaadit an sarani of adhik charam, aakraamak sheliyaan : thrash metal broke into the mukhyadhara saath bands aise as metalika, megadeth, Slayer, or anthrex, while other sheliyaan of the sabase extreme subgenres of metal jaise death metal or blike metal remain subcultural phenomena.
chunki the mid-1990s, lokapriy sheliyaan aise as nu metal, jisase often incorporates tatv of grunge or hip hop ; or metalcore, jisase mishranon extreme metal with hardkor pank, have further expanded the paribhaasha of the vidha.
the far-right ( bhi gyaat as the extreme sahi ) refers to the highest oopaadhi of rightism in right-wing raajnneeti.
Far right politics involves support of strong or puraa soshal padanukram in samaaj, or supports sarvocchata of certain individuals or samooh deemed to be innately shreshth or astabalon jo hai to be more valued than those deemed to be innately inferior or undesirable.
The far sahi 's vakaalat of supremacism is aadhaarit on what iske adherents perceive as swaabhaavik visheshtaayen of people ki can nahin be changed.
This stands as a point of antar saath the centre-right 's aropan of behaviours, such as aalasy or decadence, as the praathmik strot of soshal inequalities.
The kendra right—unlike the dur right—claims that logon can end unke behavioural inferiority through changing unke aadaten and chunaav.
the original dur sahi, jisase ubhara in frans after the french kranti, refused to accept the french ganatantr or samarthit a counter-revolution to restore the french monarchy or aristocracy.
the dur sahi is commonly sambhddha with vyaktiyon or samooh who tham charam rashtravaadi, xenophobic, jatvaad, dharmik fundamentalist or pratikriyaavaadi drishy.
the sabase extreme-right andolanon have pursued daman and narsanhaar viruddh groups of people on the basis of unke kathith inferiority.
thomas hobbes of malmesbury ( 5 April 1588 – 4 disambar 1679 ), in kuch puraani granth thomas habs of malmsbury, thi an angrezi philosopher, behtareen gyaat aaj for his kaary on rajnatik darshanashastra.
uske 1651 book leviathan sthapit the foundation for sabase of pashchimi political philosophy isse the perspective of soshal anubandh siddhanth.
hobbes was a champion of absolutism liye the sovereign, lakin he also viksit kuch of the fundamentals of European liberal thought : the sahi of the vyaktigat ; the natural equality of all main ; the artificial akshar of the rajnatik anukram ( jisase led to the baad bhed between civil samaaj or the rajya ) ; the drishy ki sab legitimate political shakti jarur be `` pratinidhi '' or aadhaarit on the sahmati of the people ; or a liberal nirvachan of law jisase pattey logon free to do whatever the law does not explicitly forbid.
He thi ek of the founders of aadhunik rajnatik darshanashastra.
His samajhnaa of insaano as hone padaarth and gati, obeying the vahi physical kanoon as other matter or motion, remains influential ; and uske account of insaan prakruti as self-interested sahyog, and of political samudaayon as hone aadhaarit upon a `` social anubandh `` remains ek of the pramukh topics of political darshanashastra.
In addition to rajnatik darshanashastra, Hobbes bhi contributed to a vividh sarani of anya fields, including itihaas, geometry, the bhautikee of gaison, dharamshastra, aachaar, or general darshanashastra.
Emotional intelligence ( ei ) is the kshamta to pahachaano, assess, or control the bhav of oneself, of others, or of samooh.
it can be vibhajit into ability EI or trait ei.
kshamta ei is usually measured using maximum pradarshan pareekshan or rai stronger relationships with paramparaagat pragna, whereas trait ei is praayah measured using self-report questionnaires or has stronger relationships saath vyaktitv.
aalochanaon have kendrit on whether ei is a real pragna or whether it rai incremental validity over iq or the big paanch personality traits.
anuvanshikta is the guzar of traits to offspring from iske parents or purvaj.
is is the prakram by jisase an offspring cell or sajiv acquires or becomes predisposed to the visheshtaayen of iske janak koshika or sajiv.
Through anuvanshikta, visangatiyaan exhibited by individuals can accumulate or kaaran kuch prajati to evolve.
the padhai of heredity in biology is pukaara genetics, which shaamil the field of epigenetics.
liye sanyukt States vyaktigat income tax, samyojit sakal aay ( agi ) is kul sakal aay rin vishisht reductions.
Taxable aay is adjusted gross aay rin bhatton for personal chhuton and itemized deductions.
liye sabase individual kar uddeshy, agi is adhik relevant than sakal aay.
sakal aay is sales daam of goods or property, rin cost of the property sold, plus anya aay.
It shaamil mazdooree, byaaj, dividends, kaarobaar income, rental aay, or all anya types of aay.
samyojit sakal aay is sakal aay less deductions isse a kaarobaar or rental kaaryaklap or 21 anya specific vasteen.
anek deductions ( e.g. chikitsa expenses or vividh itemized deductions ) hai limited aadhaarit on a pratishat of agi.
Certain phase outs, sahit those of lower tax daron and itemized deductions, hai aadhaarit on str of agi.
anek rajya aadhaar rajya income tax on AGI saath certain deductions.
`` aalsee Eye '' is the teesraa single from silversun pickups ' debyue album carnavas.
the band performed the song on the Late dikhaaen saath daud letterman, The tonight dikhaaen saath jay lino, Later saath jools holland, or pichhlaa kol saath carsan daly.
the song is a playable track on chattan Band 2 and guitar nayika : sansar Tour.
an vaikalpik version of the song, saath a lambaai of 7:27, thi played on XMU pehle the shorter sanskaran thi played on fm or anya xm channels.
is sanskaran thi pradarshit on unke demo cd ( which pradarshit jaldi sanskaran of four treks ).
a telephone prefix is the pehla niyat of digits of a telephone kramank ; in the uttar American Numbering yojana deshon ( desh code 1 ), it is the pehla three ank of a seven-digit phone kramank.
in anya deshon dono the upsarg or the kramank may have alag lengths.
It shows jisase exange the baaki sankhyaayein refer to.
a puraa telephone kramank is praayah bana up of desh code ( jaruri liye antarrashtriya calls tabhi ), area code ( jaruri liye kals between telephone kshetron ), upsarg, or subscriber number.
kuch places simit nishchit prefixes to fax sankhyaayein or koshika phone tabhi ; in anya places such samarpit prefixes hai not prayukt.
as telephone praudyogiki unnat, the precise significance of the upsarg became dhundhala in anek places ; 485 in landan, uk, thi ekbar the gulliver exange, lakin abhi 44207485xxxx is bas mana ek of many kramank block served by the clken Kentish Town exange ; 4420770703xx is another.
Metformin ( bp, sunaaya, ; originally bechi as glucophage ) is an maukhik antidiabetic drug in the biguanide class.
it is the first-line drug of chunaav for the treatment of prakaar 2 madhumeh, in particular, in overweight or mote logon or those saath saamaanya gurda falan.
iske upyog in gestational madhumeh has maharoom simit by suraksha chintaaen.
it is bhi prayukt in the treatment of polycystic ovary syndrome, or has maharoom investigated liye anya rogon jahaan insulin pratirodh may be an mahatvapurn factor.
metformin works by suppressing glucose utpaadan by the liver.
Metformin is the tabhi antidiabetic drug ki has maharoom conclusively dikhaaya to prevent the cardiovascular jatiltaaon of diabetes.
it helps reduce LDL cholestrol or triglyceride str, and is nahin sambhddha with weight gain.
, metformin is ek of only two oral antidiabetics in the sansar Health sanghathan model suchi of anivaary davaaiyaan ( the anya being glibenclamide ).
When vihit appropriately, metformin causes few pratikul effects ( the sabase aam is jathrantra pareshaan ) or is sambhddha saath a kam risk of hypoglycemia.
lactic acidosis ( a buildup of lactate in the rakt ) can be a gambhir chintaa in overdose or jab it is vihit to logon saath contraindications, but varanaa, there is no significant risk.
pehla synthesized or mila to reduce blood sugar in the 1920s, metformin thi forgotten liye the aglaa do dashakon as shodh shifted to insulin or anya antidiabetic drugs.
byaaj in metformin thi rekindled in the let 1940s baad anek reports that it could reduce blood sugar str in logon, or in 1957, french chikitsak jaan Sterne prakashit the first naidanik vichaaran of metformin as a upachaar liye madhumeh.
it was introduced to the sanyukt kingdom in 1958, canada in 1972, or the sanyukt rajya in 1995.
Metformin is abhi believed to be the sabase widely vihit antidiabetic drug in the sansar ; in the sanyukt rajya alone, adhik than 48 lakh prescriptions were bhar in 2010 for iske generik formulations.
the Mount rushmore neshnal memorial is a murtikla carved into the grenite face of mount Rushmore nikat Keystone, dakshin dakota, in the sanyukt rajya.
sculpted by danish-american Gutzon borglum or uske bete, Lincoln borglum, mount Rushmore suvidhaayen sculptures of the heads of four sanyukt States presidents : george Washington, Thomas jeffrasan, Theodore rujvelt and Abraham lincoln.
the sampurna memorial cover or is upar samudr str.
the tallest pahaad in the pradesh is harney shikhar ( ).
dakshin dakota itihaaskaar Doane robinsan is credited saath conceiving the idea of carving the likenesses of prasiddh logon into the Black pahadiyaan region of dakshin dakota in anukram to prachaar tourism in the pradesh.
robinsan 's aarambhik vichaar was to sculpt the needles ; however, gutzon borglum asweekrut the Needles sait kuki of the poor visheshta of the grenite or damdaar vipaksh from paryaavarnavid and Native American groups.
ve settled on the mount rushmore location, which bhi rai the advantage of facing southeast for maximum surya expozar.
Robinson chaahi it to visheshta western nayak jaise louis and clark, Red badal or Buffalo Bill kodi lakin borglum decided the sculpture should have a adhik neshnal fokas, or chose the four presidents jinaki likenesses hota be carved into the pahaad.
baad securing sangheey funding, nirmaan on the memorial began in 1927, or the raashtrapatiyon ' chehron were samaapt between 1934 or 1939.
upon gutzon borglum 's maut in March 1941, uske bete lincoln Borglum took over construction.
haalanki the aarambhik avadharana pukaara for prayek president to be depicted from sir to qamar, lack of funding forced nirmaan to samaapt in let aktubar 1941.
The U.S. National park seva took control of the memorial in 1933, jabaki it thi still under nirmaan, or rai prabandhit the memorial to the upasthit din.
it attracts nearly teen lakh logon annually.
Charvet poshaak kameez isse the 1930s, norsk folkemuseum, oslo.
A shirt, poshaak kameez, button-front, button-front shirt, or button-up shirt is a paridhaan saath a collar, a full-length kholane at the saamne isse the collar to the hem, or taak with cuffs.
Shirts hai predominantly used by main, chunki mahilaon praayah pahanen blouses.
the saamne opening is fastened using batan or studs, or the cuffs band saath batan or kaph kadi.
Shirts are saamanytah bana isse woven cloth, or hai often accompanied by a jacket or taai, liye udhaaharan saath a suut or formalwear, lakin shart hai bhi worn adhik casually.
in British angrezi, poshaak kameez arthath specifically the adhik formal sandhya paridhaan worn with black- or white- taai, bhi discussed neeche.
kuch of ye formal shirts have stiff fronts or detachable chhallon sanlagn saath collar studs.
the pad `` button-down '' ( jisase refers a prakaar of shirt jisase rai a collar fastened down by buttons ) is sometimes prayukt in galati to lagu to sab shart ( saath or bagaiyr buttoned bas chhallon ), hone used as a paryaay liye `` button-up '' or `` button-front ''.
Administrative peshewar din ( bhi known as secretaries Day or admin din ) is an unofficial dharmanirpeksh holiday observed in anek deshon to recognize the kaary of secretaries, prashasnic assistants, receptionists, and other administrative support professionals.
In North america, it is manaaye on the buudhvaar of the last puraa week of April ( april 24 in 2013 ).
In frans it is celebrated on the third guuruuvaar in april ( april 18 in 2013 ).
in Australia it is manaaye on the pehla shuukravaar in may
Blasting can be:
Abrasive blasting
dhamaakaa bhatti
Rock dhamaakedaar
Nicolas Poussin ( ; 15 June 1594 – 19 navambar 1665 ) thi the agrani chitrakaar of the classical french Baroque style, although he kharch most of his working jivan in rome.
uske kaary is characterized by spashtataa, logic, or anukram, or favors line over rang.
Until the 20th sadi he remained a pramukh inspiration liye aise classically oriented kalakaaron as jacques-louis daud, jean-auguste-dominique ingres and paul Cézanne.
He worked in Rome liye a vrutt of agrani collectors vahin or elsewhere, magar liye a choti kaal when Cardinal Richelieu ordered him waapas to frans to serve as pehla Painter to the king.
sabase of uske works hai history paintings of dharmik or mythological subjects ki bahut praayah have a vishaal landscape tatv.
Jackie Keith whitley ( July 1, 1954stambler, irvin, and grelun landon ( 2000 ). - desh music : the Encyclopedia. - nai York : st. martin 's Press. - p.533. - isbn 978-0-312-26487-1.—Carlin, Richard ( 2003 ). - desh music : A biographical Dictionary. - nai york : routledge - p.427. - isbn 978-0-415-93802-0.—larkin, colin ( 1995 ). - the ginis gyanakosh of lokapriy music. - nai york : stowton dabaayen - p.4462. - isbn 978-0-85112-662-3.—stanton, Scott ( 2003 ). - The tombstone paryatak : sangeetkaaron. - nai york : jeb Books. - p.395. - ISBN 978-0-7434-6330-0.—hicks, joker. - `` singer kaith Whitley 's memory Alive Through Songs, prem in Home kasbaa ''. - the kentki Post. - September 25, 1991.— '' Country music star Keith Whitley murde at 33 ''. - lexington Herald-Leader. - may 10, 1989.——Hurst, Jack. - `` whitley 's pichhlaa dinon ''. - chicago tribune. - may 14, 1989.— '' daaru martha desh Singer kaith whitley ''. - sanyukt dabaayen International. - ( c/o the san francisco vrittant ). - may 10, 1989. — may 9, 1989 ), gyaat professionally as kaith whitley, was an amareeki country music singer.
whitley 's bread kariyar in mukhyadhara country music lasted isse 1984 jabatak his maut in 1989, lakin he continues to influence an sampurna generation of gayakon or songwriters.
He charted 19 singles on the billboard desh chart, sahit five lagaataar Number Ones : `` do n't Close apana ankhen ``, `` jab You kah nothing at sab ``, `` I 'm no ajanabi to the barsaat ``, `` I Wonder Do tum socho of me `` or `` it Ai n't Nothin ' `` ( the pichhlaa two maranoparant ).
statute of Grand Duchy of Lithuania, likhaa in Polish
a statute is a aupchaarik likhaa enactment of a vidhaan authority ki governs a rajya, city, or county.
typically, statutes command or prohibit kuch, or declare niti.
the shabd is praayah prayukt to fark vidhi made by vidhaan bodies isse maamla vidhi, decided by nyaayalayon, or regulations jari by government agenciyon.
statutes hai sometimes referred to as vidhaan or `` blike akshar law. ''
as a source of vidhi, statutes are mana primary praadhikaar ( as opposed to dwitiyak authority ).
Ideally sab statutes jarur be in harmony saath the aadharbhoot vidhi of the land ( constitutional ).
is shabd is used in contradistinction to the aam vidhi.
statutes acquire unke force isse the time of their dyodhi, however unless varanaa provided.
Statutes are of anek kinds ; namely, Public or nijee.
declaratory or remedial.
asthai or perpetual.
a asthai statute is ek jisase is limited in its avadhi at the time of its enactment.
it continues in force until the samay of its limitation rai samaapt, jabatak sooner repealed.
a perpetual statute is ek for the firaakar of which vahin is no simit samay, haalanki it may nahin be expressly ghoshit to be so.
If, however, a statute jisase kiya nahin itself contain koi limitation is to be governed by another which is asthai only, the purv hoga bhi be asthai or nirbhar upon the existence of the latter.
pehle a statute becomes vidhi in some countries, it jarur be agreed upon by the ucchtam executive in the government, or aakhirkaar published as bhaag of a code.
in anek deshon, statutes hai organized in topical intjaam ( or `` samhitabaddh '' ) bheetar publications called code, such as the United rajya Code.
in anek nations statutory vidhi is distinguished isse and subordinate to constitutional vidhi.
the bahya iliac dhamniyon are do pramukh dhamniyon which bifurcate off the aam iliac dhamniyon agravarti to the sacroiliac sanyukt of the pelvis.
They proceed agravarti or inferior along the medial kinaaraa of the psoas major mansapeshiyaan.
ve nikaas the shroni girdle posterior and avar to the inguinal snaayu parichay one teesraa laterally from the pravisht point of the vankshan snaayu on the jananaang tubercle at jisase point ve hai referred to as the naiya dhamniyon.
the external iliac artery is usually the dhamni prayukt to attach the renal dhamni to the praptakarta of a gurda pratyaropan.
Steam is a digital vitaran, digital adhikaron management, ekaadhik and communications manch developed by valve nigam.
it is prayukt to vitarit khel or sambandhit media online, isse choti independent develper to larger software houses ; in October 2012, Valve vistaarit the seva to shaamil non-gaming tantra.
bhaap provides the upayokta saath sansthapana and swachaalit prabandhan of software across anek computers, jatiyaan suvidhaayen aise as friends lists or samooh, badal saving, or in-game voice or gapshap kaaryakshmata.
the tantra provides a freely uplabdhiyaan anuprayog programming interfes, Steamworks, ki develper can lo laabh of to integrate anek of bhaap 's functions bheetar unke tantra utpaada, sahit copy protection, networking and matchmaking, in-game achievements or micro-transactions, and support liye user-created saamagree through bhaap kaaryshaala.
haalanki initially developed for upyog on microsoft khidkiyaan, the claayent rai vistaarit to include OS X or linaks versions, or clients saath limited kaaryakshmata on the plastesan 3 consol or for dono ioes or android mobile divaais.
in addition to being a central hub liye gaming tantra, valve rai nirmit a version of bhaap saath altered kaaryakshmata to be prayukt in skulon for educational tantra, sahit a modified sanskaran of Portal 2 for shikshan vigyaan or critical soch lessons.
, vahin hai nearly 2000 games uplabdhiyaan through bhaap, and 54 lakh kriyasheel upayokta accounts.
as of janvari 2013, Steam rai dekhi over 6.6 million sanyukt players.
bhaap has an estimated 50–70 % share of the digital vitaran market liye video khel.
the bhaap logo is a stylised left-side fly-crank or lathi from the walschaerts valve gear of a steam locomotive.
jeri louis ( born kooch 16, 1926 ) is an American hasya, actor, singer, filmi producer, screenwriter or filmi nideshak.
he is gyaat liye uske slapstick humar in filmi, television, stage and radio.
He was originally yugma up saath dean martin in 1946, forming the famed comedy toli of Martin and louis.
In jod to the duo 's lokapriy nightclub work, ve strecchar in a kaamyaab series of comedy films for sarvopari tasviren.
louis is bhi gyaat liye uske daan fund-raising telethons and sthiti as national adhyaksh liye the muscular Dystrophy sangh ( MDA ).
Lewis rai won anek puraskaar liye aaajeevan achievements isse The amareeki kamedi puraskaar, los angeles Film Critics Association, and venice filmi parv, or he rai do sitaron on the hollywood chalanaa of kirti.
In 2005, he praapt the Governors puraskaar of the academy of television kala & sciences Board of rajyapalon, which is the ucchtam emi puraskaar prastut.
On farvari 22, 2009, the academy of Motion Picture kala and sciences awarded Lewis the jaan hersholt humanitarian puraskaar.
The rin ( ; ; ) is a European river ki ranon isse the swiss canton of Grisons in the southeastern Swiss Alps through germany or aakhirkaar bahati into the uttar samudr coast in the Netherlands or is the twelfth longest river in europea, at parichay, saath an ausat nirvahan of adhik than.
The Rhine or the denube formed sabase of the northern antardeshiy frontier of the roman samrajya or, chunki those days, the rin has been a vital or navigable waterway carrying vyapaar and goods gahan inland.
it has bhi served as a rakshaatmak feature and rai maharoom the aadhaar liye regional or international simaayen.
the many castles or pragaitihaasik fortifications saath the rin testify to iske importance as a waterway.
nadi trekkic could be roka at these locations, usually liye the purpose of collecting tolls, by the rajya that niyantrit that portion of the river.
shri ( Sinhala )
shri ( devanagari : shri, iast ; śrī ), bhi transliterated as sree or shri or Shree is a shabd of sanskrit utpatti, prayukt in the Indian upmahadweep as vinamr rup of pataa samatuly to the English `` Mr. '' in likhaa or spoken bhashaa, or as a sheershak of veneration for deities ( praayah anudit as `` paavan '' ).
dizine of complex structures jaise the antarrashtriya Space stesan needs in-depth samajhnaa of sanrachanaatmak vishleshan.
Civil abhiyantriki is a peshewar abhiyantriki anushaasan ki saude saath the dizine, nirmaan, or mentanence of the shaareerik and naturally nirmit environment, sahit works jaise sadaken, pulon, naharon, dams, or imaaraten.
civil abhiyantriki is the oldest abhiyantriki anushaasan baad sainya abhiyantriki, and it thi paribhaashit to fark non-military abhiyantriki isse military engineering.
It is traditionally broken into several sub-disciplines sahit paryaavarniya engineering, bhootkneekee abhiyantriki, bhubhautikee, bhuganit, control abhiyantriki, sanrachanaatmak abhiyantriki, biomechanics, nanotechnology, parivahan abhiyantriki, earth science, vayumandaleey sciences, forensic engineering, nagarpalika or shahari engineering, water resources abhiyantriki, saamagree abhiyantriki, tateey abhiyantriki, surveykshan, or nirmaan abhiyantriki.
civil abhiyantriki takes place on sab str : in the public sector isse nagarpalika through to neshnal sarkarein, or in the nijee sector isse vyaktigat homeowners through to antarrashtriya companiyaan.
catherine dunham in teevr revue
catherine Dunham in studio
Katherine dunham in teevr Review Tropical punarvilokan, martin bek Theatre
catherine dunham wearing dance veshbhusha
Katherine dunham in cumbia
Katherine Dunham ( june 22, 1909 – may 21, 2006 ) thi an amareeki nartki, koreographer, author, educator, and soshal activist.
dunham had ek of the most kaamyaab dance careers in amareeki or europea theatre of the 20th sadi, or nirdeshit uske apana nrity company liye anek saalo.
She rai maharoom pukaara the `` matriarch or maharani maan of blike nrity ''.
dauraan uske heyday in the 1940s or 1950s, Dunham thi prasiddh throughout europea and latin america or thi widely lokapriy in the United rajya, jahaan the washington post pukaara her `` dancer catherine the great ''.
liye lagbhag tees saalo wo kaayam the catherine dunham Dance company, the tabhi self-supported American blike nrity troupe at that samay, or over uske long kariyar wo choreographed adhik than nabbe individual dances.
Dunham thi an innovator in African-American aadhunik nrity as khub as a netaa in the field of dance maanavshaastra, or ethnochoreology.
sphagnum is a genus of between 1510 and 3500 prajati of mosses, commonly called peat moss due to iske vyapaktaa in geela habitats where it contributes to the formation of peat bogs and mires.
sphagnum accumulations can store jal, chunki dono living and murde plants can hold large quantities of jal andar unke koshikaayen ; paudhe may tham isse 16-26 times as much water as their dry vazan depending on the species.
The khaali cells sahaayta retain jal in drier sharten.
hence, as sphagnum moss grows, it can dhire sprad into drier conditions, forming larger peatlands, dono uthaaya bogs or kambal bogs.
ye peat accumulations tab provide habitat liye a wide array of peatland paudhe, sahit sedges or ericaceous shrubs, as well as orchids or carnivorous paudhe.
Sphagnum and the peat formed isse it do not kshay readily kuki of the phenolic yogicon antahsthapit in the moss 's koshika walls.
In jod, bogs, like sab wetelends, develop anaerobic mrudaa conditions, jisase produces dhimaa avayaviya kshay balki than aerobics sookshmjaivik karrwai.
peat moss can bhi acidify iske surroundings by lene up cations, aise as calcium or magnesium, or releasing hydrogen ions.
antargat the sahi conditions, peat can accumulate to a gaharaai of anek meter.
Different species of sphagnum have different sahishnutaa had liye flooding and pH, so koi ek peatland may have a kramank of alag sphagnum species.
vyaktigat peat moss paudhe consist of a main stem, saath tightly arranged cluster of shakha fascicles usually consisting of do or teen spreading shakhaon and do to chaar hanging shakhaon.
The sheersh of the plant, or capitulum, has compact clusters of yang shakhaon.
saath the stem hai bikhare pattey of vibhinn aakaar, namit stem leaves ; the aakaar varies according to prajati.
the pattey consist of two kinds of koshikaayen ; choti, green, jeena koshikaayen ( chlorophyllose cells ), or large, saaf, structural, dead cells ( hyaline cells ).
the latter have the vishaal water-holding kshamta.
the earliest version of the sanjaal card, issued hastchalit balki than through an aptis machine.
the pehla APTIS sanskaran of the Network Card.
is thi prayukt isse the start of the aptis era in 1986/1987 jabatak well into the 1990s, as stox tha to be used up despite the parichay of the new-look orange-banded sanskaran in 1991.
The parichay of the weekday minimum kiraaya condishan in 2002 resulted in a naaballig badalen : the red `` r '' shows that is is the `` sanshodhit '' sanskaran of the railcard.
is sanskaran is still in upyog as of 2007.
the sanjaal railcard is a discount card introduced in 1986 by British rail, upon the sristi of unke sanjaal southeast kshetrafal around landan, england.
the card is intended to protsaahit leisure travel by rail by offering chhot for vayaskon or accompanying children on a wide range of off-peak kiraye.
the dayera of chhot uplabdhiyaan, or the price of the card, have varied since that samay, lakin the card rai sadaa been maanya for a saal 's unlimited upyog.
it can be purchased by koi person aged 16 or over isse koi staffed National rail stesan or rail niyukt safar agent, by completing an anuprayog rup - no photographic pahchaan or anya dastavezikaran is needed to khride or use the card.
it is ek of a kramank of concessionary fare yojanaayen uplabdhiyaan on the British rail pranali.
the sanyukt Nations ( un ; french : sanghathan des Nations Unies, onu ) is the world 's largest, foremost, and sabase prominent antarrashtriya sanghathan.
The stated aims of the United raashtra shaamil promoting or facilitating sahyog in antarrashtriya vidhi, antarrashtriya suraksha, aarthik development, soshal pragati, human adhikaron, civil adhikaron, civil liberties, rajnatik freedoms, loktantr, and the uplabdhi of sthaayee sansar salaam.
the un was santhaapit in 1945 baad sansar yuddh II to replace the lig of raashtra, to roke yudhon between deshon, or to provide a platform liye dialogue.
It contains anek subsidiary sanghathan to carry out iske mishan.
at iske founding, the un tha 51 sadsy rajya ; as of 2011, there hai 193.
isse its karyaalayon around the sansar, the un or its specialized agencies decide on substantive or prashasnic mudde in niyamit baithak yojit throughout the saal.
the sanghathan rai six principal angon : the General Assembly ( the pramukh deliberative sabha ) ; the Security parishad ( liye deciding nishchit rizolution liye peace or security ) ; the aarthik and soshal parishad ( liye assisting in promoting international economic or soshal cooperation or vikaas ) ; the sachivalay ( for providing adhyayan, soochna, and suvidhaayen needed by the un ) ; the International adaalat of insaaf ( the praathmik nyaayik organ ) ; and the sanyukt raashtra trustiship parishad ( jisase is currently niskriy ).
anya prominent un System agenciyon shaamil the sansar Health Organization ( WHO ), the sansar Food kaarykram ( wfp ) or sanyukt Nations Children 's nidhi ( UNICEF ).
the un 's sabase prominent sthiti is ki of the office of secretary-general jisase has maharoom yojit by bain ki-moon of South korian chunki 2007.
The United raashtra mukhyalay resides in international territory in New york nagar, saath further pramukh offices at Geneva, nairobi, or vienna.
the organization is financed isse assessed and voluntary yogadan from iske sadsy rajya, or rai chah aadhikarik bhashaaen : arabi, Chinese, angrezi, french, Russian, or spani.
South Beach, also nicknamed sobe, is a pados in the city of miami bich, Florida, sanyukt rajya, stith due east of miami city proper between biscayne khadi and the atlantic samandar.
the area encompasses sab of the avrodh islands of Miami bich dakshin of Indian creek.
is kshetrafal thi the pehla khand of miami Beach to be viksit, starting in the 1910s, thanks to the development praytn of karl G. fisher, the lummus bhaaiyo, or jon S. colins, the latter whose nirmaan of the colins sethu provided the pehla vital jameen kadi between menland miami or the samudratat.
The kshetrafal rai gaye through numerous kritrim or natural parivartan over the saalo, sahit a booming kshetreey arthvyavastha, increased paryaton, and the 1926 hurricane, jisase nasht much of the area.
as of 2010, parichay 39,186 nivaasiyon sajiv in South bich.
the United States adhyakshiya chunaav of 1960 thi the 44th quadrennial presidential chunaav, yojit on mangalvaar, navambar 8, 1960.
the republican party manonith incumbent vice-president richard nicksan, while the loktantric party manonith jon F. kennedy, seenetter from masachusets.
the laazim adhyaksh, republican dwite D. ijanhavar, was nahin yogya liye re-election baad sevarat the maximum two terms anumat by the twenty-second Amendment.
kennedy was elected saath a lead of 112,827 mat, or 0.17 % of the popular vote, giving him a vijay of 303 to 219 in the chunavi College, the closest chunki 1916.
is was the pehla chunaav in jisase sab pachaas of the vartmaan United rajya participated.
A kramank of factors bataaiye kyon the chunaav thi so band.
kennedy gained chunki vahin thi an aarthik mandi jisase thes the laazim Republican, or he had the advantage of 17 lakh adhik registered democrate than republicans.
furthermore, the new mat that Kennedy gained among catholics lagbhag neutralized the nai mat nicksan gained among protestants.
kennedy 's campaigning kaushal decisively outmatched nicksan 's.
In the samaapt, nicksan 's emphasis on his anubhav carried choti vazan, and he wasted urja by campaigning in sab 50 rajya instead of concentrating on the swing states.
Kennedy prayukt uske vishaal, well-funded campaign sanghathan to win the namakan, surakshit samarthan, or, saath the aid of the last of the big-city bosses, to milengi out the vote in the big cities.
he relied on running mate lyndon B. johnson to hold the dakshin or used television effectively.
is chunaav is notable as hone the pehla samay in u.S. history ki two sitting u.s. seenetteron ( kennedy or johnson ) yahood nirvaachit as president or vice-president, a phenomenon that has maharoom doharaaya ekbar, by Barack obama or jo biden in 2008 ( in dono maamle, the president was the younger, more junior senator ).
a poster liye a c. 1884 American utpaadan of makebeth, abhinit thomas W. keene.
chitrit, counter clockwise from top-left, are : makebeth and Banquo milen the witches ; just after the murder of dancan ; banquo 's bhut ; makebeth duels Macduff ; or Macbeth.
makebeth is a khel likhaa by wiliam shakespeare.
It is mana ek of uske darkest or most shaktishaalee tragedies.
niyat in scotland, the khel dramatizes the corroding manovaigyanik and rajnatik prabhaav produced jab its samarthak, the scottish rab makebeth, chooses dusht as the rasta to fulfill uske mahatvakanksha for shakti.
he commits regicide to become king and tab furthers his moral descent saath a shasankaal of murderous aatank to raho in shakti, aakhirkaar plunging the desh into civil war.
In the samaapt, he loses sabakuch ki detaa arth or purpose to uske jivan before khone uske jivan itself.
the play is believed to have been likhaa between 1603 or 1607, or is sabase commonly dinaak 1606.
the earliest khaataa of a pradarshan of kayaa thi sambhawatah shakespeare 's khel is april 1611, jab simon forman ankit dekhakar aise a khel at the Globe theatre.
it was first published in the folio of 1623, sambhawatah from a prompt kitaab.
it was sabase likely likhaa dauraan the reign of James i, jo tha been james vi of Scotland pehle he succeeded to the angrezi singhaasana in 1603.
james was a patron of shakespeare’s acting company, and of sab the plays shakespeare likhaa dauraan James’s shasankaal, Macbeth sabase clearly reflects the playwright’s sambandh saath the sovereign.
makebeth is Shakespeare’s shortest traasadee, or tells the story of a brave scottish saamaanya namit makebeth jo receives a prophecy isse a trio of witches ki ek din he hoga become King of scotland.
khapat by mahatvakanksha or spurred to karrwai by uske bivi, makebeth hatyaein King dancan or takes the singhaasana liye khud.
uske shasankaal is racked saath guilt and paranoia, or he soon becomes a tyrannical shaasha as he is majaboor to commit adhik and more hatyaein to protect khud isse enmity or suspicion.
the bloodbath swiftly takes makebeth or mahila Macbeth into realms of arrogance, madness, and maut.
shakespeare 's source liye the traasadee is the khaataa of King Macbeth of Scotland, macduff, or dancan in holinshed 's chronicals ( 1587 ), a itihaas of england, Scotland or ireland familiar to shakespeare and uske contemporaries, haalanki the kaarykram in the khel differ extensively isse the itihaas of the real makebeth.
In the backstage sansar of theatre, kuch believe that the khel is shaapit, or hoga not zikr iske sheershak aloud, referring to it bajaay as `` the scottish khel ``.
over the course of anek centuries, the khel rai attracted kuch of the sabase prasiddh abhinaytaon to the bhoomikaaye of Macbeth and mahila makebeth.
It has maharoom adapted to film, television, opera, novels, comic kitabe, or other media.
The milton hershey skool is a nijee paropkaaree ( pre-K through 12 ) boarding skool in Hershey, pencilvenia.
originally namit the hershey Industrial skool, the sanstha thi santhaapit and vittposhit by chocolate industrialist milton snavely hershey and his wife, catherine Sweeney hershey.
the school thi originally established liye impoverished, swasth, caucasian, male orphans, jabaki aaj it serves students of vibhinn backgrounds.
the milton hershey skool Trust, jisase funds the skool, owns controlling byaaj in the hershey company or owns the Hershey entertainment or Resorts Company ( herco ) jisase oversees anek of the kshetrafal hotel saath saath a theme park called hersheypark.
saath over chah arab dollar in assets, the milton hershey skool is ek of the wealthiest skulon in the sansar.
the skool is overseen by a falak of Managers.
The skool currently serves 1,818 vidhyaarthee, or yojanaayen to grow to 2,100 students by 2013.
A sadsy of kor : gathbandhan for Residential shiksha, it is the largest awasaiya education kaarykram in the US.
epub may refer to:
EPUB, a free or kholen e-book maanak
Electronic aalekh, aalekh in scholarly journals or magazine ki can be pahunchaa via electronic transmission
the niyantrit substances adhinium ( CSA ) thi enacted into vidhi by the congress of the sanyukt rajya as sheershak ii of the Comprehensive Drug Abuse rokthaam or control adhinium of 1970.
the siese is the sangheey u.S. drug niti antargat jisase the manufacture, importation, possession, use or vitaran of nishchit substances is regulated.
the adhinium bhi parosa as the national implementing vidhaan liye the single sammelan on Narcotic davaayen.
the legislation nirmit paanch schedules ( classifications ), saath varying qualifications liye a padaarth to be shaamil in prayek.
Two federal agenciyon, the drug Enforcement prashasan and the Food or drug prashasan, determine which substances hai added to or removed isse the vibhinn schedules, haalanki the statute passed by congress created the aarambhik listing, or congress has sometimes anusuchit anya substances through vidhaan aise as the hillory J. Farias or Samantha Reid date-rape rokthaam Act of 2000, jisase placed gamma hydroxybutyrate in anusuchee I. vargeekaran nirnay hai jaruri to be bana on criteria sahit potential liye gaali ( an aparibhaashit pad ), philhal accepted chikitsa upyog in upachaar in the United rajya, or antarrashtriya treaties.
Second-language adhigrahan or second-language siikhnaa is the process by jisase people sikh a duusari language.
second-language adhigrahan ( praayah abbreviated to sla ) also refers to the scientific discipline devoted to studying ki prakram.
Second bhashaa refers to any language siikhe in addition to a person 's pehla bhashaa ; haalanki the concept is named second-language acquisition, it can bhi charitaarth the learning of third, fourth, or subsequent bhashaaen.
second-language adhigrahan refers to kayaa learners do ; it karata nahin refer to practices in language shikshan.
the academik anushaasan of second-language acquisition is a subdiscipline of lagu bhashavigyaan.
it is broad-based or apekshaakrit new.
as khub as the vibhinn shakhaon of linguistics, second-language adhigrahan is bhi closely sambandhit to psychology, sangyanatmak manovigyaan, and shiksha.
to pruthak the academik anushaasan from the learning process itself, the sharten second-language adhigrahan shodh, second-language adhyayan, or second-language adhigrahan adhyayan hai bhi prayukt.
sla research began as an interdisciplinary field, or kuki of is it is mushkil to pahachaano a precise starting tithi.
However, it karata appear to have developed a great saude chunki the mid-1960s.
the pad acquisition thi originally used to emphasize the avchetan prakruti of the siikhnaa prakram, lakin in haal years siikhnaa or acquisition have become largely synonymous.
second-language adhigrahan can incorporate heritage bhashaa siikhnaa, but it does nahin praayah incorporate bilingualism.
Most sla shodhakartaaon dekhie bilingualism as hone the samaapt result of siikhnaa a bhashaa, nahin the process itself, or dekhie the pad as referring to native-like fluency.
Writers in fields such as education and manovigyaan, however, often upyog bilingualism loosely to refer to sab form of multilingualism.
Second-language adhigrahan is also nahin to be contrasted saath the adhigrahan of a videshi bhashaa ; balki, the siikhnaa of second bhashaaen or the learning of videshi bhashaaen involve the vahi fundamental processes in alag halatas..
vahin rai been much bahes parichay exactly kaisaa bhashaa is siikhe, or many mudde hai still unresolved.
There hai anek theories of second-language adhigrahan, lakin none hai sweekrut as a puraa spashtikaran by sab SLA shodhakartaaon.
due to the interdisciplinary prakruti of the field of second-language adhigrahan, is is not expected to happen in the foreseeable future.
forbs list of arbapatiyon is an salanaa ranking of the sansar 's wealthiest logon, compiled or prakashit by forbs, an American neshnal business patrika.
The kul net laayak of prayek individual on the suchi is anumaanit, in sanyukt rajya dollar, aadhaarit on unke asset or hisaab for debt.
the suchi tabhi represents prayek vyakti 's valuation on a single din, due to rose fluctuations among exchange daron and bhandar valuations.
the sanyukt rajya rahasy Service is a U.S. sangheey vidhi pravartan agency ki is bhaag of the sanyukt rajya vibhaag of mathrubhumi suraksha.
the sworn sadasyon are divided among the khaas agenton and the uniformed Division.
jabatak kooch 1, 2003, the seva was bhaag of the sanyukt rajya vibhaag of the rajkosh.
the U.S. rahasy seva rai do pruthak kshetron of responsibility:
vittiya aparaadhon, covering mishan aise as rokthaam and chaanbin of counterfeiting of u.S. karency or u.S. rajkosh pratibhuti, or investigation of pramukh dhokhadhadi.
suraksha, which entails ensuring the safety of vartmaan or purv neshnal netao or unke families, aise as the adhyaksh, past presidents, vice raashtrapatiyon, presidential candidates, visiting heads of state, and foreign embassies ( prati an agreement saath the u.S. rajya Department 's beuro of rajanyik suraksha ( DS ) Office of Foreign mishan ( ofm ), etc. )
the Secret Service 's aarambhik responsibility thi to investigate counterfeiting of U.S. karency, jisase thi rampant following the u.S. civil yuddh.
the agency then viksit into the United States ' pehla gharelu intelligence or counterintelligence agency.
anek of the agency 's missions were baad liya over by subsequent agencies aise as the Federal beuro of chaanbin ( FBI ), beuro of daaru, tambaaku, firearms or visphotak ( ATF ), avrajan or custom pravartan ( barf ), or Internal aay Service ( IRS ).
`` Me or Bobby mcgee '' is a song likhaa by kris Kristofferson and fred Foster, originally performed by roger miller.
Others performed the song baad, sahit Kristofferson khud, or Janis joplin jo awwal the u.S. singles chart saath the song in 1971 baad uske maut, bananaa the song the duusari posthumous number-one single in u.S. chart itihaas baad `` ( Sittin ' On ) the dock of the Bay `` by otis redding.
franklin Delano Roosevelt ( or ; janvari 30, 1882 – april 12, 1945 ), also gyaat by his adyakshar, fdr, thi the 32nd adhyaksh of the sanyukt States ( 1933–1945 ) and a central figure in sansar kaarykram dauraan the mid-20th century, agrani the sanyukt rajya dauraan a samay of vishwavyaapee aarthik avsaad or kul war.
a prabal leader of the Democratic party and the only amareeki adhyaksh nirvaachit to adhik than two terms, he nirmit a nai Deal gathbandhan ki realigned amareeki raajnneeti after 1932, as uske gharelu nitiyon defined American udaarataavaad for the middle teesraa of the 20th sadi.
saath the bouncy popular song `` prasann dinon Are yahan Again `` as uske abhiyaan theme, fdr defeated incumbent republican Herbert hover in navambar 1932, at the gaharaai of the great avsaad.
sakriy by uske personal vijay over polio, FDR 's unfailing ashavad or sakriyata contributed to a naveekaran of the national spirit.
he worked closely with British Prime Minister winston churchill or soviet saamaanya sachiv joseph stallin in agrani the Allies against Germany or japani in sansar War ii, and restoring samruddhi to the swadesh 's arthvyavastha.
in uske pehla sau days in daftar, which began kooch 4, 1933, Roosevelt pathpradarshan major legislation or issued a profusion of karypalika aadesh that instituted the nai saude —a variety of kaarykram designed to upaj relief ( sarkari jobs liye the berozegaar ), recovery ( aarthik vikaas ), and sudhaar ( through viniman of wal gali, bainko or transportation ).
The economy improved rapidly isse 1933 to 1937, lakin tab relapsed into a gahan mandi.
the bipartisan roodhiwaadee gathbandhan that formed in 1937 prevented uske packing the param adaalat or passing koi considerable vidhaan ; it abolished anek of the raahat programs when berogari diminished dauraan sansar War II.
sabase of the regulations on kaarobaar yahood ended parichay 1975–85, magar for the regulation of wal gali by the pratibhuti or Exchange ayog, jisase still exists.
saath saath several smaller programs, major surviving kaarykram shaamil the Federal Deposit bime nigam, jisase was nirmit in 1933, or soshal suraksha, which congress passed in 1935.
As sansar War II loomed after 1938, with the Japanese invasion of china or the aggression of naaji germany, FDR gave damdaar diplomatic or vittiya support to china or great britain, jabaki baaki officially neutral.
uske goal was to make america the `` arsenal of Democracy `` jisase hota supply munitions to the allies.
in kooch 1941, rujvelt, saath congressional approval, provided Lend-Lease sahaayta to the deshon fighting viruddh Nazi germany with britain.
With very damdaar neshnal support, he made yuddh on Japan and germany after the japani akraman on parl harbar on disambar 7, 1941, colling it a `` tithi jisase hoga sajiv in infamy ``.
he supervised the mobilization of the U.S. arthvyavastha to support the alide yuddh praytn.
as an active sainya leader, Roosevelt implemented an overall yuddh ranneeti on do fronts ki ended in the shikast of the aksh Powers or the vikaas of the sansar 's first anu bomb.
in 1942 Roosevelt ordered the internment of 100,000 japani American nagarikon.
berogari dropped to 2 %, raahat kaarykram largely ended, and the audyogic arthvyavastha grew rapidly to new heights as lakho of logon moved to new jobs in yuddh centers, or 16 million main or 300,000 mahilaon yahood drafted or volunteered liye military seva.
Roosevelt varchasv the American rajnatik jhaanki not tabhi dauraan the baarah saalo of uske presidency, lakin bhi liye decades afterward.
He orchestrated the realignment of voters ki nirmit the paanchvaan Party pranali.
fdr 's New saude Coalition sanyukt majdoor sangh, big nagar machines, shwet ethnics, africa Americans or rural shwet southerners.
he bhi bahekaave the baad sristi of the sanyukt Nations or Bretton woods.
Roosevelt is consistently rated by vidwaanon as ek of the sheersh teen u.S. Presidents, along saath abraham Lincoln and george washington.
A udaar Democrat, rujvelt defined uske vaicharik sthiti as `` a choti baayein of center. ''
maaraa salvatrucha ( commonly abbreviated as ms, Mara, or ms-13 ) is a transnational dand giroh that originated in los angeles and rai sprad to other bhaag of the sanyukt States, canada, Mexico, or Central america.
the bahumat of the giroh is ethnically composed of central america or kriyasheel in shahari or suburban kshetron.
in the u.S., the ms-13 rai an visheshkar baari upasthiti in los angeles County or the san francisco Bay kshetrafal in uttari California ; the washington, d.C. mahanagar kshetron of ferefaques county, virginia, Montgomery county, maryland, or prince george 's county, maryland ; Long dweep, nai york ; the Boston, masachusets area ; sherlot, uttar carolina ; and Houston, texas.
vahin is also a upasthiti of MS-13 in toronto, ontario, Canada.
sadasyon of ms fark themselves by tattoos covering the deh and bhi often the face, as khub as the use of unke own chihn bhashaa.
ve hai notorious for their use of hinsa and a subcultural moral code ki predominantly consists of merciless revenge or bedard retributions.
is cruelty of the distinguished sadasyon of the `` Maras '' or `` mareros '' earned unhen a path to be recruited by the Sinaloa cartil battling viruddh los zetas in an jari drug yuddh dakshin of the United States kinaaraa.
unke wide-ranging kriyaayein have drawn the dhyaan of the epabiai or Immigration or custom pravartan, jo have initiated wide-scale raids against gyaat or suspected giroh members – netting sainkadon of rakhwale aarpaar the desh.
haddiyon is an American aparaadhon comedy-drama television series ki premiered on the Fox network in the sanyukt States on September 13, 2005.
the show is based on forensic maanavshaastra or forensic puraatatv, with prayek apisod focusing on an epabiai maamla sanchika concerning the mystery behind insaan remains brought by epabiai khaas agent seeley Booth ( daud boreanaz ) to the forensic anthropologist dr. temperance `` haddiyon '' briken ( emily deschanel ).
the baaki of the main daal shaamil Michaela Conlin, T. J. thyne, Eric millegan, Tamara Taylor, jonathan adams, or John francis daale.
Created by Hart hanson, the shrenee is bahut loosely aadhaarit on the jivan and kritiyaan of novelist or forensic anthropologist kathi Reichs, jo bhi produces the dikhaaen.
Its sheershak akshar, Temperance briken, is named after the samarthak of reichs ' aparaadhon anokhaa shrenee.
conversely, dr. Brennan writes kaamyaab rahasy novels aadhaarit around a fictional ( in the haddiyon brahmad ) forensic anthropologist namit kathi reichs.
haddiyon is a sanyukt production by Josephson entertainment, Far field productions or 20th sadi Fox television.
the shrenee rai samaapt airing iske eighth season or rai maharoom navinikrut liye a ninth ritu.
super katori xxv was an amareeki footbaal khel between the amareeki Football sammelan ( afc ) champion bhens bills or the neshnal Football sammelan ( NFC ) champion nai York diggaj to decide the neshnal footbaal lig ( enegel ) champion liye the 1990 ritu.
the diggaj parajeet the bills by the score of 20–19, winning their second ever Super katori.
it is the tabhi super katori decided by ek point.
the khel thi yojit at tampa stadium in tampa, florida, on janvari 27, 1991, dauraan the oonchaai of the Gulf yuddh.
it was thus nibhaai antargat much patriotic fervor.
The kaarywahi shaamil a rousing rendition of `` The Star-Spangled dhvaj `` by Whitney huston dauraan the pregame ceremonies.
The Bills and their explosive no-huddle thokar yahood making their first super katori rup after finishing the niyamit ritu with a 13-3 ricard, and agrani the lig in kul ank scored saath 428.
in advancing to unke duusari Super Bowl, the diggaj bhi posted a 13-3 niyamit season ricard, lakin saath a ball-control offense or a defense ki anumat a lig low 211 ank.
The khel is behtareen remembered liye bills placekicker Scott Norwood 's last-second field goal attempt which gai chaudee sahi of the uprights, agrani to a diggaj vijay, or starting a four-game khone streak in the Super katori for the Bills.
the diggaj set a Super katori record pakadakar kabza of the ball for 40 minutes or 33 second.
New york bhi overcame a 12-3 second-quarter deficit, and bana a 75-yard touchdown drive ki khapat a super katori ricard 9:29 off the clock.
Giants kaaryshil back Ottis Anderson, jo carried the ball 21 times for 102 yards or one touchdown, thi named super katori MVP.
he thi the first awardee to praapt the newly namit `` peet rozelle trophy '' ( namit liye the purv kamishnar ).
Anderson bhi ankit one reception liye saat yards.
mailkam x ( ; May 19, 1925february 21, 1965 ), born Malcolm Little or bhi gyaat as el-hajj malik El-Shabazz ( ), was an african-american Muslim minister or insaan adhikaron activist.
To uske admirers, he thi a saahsee edwocket liye the adhikaron of ashweton, a man jo indicted shwet america in the harshest sharten for iske aparaadhon viruddh blike Americans.
detractors abhiyukt him of preaching racism, blike sarvocchata, or hinsa.
he has been pukaara one of the mahanatam or most influential African Americans in itihaas.
mailkam x 's pita died—killed by shwet supremacists, it thi rumored—when he was yang, and at least ek of his uncles thi lynched.
jab he thi 13, uske maan thi placed in a dimagi hospital, or he thi lagaai in a series of foster gharon.
In 1946, at aayu 20, he went to prison liye breaking and pravesh.
in thana, mailkam X became a member of the swadesh of islam ; baad his parole in 1952, he quickly rose to become ek of iske netao.
liye a dozen saalo, mailkam x was the public face of the vivaadaaspad samooh, but disillusionment with swadesh of islam sir eliyas mohammad led use to chhod the swadesh in kooch 1964.
baad a kaal of travel in Africa or the madhya east, he returned to the sanyukt rajya, jahaan he founded muslim masjide, inc. or the sanghathan of afro-american ekta.
In February 1965, kam than a saal baad leaving the swadesh of islam, he was assassinated by teen members of the group.
Malcolm X 's expressed beliefs badla substantially over samay.
as a pravaktaa liye the Nation of islam he sikhaaya blike sarvocchata or advocated virah of black or shwet america —in contrast to the civil adhikaron gati 's jor on sangyojan.
baad breaking saath the swadesh of Islam in 1964—saying of his sangh saath it, `` i kiya anek bate as a [ blike ] Muslim that i 'm sorry for abhi.
i was a zombie then... pointed in a nishchit disha or bataai to kooch '' —and banane a Sunni Muslim, he disavowed racism and expressed willingness to kaary saath civil adhikaron leaders, he continued to emphasize pan-africanism, blike self-determination, or self-defense.
the teesraa ritu of 90210, an amareeki television shrenee, premiered on Monday sitambar 13, 2010.
the cw officially renewed the dikhaaen for a teesraa season on farvari 16, 2010.
saath the reveal of the sanjaal fall 2010 schedule, they announced unke nirnay to move 90210 to somvaar nits at 8:00 pm, as a lead-in to gapshap Girl.
it premiered on September 13, 2010 and thi met with generally positive samikshaayen from aalochakon.
the ritu chayan up at the samaapt of summer and focuses on the students varisht saal of unchi skool.
it folo Adrianna 's vruddhi to kirti, a new relationship between chaandi or Navid or a uljhan Teddy who decides to khulaasa to uske family and friends he is gay.
it bhi saude saath the aftermath of naomi clark 's utpeedan.
Regular daal members liye the ritu shaamil Shenae Grimes, tristan Wilds, AnnaLynne mccord, rayaan Eggold, Jessica Stroup, maaikel steger, jesica lowndes, Matt lanter, gilian zinser, trevor donoven or Lori loughlin.
Rebecca sinclair jari uske role as karypalika nirmaataa for the ritu.
the season premiered to 1.96 lakh darshak or a 0.9 rating in the vayaskon 18–49 demographic.
christmas-themed episode `` avkaash Madness '', hit season highs in sab kunjee demos saath 2.1 in The cw 's nishaanaa demo of women 18–34, a 1.4 in adults 18–34 and a 1.1 in vayaskon 18–49.
it was also the most dekhi episode in over a saal saath 2.2 lakh darshak tuning in.
The season finale aired on may 16, 2011.
the ritu averaged 1.75 million sajiv viewers or a 0.9 adults 18–49 darja.
it was released on dvd in the sanyukt States on agast 30, 2011.
Elizabeth II ( elizabeth elexandra mariyam ; born 21 April 1926 ) is the sanvaidhanik monarch of 16 sovereign rajya, known as the rashtramandal realms, or unke territories and dependencies, or sir of the 54-member Commonwealth of Nations.
wo is Supreme rajyapal of the girijaghar of England and, in kuch of her realms, carries the sheershak of Defender of the Faith as bhaag of uske full title.
On uske accession on 6 farvari 1952, Elizabeth became Head of the rashtramandal and queen regnant of saat swatantra rashtramandal countries : the sanyukt Kingdom, canada, Australia, nai Zealand, South Africa, pakistani and ceylon.
isse 1956 to 1992, the kramank of her realms varied as territories gained swatantraaa or kuch realms became republics.
at present, in addition to the pehla chaar aforementioned deshon, elizabeth is maharani of Jamaica, barbados, the Bahamas, haraa, Papua nai gini, the suleman islands, tuvaalu, sant loosia, Saint vincent or the Grenadines, beliz, antigua or Barbuda or sant kits and nevis.
uske shasankaal of years is currently the duusari longest liye a angrejon monarch ; only maharani Victoria rai reigned longer at over 63 years.
Elizabeth was born in landan and educated privately at home.
uske pita acceded to the throne as george vi in 1936 on the abdication of uske bhai edward viii, from jisase samay wo thi the vaaris presumptive.
wo began to undertake public duties dauraan the duusari sansar yuddh, in jisase she parosa in the Auxiliary Territorial seva.
in 1947, she shaadishuda prince philip, duk of edinburgh, saath jisko wo has chaar children : charles, Anne, Andrew, or edward.
uske rajtilak seva took place in 1953 or thi the pehla to be televised.
The Queen 's anek aitihaasik vizit and baithak include a rajya vizit to the ganatantr of ireland and reciprocal vizit to or isse the pope.
The maharani has seen pramukh constitutional parivartan in uske realms, such as devolution in the United kingdom and the patriation of the canadai samvidhan.
times of nijee significance have shaamil the births or marriages of uske children, the births of uske grandchildren, the pratishthapan of the prince of wales, or the jashn of milestones aise as uske Silver, Golden, or Diamond Jubilees in 1977, 2002, and 2012, respectively.
Major kaarykram in the maharani 's reign have shaamil the pareshaaniyon in Northern ireland, the falklands War, yudhon with Iraq or the yuddh in Afghanistan.
vahin have been times of personal vishaad for uske which shaamil the maut of uske pita at 56, the assassination of prince philip 's taaoo, Lord Mountbatten, the vishleshan of her children 's marriages in 1992 ( a saal deemed uske annus horribilis ), the death in 1997 of her purv daughter-in-law, Diana, rajkumaari of wales, or the deaths of uske maan or sistar in 2002.
The Queen has occasionally faced kathor dabaayen aalochana of the royal parivaar and republican sentiments, but support liye the samrajya and uske nijee lokapriyata remain high.
the 2010 United rajya seenet chunaav in florida took place on November 2, 2010 saath saath other elections to the sanyukt States Senate in other rajya as khub as all elections to the sanyukt rajya House of pratinidhi and vibhinn state or local elections.
Republican Marco Rubio, former spikar of the Florida House of Representatives, parajeet swatantra charlie crist or Democrat kendrick namr in a three-way res.
ek pad Senator mel Martinez thi nirvaachit in a very close race viruddh Democrat Betty arandi in 2004 saath 49 % of the vote.
martines announced on disambar 2, 2008 ki he would nahin seek re-election to the seenet, or would istipha prior to the samaapt of his pad.
in August 2009, Governor charlie crist ghoshit ki he would niyukt uske former mukhya of Staff, George lemieux, a Republican, to the Senate seat being vacated by Martinez.
Governor crist saream ghoshit he thi running liye the seat in mid-2009.
at the samay he received anek Republican endorsements, aise as the neshnal Republican senatorial cameti, martines, or the 2008 republican presidential nominee jon macken.
His support of the amareeki recovery or reinvestment adhinium of 2009 hurt his lokapriyata among conservatives, and pratyaashee marco rubio surged.
in April 2010 crist ghoshit he would buund out of the Republican praathmik and run as an swatantra.
the neshnal republican senatorial cameti withdrew iske samarthan of crist or maange a refund of its abhiyaan nidhi that it provided for the Crist abhiyaan.
congressi Kendrick namr was the pehla Democrat to ghoshit uske iraade to chalaaen.
Alexander snitker was the pehla member of the Libertarian party on the bailat liye seenetter in Florida 's itihaas.
upgrah drishy of Doha
doha (, ' or ', literally : `` the big tree '' ) is the puunji nagar of the rajya of qatar.
Located on the coast of the parsi gulf,
it tha a population of 998,651 in 2008, or is bhi one of the municipalities of Qatar.
Doha is qatar 's largest nagar, saath over 60 % of the nation 's janasankhyikee residing in doha or iske surrounding upnagaron, and is bhi the aarthik kendra of the desh.
Doha also serves as the seat of government of qatar, jisase is shasit by sheikh Hamad bin khalipha al Thani.
Doha is home to the Education nagar, an area devoted to shodh and education.
doha thi the site of the pehla ministerial-level baithak of the doha vikaas golakaar of sansar vyapaar sanghathan negotiations.
the nagar of doha yojit the 2006 asian khel, jisase thi the largest Asian Games kabhi held.
doha bhi hosted the 2011 pan arab khel and most of the khel at the 2011 AFC asian cap.
doha hosted the unfccc Climate negotiations ( cop 18 ) December 2012 or hoga host a vishaal kramank of the venues liye the 2022 fifa sansar Cup.
The sansar Petroleum Council yojit the 20th sansar petroleum Conference in Doha in disambar 2011.
Paranasal sinuses are a group of chaar yugma air-filled spaces ki gher the nasal guha ( urdhvahanu sinus ), upar the eyes ( frontal sinus ), between the ankhen ( ethmoid sinus ), or peeche the ethmoids ( sphenoid sinus ).
the sinuses hai named liye the facial haddiyon in jisase ve hai stith.
Lean nirmaan, lean enterprize, or jhukna utpaadan, often bas, `` jhukna, '' is a utpaadan abhyaas that considers the vyay of sansaadhan for koi lakshya anya than the creation of maan liye the samaapt graahak to be apvyay, or yun a nishaanaa liye vilopan.
Working isse the perspective of the graahak jo consumes a utpaada or service, `` maan '' is paribhaashit as any karrwai or process ki a customer would be willing to adaa liye.
essentially, lean is kendrit on preserving maan saath kam kaary.
jhukna nirmaan is a prabandhan philosophy derived zyaadaatar isse the toyota utpaadan System ( tps ) ( hence the pad toyotism is also prachlit ) and pahachaanaa as `` Lean '' tabhi in the 1990s.
TPS is prasiddh liye iske fokas on reduction of the asli toyota saat wastes to improve overall graahak maan, but there are varying perspectives on kaisaa this is behtareen achieved.
The sthir growth of toyota, isse a small company to the world 's largest automaker, rai kendrit dhyaan on kaisaa it rai hasil is kamyaabi.
icarly logo
icarly is an American sitcom ki airs on niklodian, jisase premiered on sitambar 8, 2007.
niklodian promoted anek apisod so dur aise as `` ido '', `` ihire an idiot '', `` iPity the Nevel '', `` idate sam & fredy '', ityadi. as specials, despite their being regular apisod.
Every apisod sheershak begins with a lower maamla i jisase represents the internet, as in `` iCarly ''.
The show thi nominated liye an emi puraskaar liye bakaayaa children 's Program in 2009.
the shrenee abhinit miranda cosgrove as karli shae, a 13-year-old who becomes an Internet star.
the shrenee ended on navambar 23, 2012 saath the one-hour khaas episode `` igoodbye ''.
A kul of 7 sizan or 109 episodes yahood broadcast.
the largest audience of the shrenee thi 11.2 lakh darshak, saath the khaas apisod `` iSaved apana jivan '' premiered in janvari 2010.
jab karli ( Miranda cosgrove ) and her sassy behtareen friend Sam ( jennette mccurdy ) adhinium mjedaar at a school hunar dikhaaen audition, tech-savvy fredy ( Nathan Kress ) tepon it or post it online bagaiyr telling them.
After dekhakar the ladakiyon ' damdaar chemistry or banter, the online audience clamors for adhik or the iCarly webcast is born.
jabaki grappling saath theth mudde of kishoravastha, Carly, Sam, or Freddie dhundhen out that ve have bhi become online hastiyaan as unke dikhaaen – which features talent contests, vyanjanon, problem-solving, or yadrichhik dancing – garners antarrashtriya accolades.
Carly jeevandaan in sietal, washington saath uske 26-year-old bhai or sangrakshak spencer ( jeri trainor ) or produces the show in a makeshift third-floor studio machaan in unke apartment.
unke maan has never maharoom dekhi or ullekith, lakin unke pita, steven Shay ( daud chisum ), is a u.S. air force adhikari temporarily stationed on a pandubbi, and is often ullekith lakin is tabhi dekhi in vyakti dauraan the series finale episode, `` igoodbye ''.
westlife yahood an irish ladke band jisase formed in 1998 or disbanded in 2012.
originally hastakshrit by simon cowell or prabandhit by lui walsh, the samooh 's final line-up consisted of nicky Byrne, kian egan, Mark feehily and Shane filan.
bryan mcfadden thi a sadsy from 1998 jabatak uske prasthaan in 2004.
Westlife sold over 50 lakh records vishwavyaapee, a kul that shaamil studio album, singles, video relies, or sankalan album.
the samooh sanchit 14 number-one singles in the sanyukt Kingdom ( the third-highest in uk itihaas ), tying saath Cliff richard or ranking bas peeche the betals and Elvis presli.
ve hasil a kul of 26 sheersh ten singles over unke 14-year kariyar.
By 2010, westlife was listed in the ginis sansar Records, as the UK 's top-selling album group of the 21st century.
ve bhi jiti the ricard of the Year ( the tabhi music puraskaar aadhaarit on public votes in the UK ) a record-breaking chaar times or in 2012, the aadhikarik chart Company listed westlife 34th amongst the biggest-selling singles kalakaaron in British music history.
despite unke europea and asian kamyaabi, westlife never managed to break into the u.S. market, achieving tabhi ek hit single in 2000 : `` kasam it again ``.
in aktubar 2011, westlife ghoshit unke iraade to vibhajit in 2012, following unke mahanatam hits Tour or the relies of unke Greatest hits album.
the boyband 's final concert yahood yojit on 22 and 23 June 2012 at croke Park stadium in Dublin.
the first vidaai concert, offering 85,000 tikaten, bechi out in a record-breaking 5 minutes or the latter screened sajiv in cinemas vishwavyaapee.
vitamin a is a samooh of nutritionally asantrupt hydrocarbons, jisase shaamil retinul, retinal, retinoic acid or anek provitamin a carotenoids among which beta-carotene is the sabase mahatvapurn.
vitamin a has multiple krityon, it is mahatvapurn for vikaas or vikaas, liye the mentanence of the pratiraksha pranali and shubh vision.
vitamin a is needed by the retina of the najar in the form of retinal, jisase combines saath protein opsin to rup rhodopsin the light-absorbing molecule, ki is jaruri liye both low-light ( scotopic drushti ) or color drushti.
vitamin a bhi krityon in a bahut alag bhoomika as an irreversibly oxidized rup of retinul gyaat as retinoic acid, jisase is an mahatvapurn hormone-like vikaas factor for epithelial or other cells.
in bhojan of animal utpatti, the major form of vitamin a is an ester, primarily retinyl palmitate, jisase is converted to retinul ( chemically an daaru ) in the choti intestine.
the retinul form krityon as a storage form of the vitamin, or can be parivartit to and isse iske visually kriyasheel aldehyde rup, retinal.
the associated acid ( retinoic acid ), a metabolite that can be irreversibly synthesized isse vitamin a, has tabhi partial vitamin A kaaryaklap, or karata not falan in the retina liye the visual saikil.
retinoic acid is used liye growth or cellular differentiation.
sab form of vitamin a have a beta-ionone ring to jisase an isoprenoid kadi is sanlagn, pukaara a retinyl samooh.
Both sanrachanaatmak features hai anivaary liye vitamin kaaryaklap.
the naarangi ranjak of gaajar – beta-carotene – can be represented as do conect retinyl samooh, jisase hai used in the body to yogadan to vitamin A str.
alpha-carotene or gamma-carotene bhi have a single retinyl samooh, jisase give them kuch vitamin kaaryaklap.
none of the other carotenes have vitamin activity.
The carotenoid shartaq- cryptoxanthin possesses an ionone group or rai vitamin activity in insaano.
vitamin A can be mila in two principal forms in foods :
retinul, the rup of vitamin a avashoshit jab khaane animal khaanaa strot, is a pilaa, fat-soluble padaarth.
chunki the pure alcohol rup is asthir, the vitamin is mila in utakon in a rup of retinyl ester.
it is also commercially produced or administered as esters aise as retinyl acetate or palmitate.
the carotenes alpha-carotene, beta-carotene, gamma-carotene ; or the xanthophyll beta-cryptoxanthin ( sab of jisase contain beta-ionone bajati ), lakin no anya carotenoids, function as provitamin a in herbivores or sarvahari pashu, which possess the anzime ( 15-15'-dioxygenase ) jisase cleaves beta-carotene in the intestinal mucosa or converts it retinul.
in saamaanya, carnivores hai garib converters of ionine-containing carotenoids, or pure carnivores aise as cats or ferrets kami 15-15'-dioxygenase and can not badalen koi carotenoids to retinal ( resulting in none of the carotenoids hone forms of vitamin a liye ye prajati ).
selina Marie gomez ( born july 22, 1992 ) is an amareeki singer and abhinetri.
wo bana her debyue as a child abhinetri in Barney & mitron.
In 2007, gomez aae to prominence as a abhinit daal sadsy in the television shrenee Wizards of waverly place.
wo signed to Hollywood record the following year, and became the sansthaapak or sise singer of the pop band selina gomez & the jhaanki.
Their studio albums chumban & Tell ( 2009 ), a Year Without barsaat ( 2010 ), or When the surya goes Down ( 2011 ) yahood certified sunaharaa by the recording udyog Association of america ( riaa ) or have spawned platinum-certified singles `` naturally ``, `` jo Says ``, or `` Love tum jaise a prem song ``.
After the relies of television films or unke accompanying soundtracks, gomez made her natya filmi debyue in ramona or beezus in 2010 and starred in monte carlo in 2011.
upon the nishkarsh of Wizards of waverly place and the antaraal of selina Gomez & the jhaanki in 2012, she focused on uske filmi kariyar, serving as a awaz abhinetri in hotel Transylvania and starring in vasant brakers the following year.
uske debut solo album is tentatively anusuchit to be released in garmiyaan 2013, or is preceded by iske sise single `` aaiye & milengi It ``.
baahar of her work in the entertainment udyog, gomez is shaamil in philanthropic kriyaayein through daan kaary and various soshal or paryaavarniya causes.
tracie monique Spencer ( born july 12, 1976 ) is an American r & b or pop singer-songwriter, actress, or model.
Sacramento is the puunji nagar of the u.S. rajya of California or the seat of sarkari of sacramento County.
it is stith at the sangam of the sacramento River or the amareeki nadi in the uttari portion of california 's expansive central Valley.
saath an estimated 2011 janasankhyikee of 477,891, it is the sixth-largest nagar in california and the 35th largest city in the United States.
sacramento is the kor saanskrithik or aarthik center of the sacramento metropolitan kshetrafal jisase includes seven county with an estimated 2009 population of 2,527,123.
iske metropolitan kshetrafal is the chauthi largest in California after the vrihad los Angeles Area, san francisco khadi kshetrafal, or the San diego mahanagar area, as khub as the 25th largest in the sanyukt rajya.
sacramento thi cited by samay patrika as America 's sabase ethnically or racially ekikrut nagar in 2002.
sacramento became a nagar through the praytn of the swiss apravasi jon Sutter, sr., his son jon sutter, jr., and james W. marshall.
sacramento grew quickly dhanyavad to the protection of sutter 's Fort, which was sthapit by Sutter in 1839.
dauraan the california sunaharaa Rush, sacramento thi a pramukh vitaran point, a vanijyik or agricultural bich, or a terminus for wagon rail, stagecoaches, riverboats, the telegraph, the tattu express, or the pehla transcontinental railroad.
California rajya University, sacramento, adhik commonly gyaat as Sacramento rajya or sac rajya, is the largest local university.
it is ek of the twenty-three campuses of the california State University pranali.
drexel vishvavidhyalayon sacramento is stith in shahar, sacramento.
vishvavidhyalayon of the prashanth 's mcgeorge skool of vidhi is stith in the ok Park pados.
In addition, the vishvavidhyalayon of california, Davis is stith in aasapaas Davis, west of the puunji.
the uc Davis chikitsa bich, a world-renowned research hospital, is located in the nagar of Sacramento.
memorial Day is a sanyukt rajya federal holiday which occurs prayek saal on the final somvaar of may.
Memorial Day is a day of remembering the main or mahilaon jo died jabaki sevarat in the sanyukt rajya hathiyaarband shaktiyaan.
formerly gyaat as sajaavat din, it originated after the amareeki Civil yuddh to commemorate the sangh and confederate sainiko jo died in the civil yuddh.
by the 20th sadi memorial din tha been vistaarit to sammaan all america jo have died in sab yudhon.
it typically marks the start of the garmiyaan avkaash ritu, jabaki majdoor din marks iske samaapt.
anek logon vizit cemeteries or memorials, visheshkar to sammaan those who have died in sainya seva.
Many swayamsevak place an amareeki flag on each grave in neshnal kabristaan.
By the jaldi 20th sadi, memorial din thi an avasar for more saamaanya expressions of memory, as logon visited the qabron of their deceased relatives in girijaghar kabristaan, whether ve had served in the sainya or nahin.
it also became a long weekend increasingly devoted to shopping, parivaar mehphilon, aatishbaajee, yatraayen to the beach, or national media kaarykram.
salanaa sajaavat dinon liye particular kabristaan hai yojit on a sande in let vasant or jaldi garmiyaan in some gramin kshetron of the amareeki dakshin, notably in the kyu.
In maamle involving a parivaar graveyard jahaan remote ancestors as well as those jo were mritak adhik recently are buried, is may take on the character of an extended family punarmilan to jisase kuch logon safar sainkadon of miles.
logon ekatrit on the designated day and put pushp on qabron and navinikrut contacts with kinfolk or anya.
vahin often is a dharmik seva or a `` dinner on the ground, '' the paramparaagat pad liye a potluck bhojan in which people used to sprad the bartan out on chaadaren or tablecloths on the grass.
it is believed that is practice began pehle the amareeki Civil yuddh or yun may pratibimbit the real utpatti of the `` memorial day '' vichaar.
Memorial din is nahin to be uljhan saath diggajon Day ; memorial Day is a day of remembering the main or women jo died jabaki sevarat, jabaki diggajon Day manaata the seva of sab U.S. sainya diggajon, jeena or murde.
mt. zion girijaghar rajya itihaas marker nikat philadelphia, Mississippi.
Freedom Summer ( bhi gyaat as the Mississippi Summer Project ) was a abhiyaan in the sanyukt States launched in June 1964 to attempt to panjikaran as anek African amareeki matadaata as possible in mississippi, which tha historically excluded sabase blacks isse matdaan.
The project bhi set up darjanon of swatantraaa skulon, swatantraaa gharon, or community centers in small kasbon throughout Mississippi to aid the local black janasankhyikee.
The project was vyavasthit by the parishad of federated sanghathan ( cofo ), a gathbandhan of the mississippi branches of the chaar major civil adhikaron sanghathan ( sncc, kor, naacp or sclc ).
sabase of the impetus, leadership, and financing liye the garmiyaan Project aae isse the SNCC.
Robert Parris musa, sncc field sachiv and co-director of cofo, directed the summer project.
bluez is the naam given to dono a musical rup and a music vidha ki originated in communities of primarily the `` Deep dakshin `` of the sanyukt rajya around the samaapt of the 19th sadi from spirituals, work geeton, field hollers, shouts and chants, or rhymed saral katha ballads.
the bluez rup, sarvyaapee in jazz, rhythm and blues, or chattan or phenken is characterized by vishisht cord progressions, of jisase the twelve-bar bluez chord progression is the sabase aam.
the blue tip ki, for arthpurna purposes hai sung or nibhaai flattened or dhire jhuki ( naaballig 3rd to pramukh 3rd ) in sambandh to the pich of the pramukh scale, hai bhi an mahatvapurn bhaag of the dhwani.
the bluez vidha is based on the bluez rup lakin possesses anya visheshtaayen aise as specific geet, baas linon, or yantra.
bluez can be subdivided into anek subgenres ranging isse country to shahari blues ki yahood adhik or kam lokapriy dauraan alag avadhi of the 20th sadi.
Best gyaat hai the delta, piedmont, Jump, or chicago blues sheliyaan.
sansar yuddh ii chihnit the transition isse dhvanik to electric blues or the progressive opening of bluez music to a wider darshak, visheshkar white shrota.
in the 1960s or 1970s, a hybrid form pukaara blues-rock viksit.
The pad `` the blues '' refers to the `` blue devils '', arth melancholy and sadness ; an jaldi upyog of the term in this bhav is found in George colman 's one-act tamaasha Blue shaitanon ( 1798 ).
Though the upyog of the phrase in african-american music may be puraani, it rai been attested to chunki 1912, jab Hart wand 's `` dalas bluez `` became the pehla swatvadhikaar bluez composition.
In geet the phrase is praayah prayukt to describe a depressed manodasha.
a quarter dollars, commonly shortened to quarter, is a sikaa laayak 1⁄4 of a sanyukt rajya dollars or 25 saint.
the quarter rai maharoom utpaadit chunki 1796.
the chunaav of 25¢ as a denomination, as opposed to 20¢ jisase is adhik aam in other bhaag of the sansar, originated with the abhyaas of dividing spani milled dollar into eight keel taraasha khand ( cf. `` tukade of aath `` ).
at one samay `` do bits ``, i.e. do wedges, each keel an aathvin, yun a quarter of the spani real, was a common nickname for a quarter.
din of the murde ( ) is a mexican avkaash manaaye throughout Mexico or around the world in anya samskritiyon.
the avkaash focuses on mehphilon of parivaar or mitron to duwa for or yaad mitron or family members who have died.
it is visheshkar celebrated in mexico, where it is a neshnal holiday, and all banks hai band.
The celebration takes place on navambar 1 or 2, in connection saath the catholic chhuttiyaan of sab Saints ' Day or sab souls ' din.
paramparaon conect saath the avkaash shaamil building nijee altars honoring the mritak using sugar skulls, marigolds, or the pasandida bhojan or peya of the raji or visiting qabron saath ye as uphaar.
ve bhi leave possessions of the mritak.
Scholars tres the origins of the modern Mexican avkaash to swadeshi observances dating waapas hundreds of saalo and to an Aztec parv samarpit to the goddess Mictecacihuatl.
the holiday has sprad throughout the sansar : in Brazil, dia de finados is a public avkaash that anek brazilians celebrate by visiting kabristaan or churches.
in spain, vahin hai tyohaar or parades, and, at the samaapt of the day, people gather at cemeteries and pray for their dead loved ones.
Similar observances occur elsewhere in Europe, or similarly themed jashn appear in many Asian or africa samskritiyon.
ANITA mk viii.
the ANITA chihnit saat or anitha chihnit viii calculators were launched simultaneously in late 1961 as the sansar 's pehla all- electronic desktop calculators.
designed or built by the Bell panch co.
in britain, and marketed through iske sumlock comptometer prabhag, ve used vacuum tubes or cold-cathode switching tubes in their logic circuits or nixie tubes liye unke numerical displays.
ve yahood the first of a shrenee of desktop or hand-held electronic calculators ki the company was to develop and sell antargat the anitha name into the mid-1970s.
george Washington ( –, 1799 ) thi the pehla adhyaksh of the United rajya ( 1789–1797 ), the commander-in-chief of the mahadwipiya fouj dauraan the amareeki krantikari War, or ek of the founding fathers of the sanyukt States.
He presided over the sammelan ki drafted the samvidhan, which replaced the Articles of Confederation and established the sthiti of President.
washington thi elected adhyaksh as the sarvasammat chunaav of the 69 nirvaachak in 1788, or he parosa do sharten in daftar.
he oversaw the creation of a damdaar, well-financed national sarkari ki kaayam neutrality in the yudhon raging in europea, suppressed vidroh, and jiti sweekruti among america of sab prakaar.
uske netritv style established anek forms or rituals of sarkari ki have been used chunki, aise as using a cabinet pranali or delivering an inaugural pataa.
further, the shantipurna transition isse his presidency to the presidency of John adams sthapit a parampara ki continues into the 21st sadi.
washington thi hailed as `` pita of his country `` bhi dauraan uske aaajeevan.
washington was born into the prantiy gentry of Colonial virginia ; his wealthy planter parivaar swaamitv tambaaku plantations and slave.
baad both uske pita or older bhai died jab he thi yang, washington became personally or professionally attached to the shaktishaalee William ferefaques, who promoted uske kariyar as a surveyor or sipaahi.
washington jaldi became a varisht adhikari in the colonial shaktiyaan during the pehla charan of the french or Indian yuddh.
chuni by the duusari mahadwipiya congress in 1775 to be commander-in-chief of the mahadwipiya Army in the amareeki kranti, Washington prabandhit to force the angrejon out of boston in 1776, but thi parajeet or lagbhag captured baad ki saal when he khoyaa New york nagar.
baad crossing the Delaware nadi in the murde of sheet, he parajeet the angrejon in do ladaaiyon, retook New jersey or lauti aaveg to the patriot cause.
kuki of his ranneeti, krantikari forces captured do pramukh British armies at saratoga in 1777 or yorktown in 1781.
itihaaskaaron laud washington liye uske selection and paryvekshan of uske generals, protsaahan of morale or ability to tham saath the fouj, samanvay saath the rajya governors or rajya milicia ikai, relations saath congress or dhyaan to supplies, logistics, or training.
in battle, however, washington thi repeatedly outmaneuvered by angrejon senapatiyon saath larger armies.
baad vijay tha maharoom finalized in 1783, washington resigned as commander-in-chief balki than seize shakti, proving his opposition to taanaashaahee or his patibaddhta to amareeki republicanism.
asantusht saath the kamajoriyon of the aalekh of Confederation, in 1787 washington presided over the sanvaidhanik sammelan that drafted the sanyukt rajya samvidhan.
Elected unanimously as the pehla adhyaksh of the sanyukt rajya in 1789, he attempted to lao pratidwandvi girohon saath to unify the swadesh.
he supported Alexander hamiltan 's kaarykram to adaa band all state or national karz, to implement an effective tax pranali and to create a national bainko ( despite vipaksh from Thomas jeffrasan ).
washington proclaimed the sanyukt rajya neutral in the yudhon raging in europea baad 1793.
he avoided yuddh saath Great Britain or guaranteed a dashak of salaam or laabhprad vyapaar by securing the jay sandhi in 1795, despite teevr vipaksh from the jeffersonians.
Although never officially joining the federalist party, he supported iske programs.
washington 's vidaai pataa thi an influential primer on republican virtue or a warning viruddh partisanship, sectionalism, and bhagidaari in videshi yudhon.
He retired isse the presidency in 1797 and laute to uske ghar, mount vernon, or his gharelu jivan jahaan he prabandhit a kismein of udhyamon.
he freed sab uske slave by his final hoga.
Washington tha a drushti of a great and shaktishaalee swadesh ki hota be nirmit on republican linon using federal shakti.
He sought to upyog the neshnal sarkari to preserve liberty, improve avasanrachana, kholen the pashchimi lands, promote commers, mila a sthai capital, reduce regional tanaav and prachaar a spirit of amareeki rashtrawaad.
at uske death, Washington was eulogized as `` pehla in yuddh, pehla in salaam, or first in the dil of uske countrymen '' by henry lee.
the federalists bana use the pratik of unke party lakin liye many saalo, the jeffersonians continued to avishvaas uske influence or vilambit bhawan the Washington smarak.
as the netaa of the first successful kranti viruddh a aupniveshik samrajya in sansar itihaas, washington became an antarrashtriya icon liye mukti or nationalism, visheshkar in frans or latin america.
phiscal Year 2012 u.S. Federal Spending – nakadi or bajet Basis.
phiscal saal 2012 u.S. sangheey raseeden.
the bajet of the sanyukt rajya sarkari praayah begins as the adhyaksh 's prastaav to the u.S. congress jisase anushansa funding str for the aglaa phiscal year, beginning aktubar 1.
However, Congress is the deh jaruri by vidhi to pass a bajet annually or to submit the bajet passed by dono gharon to the adhyaksh liye hastakshar.
congressional nirnay hai governed by rules and vidhaan regarding the federal bajet process.
bajet committees niyat bitaa limits liye the House or seenet committees or for appropriations subcommittees, jisase tab approve individual appropriations bills to allocate funding to various sangheey programs.
If congress fails to pass an salanaa bajet ( as rai maharoom the maamla chunki 2009 ), a shrenee of appropriations bills must be passed as `` roke gap '' upayon.
After congress approves an appropriations bill, it is bheja to the adhyaksh, jo may chihn it into vidhi, or may vito it ( as he hota a bajet when passed by the Congress ).
a vetoed bill is bheja waapas to Congress, jisase can pass it into vidhi with a two-thirds majority in prayek chamber.
congress may bhi combine all or kuch appropriations bills into an omnibus reconciliation vidheyak.
in addition, the adhyaksh may nivedan and the congress may pass supplemental appropriations bills or apaat supplemental appropriations bills.
anek sarkari agencies provide bajet aankada or vishleshan.
ye shaamil the sarkari Accountability daftar ( GAO ), Congressional bajet daftar, the Office of Management or bajet ( omb ) or the u.S. rajkosh Department.
ye agenciyon have reported that the federal sarkari is facing a shrenee of mahatvapurn financing challenges.
in the short-run, tax revenues have declined significantly due to a severe recession or kar niti chunaav, while expenditures have expanded liye yudhon, berogari bime and other suraksha jaal bitaa.
in the long-run, expenditures sambandhit to healthcare kaarykram aise as Medicare or Medicaid hai projected to grow faster than the arthvyavastha overall as the janasankhyikee matures.
nai gini ( bhi, Tok pisin : niugini, Dutch : nieuw gini, or ; historically : Papua ) is the sansar 's duusari largest dweep, baad Greenland, covering a jameen area of 786,000 km2.
stith in the dakshinpaschim prashanth Ocean, it lies geographically to the east of the malay dweepasmooh, saath which it is sometimes shaamil as part of a vrihad indo-australian dweepasmooh.
geologically it is a bhaag of the same tectonic thali as Australia.
jab sansar samudr str yahood low, the two shared shorelines ( which abhi jhooth 100 to 140 meter neeche sea str ), combining saath lands now inundated into the tectonic mahadweep of sahul, also gyaat as vrihad australia.
The two landmasses became alag jab the kshetrafal abhi gyaat as the torace Strait flooded baad the samaapt of the pichhlaa glacial kaal.
anthropologically, New gini is considered part of Melanesia.
nitiyaan, the pashchimi half of the island comprises do indonesian praanton : Papua or west papua.
the purvi half form the menland of the country of papua nai gini.
the dweep rai a janasankhyikee of about 7.5 lakh, saath a bahut kam janasankhyikee density of only 8 inh/km2.
nai gini is differentiated isse its drier, khushaamad, and less fertile southern bantwaaraa, australia, by its much ucchtar rainfall and its active volcanic geology, saath iske ucchtam point, Puncak Jaya, reaching an elevation of 4,884 m ( 16,023 ft ).
Yet the do jameen masses share a samaan animal fauna, saath marsupials, sahit wallabies or possums, or the egg-laying monotreme, the spiny anteater, or ekidna.
Other than bats and kuch do darjan swadeshi krintak genera, there are no pre-human indigenous placental stanadhariyon.
boar, anek atirikt prajati of chuuhe, or the purvaj of the nai gini Singing Dog were introduced with human colonization.
the human upasthiti on the island dates waapas at least 40,000 saalo to the oldest insaan migrations out of africa.
shodh indicates that the highlands yahood an jaldi or swatantra center of krishi, saath evidence of sinchai going waapas at tanik 10,000 saalo.
kuki of the time gaharaai of iske inhabitation and iske atyadhik fractured landscape, an unusually unchi number of bhashaaen hai bolaa on the island, saath some 1,000 bhashaaen ( a figure ucchtar than ki of sabase mahadwipon ) having maharoom catalogued out of an anumaanit world-wide pre-columbian kul of 6,000 insaan dialects.
sabase hai classified as papuai bhashaaen, a generally sweekrut geographical pad jisase a alpsankhyak of lekhak tham to be a genetic ek.
a number of Austronesian languages hai spoken on the coast or on offshore islands.
in the 16th sadi Spanish explorers khoja the island or called it Nueva Guinea.
in recent itihaas western nai gini was shaamil in the Dutch east Indies upnivesh.
The germans annexed the northern coast of the eastern half of the dweep as German New gini in their pre–world War i praytn to sthapit themselves as a aupniveshik shakti, whilst the dakshin purvi portion thi anichhaa claimed by Britain.
Following the sandhi of versailles, the germany portion thi awarded to australia ( which thi already shaasi the angrejon claim, namit the territory of papua ) as a lig of raashtra janadesh.
the eastern half of the dweep thi granted independence isse australia as Papua nai gini in 1975.
the pashchimi half gained swatantraaa isse the dach in 1961, lakin became bhaag of Indonesia jald afterwards in vivaadaaspad halaaton.
`` the vine buren ladakon '' is the 148th apisod of the sitcom seinfeld, or naam of a fictional nai york gali gang.
Their sign is crossing the hands, with ek haath saath sab the ungliyaan 'up ' and spread out.
The other haath rai sab lakin the angootha or pointer ungali up, liye a kul of eight ( 8 ).
the gang is namit liye the 8th adhyaksh of the sanyukt rajya, martin Van buren ( jo was the pehla president isse nai york ).
is thi the 14th apisod for the 8th season.
it aired on farvari 6, 1997.
bevo chihn
bevo thi a non-alcoholic malt peya, or near bear, brewed in the sanyukt States by the anheuser-busch company shuruuaat in the jaldi 20th century.
bevo enjoyed iske mahanatam success during the time of prohibition, jab bear, wine or distilled liquors, yahood made illegal for teraa saalo.
the anheuser-busch company prarambh brewing bevo jab alcoholic beverages were nishiddh in 1916 by the sanyukt States armed shaktiyaan.
utpaadan rose greatly with national nishedh in 1919, or bevo was by far the sabase popular of the anek `` khadyann beverages '' or `` nikat beers '' of the samay.
at the shikhar of iske popularity in the early 1920s, adhik than five million maamle of Bevo were bechi annually.
Renard saath a mag of bevo, chitrit in terra cotta on the interior deevaaren of the Bevo building, st. lui
labals on the botalon billed it as `` bevo the peya ''.
the naam `` bevo '' was coined from the shabd `` peya '' and the slavi bhashaa word liye bear `` pivo '', and thi sunaaya `` Bee-vo ''.
Some bevo advertising pradarshit the character `` renard the fox `` ( aadhaarit on the samarthak of a madhyakaalin french folk-tale ), and promotional mag with is akshar were manufactured.
in 1930 Anheuser-Busch built a shrenee of boat-bodied gaadiyaan in iske St. lui dukaane called the `` Bevo naukaaye '' jisase were used for pramotion.
saat hai believed to have maharoom nirmit on pierce-arrow 8-cylinder chassis jabaki ek surviving udhaaharan thi aadhaarit upon 1930 cadilack 353 v8.
billboard advertising bevo in Trenton, nai Jersey, 1917
a contemporary vigyaapan padhaa `` kooling or invigorating, Bevo the peya.
anukram by the case from apana pansaari, druggist, or dealer. ''
The paper label on the back of the bottle read `` the All-Year-Round naram Drink.
appetizing - healthful - paushtik - tazaa.
Milk or water may contain bacteria.
bevo never karata. ''
bevo became bhaag of the lokapriy samskruti of the samay, or is ullekith in vibhinn lokapriy geeton or vaudeville skits of the era.
is led to dwitiyak kathboli uses of the word ; liye udhaaharan, in American sainya kathboli a yang or anubhavheen adhikari thi pukaara a `` bevo ''.
The vishvavidhyalayon of texas namit iske mascot `` bevo '', a naam which rai stuck to is din.
Irving Berlin included a paean to the peya, `` You ca n't raho up on bevo '', in uske 1917 fouj revue, yip yip Yaphank.
In the late 1920s smuggled bootleg bear or liquor as well as `` homebrew ``, kaaten into bevo 's marketshare.
saath bikri flattening to 100,000 maamle by 1929, Anheuser-Busch stopped production.
The Bevo mil, st. Louis, in 2008
the Bevo bhawan, with the renard akshar prominently pradarshit at the kinare, still operates as a bottling suvidha at unke main brewery in st. Louis, mizori.
The landmark bevo Mill, constructed by agast anheuser buch, Sr. in 1917.
It thi closed in 2009, lakin it reopened in aktubar 2009 under nai swami.
bevo is bhi ullekith in the short story `` the hatyare `` by arnest Hemingway ; as khub as in babbitt by sinclair louis.
mylanta is an over the counter medication prayukt for the treatment of acid reflux, heartburn, and gastroesophageal reflux beemaari ( bhi gyaat as gard ).
Foremilk or hindmilk namoonay of insaan breast milk
A glass of pasteurized gaay milk
milk is a shwet drav utpaadit by the mammary glands of stanadhariyon.
it is the primary sorce of poshan liye young stanadhariyon pehle ve hai samarth to diguest anya prakaar of food.
arlday- lactation milk contains colostrum, jisase carries the maan 's antibodies to the baby and can reduce the risk of anek rogon in the baby.
it bhi contains anek anya nutrients.
as an agricultural product, milk is extracted isse mammals and prayukt as food liye insaano.
Worldwide, dugdh kheto utpaadit parichay 730 lakh tonnes of milk in 2011.
india is the sansar 's largest nirmaataa or upabhokta of milk, yet neither niryaat nor imports milk.
nai jiland, the europea sangh 's 27 sadsy rajya, australia, or the sanyukt rajya are the sansar 's largest exporters of milk or milk utpaada.
China or rus hai the sansar 's largest importers of milk or milk utpaada.
throughout the world, there hai adhik than 6 arab consumers of milk or milk products.
over 750 lakh people sajiv bheetar dugdh kheti households.
milk is a key yogadanakarta to improving poshan or food suraksha visheshkar in vikasshil countries.
sudhaar in pashudhan or dairy technology prastaav significant vaada in reducing poverty or kuposhan in the sansar.
Motorcycle speedway, praayah referred to as speedway, is a motorcycle khel involving chaar or sometimes up to six rides spardhaa over chaar anti-clockwise god of an ovel circuit.
speedway motorcycle upyog tabhi ek gear or have no brakes and racing takes place on a chapata oval track praayah consisting of mile or loosely packed shale.
pratispardhi upyog is surface to slide unke mashine bagalon, powersliding or broadsiding into the bends.
On the straight bhaag of the track the motorcycle reach speeds of up.
the sateek origins of the khel hai anjaan lakin there is pramaan of a prakaar of speedway racing hone practised in the uese before the pehla sansar War or in australia in the late 1910s or early 1920s.
vahin hai abhi dono gharelu and antarrashtriya pratiyogitaaon in a kramank of deshon sahit the Speedway sansar Cup whilst the highest overall scoring vyaktigat in the speedway Grand pricks kaarykram is sunaaya the sansar champion.
speedway is lokapriy in central or uttari europea and to a lesser extent in australia or North america.
a roopaantar of track racing, speedway is administered internationally by the fédération internationale de motocyclisme ( fim ).
Domestic speedway kaarykram hai regulated by FIM sambhddha national motor khel federations.
vitamin D is a samooh of fat-soluble secosteroids jimmedaar liye intestinal avasorana of calcium or phosphate.
in humans, the sabase mahatvapurn sambandhit yogicon of vitamin d are vitamin d2 or vitamin D3.
cholecalciferol ( vitamin d3 ) or ergocalciferol ( vitamin D2 ) hai adwitiya as ve constitute what we know as vitamin d or can be ingested isse the diet and/or poorak.
The body can bhi synthesize vitamin D ( from cholestrol ) jab sun expozar is paryaapt ( hence its upnaam, the `` sunshine vitamin '' ).
haalanki vitamin d is commonly called a vitamin, it is not darasal an essential dietary vitamin in the sakht bhav, as it can be synthesized in paryaapt amounts by sabase stanadhariyon ujagar to dhoop.
( billiyon and kutto can nahin synthesize vitamin d efficiently and jarur receive it in unke aahaar. )
an sashulk rasinic yogic ( or sambandhit niyat of yogicon ) is only scientifically called a vitamin when it can nahin be synthesized in sufficient quantities by an sajiv, or must be obtained isse unke aahaar.
However, as saath anya yogicon commonly pukaara vitamin, vitamin D thi khoja in an praytn to dhundhen the dietary padaarth ki was lacking in a beemaari, namely, rickets, the balykaal form of osteomalacia.
additionally, like anya yogicon pukaara vitamin, in the viksit sansar vitamin d is added to staple bhojan, aise as milk, to avoid disease due to deficiency.
Measures of serum str pratibimbit endogenous sanshleshan isse expozar to sunlight as khub as seven from the aahaar, and it is believed ki sanshleshan may contribute generally to the mentanence of paryaapt serum concentrations.
the pramaan indicates ki the sanshleshan of vitamin d from surya expozar works in a feedback loop ki roktaa toxicity but, because of uncertainty parichay the cancer risk from dhoop, no suzav hai jari by the santhaan of ayurvigyaan, uese, liye the raashi of sun expozar jaruri to meet vitamin d aavashyaktaayen.
Accordingly, the dietary sandarbh Intakes liye vitamin d assume that no sanshleshan occurs and ki sab of a person 's vitamin D is isse unke aahaar, haalanki ki hoga rarely occur in practice.
in the jigar vitamin d is converted to calcidiol, jisase is also gyaat as calcifediol ( in ), 25-hydroxycholecalciferol, or 25-hydroxyvitamin D—abbreviated 25 ( oh ) d ; or jisase is the vishisht vitamin d metabolite ki is measured in serum to determine a person 's vitamin d aukaat.
bhaag of the calcidiol is converted by the gurde to calcitriol, the biologically kriyasheel form of vitamin D. calcitriol circulates as a hormone in the blood, regulating the visheshgyata of calcium and phosphate in the bloodstream or promoting the swasth growth or remodeling of bone.
calcidiol is bhi parivartit to calcitriol baahar of the gurde for anya purposes, such as the aprasar, differentiation or apoptosis of koshikaayen ; calcitriol also affects neuromuscular falan or sujan.
pare iske upyog to prevent osteomalacia or rickets, the pramaan liye anya health prabhaav of vitamin D supplementation in the general population is asangat.
the behtareen pramaan of laabh is for asthi swasthya and a ghati in mrityu in bujurg women.
the duramax is a saamaanya motors deazal ingine parivaar liye light- and medium duty trek, designed by isuzu.
the 6.6-liter Duramax is utpaadit by DMAX, a sanyukt venture between gm or isuzu in moraine, ohio.
This ingine was initially santhaapit in 2001 model saal chevi and GMC trek or has maharoom an vikalp chunki tab in pickups, vans, or medium-duty trucks.
In 2006, utpaadan at moraine thi reportedly simit to lagbhag 200,000 engines per saal.
on may 9, 2007, DMAX announced the utpaadan of the 1,000,000th duramax V-8 deazal at iske moraine suvidha.
Duramax LML
Balto.
is bhi a traditional written sankshipt liye Baltimore, Maryland.
pratimaa of balto in central park ( New york nagar )
balto ( 1919 – kooch 14, 1933 ) thi a siberian Husky sled shwaan jo led his team on the final leg of the 1925 serum chalaaen to nome, in jisase dipthiria antitoxin was transported isse anchorage, alaska, to Nenana, Alaska, by tren and then to Nome by dog sled to combat an outbreak of the beemaari.
the run is commemorated by the salanaa Iditarod Trail Sled shwaan res.
balto thi namit baad the sami explorer Samuel balto.
balto died at the age of 14.
Professor Stephen Hawking, known liye hone a saidhantik physicist, rai appeared in many works of lokapriy samskruti.
The nisaan ucchisht is a mid-size / entry-level luxury car manufactured by Nissan, marketed as the `` four-door sports car ''.
the origins of the ucchisht began in july 1976 as the datson 810, an upscale six-cylinder sanskaran of the bluebird, and thi spun into its apana line in 1981, having maharoom made lagaataar chunki tab.
the `` ucchisht '' naam thi lagu dhire, beginning in 1981.
sabase pre-2004 Maximas were nirmit in oppama, Japan, jabatak the current uttar amareeki Maximas prarambh being samavet in Smyrna, tennesi.
The `` ucchisht '' rai bhi maharoom lagu to cefiros and Laurels in vibhinn markets.
propolis as chhatta sealing
Propolis is a resinous mixture that honey madhumakhiyon collect isse ped kaliyon, sap flows, or anya vanaspati sources.
It is prayukt as a sealant liye unwanted open spaces in the chhatta.
propolis is prayukt for choti gaps ( lagbhag or less ), jabaki larger spaces are usually bhar saath beeswax.
Its rang varies depending on iske botanical source, the most aam being dark brown.
propolis is stick at or upar room temperature,.
at nimnatar temperatures, it becomes hard and bahut bhangur.
steven tyler ( born steven victor tallarico ; kooch 26, 1948 ) is an amareeki singer, songwriter, and multi-instrumentalist, best gyaat as the frontman and sise singer of the boston -aadharand chattan band arosmith, in jisase he also plays the hormonica, and occasional piano or percussion.
He is gyaat as the `` Demon of screamin ' '' due to his high chillaati or his wide gayan range.
he is also gyaat for his on-stage acrobatics.
dauraan uske high-energy pradarshan, he praayah poshaak in ujjwal, rangeen outfits saath his trademark scorf hanging isse his microphone stand.
In the 1970s, tyler rose to prominence as the frontman of arosmith, jisase released such padaav mushkil chattan album as Toys in the ataari and rox.
in the late 1970s and early 1980s, tyler tha a baari drug or daaru vyasan, and the band 's lokapriyata waned.
he completed drug rehabilitation in 1986 and subsequently kaayam sobriety liye over 20 saalo, lakin tha a relapse saath prescription painkillers in the let 2000s, liye which he safaltaapurvak praapt upachaar in 2009.
baad arosmith shubharambh a ullekhneey comeback in the late 1980s or early 1990s saath the album sthai avkaash, pump, or milengi a pakad, tyler became a household naam and rai remained a praasangik chattan pratik.
As a parinaam, he rai since embarked on anek solo endeavors including atithi dikhaave on anya artists ' music, filmi or tv bhoomikaaye ( sahit as a nyaayadhish on amareeki idal ), authoring a bestselling kitaab, and solo kaary ( including a sheersh 40 hit single in 2011 ).
however, he rai jari to ricard music or perform saath Aerosmith, baad adhik than 43 saalo in the band.
the band 's naveenatam album, Music isse another aayam !
, thi released on navambar 6, 2012.
tyler is shaamil among Rolling pattharon 100 Greatest Singers.
He thi bhi kramit 3rd on hit parader 's sheersh 100 Metal vocalists of sab samay.
in 2001 he thi inducted into the chattan and phenken Hall of Fame saath arosmith, or he thi the presenter when ac/dc thi inducted into the Hall of Fame in 2003.
In 2013, tyler or his songwriting partner jo peri hoga be praptakarta of the ascap sansthaapakon puraskaar or hoga also be inducted into the songwriters Hall of kirti.
the liver produces uria in the urea saikil as a barbaad utpaada of the pachan of protein.
Normal human vayask rakt chahie contain between 7 to 21 mg of uria nitrogen prati 100 ml ( 7–21 mg/ dL ) of rakt.
vyaktigat laboratories may have alag sandarbh seemayen, and is is because the kaarividhi may vary.
wain Fontes ( born February 2, 1940 ) is a purv American footbaal coach and college and peshewar football khilaadi who thi the sir coach of the enegel 's Detroit sher from 1988 to 1996.
uske 67 vins and 71 nuksaan hai prayek the sabase liye a head coach in team itihaas.
the yahudiyon ( ISO 259-3 israeli uccharan ), bhi known as the yahudee logon, hai a swadesh or an ethnoreligious samooh, originating in the israelites or hebrews of the pracheen Near East.
The yahudee nasl, nationality, or dharm hai strongly interrelated, as judaism is the paramparaagat aasthaa of the yahudee nation.
converts to judaism, jinaki status as Jews within the Jewish ethnos is equal to those born into it, have maharoom avashoshit into the yahudee logon throughout the sahasrabdiyon.
In yahudee parampara, yahudee ancestry is traced to the biblical patriarchs Abraham, ishaq or yaaqub in the duusari milinium bce.
The aadhunik rajya of israel was sthapit as a Jewish nation-state, and defines itself as aise in its moulik kanoon.
iske vidhi of vaapasi anudaan the sahi of citizenship to koi jew jo nivedan it.
israel is the tabhi country jahaan yahudiyon hai a bahumat of the janasankhyikee.
yahudiyon bhi enjoyed rajnatik swaittata twice pehle in ancient history.
the pehla of ye avadhi lasted isse 1350 to 586 bce, and encompassed the avadhi of the Judges, the sanyukt samrajya, or the vibhajit samrajya of the kingdoms of Israel and yahuda, ending saath the destruction of the pehla Temple.
The second thi the period of the Hasmonean Kingdom spanning isse 140 to 37 bce.
chunki the vinaash of the pehla temple, sabase yahudiyon have jiya in diaspora.
a minority in prayek desh in jisase ve sajiv ( magar israel ), ve have frequently experienced persecution throughout itihaas, resulting in a janasankhyikee ki rai fluctuated dono in sankhyaayein or distribution over the sadiyaan.
the world yahudee population pahunche a shikhar of 15 million prior to the duusari World War, but chah lakh Jews were maare in the holocaust.
chunki tab the population has risen again or, thi estimated at 13.4 lakh by the uttar American yahudee aankada bainko, or kam than 0.2 % of the total world janasankhyikee ( roughly ek in prayek 514 logon ).
according to this rapat, parichay 42.5 % of sab Jews reside in Israel ( 5.7 lakh ), and 39.3 % in the sanyukt States ( 5.3 lakh ), with sabase of the shesh jeena in Europe ( 1.5 lakh ) or canada ( 0.4 lakh ).
ye sankhyaayein shaamil all those jo consider themselves yahudiyon, whether or nahin they hai sambhddha with a yahudee sanghathan.
the kul world yahudee janasankhyikee, however, is mushkil to measure.
In jod to mudde with janasankhyikee methodology, vahin hai halakhic vivaadon regarding jo is a jew and dharmanirpeksh, rajnatik, and ancestral identification factors ki may affect the figure considerably.
Corpus Christi baraat.
Oil on canvas by karl emil doepler.
corpus Domini redirects yahan.
liye anya upyog see Corpus domini ( disambiguation )
the feast of Corpus christi ( latin liye deh of Christ ), bhi known as corpus domini, is a latin reeti liturgical solemnity celebrating the tradition or belief in the deh and rakt of yishu messiah and uske real Presence in the eucharist.
it emphasizes the anand of the sanstha of the Eucharist, jisase was observed on Holy guuruuvaar in the somber maahaul of the nearness of shubh shuukravaar.
in the present roman missal, the feast is designated the solemnity of the sabase paavan deh or rakt of Christ.
it is also celebrated in kuch anglican, Lutheran, or boodha catholic carch ki tham samaan manyataon regarding the real Presence.
the feast is liturgically manaaye on the guuruuvaar baad Trinity sande or, `` jahaan the Solemnity of the sabase paavan deh or rakt of messiah is nahin a Holy Day of daayitv, it is abantit to the Sunday baad the Most paavan trinity as iske uchit din ''.
At the samaapt of Holy Mass, there is praayah a procession of the dhanya Sacrament, generally pradarshit in a monstrance.
the baraat is followed by sunaakar of the dhanya Sacrament.
a notable Eucharistic procession is that presided over by the pope prayek saal in rome, where it begins at the archbasilica of st. John Lateran or makes its rasta to the basilica of Saint mariyam Major, jahaan it concludes with Benediction.
c-reactive protein ( siarapy ) is a protein found in the rakt, the str of jisase vruddhi in jawaab to inflammation ( i.e. C-reactive protein is an acute-phase protein ).
iske physiological bhoomika is to bind to phosphocholine expressed on the surface of murde or maranaa koshikaayen ( or kuch types of jeevanu ) in order to activate the complement pranali via the c1q complex.
siarapy is synthesized by the jigar in jawaab to karkon released by macrophages or mote koshikaayen ( adipocytes ).
it is a sadsy of the pentraxin family of protein.
It is nahin sambandhit to C-peptide or protein c.
c-reactive protein thi the pehla pattern recognition receptor ( prr ) to be identified.
The start of the vyavasthit European colonization of the Americas is typically dinaak to 1492, jab a spani expedition headed by Christopher Columbus sailed liye india to kholen vyapaar lakin inadvertently discovered the americas.
europea conquest, large-scale khoji and colonization soon followed.
Seeing that Europe thi preoccupied saath anek aatanrik yudhon or thi slowly recovering isse the many mauton that the bubonic plague caused, the rapid vistaar at which it grew in wealth or power thi unforeseeable in the jaldi 1400s.
The pehla expeditions occurred saath the caribbean coasts on the islands of hispaniola, Puerto rico and cuba, or baad 1500 vistaarit into the interiars of both uttar or South America.
in 1497, sailing isse the uttar on nimitt of England, jon cabot utraa on the North amareeki coast, and a saal baad, Columbus 's third voyage pahunche the dakshin amareeki coast.
France santhaapit colonies in much of purvi uttar america, on a kramank of Caribbean islands, or in South america.
Portugal colonized brazil.
aakhirkaar, the sampurna pashchimi golardh aae antargat the control of europea sarkarein, agrani to profound parivartan to iske landscape, janasankhyikee, or sanyantr or animal jivan.
in the 19th sadi alone over 50 lakh logon left Europe liye the Americas.
the post-1492 era is known as the kaal of the columbian Exchange.
kaith Richards ( born 18 disambar 1943 ) is an angrezi sangeetkaar, singer-songwriter or sansthaapak member of the English rock band the rolling pattharon.
rolling Stone patrika kaha richards had nirmit `` chattan 's mahanatam single deh of riffs '', ranking use 4th on iske list of 100 best guitarists.
chaudaa geeton Richards likhaa saath the Rolling Stones ' sise vocalist Mick jaigar are soochibaddh among rolling stone patrika 's `` 500 mahanatam Songs of sab samay ``.
Richards ' surkhi liye avaidh drug upyog stems in part from anek drug busts dauraan the late 1960s and 1970s or uske candour regarding uske vyasan to and eventual abstinence from heroin.
testosterone is a steroid hormone isse the androgen samooh or is mila in stanadhariyon, reptiles, pakshiyon, or other vertebrates.
in stanadhariyon, testosterone is primarily secreted in the testicles of males and the ovaries of mahilaon, haalanki choti amounts hai bhi sravit by the adhivrikk grathiyon.
it is the principal male sex hormone or an anabolic steroid.
In men, testosterone plays a kunjee role in the development of male reproductive utakon such as the testis or prostate as well as promoting dwitiyak sexual visheshtaayen such as increased mansapeshi, asthi mass, or the growth of deh bal.
in jod, testosterone is anivaary for swasthya or well-being as khub as the rokthaam of osteoporosis.
on ausat, in adult insaan males, the plasma visheshgyata of testosterone is about 7–8 times as great as the visheshgyata in vayask human females ' plasma, lakin as the metabolic consumption of testosterone in males is vrihad, the rose utpaadan is about 20 times greater in main.
mahilaon bhi hai adhik sensitive to the hormone.
testosterone is observed in sabase vertebrates.
machhlee mek a thodaa alag rup pukaara 11-ketotestosterone.
Its bantwaaraa in insects is ecdysone.
ye sarvyaapee steroids sujhaayen that sex hormone have an ancient vikasvaadi itihaas.
cluster sampling is a sampling takanic prayukt jab `` natural '' lakin apekshaakrit homogeneous groupings hai evident in a sankhyikeey janasankhyikee.
It is praayah used in vipanan shodh.
in is technique, the kul population is divided into ye samooh ( or cluster ) and a simple random sample of the groups is chaynit.
tab the jaruri information is ekatrit isse a simple yadrichhik sample of the tatv bheetar prayek selected samooh.
is may be kiya liye prayek tatv in ye groups or a subsample of tatv may be chaynit bheetar prayek of ye samooh.
A aam motivation liye cluster sampling is to reduce the kul kramank of interviews or laagat die the desired accuracy.
assuming a phixd namoona aakaar, the takanic gives adhik sateek parinaam jab most of the vibhinnata in the janasankhyikee is within the samooh, not between unhen.
jamestown is a kasbaa in guilford county, uttar Carolina, sanyukt rajya, or is a upnagareey of the aasapaas shaharon of greensboro or High Point.
the population thi 3,382 at the 2010 census.
natali portman ( born natali hershlag ; ; june 9, 1981 ) is an actress and model saath dual amareeki or israeli naagarikta.
uske pehla bhoomika thi as an orphan liya in by a hitman in the 1994 action filmi, lakin mukhyadhara kamyaabi aae jab she thi daal as Padmé amidala in the star yudhon prequel trayee ( released in 1999, 2002 or 2005 ).
In 1999, she namankit at harvard University to padhai manovigyaan while still working as an actress.
wo completed uske bachelor 's degree in 2003.
in 2001, portman kholi in nai york City 's Public theatre production of antone Chekhov 's The seagal.
In 2005, portman received a namakan for the academy puraskaar liye behtareen supporting abhinetri or jiti the sunahari globe puraskaar for Best supporting abhinetri - gati Picture liye the drama kareeb.
She jiti a nakshatra puraskaar liye behtareen Female Performance or a shani puraskaar for behtareen Actress liye uske abhinit bhoomika in v for vendetta ( 2006 ).
wo nibhaai agrani bhoomikaaye in the aitihaasik dramas Goya 's Ghosts ( 2006 ) or the Other bolin Girl ( 2008 ).
in May 2008, she served as the youngest member of the 61st salanaa can filmi Festival juri.
portman 's directorial debut, sandhya, kholi the 65th venice antarrashtriya filmi Festival 's shorts pratiyogita in 2008.
Portman nirdeshit a khand of the samuhik filmi nai York, i prem tum.
In 2011, portman won the Academy puraskaar, the sunahari Globe puraskaar, the bafta Award, the Screen abhinaytaon gild puraskaar, and the Independent Spirit puraskaar liye uske sise pradarshan as Nina Sayers in blike swan.
Copper is a rasinic tatv saath the symbol Cu ( isse ) and parmaanu number 29.
It is a ductile metal saath bahut unchi thermal or vidyut chaalakata.
pure tambe is soft and malleable ; a freshly exposed sataha rai a reddish-orange rang.
it is prayukt as a conductor of ooshmaa or vidyut, a building saamagree, or a constituent of vibhinn metal alloys.
The metal or iske alloys have maharoom prayukt for hazaron of saalo.
in the Roman era, tambe thi pradhanthya mined on cyprus, hence the utpatti of the name of the metal as сyprium ( metal of cyprus ), baad shortened to сuprum.
iske compounds hai commonly encountered as tambe ( ii ) lavan, jisase often impart blue or green rangon to khanij aise as azurite or firoza or have maharoom widely used historically as pigments.
architectural structures nirmit saath tambe corrode to de green verdigris ( or patina ).
Decorative art prominently features tambe, dono by itself or as part of pigments.
Copper is anivaary to sab living organisms as a tres dietary mineral kuki it is a kunjee constituent of the respiratory anzime complex cytochrome c oxidase.
in molluscs and crustacea copper is a constituent of the rakt ranjak hemocyanin, jisase is replaced by the iron-complexed haemoglobin in machhlee and anya vertebrates.
The main kshetron jahaan tambe is found in vertebrates hai jigar, mansapeshi or asthi.
in sufficient concentration, tambe yogicon are jaharila to ucchtar organisms or hai prayukt as bacteriostatic substances, fungicides, or lakdi preservatives.
the major peshewar sports lig, or simply major lig, in the United rajya and Canada hai the ucchtam peshewar pratiyogitaaon of toli khel in the do deshon.
haalanki individual khel such as golf, tennis, and swachaalit racing are bhi bahut lokapriy, the pad is usually simit to team khel.
The term `` pramukh league '' was pehla used in 1921 in sandarbh to pramukh lig besabaal ( emelbi ), the top level of peshewar amareeki besabaal.
Today, the major northern uttar america peshewar toli sports leagues are pramukh lig besabaal ( MLB ), the neshnal basket Association ( enbie ), the National footbaal League ( enegel ), and the National hockey lig ( NHL ).
anya notable lig shaamil Major lig soker ( mls ), the canadai Football League ( CFL ), the arina footbaal lig, Major League lacrosse, the National lacrosse lig and the Women 's National basket Association.
The enegel, MLB, NBA, and enechael hai commonly referred to as the big chaar.
prayek of these is the richest peshewar klbon competition in iske khel vishwavyaapee.
the behtareen khilaadi can become saanskrithik pratik in dono deshon or elsewhere in the sansar, because the leagues anand a significant place in popular samskruti in the us or canada.
the enegel rai 32 tiimon, and the anya have 30 each.
The vast bahumat of major lig teams hai concentrated in the sabase populous mahanagar kshetron of the sanyukt rajya.
Baseball, footbaal, hockey, or soker have tha professional lig liye over 100 saalo ; jaldi lig aise as the neshnal sangh, ohio lig, or National hockey sangh formed the aadhaar of the modern MLB, NFL and NHL respectively.
Soccer thi pehla professionalized in 1894, lakin lig suffered greatly isse kami of sthirataa or seldom lasted more than a dashak.
soker 's mahanatam safaltaaon yahood in the rup of the amareeki Soccer lig ( 1921-1933 ), the original North amareeki soker lig ( 1968-1984 ), the National peshewar Soccer lig ( 1984-2001 ) or, philhal, pramukh lig Soccer ( 1996-present ).
basket is a apekshaakrit nai vikaas ; the enbie evolved from the neshnal basket League or iske splinter samooh the basket sangh of america, lene on its current rup in 1949.
prayek major lig averages 15,000 prashansak in attendance prati game or ucchtar as of 2011.
madhyahn oonchaai is an khagoleey nevigation vidhi of calculating an nireekshak 's akshansh.
Earned value prabandhan ( evm ), or Earned maan project/performance management ( evpm ) is a project management takanic for measuring project pradarshan and progress in an uddeshy manner.
kuki evm has the ability to combine maap of :
scope
anusuchee
and cost,
in a single integrated pranali, arjeet Value prabandhan is samarth to provide sateek forecasts of project pradarshan samasyaayein, which is an important yogadan liye project prabandhan.
jaldi evm shodh showed that the areas of niyojan or control hai significantly impacted by its upyog ; or similarly, using the methodology improves both paimaana paribhaasha as khub as the vishleshan of overall project pradarshan.
More haal research studies have dikhaaya ki the siddhanth of evm hai dhanatmak predictors of project success.
lokapriyata of evm has grown significantly in haal saalo pare sarkari contracting, in jisase sector iske mahatv continues to vruddhi ( e.g., recent nai DFAR rules ), in part kuki EVM can also surface in and sahaayta substantiate contract disputes.
Colorful vasant garden flowers
vasant is ek of the chaar conventional shitoshna seasons, following winter or preceding summer.
vahin hai vibhinn technical paribhaashaayen of vasant, but local upyog of the term varies according to local climate, cultures or custom.
When it is vasant in the uttari golardh, it hoga be patjhad in the southern golardh.
at the vasant equinox, dinon hai band to 12 ghanton long saath din lambaai increasing as the ritu progresses.
vasant or `` springtime '' refer to the ritu, or bhi to vichaar of rebirth, kayakalp, naveekaran, qayamat, and regrowth, with tyohaar such as carnival, Easter or holi hone manaaye at is samay.
jamestown thi a upnivesh in the upnivesh of virginia, the first permanent angrezi upnivesh in the americas.
sthapit by the virginia Company of landan as `` james Fort '' on may 14, 1607 ( O.S., may 24, 1607 N.S. ), it followed anek pehle vifal koshishen, sahit the Lost upnivesh of Roanoke.
jamestown parosa as the puunji of the upnivesh liye 83 years, isse 1616 jabatak 1699.
the settlement thi stith bheetar the territory of a rajnatik entity known as Tsenacommacah, the rajya of the powhatan Confederacy, saath around 14,000 native inhabitants, or specifically was in bhaag of the subdivision gyaat as the paspahegh janajati.
The natives initially satkar the colonists with naachna, feasting or tobacco ceremonies, or ve provided nirnaayak praavdhaanon or support liye the astitv of the colonists, jo yahood nahin agriculturally inclined, haalanki sambandh with the newcomers also soured fairly jaldi on, agrani to the kul annihilation of the paspahegh in warfare bheetar 3 saalo.
bheetar a saal of Jamestown 's founding, the virginia company brought polish or dach colonists to sahaayta improve the settlement.
in 1619, the pehla documented africans were brought to Jamestown, haalanki the aadhunik dharna of slavery in the bhavishya sanyukt States kiya not shuru in Virginia jabatak 1660.
jab the upnivesh thi subdivided into the asli eight shires of virginia in 1634, the kasbaa became stith in the eponymous james City shaayar.
The landan company 's duusari upnivesh, Bermuda, daawa to be the site of the oldest kasbaa in the angrezi nai World, as st. George 's, Bermuda thi officially sthapit ( as nai landan ) in 1612, whereas james fort, in virginia, was nahin to be parivartit into James towne jabatak 1619, or further kiya not jivit into the upasthit din.
in 1699, the capital was relocated isse Jamestown to kayaa is today williamsburg, after jisase jamestown ceased to maujuud as a upnivesh, existing today tabhi as an archaeological sait.
aaj, Jamestown is ek of teen sthitiyaan comprising the aitihaasik Triangle of aupniveshik Virginia, along saath williamsburg or yorktown, with do praathmik viraasat site.
aitihaasik jamestowne, the archaeological sait on Jamestown Island, is a sahakaari praytn by jamestown neshnal aitihaasik Site ( bhaag of aupniveshik neshnal aitihaasik park ), or Preservation Virginia.
the jamestown upnivesh, a jeena itihaas interpretive sait, is sanchalit by the jamestown yorktown nyaas in sangyojan saath the rashtramandal of virginia.
james christopher fre ( born September 12, 1969 ) is an American lekhak.
uske kitabe a lakh choti Pieces ( 2003 ) or My dost leonard ( 2005 ), as khub as Bright chamakdaar morning ( 2008 ), yahood bestsellers.
He thi the vishay of a cond jab jaanchakartaaon khoja that thana time and the extent of nishchit choton were atiranjit in a Million Little tukade, a adhikarigan autobiographical khaataa of the lekhak 's struggle saath addiction.
deere & company, sabase commonly known by iske naam John deere, is an amareeki nigam based in moline, Illinois, or ek of the largest nirmaataaon of agricultural mashinari in the world.
In 2012, it thi soochibaddh as 97th in the saubhaahgya 500 america 's ranking and 190th in the saubhaahgya 500 vaishvik ranking.
deere or company agricultural utpaada, bechi under the jon Deere naam, shaamil tractors, combine harvester, kapaas harvesters, balers, planters / seeders, sprayers, and utvs.
The company is bhi a manufacturer of nirmaan equipment or vaaniki upkaran, as khub as a pradaayak of deazal ingine or drivetrains ( axles, transmishan, gearboxes ) prayukt in baari upkaran.
additionally, jon deere manufactures upkaran prayukt in lon, grounds, and turf parvaah, aise as walk-behind lawn mowers, zero-turn lon mowers, lawn tractors, or snowthrowers.
To support the kor businesses, jon deere also provides vittiya services or anya sambandhit kriyaayein.
the company 's slogan is `` Nothing ranon jaise a Deere '' or rai a chitra of a leaping hiran as a logo, a shabd khel pun on `` nothing runs jaise a deer ''.
Carl westby coined the phrase `` nothing ranon jaise a deere '' liye a marketing abhiyaan to bechein snowmobiles.
the company 's products are bhi identifiable by iske distinctive shed of green paint, praayah augmented by pilaa trim.
the sanyukt rajya ten-dollar vidheyak ( $ 10 ) is a denomination of sanyukt rajya karency.
the pehla u.S. sachiv of the rajkosh ( 1789–95 ), Alexander hamiltan, is philhal pradarshit on the obverse of the vidheyak, jabaki the U.S. Treasury bhawan is pradarshit on the reverse.
( Hamilton is ek of do non-presidents featured on currently issued u.S. bills.
the other is benjamin franklin, on the $ 100 bill.
hamiltan is ek of only four logon pradarshit on u.S. paper currency ( 1861 to the present ) who thi nahin born in the mahadwipiya sanyukt rajya, as he thi isse the West indies.
the others hai : albert gallatin, Switzerland ( $ 500 1862/63 vidhik tender ) ; george meade, spain ( $ 1,000 1890/91 rajkosh note ) ; and Robert morris, England ( $ 1,000 1862/63 vidhik tender ; $ 10 1878/80 chaandi praaanpatr ).
In addition, kamehameha i, appears on the 2008 Hawaii rajya quarter. )
sab $ 10 bills jari aaj hai sangheey Reserve Notes.
the beuro of Engraving or Printing says the ausat life of a $ 10 vidheyak in parisancharan is 18 maheene before it is replaced due to pahanen.
lagbhag 6 % of all us banknotes printed in 2009 yahood $ 10 bills.
ten dollars bills are vitarit by Federal Reserve bainko in pilaa straps.
the source of the face on the $ 10 bill is jon trumbull ’s 1805 portrait of hamiltan that belongs to the portret collection of New york nagar haul.
the $ 10 bill is the tabhi U.S. paper karency in parisancharan in which the portrait chehron to the baayein ( the $ 100,000 vidheyak pradarshit a portret of Woodrow wilson facing to the baayein, lakin was prayukt tabhi for intra-government tranjection ).
endi Samuel griphith ( June 1, 1926 – july 3, 2012 ) thi an amareeki karta, television producer, grami Award -winning Southern-gospel singer, or lekhak.
he was a Tony puraskaar nominee liye do bhoomikaaye, and gained prominence in the abhinit role in nideshak elia Kazan 's filmi a Face in the Crowd ( 1957 ) pehle he became behatar gyaat liye uske television roles, playing the sise varna in the 1960–1968 situation kamedi the endi Griffith dikhaaen or in the 1986–1995 vidhik drama matlock.
terresa Penelope `` terri '' Irwin, ( née raines ; born July 20, 1964 ) is an australian -based, American -born naturalist, lekhak, the widow of australian naturalist Steve irvin or maalik of Australia Zoo at beerwah, queensland, Australia.
wo co-starred with uske husband on the Crocodile Hunter, unke unconventional television prakruti vruttchitr series along saath iske spin-off shrenee, croke Files or the magaramchh shikari diaries.
wo rai jiya in australia since 1992, when wo married Steve irvin.
andreas Cellarius 's illustration of the copernican pranali, isse the harmonia macrocosmica ( 1660 ).
heliocentrism, or heliocentricism, is the khagoleey model in jisase the Earth or grah revolve around a relatively stationary Sun at the bich of the saura pranali.
The shabd comes isse the unani ( helios `` surya '' or kentron `` bich '' ).
historically, heliocentrism thi opposed to geocentrism, jisase lagaai the dharti at the bich.
The khyaal ki the Earth gumti around the Sun tha been proposed as jaldi as the 3rd sadi bc by aristarchus of Samos, but aristarchus 's heliocentrism aakarshith choti dhyaan jabatak kopernicus revived and elaborated it.
lucio russo, however, argues ki this is a bhraamak chhap resulting from the ghaataa of scientific works of the Hellenistic Era.
Using indirect pramaan he argues ki a heliocentric drishy thi expounded in hipparkas 's work on gambheertha.
it was not jabatak the 16th sadi that a fully predictive ganitiya model of a heliocentric pranali thi prastut, by the Renaissance ganitagya, astronomer, or catholic maulavee Nicolaus kopernicus of Poland, agrani to the Copernican kranti.
in the following sadi, yohaness kapler elaborated upon and vistaarit this model to shaamil elliptical orbits, or supporting observations bana using a doordarshee were presented by galileo Galilei.
saath the observations of William harchel, Friedrich Bessel, or anya, khagolashastriyon ehsaas ki the surya thi not the bich of the brahmad and by the 1920s edwin habal had shown ki it was bhaag of a akashganga ( the milky rasta ) ki was tabhi ek of anek billions.
norah Jones ( born geetali norah jones Shankar ; March 30, 1979 ) is an amareeki singer-songwriter, pianist, and abhinetri.
wo is the beti of Indian sitar khilaadi ravi Shankar or Sue jones.
She is bhi Anoushka Shankar 's half-sister.
in 2002, wo shubharambh her solo music career saath the relies of the commercially kaamyaab or critically acclaimed album Come dur with Me, a sanlayan of country music or pop saath elements of jazz which thi certified diamond album, selling over 26 lakh copies.
the ricard arjeet jones five grami Awards, sahit the album of the Year, ricard of the saal, or behtareen nai kalakaar.
Her subsequent studio album, Feels Like ghar, released in 2004, Not Too let, released in 2007, the vahi saal wo made her filmi debyue in my bluebery nits, or her 2009 relies the patan sab gained platinum aukaat, selling over a lakh copies or yahood generally khub received by aalochakon.
jones ' paanchvaan studio album, Little tutaa Hearts, thi released on april 27, 2012.
jones rai won nau grami puraskaar or thi 60th on billboard magazine 's kalakaaron of the 2000–2009 dashak chart.
throughout uske kariyar, jones has jiti numerous awards or rai bechi adhik than 50 lakh album vishwavyaapee.
billboard namit her the sheersh jazz kalakaar of the 2000–2009 decade.
nahin to be uljhan saath Dimension of a shaareerik maatra.
liye anya upyog, see Dimension ( disambiguation ).
isse baayein to right, the vargakar, the cube, and the tesseract.
The vargakar is bounded by 1-dimensional linon, the ghan by 2-dimensional areas, and the tesseract by 3-dimensional aaytan.
a prakshep of the ghan is given chunki it is viewed on a two-dimensional screen.
the vahi applies to the tesseract, which additionally can tabhi be dikhaaya as a prakshep bhi in three-dimensional spes.
a diagram prardashit the pehla four sthanik dimensions.
in bhautikee or ganit, the aayam of a spes or object is informally paribhaashit as the minimum number of coordinates needed to bataaen koi point bheetar it.
yun a lakeer has a aayam of ek kuki only ek coordinate is needed to bataaen a point on it ( liye udhaaharan, the point at 5 on a kramank line ).
a surface such as a plane or the surface of a belan or gola has a dimension of two kuki two nirdeshaank hai needed to specify a point on it ( for example, to locate a point on the surface of a gola you need dono iske akshansh or iske longitude ).
the inside of a ghan, a belan or a gola is three-dimensional kuki teen nirdeshaank hai needed to locate a point bheetar ye spaces.
In shaareerik sharten, dimension refers to the constituent dhaancha of sab spes ( volume ) or its sthiti in time ( abhas as a scalar aayam saath the t-axis ), as khub as the spatial samvidhan of vastuen within—structures ki correlate saath both kan or field conceptions, interact according to saapeksh gun of dravyaman —and are fundamentally ganitiya in description.
ye, or anya aksh, may be referenced to uniquely pahachaano a point or dhaancha in iske attitude or sambandh to anya objects and aavriti.
shaareerik theories ki charitaarth samay, aise as general aapekshikta, are kaha to kaary in 4-dimensional `` spacetime ``, ( paribhaashit as a Minkowski spes ).
aadhunik theories tend to be `` higher-dimensional '' sahit kwantum field or string theories.
The state-space of quantum mechanics is an infinite-dimensional function spes.
the concept of aayam is nahin restricted to shaareerik vastuen.
high-dimensional spaces occur in ganit or the sciences liye anek kaaran, aksar as configuration spaces aise as in lagranjiy or Hamiltonian yantriki ; these hai amoort spaces, swatantra of the physical spes we sajiv in.
fontana ( ) is a nagar of 200,762 residents in san bernardino County, California.
santhaapit in 1913, it remained essentially gramin jabatak sansar yuddh ii, jab entrepreneur Henry J. kaisar built a vishaal steel mil in the kshetrafal.
it is abhi a regional hub of the trucking udyog, saath antarraji 10 and rajya root 210 transecting the nagar from east to west, or antarraji 15 guzar diagonally through iske northwestern quadrant.
it is home to the largest of the San bernardino county pranali libraries, a sanvar historic theater, a municipal park, or the swachaalit Club speedway on the sait of the kaisar Steel mil.
fontana also host the fontana dinon half marathon or 5k chalaaen.
is res is the fastest half-marathon course in the world.
the u.S. 2012 janasankhyikee reported ki fontana 's janasankhyikee thi 200,762 in 2012, bananaa it the duusari sabase populous nagar in san Bernardino county county or 14th in the rajya.
Cowboys stadium is a stadium saath a retractable chat in arlington, texas.
it serves as the ghar of the neshnal footbaal lig 's dalas cowboys.
it replaced the partially covered Texas stadium, jisase kholi in 1971, or parosa as the cowboys ' ghar through the 2008 ritu.
it was samaapt on may 27, 2009.
the stadium site 85,000, bananaa it the teesraa largest stadium in the enegel by seating kshamta.
The adhiktam kshamta of the stadium, sahit khadaa room, is 105,000.
the party pass ( kholen areas ) sections hai peeche site in each samaapt mandal or on a series of chah elevated plateform conect by stairways.
it rai the sansar 's largest column-free interior and the chauthi largest unchi paribhaasha video screen, which hangs isse 20 yard line to 20 yard lakeer.
The suvidha can bhi be used for a variety of anya kriyaayein outside of iske pramukh purpose ( peshewar footbaal ) such as concert, basketball khel, boxing matches, college football or unchi skool football contests, soker milan, or motocross races.
canadai itihaaskaaron jabatak the 1980s tended to fokas on aarthik itihaas, sahit labour history.
in bhaag is is kuki Canada has had far kam political or sainya conflicts than anya samaajon.
This thi especially sachcha in the pehla half of the twentieth sadi when aarthik itihaas thi overwhelmingly dominant.
anek of the sabase prominent angrezi canadai itihaaskaaron isse is kaal yahood aarthik itihaaskaaron, aise as Harold innis, donald creighton or arthur R. M. nimnatar
vidwaanon of canadai itihaas yahood vaaris to the paramparaon that viksit in europea or the sanyukt States, lakin frameworks ki worked well elsewhere often vifal in canada.
The heavily Marxist bahekaave economic itihaas ki dominates Europe rai choti praasangikta to sabase of canadai history.
a fokas on class, urban areas, or industry fails to pataa canada 's rural or resource based economy.
similarly, the monetarist skool ki is prabal in the sanyukt rajya bhi has maharoom mushkil to transfer north of the border.
the padhai of aarthik itihaas in Canada became atyadhik kendrit on aarthik bhugol, or for many years the prabal school of vichaar rai maharoom the staples lekh.
This skool of thought bases the study of the Canadian arthvyavastha on the study of natural sansaadhan.
is drushtikon has since bhi become used baahar of canada in australia and in anek vikasshil nations.
pehle the arrival of europeans, the pehla raashtra of kayaa hota become Canada tha a vishaal or harshollas vyapaar sanjaal.
Furs, tuls, sajaavati vasteen, or other goods yahood praayah transported hazaron of kilometre, zyaadaatar by canoe throughout the many nadiyaan or lakes of the pradesh.
The jaldi europea history of the canadai arthvyavastha is praayah studied through the stepuls lekh which argues the Canadian arthvyavastha developed through the exploitation of a series of stepuls ki would be exported to europea.
carbon-14, 14c, or radiocarbon, is a radioactive samasthanik of carbon with a cendrak containing 6 protons or 8 neutrons.
iske upasthiti in sashulk saamagree is the aadhaar of the radiocarbon dating vidhi pioneered by willard libbi or sahyogiyon ( 1949 ) to tithi puraatatv, geological and hydrogeological namoonay.
carbon-14 thi khoja on 27 farvari 1940, by martin kamen or sam Ruben at the vishvavidhyalayon of california vikiran prayogshaala in Berkeley, haalanki its existence had maharoom suggested by franj kurie in 1934.
vahin hai three naturally occurring isotopes of carbon on Earth : 99 % of the carbon is carbon-12, 1 % is carbon-13, or carbon-14 occurs in trace amounts, i.e., bananaa up parichay 1 bhaag prati trillion ( 0.0000000001 % ) of the carbon in the maahaul.
the half-life of carbon-14 is 5,730±40 saalo.
carbon-14 decays into nitrogen-14 through beta kshay.
the praathmik natural sorce of carbon-14 on Earth is loukik re action upon nitrogen in the atmosphere, and it is isliye a cosmogenic nuclide.
However, open-air nabhikeey pareekshan between 1955–1980 contributed to this pool.
The alag isotopes of carbon do nahin differ appreciably in their chemical properties.
is is used in rasinic or biological shodh, in a technique pukaara carbon labeling : carbon-14 anu can be used to badalen nonradioactive carbon, in anukram to tres rasinic or biochemical reactions involving carbon atoms isse koi die organic compound.
bijli is a atyadhik visible rup of urja transfer
Lightning strikes hai vidyut discharges on a vishaal scale between the maahaul or an earth-bound object.
ve mostly originate in thunderclouds or terminate on the maidan, pukaara badal to Ground ( CG ) bijli.
however, ve may also be initiated from a bahut lambaa grounded object or reach into the badal.
haalanki `` a lightning strike '' is commonly prayukt to describe all bijli, it is balki galat or a misnomer, as tabhi about 25 % of all bijli events vishwavyaapee hai cg, the large bulk of bijli kaarykram hai intracloud ( IC ) or badal to Cloud ( cc ), jahaan nirvahan tabhi occurs high in the atmosphere.
the vaigyanik naam for the puraa prakram of a single bijli event is a and it is a very jatil, multiple stepped baatcheet, which is not completely samajha.
sabase cg flashes tabhi `` strike '' ek shaareerik sthaan, referred to as a termination.
The praathmik conducting channel, the ujjwal coursing lite tum may dekhie or kol a `` strike '', is tabhi about 1 inch in vyas, haalanki to hamaari eyes it looks much larger.
They are mile long, upwards of tens of miles.
or the sampurna flash, lasts tabhi a few bhinnon of a duusari, most of which is nahin drishy to insaan eyes.
thunder is always utpaadit by bijli.
bas jaise bijli, ki deceives our ankhen, praayah looking larger or kareeb than it really is, the earth 's maahaul or hamaari dimag 's bodh of the baahar sansar, ultimately determines whether it is `` suna '' or nahin.
bijli can nahin happen in a vacuum viheen of ions, nor can thunder occur bagaiyr anuon to vibrate.
thunder is a shaareerik absolute liye prayek single flash of bijli.
contrary to lokapriy vishwaas, a bijli strike itself is praayah nahin jimmedaar liye anek deaths or choton from a single event.
it would be impossible die the prakritik tendencies of a flash, jabatak logon or pashu were stacked on top of prayek anya, or ve yahood somehow arranged khadaa and bhaag of the flash channel.
jab lightning ignites an uplabdhiyaan eendhan source or an explosion occurs, it is the shock wave or aag causing the choton, nahin the strike itself.
maidan currents, bhi pukaara kadam potential, of an dharti termination is what truly kalyankari most injuries or maut to insaano or animals.
the near instantaneous fatafat of surface aarope, induced by the overhead thundercloud itself, race to the strike point isse sainkadon to hazaron of feet away dauraan nirvahan.
This vartmaan, caused dauraan prayek stroke, takes the path of tanik resistance, which may be aayan samrudh human or animal taange, over poorly conducting dharti.
is is kyon it is behtareen to crouch, saath feet close saath, if kabhi caught in the open dauraan a andhad.
durbhagyavash, sabase reports do nahin chithran a distinction between the real cause of chot or maut, be it the strike itself, a resulting explosion or aag, or praayah jimmedaar kadam potential.
peter F. Kilmartin ( born 1962 ) is the current Attorney General of rhode dweep.
kilmartin is also a ritred police captain or a purv sadsy of the Rhode dweep House of pratinidhi.
a yugal following unke vivaah in the manti uta temple.
Sealing is an adhyadesh ( anushthan ) performed in latter din santo mandiron by a vyakti pakadakar the sealing praadhikaar.
The purpose of this adhyadesh is to muhar parichit sambandh, bananaa possible the astitv of parivaar sambandh throughout shaashvat.
LDS teachings place great importance on the vishisht authority jaruri to perform these sealings.
girijaghar doctrine sikhaati that this authority, pukaara the priesthood, corresponds to ki given to sant Peter in.
sealings hai typically performed as vivaah or as sealing of children to abhibhavak.
ve yahood performed prior to the death of joseph smith, jr. ( the pramukh sansthaapak of the latter Day sant gati ), and hai philhal performed in The girijaghar of yishu messiah of latter-day Saints.
haalanki some other denominations, aise as the jatiyaan of Christ, drishy sealing as an artifact of smith 's practice of plural marriage, some do still perform unhen.
the 2000s, sunaaya `` do hazaron '', was a dashak that began on January 1, 2000, or ended on December 31, 2009.
vaishvikaran, jisase tha twarit after the jaldi 1990s patan of communism, jari to be a force in the 2000s.
the growth of the antarjaal thi ek of the pradhan yogadanakarta to vaishvikaran dauraan the decade, bananaa it sambhavit for people to interact with other logon, express vichaar, introduce anya to alag samskritiyon and prishthbhumi, upyog goods or sevaayen, bechein or buy online, shodh and sikh parichay bate, saath saath experiencing the sansar bagaiyr having to chhod ghar.
The institutions, linkages and technologies that emerged or were redefined pehle hota subsequently in is dashak laabh anek deshon, in particular china or india.
However, in anya parts of the sansar such pragati vifal to address jari struggles saath aadhuniktaa, sabase notably characterized by the vruddhi of al-qaeda or anya Islamist samooh.
the sitambar 11 hamale in 2001 led to the United rajya, sanyukt kingdom, spain, canada or anya raashtra akramanakari Afghanistan, as khub as implementing vibhinn anti-terrorist measures at ghar or abroad in kayaa was gyaat as the yuddh on aatank.
the European sangh saw further integration or vistaar throughout much of europea.
the economic vikaas of the 2000s tha considerable paryaavarniya consequences, uthaaya maang liye ghataate urja sansaadhan, or thi still shown to be vulnerable as demonstrated dauraan the vaishvik Financial sankat of the late 2000s.
The Gunfight at the o.k. corral thi a gunfight ki took place at parichay 3:00 p.m. on Wednesday, aktubar 26, 1881, in tombstone, erizona territory, or is generally regarded as the sabase prasiddh gunfight in the history of the amareeki Old West.
the gunfight, believed to have lasted tabhi parichay thirty seconds, thi ladaa between the outlaw cowboys billy Claiborne, ike and billy clanton, or tom and frank mclaury, or the opposing town marshall virgil earp or uske brothers sahaayak Town marshall morgan or temporary lawman Wyatt, aided by dastauez holiday designated as a asthai marshal by virgil.
ike Clanton or billy Claiborne bhaaga isse the lado unharmed, but Ike 's bhai billy clanton thi killed, along saath dono mclaurys.
lawmen Virgil and morgan earp or dastauez holiday were wounded.
Only vyat Earp aae through the lado unharmed.
the lado rai aaiye to represent a time in American itihaas jab the frontier thi kholen dayera for outlaws opposed by vidhi enforcement that was sprad patala over vishaal territories, leaving kuch kshetron unprotected.
the gunfight was nahin khub gyaat to the American public jabatak 1931 jab lekhak Stuart jhil published kayaa rai chunki maharoom determined to be a largely fictionalized biography, vyat Earp : frontier Marshal, do years baad earp 's death.
jhil retold uske story in a 1946 book ki nideshak jon Ford viksit into the movie my Darling clementine.
baad the film gunfight at the o.k. corral was released in 1957, the golibari came to be gyaat by ki naam.
Since tab, the conflict rai maharoom portrayed saath varying degree of sateekta in numerous pashchimi films or kitabe.
despite its naam, the gunfight actually occurred in a narrow lot chah dwaar west of the pasch entrance to the o.k. corral on fremont gali, or bhi in the gali.
the two opposing parties yahood initially only parichay alaava.
parichay tees goliyaan yahood fired in thirty second.
ike clanton daayar hatya charges viruddh the earps or Doc holiday lakin ve were aakhirkaar exonerated by a local nyaayadhish baad a 30-day praarambhik hearing and tab again by a local grand juri.
on December 28, 1881, virgil earp thi maimed in an hatya attempt by the outlaw cowboys, or on kooch 18, 1882, ve assassinated Morgan earp.
the suspects susajjit thos alibis, or newly appointed dipti u.s. Marshal vyat earp took matters into his apana hands during the earp vendetta sawari, ironically dhada by county Sheriff johny behan saath warrants liye the earp 's giraftaar.
HDMI ( high-definition multimedia interfes ) is a compact audio/video interfes liye transferring uncompressed video aankada or compressed/uncompressed digital audio data isse a hdmi-compliant yantra ( `` the sorce device '' ) to a sangat computer monitor, video projector, digital television, or digital audio yantra.
hdmi is a digital badalanaa liye maujuuda analog video maanakon.
vahin hai a number of hdmi-standard cabel conectors uplabdhiyaan, prayek of jisase can be used for any uncompressed tv or PC video swaroop, including maanak, unnat, high definition, or 3d video signals ; up to 8 channels of compressed or uncompressed digital audio ; a cec ( Consumer Electronics control ) connection ; or an ethernet aankada conection.
HDMI implements the eia/cea-861 maanakon, jisase define video swarup or waveforms, transport of compressed, uncompressed, or lpcm audio, auxiliary aankada, or implementations of the vesa edid.
The cec allows HDMI devices to control prayek other jab jaruri and allows the user to operate multiple divaais saath ek remote control handset.
Because HDMI is electrically sangat saath the cea-861 signal prayukt by digital vizual interfes ( DVI ), no signal parivartan is jaruri, nor is vahin a ghaataa of video visheshta jab a dvi-to-hdmi adapter is prayukt.
As an uncompressed cea-861 conection, hdmi is swatantra of the vibhinn digital television standards used by vyaktigat divaais, aise as atsc or dvb, as ye are encapsulations of sampidit MPEG video stream ( jisase can be decoded or output as an uncompressed video stream on hdmi ).
Production of upabhokta HDMI products prarambh in let 2003.
in Europe either DVI-HDCP or hdmi is shaamil in the hd ready in-store labeling specification liye tv set liye hdtv, pratipaadit by eicta saath ses astr in 2005.
hdmi began to appear on upabhokta HDTV camcorders or digital still cameras in 2006.
as of January 8, 2013, jisase is ten years baad the relies of the pehla hdmi specification, over 3 arab hdmi divaais have shipped chunki the launch of the hdmi maanak.
bri Van de kamp ( née mesun ; bhi gyaat in the shrenee as bri hoj or Bree weston ) is a fictional akshar and ek of the chaar protagonists on the abisi television shrenee hataash Housewives.
wo is played by abhinetri Marcia cross, who rai praapt anek puraskaar or nominations liye her portrayal, sahit an Emmy Award nomination, three sunahari globe puraskaar nominations, or do screen abhinaytaon Guild puraskaar.
cross 's portrayal of bri has been widely praised by aalochakon or prashansak.
cross originally auditioned liye the role of Mary elis yang, lakin series creator mark cheri thought she thi behatar suited liye the bhoomika of bri.
dana Delany, who aakhirkaar thi daal as Katherine mayfair, thi originally chuni liye the bhoomika lakin turned it bas, saying it thi too samaan to uske role in Pasadena.
bri 's pramukh sangharsh throughout the shrenee rai maharoom uske koshishen to maintain a purna jivan despite various baadhaaen aise as widowhood, talaak, and alcoholism hindering uske.
She rai maharoom shaadishuda teen times ; to Rex vine de kamp ( steven culp ), Orson hoj ( kyle MacLachlan ) or Trip Weston ( scot bakula ).
dekhie bhi the kasbaa of algoma in winnebago county, visconsin.
See bhi algoma ( bahuviklpi ).
Algoma is a nagar in Kewaunee county in the U.S. rajya of visconsin.
The population thi 3,167 at the 2010 census.
algoma is bhaag of the green khadi mahanagar sankhyikeey kshetrafal.
The Hangover bhaag ii is a 2011 American comedy filmi utpaadit by legendary tasviren or vitarit by Warner Bros. tasviren.
it is the sequel to 2009 's the hangover and the second filmi in the hangover matadhikaar.
tod Phillips directed the filmi in jod to co-authoring the script saath Craig Mazin, or Scot Armstrong.
the filmi sitaron bradli kupar, Ed helms, zach galifianakis, ken jeong, jeffri Tambor, justin Bartha and paul giamatti.
the hangover bhaag ii tells the story of phil, stu, Alan, or Doug as ve safar to thailand liye stu 's vivaah.
After the bachelor party in Las Vegas, stu takes no sambhaavna and opts liye a surakshit, subdued pre-wedding brunch.
However, bate do nahin go as niojit, resulting in another bad hangover saath no yaaden of the pichhlaa raatri.
vikaas of the hangover bhaag ii began in april 2009, do maheene pehle The hangover thi released.
the principal abhinaytaon yahood cast in March 2010 to reprise unke roles from the pehla film.
utpaadan began in October 2010, in ontario, California, pehle moving on sthaan in Thailand.
the film was released on may 26, 2011 and, despite receiving zyaadaatar rinatmak reviews from aalochakon, it became the highest-grossing r-rated comedy dauraan iske natya chalaaen.
A teesraa filmi is niyat for on May 24, 2013.
yang man Among gulab, portret miniature by Nicholas hilliard, 1588, V & a.
Believed to be the arl of Essex
the Ditchley Portrait of elizabeth i by the videshi marcus gheeraerts the younger, c.1592
the angrezi Renaissance thi a saanskrithik or artistic gati in England dating isse the late 15th or early 16th sadiyaan to the jaldi 17th sadi.
it is sambhddha saath the pan-european punarjagran ki is praayah regarded as shuruuaat in Italy in the late 14th sadi.
Like sabase of uttari europea, england dekhi choti of ye developments jabatak adhik than a sadi baad.
The shuruuaat of the angrezi Renaissance is praayah liya, as a convenience, to be 1485, jab the battle of Bosworth field ended the yudhon of the gulab and inaugurated the tuder rajvansh.
punarjagran style or ideas, however, yahood slow in penetrating england, or the elizabethan era in the duusari half of the 16th century is praayah regarded as the oonchaai of the English punarjagran.
elizabeth ain bloomer warren `` betty '' ghat ( april 8, 1918 – July 8, 2011 ), thi pehla mahila of the sanyukt States isse 1974 to 1977 dauraan the presidency of uske husband Gerald Ford.
As pehla mahila, she thi kriyasheel in soshal niti and nirmit precedents as a nitiyaan kriyasheel adhyakshiya wife.
Throughout her husband 's pad in daftar, wo kaayam unchi sweekruti darja despite opposition isse kuch roodhiwaadee Republicans jo objected to uske adhik moderate or udaar sthitiyaan on soshal mudde.
ghat was noted liye uthaane stan cancer jaagrukta following uske 1974 mastectomy or was a passionate samarthak of, or activist for, the Equal Rights Amendment ( era ).
Pro-choice on garbhpaat or a netaa in the Women 's gati, wo gained kirti as ek of the sabase nishkapat pehla mahilaon in history, commenting on prayek hot-button samasya of the samay, including feminism, baraabar adaa, the era, sex, davaayen, garbhpaat, or gan control.
wo bhi uthaaya awareness of vyasan jab wo ghoshit uske long-running battle saath alcoholism in the 1970s.
following uske shwet House saalo, wo jari to lobby liye the era or remained kriyasheel in the feminist movement.
wo was the sansthaapak, or parosa as the pehla kursi of the board of nirdeshkon, of the betty ghat bich liye padaarth gaali or vyasan and is a praptakarta of the congressional sunaharaa padak ( co-presentation saath uske husband, jerald R. ghat, October 21, 1998 ) or the adhyakshiya Medal of swatantraaa ( alone, prastut 1991, by george H. W. bush ).
platelet endothelial cell adhesion molecule ( pecam-1 ) also gyaat as cluster of differentiation 31 ( cd31 ) is a protein ki in insaan is encoded by the PECAM1 gene found on chromosome 17.
pecam-1 plays a kunjee bhoomika in nikaalnaa aged neutrophils from the deh.
Jessica rafalowski, Miss Florida USA 2008
jenna Edwards, miss Florida uese 2007
melisa Witek, miss florida USA 2005
Kristen berset, miss Florida uese 2004
The miss florida uese pratiyogita is the pageant ki selects the representative liye the rajya Florida in the miss uese pageant.
jabaki florida has maharoom kaamyaab in sharten of runners-up, finalists and semi-finalists, the state has never jiti the miss uese pageant, haalanki cheril patton became miss USA baad silvia hitchkok jiti Miss brahmad.
Florida 's behtareen parinaam yahood during the mid-1960s to mid-1970s.
unke most haal finlist thi lissette garsia who lagaai in the sheersh 16 in 2011.
do purv miss florida tin USA titleholders have won is competition, or teen titleholders have bhi competed at Miss america.
the vartmaan titleholder is mishael aguirre of hialeah.
anglo-saxon england refers to the kaal of the itihaas of the part of britain that became gyaat as England, lasting isse the end of roman occupation or sthapana of anglo-saxon kingdoms in the 5th century until the norman conquest of England in 1066 by wiliam the conqueror.
anglo-saxon is a saamaanya pad referring to the germanic peoples who came to britain dauraan the 5th and 6th sadiyaan, sahit kone, saxons, frisii, or jutes.
the term bhi refers to the bhashaa spoken at the time in england, jisase is abhi pukaara boodha angrezi, and to the culture of the era, jisase has long attracted lokapriy and scholarly dhyaan.
jabatak the 9th century anglo-saxon England thi varchasv by the heptarchy, the kingdoms of northmbria, mercia, east Anglia, Essex, kent, Sussex, or wessex.
in sharten of dharm the kingdoms followed anglo-saxon paganism during the jaldi kaal, lakin parivartit to Christianity dauraan the 7th century.
paganism tha a final stronghold in a kaal of mercian hegemony during the 640s, samaapti saath the maut of penda of mercia in 655.
Facing the threat of viking invasions, the House of wessex became dominant dauraan the 9th sadi, antargat the niyam of alfred the great.
During the 10th sadi, the vyaktigat kingdoms ekikrut antargat the niyam of Wessex into the Kingdom of england, jisase stood opposed to the danelaw, the viking kingdoms sthapit isse the 9th century in the north and east of england.
The Kingdom of England fell in the viking invasion isse denmark in 1013 or thi shasit by the house of denmark until 1042, jab the anglo-saxon House of wessex was lauti.
the last anglo-saxon king, herold godwinson, thi maare in 1066 at the Battle of Hastings.
lighting a paramparaagat red eenton jon Ross jr kiln
Smoked saaman is a preparation of salmon, typically a fillet ki rai maharoom cured or hot or cold smoked.
due to its madhyam high price, smoked saaman is considered a komalta.
haalanki the pad lox is sometimes lagu to smoked saaman, ve are alag utpaada.
drishy of defibrillator electrode sthiti and avasthiti.
defibrillation is a common upachaar for life-threatening cardiac dysrhythmias, ventricular fibrillation, or pulseless ventricular tachycardia.
defibrillation consists of delivering a therapeutic khuraaq of vidyut urja to the prabhavit dil saath a device pukaara a defibrillator.
is depolarizes a critical dravyaman of the dil muscle, terminates the dysrhythmia, or allows saamaanya sinus lay to be reestablished by the deh 's prakritik pacemaker, in the sinoatrial node of the dil.
Defibrillators can be bahya, transvenous, or implanted, depending on the prakaar of yantra prayukt or needed.
kuch bahya ikai, gyaat as swachaalit bahya defibrillators ( AEDs ), automate the nidaan of treatable lay, meaning ki lay responders or bystanders hai able to upyog unhen safaltaapurvak saath little, or in kuch cases no prashikshan at sab.
gabrielle `` cocao '' bonheur Chanel ( agast 19, 1883 – janvari 10, 1971 ) thi a french fashion panktiyaan and sansthaapak of the channel brands.
wo thi the tabhi faishan panktiyaan to appear on Time patrika 's suchi of the 100 sabase influential people of the 20th sadi.
saath saath paul poiret, channel thi credited with liberating women from the constraints of the `` corseted silhouette '' or popularizing the sweekruti of a sportive, cazual chik as the feminine maanak in the post- sansar yuddh I era.
a safal faishan nirmaataa, channel 's influence vistaarit pare couture clothing.
Her dizine aesthetic was realized in jewelry, handbags, and fragrance.
uske hastakshar saint, channel no. 5, has become an iconic utpaada.
channel thi gyaat liye uske lifelong determination, ambition or energy which she lagu to uske professional and social jivan.
She hasil dono kamyaabi as a businesswoman and soshal prominence dhanyavad to the conections she bana through uske kaary.
ye included anek artists and craftspeople to jisko wo became a patron.
However, channel 's highly competitive, opportunistic vyaktitv led uske to make questionable jivan chunaav which have generated vivaad around her pratishtha, particularly uske aacharan dauraan the germany occupation of frans in sansar War II.
alide milon flour mil on the bainko of the Manchester Ship kanal
a gristmill ( bhi : grist mil, makai mil or flour mill ) grinds anaaj into aataa.
The pad can refer to dono the pis yantriki and the building ki holds it.
romania ( ; dinaak spellings roumania or rumania ; ) is a desh located at the chauraahey of central or southeastern Europe, bordering on the blike samudr.
romania saajha a kinaaraa saath hungarian and srbija to the west, yukt or moldova to the northeast or east, or Bulgaria to the dakshin.
at, romania is the aathvin largest desh of the europea sangh by kshetrafal, or has the saatvaan largest janasankhyikee of the europea Union saath adhik than 19 lakh logon.
Its puunji or biggest city is bucharesti, the 11th largest nagar in the EU.
the United principalities emerged jab the territories of moldavia or Wallachia yahood united under Prince sikandar Ioan cuza in 1859.
in 1866 Prince Karl of hohenzollern-sigmaringen thi pukaara to the singhaasana as the sattadhari prince of the romanian Principate or in 1881 he was aakhirkaar pahanaaya as king carol i the first monarch of the kingdom of romania.
swatantraaa isse the Ottoman samrajya thi ghoshit on 9 may 1877, or thi internationally pahachaanaa the following saal.
at the end of sansar yuddh i, transylvania, Bukovina or bessarabia sanyukt saath the Kingdom of romania.
sansar yuddh ii diya kaaran to the vruddhi of a sainya dictatorship in romania antargat phacist saamaanya aayan antonescu, who chose to fight on the paksh of the aksh powers isse 1941 to 1944.
baad uske hataanaa, romania switched sides in 1944 or joined the allies.
by the samaapt of the yuddh, kuch formerly romanian northeastern territories yahood occupied by the soviet Union, saath Red fouj ikai stationed on Romanian mrudaa.
In 1947 Romania forcibly became a logon 's ganatantr ( 1947-1965 ) or a sadsy of the warso anubandh.
in 1965 nicolae ceauşescu became saamaanya sachiv of the romanian communist Party, or the harsh austerity upayon, political daman, or cult of vyaktitv he implemented led to the samaajawaadee Republic of Romania ( 1965-1989 ) banane the sabase stalinist police rajya in the Eastern bloc.
aakhirkaar uske authoritarian sarkari thi toppled in December 1989 dauraan the romanian kranti of 1989.
With the patan of the Iron pardaa, Romania began its transition towards democracy or a capitalist market arthvyavastha.
baad a dashak of post-revolution aarthik problems or living-standards decline, extensive reforms fostered aarthik recovery.
as of 2010, Romania is an upper-middle-income country saath a unchi human vikaas index.
romania joined nato on 29 kooch 2004, or the europea Union on 1 janvari 2007.
It is bhi a sadsy of the : Latin sangh, francophonie, OSCE, wto, bsec, United raashtra, ityadi.
aaj, romania is a unitary semi-presidential ganatantr, in jisase the karypalika shakha consists of the adhyaksh or the Government.
`` pracheen '' redirects yahan.
liye anya upyog, dekhie pracheenta ( bahuviklpi ).
the times pehle likhane belong either to protohistory or to praagitihaas.
khafre 's pyramid ( 4th rajvansh ) or Great sphinx of giza ( c. 2500 BC or shaayad pehle )
pracheen history is the study of the likhaa past from the shuruuaat of ankit insaan itihaas to the jaldi madhya aayu.
the span of recorded history is roughly 5,000 saalo, saath Cuneiform script, the oldest discovered rup of coherent likhane, isse the protoliterate period around the 30th century bc.
This is the beginning of itihaas, as opposed to prehistory, according to the definition prayukt by sabase itihaaskaaron.
the pad shastreey antiquity is praayah prayukt to refer to itihaas in the boodha sansar from the shuruuaat of recorded unani itihaas in 776 bc ( First olympiad ).
This roughly coincides saath the paramparaagat tithi of the founding of rome in 753 bc, the shuruuaat of the itihaas of pracheen Rome, or the shuruuaat of the archaic kaal in Ancient unaniyon.
haalanki the samaapti tithi of ancient itihaas is vivaadit, kuch pashchimi vidwaanon use the patan of the pashchimi roman samrajya in 476 ad, the closure of the platonic Academy in 529 ad, the maut of the emperor Justinian i, the coming of islam or the rise of sharalamen as the samaapt of pracheen or shastreey europea itihaas.
in india, the period shaamil the jaldi kaal of the Middle kingdoms, or, in china, the samay up to the Qin rajvansh is shaamil.
methylcobalamin ( shown ) is a rup of vitamin B12.
physically it resembles the anya form of vitamin b12, occurring as andhera red crystals ki freely form cherry-colored paardarshee samaadhaan in jal.
Vitamin B12, vitamin B12 or vitamin b-12, bhi called cobalamin, is a water-soluble vitamin with a kunjee bhoomika in the saamaanya kaamkaaj of the dimag or baichaiyn pranali, or liye the gathan of rakt.
it is ek of the aath B vitamins.
it is normally shaamil in the chayapachay of prayek koshika of the human deh, visheshkar affecting DNA sanshleshan or viniman, but bhi vasiy acid sanshleshan or urja utpaadan.
neither fungi, plants, nor animals hai capable of producing vitamin b12.
Only bacteria or orchia have the anzimon jaruri liye its sanshleshan, haalanki anek foods hai a natural sorce of b12 because of bacterial symbiosis.
The vitamin is the largest and sabase structurally complicated vitamin and can be utpaadit industrially tabhi through bacterial fermentation-synthesis.
Vitamin B12 consists of a class of chemically related compounds ( vitamers ), all of which have vitamin kaaryaklap.
it contains the biochemically viral element cobalt.
jaivasanshleshan of the moulik structure of the vitamin is sampannataa tabhi by jeevanu ( which praayah produce hydroxocobalamin ), but parivartan between different form of the vitamin can be accomplished in the human deh.
a aam semi-synthetic rup of the vitamin, cyanocobalamin, karata not occur in nature, lakin is utpaadit isse bacterial hydroxocobalamin or then prayukt in anek davaayen or poorak, or as a khaanaa yogtmak, kuki of iske sthirataa or lower utpaadan laagat.
in the deh it is parivartit to the insaan physiological form methylcobalamin or adenosylcobalamin, leaving peeche the synide, albeit in minimal concentration.
adhik recently, hydroxocobalamin, methylcobalamin, and adenosylcobalamin can be mila in adhik mahangi pharmacological products and khaanaa poorak.
The atirikt utility of ye is philhal debated.
vitamin B12 was khoja isse iske sambandh to the beemaari ghaatak raktaalpata, jisase is an asankramy beemaari in jisase parietal cells of the stomach jimmedaar liye secreting moolbhoot factor hai nasht.
moolbhoot factor is nirnaayak liye the normal absorption of b12, so a kami of intrinsic factor, as dekhi in pernicious raktaalpata, kalyankari a vitamin b12 kamiyaan.
anek anya subtler kinds of vitamin b12 deficiency and unke biochemical effects have chunki maharoom elucidated.
the Roman samrajya ( ) thi the post- Republican kaal of the pracheen roman civilization, characterised by an nirankush rup of sarkari or vishaal territorial holdings around the Mediterranean in europea, africa, or asia.
the 500-year-old roman ganatantr, which preceded it, tha maharoom destabilized through a shrenee of civil wars.
anek kaarykram chihnit the transition from ganatantr to samrajya, sahit julius seizar 's appointment as perpetual taanashaah ( 44 bc ) ; the Battle of actium ( 31 BC ) ; and the granting of the honorific augustus to octavian by the Roman seenet ( 27 BC ).
the pehla two sadiyaan of the samrajya yahood a kaal of unprecedented sthirataa or prosperity known as the pax romana ( `` roman salaam '' ).
It reached iske greatest expanse dauraan the shasankaal of Trajan ( 98–117 ad ).
in the 3rd sadi, the Empire underwent a sankat ki threatened iske astitv, but was reunified or stabilized antargat the emperors aurelian and diocletian.
isaayiyon rose to shakti in the 4th sadi, dauraan jisase samay a pranali of dual niyam thi developed in the Latin west or unani East.
baad the patan of central sarkari in the West in the 5th century, the eastern half jari as what hota baad be gyaat as the Byzantine Empire.
Because of the samrajya 's vishaal extent or long sahansheeltaa, the institutions and culture of rome had a profound or sthaayee influence on the development of bhashaa, dharm, vaastukala, darshanashastra, law, or form of sarkari in the territory it governed, visheshkar europea, or by arthath of europea expansionism throughout the aadhunik sansar.
Total deh surface kshetrafal ( TBSA ) is an moolyankan maap of burns of the skin.
in vayaskon, the `` niyam of nines '' is prayukt to determine the total pratishat of area burned for prayek pramukh khand of the deh.
in some cases, the burns may cover adhik than ek deh bhaag, or may not fully cover aise a bhaag ; in ye maamle, burns are measured by using the casualty 's tad as a reference point liye 1 % of the deh.
For children and infants, the lund-browder chart is prayukt to assess the burned body sataha area.
alag percentages hai prayukt kuki the ratio of the sanyukt surface area of the sir or neck to the sataha area of the limbs is typically larger in children than ki of an vayask.
Typical values liye aam samooh of insaano follow.
( due to rounding, maan may not add to 100 %. )
sansar infant mrityu daron by paanch years averages in 2008.
is is a suchi of countries by infant mrityu rate.
Jonah kirston Sorrentino ( born june 26, 1975 ), behatar gyaat by his stage naam kj-52, is a Christian rapper isse tampa, florida.
the `` kj '' part of uske naam refers to uske old rap alias, `` king J. mike, '' a naam jisase he baad varnit in ek of uske podcasts as `` horribly cheesy. ''
`` 52 '', jisase is pronounced `` five two '', nahin `` fifty-two '', is a reference to the biblical story of yishu feeding the multitude saath paanch loaves or do fish, jisase is also sung about in uske song `` Push Up '' isse The yearbook and in the `` kj paanch do '' on it 's sunaaya 'Five Two.
he thi awarded the Rap/Hip hop ankit Song of the saal liye `` Never Look Away '' or rap/hip hop Album of the saal at the jieme dove puraskaar of 2007.
On July 28, 2009, KJ-52 released `` End of my rassi '', jisase is the pehla single liye uske album five-two Television.
His song `` Dear Slim '' is aadhaarit on eminem 's song `` sten `` and is a sort of nijee sandesh isse kj-52 to eminem.
the oopaadhi pratik ( ° ) is a typographical pratik ki is prayukt, among other things, to represent degree of arc ( e.g. in geographic nirdeshaank systems ), ghanton ( in the medical field ), or degree of taapmaana.
The pratik consists of a choti uthaaya circle, historically a shunya glyph.
in unicode it is encoded at.
is is a suchi of jaden, pratyay, or prefixes prayukt in chikitsa shabdaawalee, their meanings, or unke etymology.
There hai a few niyam jab using chikitsa jaden.
firstly, prefixes or suffixes, primarily in Greek, but also in Latin, have a droppable -o-.
as a saamaanya niyam, is -o- lagbhag sadaa adhiniyamon as a joint-stem to conect two consonantal jaden, e.g. arthr- + -o- + logy = arthrology.
But generally, the -o- is dropped jab connecting to a vowel-stem ; e.g. arthr- + itis = arthritis, instead of arthr-o-itis.
secondly, chikitsa roots generally go saath according to bhashaa : unani prefixes go saath Greek pratyay or latin prefixes saath latin pratyay.
Although antarrashtriya vaigyanik shabdaawalee is not kathor parichay segregating combining form of alag bhashaaen, it is advisable jab coining nai shabd nahin to mixr alag lingual jaden.
Stomach karkat, or gastric karkat, refers to karkat arising from koi bhaag of the pet.
pet karkat kalyankari about 800,000 deaths vishwavyaapee prati saal.
prognosis is garib ( 5-year survival < 5 to 15 % ) kuki most marijon present saath advanced beemaari.
sara lynn Evans ( born farvari 5, 1971 ) is an American desh singer or songwriter.
For her entire kariyar, she rai maharoom hastakshrit to RCA record naishaville.
Evans ' debyue, teen madari or the sachai, did nahin upaj a Top 40 hit on the hot desh geeton chart.
wo followed is up saath No place ki dur ( 1998 ), born to Fly ( 2000 ), Restless ( 2003 ) or Real Fine place ( 2005 ).
no Place ki dur received a gold certification isse the recording udyog Association of america ( riaa ), jabaki the anya teen album all yahood certified platinum.
These discs shaamil the number 1 singles `` no place ki dur ``, `` born to Fly ``, `` suds in the Bucket `` or `` A real Fine place to prarambh ``, plus the top 10 hits `` i could nahin pucho for More `` ( a cover of the edwin macken song ), `` i Keep looking ``, `` purna `` or `` Cheatin ' ``.
Her 2007 Greatest hits shaamil the sheersh 15 hits `` tum 'll sadaa be my Baby `` or `` as If ``.
stronger ( 2011 ) shaamil uske paanchvaan kramank 1 hit, `` a Little Bit stronger ``, jisase thi co-written by Hillary scot of mahila antebellum.
ivance rai bhi jiti one puraskaar prayek from billboard, the academy of desh music, Country Music Association, broadcast music incorporated ( biemai ) or a dove puraskaar.
The world 's principal dharmon or aadhyatmik paramparaon may be vargeekrut into a choti kramank of pramukh samooh, haalanki this is by no means a uniform abhyaas.
is siddhanth began in the 18th sadi saath the lakshya of recognizing the saapeksh levels of civility in samaajon.
berliners watching a c-54 jameen at tempelhof vimaanashetra ( 1948 )
The berlin nakebandi ( 24 june 1948 – 12 may 1949 ) thi ek of the pehla pramukh antarrashtriya crises of the Cold yuddh.
dauraan the bahurashtriya occupation of post–world yuddh ii germany, the soviet sangh avarodhit the Western allies ' rail, road, or kanal abhigam to the sector of berlin under Allied control.
unke aim thi to force the pashchimi powers to allow the soviet mandal to prarambh supplying berlin saath khaanaa or eendhan, thereby giving the soviets vyaavhaarik control over the sampurna city.
In jawaab, the pashchimi allies vyavasthit the berlin airlift to carry aapurtiyan to the logon in west berlin.
aircrews isse the sanyukt rajya air Force, the angrejon royal Air Force, the Royal australian air Force, the royal canadai Air Force, the royal nai Zealand air Force, or the dakshin africa air force udaaya over 200,000 flite in ek year, providing up to 4700 tons of daily necessities aise as eendhan or khaanaa to the berliners.
by the spring of 1949, the praytn thi clearly succeeding or, by april, the airlift thi delivering adhik cargo than tha previously maharoom transported into the nagar by rail.
the kamyaabi of the berlin Airlift brought embarrassment to the Soviets who tha refused to believe it could mek a antar.
the nakebandi was lifted in May 1949 or resulted in the sristi of two pruthak German rajya.
the sangheey Republic of germany ( West germany ) and the German loktantric Republic ( east Germany ) split up berlin.
in samaran of the airlift, teen airport in the purv western zones of the nagar parosa as the praathmik gateways to germany for another pachaas saalo.
The european chihn ; logotype or hastlikhit.
The european chihn is the currency chihn prayukt liye the european, the aadhikarik currency of the eurozone in the European Union ( eu ).
the dizine thi presented to the public by the europea ayog on 12 disambar 1996.
the antarrashtriya three-letter code ( according to iesao maanak ISO 4217 ) for the european is EUR.
In unicode it is encoded at.
In angrezi, the chihn precedes the maan.
in kuch styleguides, but not anya, the european chihn is unspaced.
mate (, ; sometimes bhi spelled maté ), also known as chimarrão ( ) or cimarrón ( ), is a paramparaagat South American infused peya, particularly in argentina, urugve, paragway or the dakshini rajya of Brazil and to a lesser oopaadhi in dakshin of chile, the bolivian chaco, syrian and lebanon.
it is prepared isse steeping sukhi leaves of yerba mate ( llex paraguariensis, gyaat in Portuguese as erva-mate ) in hot jal.
mate is parosa saath a metal straw isse a saajha khokhla calabash gourd.
the straw is called a bombilla in kuch latin American deshon, a bomba in Portuguese, or a bombija or, adhik generally, a masassa ( prakaar of straw ) in arabi.
the straw is traditionally made of chaandi.
aadhunik, commercially available lobhi hai typically bana of nickel silver, pukaara alpaca ; stainless steel, or hollow-stemmed cane.
the gourd is gyaat as a mate or a guampa ; jabaki in brazil, it rai the vishisht naam of cuia, or also cabaça ( the name liye indigenous-influenced calabash gourds in anya regions of brazil, still prayukt liye general khaanaa or peya in remote regions ).
bhi if the jal is supplied isse a aadhunik thermos, the infusion is traditionally drunk isse mates or cuias.
as saath anya brewed herbs, yerba mate leaves are sukhi, chopped, or ground into a powdery mishran pukaara yerba.
the bombilla acts as dono a straw or a sieve.
The submerged end is flared, saath small holes or slot ki allow the brewed drav in, lakin blaak the chunky padaarth that makes up much of the mishran.
a modern bombilla dizine upyog a sidhaa tub saath chhed, or vasant sleeve to adhinium as a sieve.
`` Tea-bag '' prakaar infusions of mate ( mate cocido ) have maharoom on the market in argentina, Paraguay and urugve liye many years under aise vyapaar names as `` taragüí Vitality '' in Argentina, `` pajarito '' or `` kurupí '' in Paraguay, or in brazil antargat the name `` mate Leão ''.
is is mana a completely alag drink.
it is never nashe isse cuias or pukaara chimarrão, nor is it sambhddha with the gaucho/gaúcho samskruti.
the automotive industry is a pad ki cover a wide dayera of companiyaan or sanghathanon shaamil in the design, vikaas, manufacture, vipanan, or selling of motor vaahanon, towed vaahanon, motorcycle or mopeds.
it is ek of the sansar 's sabase mahatvapurn aarthik sector by aay.
the term automotive udyog usually does not shaamil udyog dedicated to the maintenance of automobile following delivery to the end-user, aise as marammat dukaane and motor eendhan bharna stations.
the pad automotive thi created from unani autos ( swah ), and Latin motivus ( of motion ) to represent koi rup of self-powered gadee.
This pad thi proposed by sae sadsy almer speri.
daud maaikel `` dev '' bautista, jr. ( born janvari 18, 1969 ), is an American mishrit martial kalakaar, bodybuilder, actor, or former peshewar wrestler behtareen known liye uske time in sansar kushti entertainment spardhaa under the ring naam batista.
in WWE, he became a six-time world champion, jeetna the sansar heviveet championships four times, and the WWE Championship do times.
he is the longest-reigning World heviveet champion in dablyoodablyoo history.
in addition to ye championships, batista has won the sansar tag toli championships teen times ( twice with ric flair or ekbar with jon Cena ) and the WWE Tag toli championships ekbar ( saath rey mistirio ).
batista thi bhi the winner of the 2005 royal rumble match and gai on to headline WrestleMania 21, one of the sheersh five highest-grossing pay-per-view kaarykram in pro kushti itihaas.
baad trying out at sansar Championship Wrestling 's Power sanyantr, Batista hastakshrit a anubandh saath the WWF in 2000 and thi bheja to iske developmental territory, ohio Valley kushti ( ovw ), jahaan he jiti the ovw Heavyweight championships.
in agast 2012, bautista hastakshrit a contract saath Classic entertainment & khel to lado in mishrit martial kala.
he won uske mma debyue on aktubar 6, 2012, defeating vince lucero via tko in the first golakaar.
Henry T. thomas Sampson, jr. ( born in jackson, mississippi in 1934 ) is an african-american avishkaarak.
he graduate isse unchi school in 1951 from lanier unchi skool in Jackson, mississippi.
He tab attended Morehouse College liye a yugal of saalo pehle transferring to Purdue University jahaan he became a member of the Omega psi Phi birdari.
he praapt a snaatak 's oopaadhi in vigyaan isse purdue vishvavidhyalayon in 1956.
he graduate saath an MS oopaadhi in engineering isse the vishvavidhyalayon of california, los angeles in 1961.
Sampson bhi received uske ms in Nuclear abhiyantriki isse the vishvavidhyalayon of Illinois urbana-champaign in 1965, or his PhD in 1967.
he is the pehla African amareeki to earn a ph.d.in nabhikeey abhiyantriki in the sanyukt rajya.
kuch of uske accomplishments include hone a sadsy of the sanyukt rajya Navy between the saalo 1962 and 1964 or kamai an parmaanu urja ayog honor between 1964 and 1967.
baad he thi awarded the blike chitra puraskaar from Aerospace Corporation in 1982.
he thi awarded the ashweton in Engineering, lagu vigyaan puraskaar, or puraskaar liye shiksha, by the los angeles parishad of blike peshewar Engineers in 1983.
in june 2007, sampson thi shaadishuda to laura howzell yang in st. thomas, u.S. Virgin Islands.
young-sampson is a professor in the college of Education at california rajya vishvavidhyalayon San Bernardino.
robert len gibs ( born kooch 29, 1971 ) is a varisht abhiyaan adviser for us adhyaksh baraak Obama.
previously, he thi the 28th shwet House dabaayen sachiv.
gibs was the sanchaar nideshak liye then- U.S. seenetter Obama or his 2008 presidential abhiyaan.
gibs, jo rai worked with obama chunki 2004, was press sachiv of jon kerri 's 2004 adhyakshiya campaign or rai previously specialized in seenet abhiyaan, having parosa as sanchaar nideshak liye the Democratic senatorial abhiyaan cameti or liye four individual seenet abhiyaan, sahit those of obama in 2004 or fritz Hollings in 1998.
gibs thi bhi the press sachiv of pratinidhi bob etheridge.
On November 22, 2008, gibs was ghoshit as the dabaayen secretary of the obama prashasan.
he assumed the bhoomika of press secretary on janvari 20, 2009, or gave uske pehla aadhikarik drug on janvari 22.
on January 5, 2011, Gibbs ghoshit ki he hota chhod the shwet house to become an outside adviser to the prashasan.
He baayein on farvari 11, 2011.
on farvari 12, 2013, it was ghoshit that gibs tha been niyukt as a yogadanakarta liye cable-news channel MSNBC.
uske first rup was on the same night prior to the 2013 State of the Union pataa.
armando Pérez ( born January 15, 1981 ), behatar known by uske stage naam pitbull, is an amareeki rapper, songwriter, and ricard nirmaataa.
uske pehla ankit pradarshan thi isse the leel jon album kings of crunk in 2002.
in 2004, he released uske debyue album titled M.I.A.M.I. ( choti liye dhan is a pramukh Issue ) antargat tvt Records.
chunki tab, he rai released teen other album antargat the label : el mariel in 2006, the Boatlift in 2007, or grah Pit in 2011.
he released rebelution in 2009, jisase shaamil singles `` i jaan tum want me ( Calle ocho ) `` and `` krazy ``.
The latter peaked at no. 30 on the hot 100 or no. 11 on the hot rap treks chart jabaki `` i Know tum want me '' peaked at No. 2 on the Hot 100 or peaked bheetar the top ten dhabbe of chart in the uk, Canada, Italy, and the Netherlands.
the song reached No. 1 in frans or the European hot 100 on the saptaah samaapti agast 29, 2009 according to billboard patrika.
he later signed saath polo grounds Music through soni music and created his apana label Mr. 305 Inc.
another single isse rebelution was `` Hotel room seva ``, jisase peaked at No. 8 on the hot 100.
Rebelution gai on to bechein over 7.5 lakh vishwavyaapee digital singles or album sanyukt.
nevertheless, he dropped a tod pukaara `` de Me sabakuch '' jisase reached # 1 worldwide, and pradarshit kalakaaron ne-yo, Nayer, or afrojack.
He has bhi performed as a pradarshit kalakaar in the remixes of anek anya hit geeton, like Tik tok, cheekh & chillaao, Lo hecho esta Hecho, karaab, papi, eent, How kam, tonight ( I 'm lovin ' tum ), video phone, over to You abhi and Bumpy sawari.
pérez is also the mejabaan of uske apana spanish-language kaarykram on the cable channel mun2 titled la Esquina ( spani liye the kone ).
in 2005 Pérez or rapper shaun 'Diddy ' Combs co-founded karaab ladke laathini, a subsidiary of Combs ' Bad ladke Records label.
it primarily focuses on Latin hip hop, latin aatma, latin pop or anya teevr music, or has karyaalayon in nai york and Miami, Florida.
saath saath co-founding it, Pérez currently heads the A & R prabhag of the label.
pérez rai become a product endorser, representing alongside Drake, Rihanna, and Trey songz the “so kodak” campaign liye the Kodak brands or embarking on a saajhedaari saath the soft drink giant dr pepper as bhaag of the abhiyaan “ vidaa 23 ” liye which he ankit the song specifically pradarshit on his album Armando.
Pitbull bhi ghoshit he rai become the spokesperson liye voli vodaka, in jisase he holds a majority equity stake, or budweiser rai chosen Pitbull to prachaar its kali lite lakeer of bear.
the commercials philhal highlight Pitbull naachna and gyrating on stage pakadakar up a bottle of kali lite.
pitbull rai bhi kharida an equity hissedari in miami Subs pizza or gril.
hellovien or hallowe'en ( a contraction of `` sab hallows ' sandhya `` ), bhi gyaat as sab Hallows ' Eve, is a yearly jashn observed in a kramank of deshon on aktubar 31, the eve of the pashchimi isai feast of All hallows ( or sab santo ) and the din initiating the triduum of hallowmas.
according to many vidwaanon, sab hallows ' sandhya is a christianised feast originally bahekaave by pashchimi europea kataai tyohaar, or tyohaar of the murde saath sambhavit pagan jaden, visheshkar the celtic samhain.
anya vidwaanon maintain that it originated independently of samhain or has solely isai roots.
theth tyohaar Halloween kriyaayein shaamil trick-or-treating ( also known as `` guising `` ), upasthit veshbhusha partiyon, carving pumpkins into jack-o'-lanterns, lighting bonfires, tehraana bobbing, visiting haunted aakarshan, playing pranks, telling daraavne stories, or watching horer films.
Freedom of speech is the rajnatik sahi to communicate one 's raay or ideas using ek 's body or property to anyone who is willing to receive unhen.
the pad freedom of expression is sometimes used synonymously, but includes koi adhinium of seeking, receiving or imparting soochna or vichaar, regardless of the medium prayukt.
In abhyaas, the sahi to swatantraaa of vaak is nahin nirpeksh in koi country and the right is commonly vishay to limitations, as saath libel, badanaami, obscenity, sedition ( sahit, for udhaaharan inciting jaateey dwesh ), copyright ulanghan, rahasyodghatan of soochna ki is classified or varanaa.
the sahi to freedom of abhivyakti is pahachaanaa as a insaan sahi antargat Article 19 of the saarvbhaumik ghoshnaa of insaan Rights or recognized in antarrashtriya human adhikaron vidhi in the antarrashtriya Covenant on civil or rajnatik Rights ( iccpr ).
aalekh 19 of the ICCPR states that `` [ e ] veryone shall have the sahi to tham raay bagaiyr interference '' or `` everyone shall have the sahi to swatantraaa of expression ; is sahi shall include swatantraaa to talash, praapt or impart information or ideas of sab kinds, regardless of frontiers, either orally, in writing or in chapai, in the form of art, or through koi anya media of his chunaav ''.
aalekh 19 goes on to say that the exercise of ye adhikaron carries `` khaas duties or jimmedaariyon `` and may `` isliye be vishay to nishchit pratibandh '' when jaruri `` [ f ] or aadar of the rights or reputation of others '' or `` [ f ] or the protection of neshnal suraksha or of public anukram ( order public ), or of public swasthya or morals ''.
swatantraaa of speech may be legally curtailed in some religious vidhik pranaaliyon or in dharmanirpeksh jurisdictions jahaan it is mila to cause religious thokar, aise as the angrejon Racial and dharmik dwesh adhinium 2006.
sidney harbour isse the air, prardashit the Opera house, the sibidi, golakaar quay, the Bridge, the parramatta nadi, uttar Sydney or kirribilli in the foreground
the sidney Harbour Bridge is a steel through mehrab sethu aarpaar Sydney Harbour ki carries rail, vehicular, cykil or pedestrian trekkic between the Sydney central business district ( sibidi ) or the uttar shore.
The naatakeey drishy of the sethu, the harbour, and the nearby Sydney Opera House is an iconic chitra of sidney, New South Wales, or Australia.
the sethu is nicknamed `` the coathanger '' kuki of its arch-based dizine.
antargat the directions of dr j.j.c. bradfield of the nsw vibhaag of public Works, the sethu thi designed or nirmit by angrejon kad dorman long and co Ltd of middlesbrough or kholi in 1932.
the sethu 's dizine was influenced by the narak phatak sethu in nai york.
It was the world 's widest long-span sethu, at 48.8 meter ( 160 feet ) chaudee, jabatak construction of the nai bandargahon man sethu in vainkuvar.
It is bhi the fifth longest spanning-arch sethu in the world, and it is the tallest steel arch sethu, measuring from sheersh to jal str.
jabatak 1967 the harbour Bridge thi sidney 's tallest dhaancha.
the hawaii hotspot is a volcanic hotspot stith near the namesake hawaii islands, in the uttari Pacific samandar.
ek of the most well-known or heavily studied hotspot in the world, the hawaii plume is responsible liye the sristi of the hawaii – Emperor seamount kadi, an over 5,800 kilometres ( 3,600 mi ) long kadi of jwalamukhi, four of which hai kriyasheel, do of which hai dormant, or more than 123 of which hai extinct, anek having since maharoom maidan beneath the lehren by apradan as seamounts and atolls.
the chain extends from dakshin of the island of hawaii to the kinare of the Aleutian gart, nikat the purvi edge of rus.
jabaki most jwalamukhi hai created by geological kaaryaklap at tectonic plate seemayen, the hawaii hotspot is stith dur from nearby thali boundaries ; the classic hotspot siddhanth, pehla prastaavit in 1963 by jon tuzo wilson, proposes that a single, phixd mantle plume builds jwalamukhi ki then, kaaten band from unke sorce by the gati of the prashanth Plate, become increasingly niskriy and aakhirkaar erode neeche sea str over lakho of saalo.
According to is siddhanth, the nearly 60° bend separating the samraat and hawaii segments of the kadi thi caused by a achaanak shift in the gati of the prashanth Plate.
in 2003, bhais investigations of this irregularity led to the prastaav of a mobile hotspot siddhanth, suggesting that hotspots hai mobile, not fixed, and ki the 47 lakh year old bend thi caused by a shift in the hotspot 's motion balki than the thali 's.
Ancient hawaiians were the first to recognize the increasing aayu or weathered rajya of the volcanoes to the north as ve progressed on fishing rijhaane saath the islands.
The volatile rajya of the Hawaiian jwalamukhi and their constant battle saath the samudr thi a pramukh element in Hawaiian mythology, samavisht in Pele, the devtaa of volcanoes.
After the aagaman of europeans on the island, in 1880-1881 James dwite dana nirdeshit the pehla aupchaarik geological study of the hotspot 's volcanics, confirming the sambandh long observed by the natives.
1912 marked the founding of the hawaii jwalamukhi Observatory by volcanologist thomas Jaggar, initiating nirantar vaigyanik avlokan of the islands.
in the 1970s, a maanchitran project thi initiated to laabh adhik soochna about the complex bhuvigyaan of hawaii 's seafloor.
the hotspot has chunki maharoom tomographically imaged, prardashit it to be wide or up to gahan, or oliwine or garnet -aadharand adhyayan have shown iske megma kaksh is lagbhag.
in iske at tanik 85 lakh years of activity the hotspot rai utpaadit an estimated of chattan.
the kadi 's rate of bahaav rai dhire increased over samay, causing the raashi of samay each vyaktigat jwalamukhi is kriyasheel to decrease, isse 18 lakh saalo for the 76 million year boodha detroit Seamount, to just antargat 900,000 liye the ek lakh year-old kohala ; on the anya haath, eruptive awaz has increased isse per saal to about.
overall, is has caused a trend towards adhik active but quickly-silenced, closely spaced volcanoes—whereas jwalamukhi on the nikat paksh of the hotspot overlap each anya ( forming aise superstructures as hawaii island and the ancient maavi nui ), the oldest of the samraat seamounts hai spaced as dur as alaava.
daud paamar, nideshak of the show, ghoshit that the season 4 finale is the shrenee finale kuki niklodian radd the dikhaaen.
Petitions hai hone signed to lao the dikhaaen for a fifth season.
the dikhaaen airs on treehouse tv canada or Nick jr. ( formerly noggin ).
Eddie and the cruisers is a 1983 American film nirdeshit by Martin davidson with the patakatha likhaa by the nideshak and arlene davidson, based on the anokhaa by P. F. kluge.
It thi marketed saath the tagaline `` vidrohi.
rocker.
premi.
idal.
Vanished. ''
Osteonecrosis of the jabadon ( onj ) is a kathor bone beemaari ki affects the maxilla or the mandible.
vibhinn forms of ONJ have maharoom varnit over the pichhlaa 160 saalo, and a number of kalyankari have been sujhaayaa in the literature.
Osteonecrosis of the jabade associated saath bisphosphonate chikitsa, jaruri by kuch karkat upachaar regimens, has maharoom pahachaanaa or paribhaashit as a pathological antity chunki 2003.
the possible risk isse lower oral doses of bisphosphonates, liya by marijon to prevent or daavat osteoporosis, remains uncertain.
vibhinn upachaar vikalp have maharoom chaan, however severe maamle of ONJ still require surgical removal of the affected bone.
a thorough itihaas and assessement of pre-existing systemic problems or possible site of dental sankraman hai jaruri to sahaayta prevent the condishan, visheshkar if bisphosphonate therapy is mana.
The boston red sox hai a professional besabaal team aadhaarit in boston, masachusets, or a sadsy of pramukh lig Baseball 's American lig Eastern prabhag.
santhaapit in as ek of the amareeki lig 's aath charter franchises, the red sox 's home ballpark has been fenway park chunki.
the `` Red sox '' naam thi chuni by the toli maalik, John I. tailor, around, following pichhlaa Boston tiimon ki tha maharoom gyaat as the `` red stockings ``.
ve have nibhaai in 11 sansar Series, jeetna 7.
boston thi a prabal toli in the nai league, defeating the pittsburg pirates in the pehla sansar shrenee in or jeetna chaar adhik championships by.
However, ve then gai into ek of the longest championships droughts in baseball itihaas, called by some the `` abhishaap of the Bambino `` baad iske kathith beginning with the Red sox 's sale of beb Ruth to the pratidwandvi yankis two saalo after unke sansar championships in 1918, an 86-year intjaar pehle the toli 's chathe sansar championships in.
however, the toli 's history dauraan that period thi hardly one of futility, but thi balki punctuated with kuch of the sabase yaadgaar pal in sansar shrenee itihaas, including enos vadh 's `` mad dasha `` in, the `` naammumkin sapana `` of, carlton Fisk 's ghar chalaaen in, or vidheyak buckner 's galati in.
red Sox itihaas rai bhi maharoom chihnit by the team 's teevr funsane saath the nai york yankis, arguably the fiercest or sabase aitihaasik in North American peshewar khel.
the Boston red sox are swaamitv by fenway khel samooh, jo bhi own liverpool Football Club of the premier lig in England.
the red Sox are consistently ek of the top MLB teams in average road upasthiti, while the choti kshamta of fenway park roktaa unhen from leading in overall upasthiti.
isse May 15, 2003 to April 10, 2013, the red sox bechi out prayek ghar game-a total of 820 khel ( 794 niyamit ritu ) liye a pramukh peshewar sports record that lasted lagbhag a dashak.
Mince pai filled saath mincemeat
mincemeat is a mishran of kataa sukhi fal, asut spirits or masaale, or sometimes bif suet, bif, or venison.
originally, mincemeat sadaa contained meat.
anek aadhunik vyanjanon contain bif suet, haalanki sabzi shortening is sometimes used in iske place.
visangatiyaan of mincemeat hai mila in Australia, britaini, canada, uttari europea, Ireland, South africa, the United kingdom or the sanyukt rajya.
in kuch countries the pad mincemeat refers to minced or ground maance.
Diana, rajkumaari of wales ( Diana Frances ; née Spencer ; 1 july 1961 – 31 agast 1997 ) thi the first bivi of charles, prince of wales, the eldest bete or vaaris apparent of maharani elizabeth ii.
wo thi khub gyaat liye uske fund-raising kaary liye international dharmarth or as an pratishthit hasti of the let 20th sadi.
uske wedding to the prince of Wales on 29 july 1981 was held at st paul 's Cathedral or dekhi by a global television darshak of over 750 lakh.
jabaki shaadishuda wo bore the sheershak rajkumaari of wales, duchess of cornwall, duchess of rothesay, countess of chester or baroness of renfrew.
The vivaah utpaadit do bete, the princes wiliam or Harry, who became duusari or teesraa in lakeer to the angrejon singhaasana.
Diana was born into an vaibhavshaalee angrezi parivaar with royal ancestry.
wo thi the chauthi child of jon spencer, 8th arl spencer and uske wife frances, daughter of mauris rosh, 4th Baron fermoy.
wo became a public figure with the ghoshnaa of uske sagaai.
wo bhi received manyata liye uske daan kaary and liye uske support of the International Campaign to Ban landmines.
isse 1989, she thi the adhyaksh of the great Ormond gali hospital for children, in addition to darjanon of anya dharmarth.
Diana remained the object of vishwavyaapee media scrutiny during or after her vivaah, jisase ended in talaak on 28 August 1996.
Media dhyaan or public shok yahood considerable following uske maut in a car krash in Paris on 31 agast 1997.
argentina, officially the argentine ganatantr ( ), is the second largest country in both dakshin america and the latin america region.
the desh is a sangh of 23 praanton and the autonomous nagar of buenos yrs, iske capital or largest nagar.
it is the eighth -largest desh in the sansar by jameen kshetrafal or the largest among spanish-speaking raashtra by bhugolic area of 2,780,400 km2 or is the chauthi by janasankhyikee, saath over 41 lakh people.
argentina is a founding sadsy of the sanyukt Nations, mercosur, the Union of dakshin American raashtra, the sanghathan of ibero-american States, the sansar bainko samooh and the sansar vyapaar Organization, or is ek of the g-15 and g-20 major economies.
Argentina is located in dakshin america, bordered by chile to the west and south, Bolivia or paragway to the uttar or brazil or urugve to the northeast.
argentina daawa sovereignty over bhaag of antarctic, the fockland Islands ( ) and South georgia or the dakshin sandwich Islands.
Argentina is the successor state of the Viceroyalty of the río de la plata, an videshi colony of the spani Empire.
argentina declared swatantraaa dauraan the argentine yuddh of Independence, jisase thi followed by the Argentine civil Wars dauraan sabase of the 19th sadi.
the desh faced anek military coups or political asthirataa dauraan the 20th sadi, saath saath aavadhik economic sankat ki continue to is din.
a pahachaanaa dakshini Cone shakti, or madhya power, argentina is latin america 's third-largest economy, saath a `` bahut unchi '' darja on the Human development anukramanika.
bheetar latin america, argentina has the paanchvaan ucchtam nammaatr GDP per capita or the ucchtam in purchasing power sharten.
The Legatum santhaan have argued ki the desh has a `` nyaas liye bhavishya vikaas due to iske market size, str of videshi sidhaa investment, and pratishat of high-tech exports as share of total manufactured goods '', and it is classed by niveshkon as madhya emerging arthvyavastha.
Argentina is the Latin amareeki desh saath the sabase nobel puraskaar, liye a kul of five, sab praapt during the duusari half of the twentieth sadi.
the desh has teen nobel puraskaar in vigyaan and do of salaam.
the sabase mahatvapurn pahaluon of science or praudyogiki in argentina hai concerned saath medicine, nabhikeey bhautikee, jaevpraudyogiki, nanotechnology, spes or rocket praudyogiki and several field sambandhit to the desh 's pramukh Economic kriyaayein.
The country bhi rai the aachman pradarshnee center of vigyaan, technology, udyog or art ki are latin america 's largest.
hickory is a city in catawba County, saath bhaag also in burke County or kaldwell county.
the nagar 's 2010 anumaanit janasankhyikee is 40,010.
hickory is the principal nagar in the Hickory-Lenoir-Morganton emesa, in jisase the janasankhyikee at the 2010 janasankhyikee thi 365,497.
polyethylene terephthalate ( sometimes likhaa poly ( ethylene terephthalate ) ), commonly abbreviated paalatu, peet, or the obsolete petp or pet-p, is a thermoplastic polimur raal of the poliester parivaar or is prayukt in synthetic machhlee ; peya, khaanaa or anya liquid containers ; thermoforming anuprayog ; or abhiyantriki resins praayah in sangyojan with glass resha.
the pad polyethylene terephthalate is a sorce of bhram kuki this padaarth, paalatu, karata nahin contain polyethylene.
Thus, the vaikalpik rup, bahu ( ethilin terephthalate ), is often prayukt in scholarly journals for the khatir of sateekta or spashtataa.
depending on iske prasanskaran or thermal history, polyethylene terephthalate may maujuud both as an amorphous ( transparent ) and as a semi-crystalline polimur.
The semicrystalline saamagree might appear transparent ( kan aakaar < 500 nm ) or apaardarshee and shwet ( kan aakaar up to a few microne ) depending on iske crystal dhaancha or kan aakaar.
Its monomer ( bis-β-hydroxyterephthalate ) can be synthesized by the esterification pratikriya between terephthalic acid or ethylene glykol saath water as a byproduct, or by transesterification pratikriya between ethilin glykol and dimethyl terephthalate saath methanol as a byproduct.
bahulkikaran is through a polycondensation reaction of the monomers ( kiya immediately after esterification/transesterification ) saath jal as the byproduct.
the bahumat of the sansar 's paalatu utpaadan is liye synthetic machhlee ( in excess of 60 % ), with bottle utpaadan hisaab for around 30 % of vaishvik maang.
In the context of vastra anuprayog, paalatu is referred to by iske aam naam, `` poliester, '' whereas the echronim `` paalatu '' is generally prayukt in relation to packaging.
Polyester makes up about 18 % of world polymer utpaadan or is the third-most-produced polymer ; polyethylene ( pe ) or polypropylene ( pp ) are pehla or duusari, kramshah.
PET consists of polymerized ikai of the monomer ethilin terephthalate, saath repeating c10h8o4 units.
paalatu is commonly recycled, or rai the kramank `` 1 '' as iske ricycling symbol.
louisiana thi admitted to the sangh on april 30, 1812, or elects seenetteron to varg 2 or class 3.
Its current senators hai democrate mariyam landrieu or Republican David vitter.
blike kheer, rakt pudding or blood sockes is a prakaar of sausage bana by kooking blood or dried blood saath a philler until it is motaa paryaapt to congeal jab cooled.
The dish exists in vibhinn samskritiyon from asia to europea and the americas.
suar, choupayon, sheep, duck, or goat rakt can be used depending on different countries.
In Europe and the americas, theth fillers shaamil maance, mote, suet, bread, cornmeal, mithi potato, pyaaj, chestnuts, barley, or oatmeal.
in spain, portugal or asia, aalu is often replaced by rice.
shairdharak may refer to:
shairdharak ( corporate ), a vyakti, samooh, sanghathan, sadsy or pranali who affects or can be prabhavit by an organization 's kriyaayein
Stakeholder, an antity ki can be prabhavit by the parinaam of ki in jisase they are said to be hitdharakon, i.e., ki in jisase they have a stake.
Project shairdharak, a person, group or sanghathan with an byaaj in a project
shairdharak theory, a siddhanth that identifies and model the samooh which hai stakeholders of a corporation or project
shairdharak analysis, the process of identifying those prabhavit by a project or event
shairdharak ( law ), a teesraa party jo temporarily holds dhan or property jabaki iske maalik is still hone determined
joker Smight ( kooch 9, 1925 - sitambar 1, 2003 ) was an amareeki theatre or filmi director.
Smight thi born in miniapolis, Minnesota or went to skool saath bhavishya karta peter qabron.
uske filmi credit include The Traveling Executioner, khargosh, Run, meet yugal, midway, harper, Airport 1975, fatkaar alley or the Emmy Award -winning Eddie, as khub as anek episodes of television shrenee aise as the godhuli Zone or the alfred Hitchcock ghanta.
he bhi nirdeshit the 1960 broadway khel the 49th cousin or rachit the music for the film adaption of phenken of thunder sun my krai.
smight died isse karkat in los angeles, california.
dmitri ivanovich mendeleev ( ; 8 farvari 1834 – 2 farvari 1907 o.s. 27 janvari 1834 – 20 janvari 1907 ) thi a roosi chemist and avishkaarak.
he pratipaadit the Periodic vidhi, nirmit uske apana sanskaran of the periodic talika of tatv, or prayukt it to correct the gun of kuch already khoja elements or bhi to predict the gun of tatv yet to be khoja !
Modesto ( spani for `` modest '' ), officially the City of Modesto, is the county seat or largest city of stanislaus county, california, United rajya.
With a janasankhyikee of approximately 201,165 at the 2010 janasankhyikee, Modesto ranks as the 18th largest city in the state of california.
the modesto janasankhyikee county prabhag, jisase shaamil the shaharon of Ceres or riverbank, has a population of 312,842 as of 2010.
modesto is stith in the central ghati kshetrafal of uttari california, 90 mile uttar of fresno, 92 miles east of san francisco, 68 mile south of the rajya capital of Sacramento, 66 mile west of yosemite neshnal park, or 24 mile dakshin of stowton.
modesto, a 29-time ped City USA honoree, is ghiri by samrudh farmland, lending to a ranking for the county as 6th among sab California county in farm utpaadan.
led by milk, almonds, murgiyon, walnuts, or makai silage, the county grossed nearly $ 3.1 arab in agricultural utpaadan in 2011.
Modesto thi immortalized in the 1973 george Lucas filmi amareeki Graffiti.
the puraskaar jeetna film captured the spirit of `` cruising '' or dosti on 10th and 11th Streets in 1962 or led to the punaruddhar of 1950 's nostalgia ki included the TV dikhaaen prasann dinon or the anya spin-offs.
ron harvard, harrison ghat and Richard dreyfuss starred in the film.
the soundtrack was a vishaal kamyaabi.
nideshak George lucas is a deshi of Modesto, graduating isse Downey unchi skool in 1962.
the gallup-healthways Well-Being anukramanika for 2011, which saakshaatkaar 1,000 participants daily or asks individuals to assess unke kaary, finances, shaareerik health, emotional state of mind or samudaayon, kramit modesto 126 out of the 190 shaharon surveyed.
in disambar 2009, Forbes kramit modesto 48th out of 100 among `` behtareen bang-for-the-buck Cities ''.
in this ranking, Modesto kramit 8th in awaas affordability and safar time lakin bhi kramit 86th in job forecast vikaas and 99th in foreclosures.
Independence Day, commonly gyaat as the chauthi of july, is a federal avkaash in the sanyukt States commemorating the apnaanaa of the ghoshnaa of swatantraaa on july 4, 1776, declaring independence isse the kingdom of Great Britain.
swatantraaa din is commonly sambhddha saath aatishbaajee, parades, barbecues, carnivals, melon, picnics, concert, besabaal khel, parivaar reunions, or political speeches or ceremonies, in jod to vibhinn anya public or private events celebrating the itihaas, sarkari, or paramparaon of the sanyukt rajya.
swatantraaa din is the neshnal din of the sanyukt rajya.
A gender symbol denotes the sex of an sajiv or characterizes an agent by gender.
The two standard ling symbols denoting male ♂ and maadaa ♀ hai derived isse astrological symbols, denoting the classical grah mangal or Venus, kramshah.
ye symbols have maharoom in upyog chunki the Renaissance also denoting elements in alchemy, specifically the dhaatuon iron or tambe.
They yahood pehla prayukt to denote the prabhavi ling of paudhe ( i.e. sex of vyaktigat in a die crossbreed, chunki sabase paudhe hai hermaphroditic ) by carolus Linnaeus in 1751.
a leasehold estate is an swaamitv of a asthai sahi to hold jameen or property in jisase a lessee or a kiraayedaar holds adhikaron of real property by some form of sheershak isse a lessor or landlord.
haalanki a kiraayedaar karata tham adhikaron to real property, a leasehold estate is typically mana nijee property.
leasehold is a rup of land kaarykaal or property kaarykaal jahaan one party kharidta the sahi to occupy jameen or a bhawan liye a die length of time.
As patte is a vidhik estate, leasehold estate can be kharida or bechi on the kholen market.
a leasehold yun differs isse a freehold or shulk saral jahaan the swaamitv of a property is kharida outright or thereafter yojit liye an anirdharya lambaai of samay, and also differs isse a tenancy where a property is let ( rented ) on a aavadhik aadhaar aise as saptahik or masik.
jabatak the end of the patte period ( praayah measured in dashakon or sadiyaan ; a 99 saal patte is quite aam ) the leaseholder has the sahi to remain in occupation as an assured kiraayedaar paying an agreed rent to the maalik.
sharten of the anubandh hai contained in a lease, which rai tatv of anubandh or property vidhi intertwined.
the term estate liye saalo may occasionally be prayukt.
is refers to a leasehold estate liye koi vishisht kaal of samay ( the word `` saalo '' is misleading ).
an estate liye saalo is nahin automatically navinikrut.
Colloquially, `` patte '' or `` patte `` are praayah a formalization of a longer, vishisht kaal as compared saath a `` rental '' ki nirmit a tenancy at will, terminable or bedardi at the end of a short period.
Olivia ( bhi gyaat as swaagat to the sansar of the suar olivia ) is a British-American children 's anemated television series utpaadit by media company chorion or aadhaarit on ian falconer 's kitabe.
it is seen on Nick jr. in the us, Milkshake !
, upnaam jr. in the uk or Ireland, or dijani Junior in Latin America or brazil, Treehouse TV in canada.
The dikhaaen has jiti a chaandi abhibhavak ' chunaav puraskaar for iske dhanatmak story lines or varna.
sthaan of panama between prashanth ( neeche ) or caribbean ( sheersh ), saath kanal at sheersh bich
the panama kanal ( ) is a jalayaan canal in Panama ki connects the atlantic Ocean ( via the caribbean Sea ) to the Pacific samandar.
the kanal cuts across the isthmus of panama and is a kunjee conduit liye antarrashtriya meritime vyapaar.
There hai taale at prayek samaapt to lift jahaajon up to gatun jhil ( upar sea-level ).
gatun Lake thi nirmit to reduce the raashi of work required liye the kanal.
The vartmaan taale hai chaudee.
a teesraa, wider len of taale is being nirmit.
frans began work on the kanal in 1881, lakin tha to roke because of abhiyantriki samasyaayein or high mortality due to beemaari.
The sanyukt States ( us ) later took over the project or took a dashak to puraa the kanal in 1914, enabling jahaajon to avoid the lengthy kep sing root around the southernmost tip of dakshin america ( via the Drake Passage ) or to navigate the jalsandhi of magellan.
ek of the largest or sabase difficult abhiyantriki project kabhi undertaken, the Panama kanal shortkat bana it possible liye jahaajon to safar between the atlantic or prashanth mahaasaagar in half the samay previously required.
the shorter, tej, safer route to the us West coast or to raashtra in or saath the prashanth samandar anumat those sthaan to become adhik ekikrut saath the sansar arthvyavastha.
During this samay, swaamitv of the territory that is abhi the panama kanal was first columbian, tab french, or tab amareeki ; the sanyukt States samaapt the nirmaan.
the kanal was liya over in 1999 by the panamanian sarkari, as long planned.
salanaa trekkic has risen from parichay 1,000 jahaajon when the kanal kholi in 1914, to 14,702 baratan in 2008, the latter measuring a kul of 309.6 lakh Panama Canal/Universal Measurement pranali ( pc/ums ) ton.
by 2008, more than 815,000 baratan tha passed through the kanal, anek of them much larger than the asli planners could have envisioned ; the largest jahaajon that can transit the kanal today hai pukaara panamax.
the amareeki samaaj of civil ejiniers rai named the panama Canal ek of the saat chamatkaar of the aadhunik world.
benjamin franklin ( april 17, 1790 ) thi ek of the founding Fathers of the United States.
a noted polymath, franklin thi a agrani lekhak, printer, rajnatik theorist, politician, postmaster, scientist, sangeetkaar, inventor, satirist, naagarik activist, statesman, and rajanyik.
as a vaigyanik, he thi a pramukh figure in the American atmagyaan or the itihaas of bhautikee for uske discoveries and theories regarding electricity.
he invented the lightning lathi, bifocals, the franklin stove, a carriage odometer, and the kaanch 'armonica '.
he facilitated many civic organizations, including a aag vibhaag or a vishvavidhyalayon.
Franklin arjeet the sheershak of `` The pehla amareeki '' liye uske early or indefatigable campaigning liye colonial ekta ; as an lekhak or pravaktaa in landan for several colonies, tab as the first United States doot to frans, he saranchanaaon the emerging American swadesh.
franklin was foundational in dhamak the amareeki ethos as a vivaah of the vyaavhaarik maan of thrift, hard kaary, shiksha, jatiyaan spirit, self-governing institutions, or opposition to authoritarianism dono rajnatik or religious, saath the scientific and tolerant values of the atmagyaan.
in the shabd of itihaaskaar Henry steel commager, `` in a franklin could be milaayaa the virtues of puritanism bagaiyr iske dosha, the illumination of the atmagyaan bagaiyr its ooshmaa. ''
to walter isaacson, this makes franklin `` the most sampannataa amareeki of uske age or the sabase influential in inventing the prakaar of samaaj america hota become. ''
Franklin, sadaa proud of uske working class jaden, became a kaamyaab samachaarpatr editor and mudrak in philadelphia, the leading nagar in the colonies.
he thi bhi saajhedaar saath William Goddard and joseph Galloway the three of jisko published the pencilvenia Chronicle, a samachaarpatr ki thi gyaat for its krantikari sentiments and aalochanaon of the angrejon monarchy in the amareeki colonies.
He became dhanwaan publishing Poor richard 's almanack or the Pennsylvania gajet.
Franklin gained antarrashtriya renown as a scientist liye uske prasiddh prayog in vidyut and for uske anek avishkaron, especially the bijli rod.
He nibhaai a major bhoomika in establishing the vishvavidhyalayon of Pennsylvania and thi nirvaachit the pehla president of the amareeki philosophical samaaj.
franklin became a neshnal nayika in america jab he pathpradarshan the praytn to have parliament repeal the unpopular stamp adhinium.
An sampannataa rajanyik, he thi widely admired among the french as American mantri to paris or was a pramukh figure in the development of dhanatmak franco-american sambandh.
liye many saalo he thi the angrejon postmaster liye the colonies, jisase sakriy use to niyat up the pehla neshnal sanchaar network.
he was kriyasheel in jatiyaan affairs, colonial or rajya raajnneeti, as khub as neshnal or antarrashtriya affairs.
From 1785 to 1788, he parosa as rajyapal of pencilvenia.
toward the samaapt of his jivan, he freed uske slave and became ek of the most prominent abolitionists.
uske rangeen jivan and legacy of vaigyanik or political uplabdhi, or aukaat as ek of america 's sabase influential founding fathers, have dekhi Franklin sammanit on coinage or dhan ; warships ; the names of anek kasbon, county, educational sansthaanon, namesakes, or companiyaan ; or more than do sadiyaan baad uske maut, countless saanskrithik sandarbh.
dand minds is an amareeki police prakriyaatmak television program that premiered September 22, 2005, on sibies.
the series follows a team of profilers isse the epabiai 's behavioral Analysis ikai ( bau ) based in Quantico, virginia.
the BAU is bhaag of the epabiai neshnal Center liye the vishleshan of hinsak aparaadhon.
The dikhaaen differs isse anek prakriyaatmak dramas by focusing on profiling the dand, balki than the aparaadhon itself.
The dikhaaen is utpaadit by the chihnit gordon Company in sangh saath sibies Television studios ( originally sarvopari Network television then CBS Paramount sanjaal television ) or ABC studios ( originally touchstone television ).
sibies ghoshit in October 2009 ki Legacy interactive would develop a video khel aadhaarit on the dikhaaen.
The khel hota require players to examine aparaadhon scenes liye clues to help solve hatya rahasyon.
the interactive paheli game was released in 2012, lakin kiya nahin visheshta koi of the awaazen of the dikhaaen 's cast, nor thi the daal shaamil saath the project.
on kooch 14, 2012, CBS navinikrut dand Minds liye an aathvin season, which premiered on sitambar 26, 2012.
`` Heart-Shaped Box '' is a song by the American grunge band nirvana, likhaa by vocalist or guitarist court cobain.
The song was released as the pehla single from the samooh 's teesraa and final studio album, in utero, in 1993.
it thi ek of do geeton from the album mishrit by scot litt in anukram to augment the asli production by nirmaataa Steve albini.
While Nirvana 's label dgc Records kiya nahin release a physical single liye bikri in the sanyukt rajya, `` heart-shaped Box '' praapt much amareeki radio airplay, reaching number ek on the billboard Modern Rock treks chart.
The antarrashtriya relies of the single pahunche number paanch on the uk singles chart.
the song 's music video, nirdeshit by Anton Corbijn, garnered najuk plaudits.
The kakshiya gati of a deh, generally a grah, a prakritik upgrah, an kritrim upgrah, or a multiple star, is the gati at jisase it orbits around the barycenter of a system, usually around a adhik vishaal deh.
it can be used to refer to either the mean kakshiya gati, the average gati as it completes an kaksha, or instantaneous kakshiya gati, the speed at a particular point in iske kaksha.
the kakshiya speed at koi position in the kaksha can be computed isse the alahada to the central body at ki sthiti, or the specific orbital energy, jisase is swatantra of position : the kinetic urja is the kul urja minus the sambhavit urja.
bhura rajmahal Interior or alind
bhura Palace Hotel is the second-oldest oparating hotel in denwar, colorado or is ek of the pehla atrium-style hotel kabhi nirmit.
it is abhi operated by Quorum hotel or resort.
it thi nirmit in 1892, ek year later than the oxford Hotel.
It thi named liye its asli maalik, henry C. bhura, or thi designed with iske odd triangular shape by vaastu frank edbrooke.
the hotel is located at 321 17th St, denwar, co between 17th gali, Broadway and tremont Street/Pl in shahar denwar behind the ganatantr plaza.
The pramukh pravesh dwaar is on tremont gali.
DVD-Video is a consumer video swaroop used to store digital video on dvd discs, or is philhal the prabal upabhokta video swaroop in Asia, uttar america, europea, or australia.
Discs using the dvd-video specification require a dvd drive or an h.262/mpeg-2 bhaag 2 dicoder ( e.g., a dvd player, or a computer DVD drive saath a tantra dvd khilaadi ).
Commercial dvd movies hai encoded using a sangyojan of h.262/mpeg-2 bhaag 2 sampidit video or audio of varying swarup ( often multi-channel swarup as varnit neeche ).
Typically, the aankada rate liye DVD filmon seemayen from 3 mbit/s to 9.5 mbit/s, or the bit rate is praayah anukuli.
It thi first uplabdhiyaan liye khudara around 1997.
the dvd-video specification thi nirmit by dvd Forum or can be praapt from dvd format/logo licencing Corporation liye a shulk of $ 5,000.
the specification is nahin publicly uplabdhiyaan, kuki prayek subscriber jarur chihn a non-disclosure agreement.
Certain information in the dvd kitaab is malikana or gopneey.
the nautical mile ( symbol M, NM or nmi ) is a ikai of lambaai that is parichay ek minute of arc of akshansh measured saath koi madhyahn, or parichay one minute of arc of deshaantar at the equator.
by antarrashtriya agreement it rai maharoom set at 1,852 metres exactly ( parichay 6,076 feet ).
It is a non- si ikai ( haalanki sweekrut for use in the International pranali of ikai by the BIPM ) prayukt visheshkar by navigators in the shipping or vimaanan industries, and bhi in dhruviya exploration.
it is commonly prayukt in antarrashtriya vidhi or treaties, visheshkar regarding the had of territorial waters.
it developed from the samudr mile and the related geographical mile.
The nautical mile remains in upyog by sea or air navigators vishwavyaapee kuki of iske convenience when working with charts.
Most nautical chart upyog the mercator prakshep whose scale varies by parichay a factor of six from the equator to 80° latitude, so charts covering large kshetron can not upyog a single raikhik scale.
the nautical mile is nearly baraabar to a minute of akshansh on a chart, so a distance measured saath a chart divider can be roughly parivartit to nautical mile using the chart 's akshansh scale.
Shippensburg is a baro in kambarland and franklin counties in the u.S. rajya of pencilvenia.
settled in 1730, Shippensburg jhooth in the kambarland ghati, 41 mile ( 66 km ) west-southwest of harrisburg, or is part of the harrisburg– carlisle Metropolitan sankhyikeey kshetrafal.
in 1900, 3,228 logon lived there ; in 1910, 3,457 ; or in 1940, 5,244 logon jiya vahin.
the janasankhyikee was 5,492 at the 2010 census.
shippensburg was incorporated as a baro on janvari 21, 1819.
In the past, vahin yahood furniture factories, ingine and pump works, or anya industrial works stith bheetar the kasbaa.
Shippensburg is bhi the ghar of the beistle Company, the oldest or largest manufacturer of decorations or party goods, which bikta its distinctive madhukosh paper sajaavat worldwide.
it is bhi the sthaan of Pague and Fegan, the oldest lagaataar sanchalit hardware store in Pennsylvania.
in May 2012, volvo nirmaan upkaran began a $ 100 lakh expansion project to lao iske amareeki headquarters to shippensburg.
shippensburg is also ghar to shippensburg vishvavidhyalayon of pencilvenia, ek of 14 vishvavidhyalayon of the Pennsylvania State pranali of Higher shiksha.
vaarshik the pichhlaa puraa saptaah of july, the shippensburg jatiyaan mela is yojit.
begun in 1958, the mela bills itself as Pennsylvania 's largest bi-county mela.
the mela shaamil agricultural exhibits, a craft show, khaanaa vikreta, or carnival rides amongst anya bate.
prayek garmiyaan on the last Saturday of agast, shippensburg holds the makai Festival, an event ki brings regional shilpkaar and vendors to operate stand shahar.
The shahar is band to trekkic liye at least 5 block liye sabase of the din.
ausat upasthiti at the parv is anumaanit at 60,000 - 70,000 each year.
blike baldaar jeebh ( bht, bhi termed lingua villosa nigra ) refers to a condition of the jeebh jahaan the filiform papillae elongate saath blike or bhura discoloration, giving a blike or baldaar rup.
the appearance may be alarming, lakin it is a hanirahit condition.
predisposing karkon shaamil smoking, xerostomia ( shushk munh ), soft diet, garib maukhik hygiene and nishchit medications.
prabandhan is by improving oral hygiene, visheshkar scraping or brushing the jeebh.
the iiqui 1394 interfes is a serial bas interface maanak liye high-speed sanchaar or isochronous real-time data transafar.
It thi viksit in the let 1980s or jaldi 1990s by tehraana, jo called it FireWire.
The 1394 interface is comparable to usb, or praayah those do technologies hai mana saath, haalanki USB rai more market share.
Apple pehla shaamil firewire in kuch of iske 1999 model, or sabase Apple computer chunki the saal 2000 have included firewire port, haalanki, as of 2013, nothing pare the 800 sanskaran ( ieee-1394b ).
The interfes is also known by the brands i.link ( soni ), and links ( texas yantra ).
IEEE 1394 replaced samanaantar scsi in anek anuprayog, kuki of nimnatar implementation laagat or a sarlikrut, more adaptable cabling pranali.
the 1394 maanak also defines a backplane interfes, haalanki is is nahin as widely prayukt.
iiqui 1394 is the High-Definition audio-video sanjaal Alliance ( haana ) standard conection interfes for a/v ( audio/visual ) component sanchaar and control.
firewire is bhi uplabdhiyaan in betaar, resha optic, or samakshiya sanskaran using the isochronous protocols.
stephen `` steewi '' Ray vaughan ( aktubar 3, 1954 – agast 27, 1990 ) was an amareeki guitarist, singer-songwriter, and record nirmaataa.
praayah referred to by uske initials SRV, vaughan is best gyaat as a founding sadsy and netaa of doguna trubal.
saath saath drummer kris Layton and bassist tommy Shannon, they ignited the bluez revival of the 1980s.
saath a kariyar spanning saat saalo, Vaughan or doguna trubal consistently sold out concert jabaki their albums frequently went gold.
he thi born or uthaaya in dalas, texas, or liye a choti period of samay jiya in graham, texas.
as the younger bhai of jimmie vaughan, vaughan prarambh playing the guitar at aayu saat and formed several bands ki occasionally performed in local nightclubs.
at age 17, he dropped out of unchi school or moved to austin to further pursue uske musical career, joining samooh such as krackerjack, the nightcrawlers, or the Cobras.
in 1977, he formed tripal threat Revue, a band ki aakhirkaar viksit into doguna trubal and regularly performed around Austin.
in 1982, vaughan or doguna trubal performed at the montreux Jazz Festival in switzaraland, catching the dhyaan of sangeetkaaron daud bovi or Jackson browne.
bovi poocha vaughan to khel on his aagaamee studio album Let 's nrity, jabaki Browne offered the band free use of uske nijee studio in los angeles to ricard an album.
in kooch 1983, vaughan or Double Trouble yahood hastakshrit to apik record by diggaj ricard nirmaataa jon hamend sr. or released unke debyue album, texas baadh in June of ki saal.
baad successful touring, the samooh released the album, Could n't stand the Weather ( 1984 ) or aatma to aatma ( 1985 ), the latter of which pradarshit nai keyboardist reez wynans.
Although his kariyar tha progressed safaltaapurvak, vaughan checked into a punarvaas hospital in Atlanta, Georgia to de up a cocaine and daaru aadat or laute to touring saath the band.
in June 1989, in kadam was released and arjeet unhen a grami puraskaar for Best samakaleen Blues pradarshan.
on agast 27, 1990, vaughan thi killed in a helicopter crash following a pradarshan in east troy, visconsin.
vaughan 's uniquely eclectic yet teevr style thi derived isse a kismein of musical jati.
he was bahekaave by bluez musicians including Albert king, fredy king, Otis Rush, or muddy Waters, or rock guitarists aise as Jimi hendrix and lonnie mack.
His guitar playing reflected the clasik blues or pentatonic scales.
he rai praapt wide najuk recognition liye uske guitar playing, ranking at # 6 on rolling Stones suchi of `` 100 mahanatam guitarists '' in 2011.
he was maranoparant inducted into the Blues Hall of kirti in 2000 or a memorial pratimaa thi erected in austin 's auditorium shores park.
steewi re vaughan is widely mana to be ek of the greatest sangeetkaaron to aaiye from the state of Texas.
gige redirects yahan.
For the camera protocol, dekhie gige drushti.
in computer networking, gigabit ethernet ( gbe or 1 gige ) is a term describing vibhinn technologies liye transmitting ethernet frames at a rate of a gigabit prati second ( 1,000,000,000 bits per duusari ), as defined by the iiqui 802.3-2008 standard.
It came into upyog shuruuaat in 1999, dhire supplanting Fast Ethernet in taar local sanjaal, jahaan it performed considerably tej.
the cabel or equipment hai bahut samaan to pichhlaa maanakon and yahood very aam or kifayati by 2010.
Half-duplex gigabit kadi conect through hubs are anumat by the specification, but full-duplex upyog saath switches is much adhik aam.
Intel PRO/1000 gt pisiai sanjaal interfes card
the pramukh components of a stamp:
1. Image
2. perforations
3. denomination
4. Country naam
a postage stamp is a choti piece of paper ki is kharida or pradarshit on an mad of mail as pramaan of bhugtan of postage.
typically, stamps hai bana isse khaas paper, saath a neshnal namakan or denomination ( daam ) on the phase, or a gum chipakane on the reverse side.
Postage stamps are kharida isse a dak administration or other praadhikrut vendor or hai prayukt to adaa liye the laagat shaamil in chalati mail as khub as anya kaarobaar necessities aise as insurance and panjikaran.
The stamp’s aakaar is praayah that of a choti rectangle of varying proportions, haalanki trikon or anya shapes hai occasionally prayukt.
The stamp is affixed to an lipapha or other postal cover ( i.e., packet, baksaa, mailing belan ) ki the graahak badhaaiyaan to bhejein.
the mad is then processed by the postal pranali, jahaan a postmark, sometimes gyaat as a raddikaran mark, is praayah lagu over the stamp and cover ; is kaarividhi marks the stamp as prayukt, jisase roktaa its reuse.
The postmark indicates the tithi or point of utpatti of the mailing.
the mailed mad is tab delivered to the pataa that the graahak rai applied to the lipapha or cover.
postage stamps have facilitated the delivery of mail since the 1840s.
Before this samay, syaahi or hand-stamps ( hence the shabd 'stamp ' ), praayah bana isse lakdi or cork, yahood praayah prayukt to frank the mail or confirm the payment of postage.
the pehla adhesive postage stamp, commonly referred to as the paini blike, thi jari in the sanyukt kingdom in 1840.
the invention of the stamp thi a bhaag of the attempt to sudhaar or improve the dak pranali in the United kingdom of Great britain or Ireland, jisase in the jaldi 19th sadi thi in disarray and rife with bhrashtachar.
There hai varying khate of the inventor or avishkaarak of the stamp.
pehle the introduction of postage stamps, mail in the uk thi sashulk liye by the praptakarta, a pranali that was sambhddha saath an irresolvable problem : the costs of delivering mail yahood not recoverable by the dak seva jab recipients yahood unable or unwilling to pay for vitarit vasteen, or senders tha no incentive to simit the kramank, aakaar, or vazan of vasteen bheja, whether or not ve would ultimately be sashulk for.
the postage stamp resolved is samasya in a saral and elegant manner, with the atirikt laabh of room liye an tatv of saundarya to be introduced.
baad sambandhit avishkaron shaamil dak steshnari aise as prepaid-postage envelopes, post taash, lettercards, aerogrammes or wrappers, postage meter, or, adhik recently, specialty baks or lipaphe provided free to the customer by the U.S. dak seva liye pradhanta or express mailing.
The postage stamp afforded convenience for dono the mailer or dak officials, adhik efficiently recovered laagat for the postal service, or ultimately resulted in a behatar, tej dak system.
saath the conveniences stamps offered, unke use resulted in greatly increased mailings dauraan the 19th and 20th centuries.
Postage stamps dauraan this era yahood the sabase lokapriy rasta of paying liye mail, but by the end of the 20th sadi were rapidly hone aat by the use of metered postage or balk mailing by vyavsaayon. )
the vahi parinaam saath respect to sanchaar by private parties occurred over the pichhlaa dashak of the 20th century and the first decade of the 21st due to ghatati laagat of long distance telephone communications or the development and visphotak spread of electronic mailing ( `` e-mail '' via the antarjaal ) and vidheyak paying systems had.
As postage stamps saath unke engraved imagery began to appear on a faili aadhaar, itihaaskaaron and collectors began to lo notice.
The study of postage stamps or unke upyog is referred to as philately.
stamp collecting can be dono a shauk and a rup of aitihaasik study and reference, as government-issued postage stamps or unke mailing pranaaliyon have always maharoom involved saath the itihaas of nations.
the University of albama at birmingham ( UAB ) is a public vishvavidhyalayon in birmingham in the u.S. rajya of Alabama.
vikasshil isse an ekstansion bich sthapit in 1936, the sanstha became an autonomous institution in 1969 or is aaj ek of teen sansthaanon in the vishvavidhyalayon of Alabama pranali.
UAB offers over 140 kaarykram of padhai in 12 academik vibhaajan agrani to snaatak 's, nipun 's, doctoral, and peshewar degree in the soshal and behavioral sciences, the udaar kala, kaarobaar, shiksha, abhiyantriki, or health-related field aise as ayurvigyaan, dentistry, optometry, nursing, or public swasthya.
the skool is atyadhik prasiddh liye iske medical research or prakritik sciences kaarykram.
the uab swasthya pranali, ek of the largest academic chikitsa centers in the sanyukt rajya, is affiliated saath the vishvavidhyalayon.
uab hospital sponsors residency kaarykram in vibhinn chikitsa specialties, sahit aatanrik ayurvigyaan, neurology, surgery, radiology, and anesthesiology.
uab hospital is the only acs verified str i aghat bich in albama, as rated by the American college of adhyetavriti aghat kaarykram.
UAB is the rajya 's largest employer, saath more than 18,000 sankaay or staff and over 53,000 kaary at the vishvavidhyalayon or in the swasthya pranali.
an anumaanit 10 pratishat of the kaary in the birmingham-hoover Metropolitan kshetrafal and 1 in 33 kaary in the rajya of albama hai directly or indirectly related to uab.
The vishvavidhyalayon 's overall salanaa aarthik impact thi anumaanit to be $ 4.6 billion in 2010.
in the patan of 2012, the vishvavidhyalayon of albama at birmingham enrolled 17,999 vidhyaarthee from adhik than 110 deshon, including 1,605 freshmen.
vahin hai yojanaayen to commence saath an `` aakraamak '' vikaas in namakan at uab.
the current uab adhyaksh is dr. re L. watts.
Tofu, also called saim curd, is a khaanaa bana by coagulating soya ras or then pressing the resulting curds into naram white block.
It is a ghatak in many East asian or southeast Asian vyanjan.
vahin are many alag kismein of tofu, sahit bhais tofu or tofu ki rai maharoom processed in kuch rasta.
tofu rai a halkaa swaad and can be prayukt in savory or mithi dishes.
it is praayah seasoned or marinated to suut the dish.
tofu originated in pracheen China kuch 2,000 years pehle.
Chinese legend ascribes iske avishkaar to prince liyu An ( chinis : 劉安 liú ān, 179–122 BC ).
tofu and iske utpaadan technique yahood introduced into korian and tab japani during the Nara period.
it sprad into anya parts of east Asia as well.
is sprad sambhavit coincided saath the spread of buddhism kuki it is an mahatvapurn sorce of protein in the shaakaahaari diet of east asian buddhism.
Li shizhen in the Ming Dynasty varnit a method of bananaa tofu in Bencao Gangmu.
tofu rai a kam calorie ginati, apekshaakrit large amounts of protein, or little fat.
It is unchi in aayran or depending on the coagulant used in nirmaan, may bhi be unchi in calcium and/or magnesium.
Bubbles ( born 1983 ) is a common chimpanji, gyaat liye hone the one-time pet of amareeki recording kalakaar maaikel Jackson, jo bought the primate from a texas research suvidha in the jaldi 1980s.
the animal thi a frequent safar companion to the singer, whose anulgnak to the animal led to media mockery or, among anya karkon, to a public bodh of Jackson as an eccentric.
dauraan the karaab sansar daure, liye example, jackson brought bulbule saath use to japani, jahaan ve dono drank chaay saath the mahayor of Osaka.
bulbule was initially rakhaa at the Jackson parivaar 's home in encino, los angeles, lakin was moved to neverland ranch in 1988.
There, he slept in a crib in jackson 's bedroom, used the singer 's prashaadhan, and ate candy in the neverland film theatre.
In 2003 the public siikhe ki, jaise sab captive chimpanzees, Bubbles tha matured into a vishaal or aakraamak vayask chimp unsuitable as a saathi animal.
he thi bheja to a California animal prashikshak, where he thi reported to have attempted aatmahatya.
jab the prashikshak shut down uske aaparishan in 2004, bulbule thi moved to the bich for great apes, a abhayaarany in wauchula, Florida, jahaan he rai jiya since 2005.
chintan hai an English chattan band isse teignmouth, devon, jisase formed in 1994.
the band consists of skool mitron mathew bellamy ( sise vocals, lead guitar, piano, keyboards, keytar ), christopher wolstenholme ( baas, vocals, keyboards, rhythm guitar, hormonica ) or dominic harvard ( drums, percussion, synthesisers, sampling ).
chunki the relies of unke 2006 album blike chhed or khulaase, keyboardist or percussionist Morgan Nicholls rai performed sajiv saath the band.
Muse hai gyaat liye unke urjavan and extravagant sajiv performances or unke sanlayan of anek music jati, including spes chattan, pragatisheel chattan, vaikalpik chattan, baari metal, shastreey music and electronica.
Muse have released chah studio albums : Showbiz ( 1999 ), utpatti of Symmetry ( 2001 ), absolution ( 2003 ), Black chhed or Revelations ( 2006 ), the Resistance ( 2009 ) or the 2nd vidhi ( 2012 ).
ve have bhi jari teen sajiv album, hullabaloo soundtrack ( 2002 ), jisase is also a sankalan of B-sides, absolution daure ( 2005 ), and haarp ( 2008 ), jisase dastauez the band 's pradarshan at Wembley stadium in 2007.
blike chhed or khulaase earned the band a Mercury Prize namakan or a third place samaapt in the NME album of the saal list for 2006.
Muse have bhi won a collection of music puraskaar throughout unke itihaas, sahit paanch amtivi europea music puraskaar, chah q puraskaar, aath nme puraskaar, do brit puraskaar —winning `` behtareen British sajiv Act '' twice, an amtivi Video Music puraskaar, four kerrang !
Awards or an amareeki music Award.
ve were bhi manonith for paanch Grammy puraskaar, of which they won behtareen chattan album, for their paanchvaan studio album the pratirodh ( 2009 ).
chintan have bechi over 15 lakh album vishwavyaapee.
bloemfontein (, ; Dutch liye `` fountain of pushp '' ) is the capital nagar of the free State praant of dakshin africa ; or, as the nyaayik capital of the swadesh, ek of South africa 's teen neshnal capitals – the other do hone kep kasbaa, the vidhaan puunji, or peshkashon, the prashasnic puunji.
Bloemfontein is popularly or poetically gyaat as `` the nagar of gulab ``, owing to the abundance of ye pushp or the salanaa rose parv held there.
the nagar 's sesotho name is Mangaung, meaning `` place of cheetahs `` and it rai maharoom shaamil in the mangaung local nagarpalika chunki 2000.
Bloemfontein is situated on shushk ghasbhumi at, at an altitude of upar sea str.
the nagar is ghar to 369,568 nivaasiyon, jabaki the mangaung Local nagarpalika rai a janasankhyikee of 645,455.
jahaan do we aaiye isse ?
What hai we ?
jahaan Are We going ?
ek of post-impressionist paul gauguin 's most prasiddh paintings.
The meaning of life is a philosophical sawaal concerning the significance of life or existence in saamaanya.
it can bhi be expressed in alag form, such as `` kyon hai we yahan ? ``, `` kayaa is jivan sab parichay ? ``, or `` kayaa is the purpose of astitv ? ''
it rai been the vishay of much philosophical, scientific, and theological atakalein throughout itihaas.
There have maharoom a vishaal kramank of prastaavit jawaab to ye sawaal isse anek alag cultural or vaicharik prishthbhumi.
the arth of jivan is in the philosophical and religious conceptions of astitv, social ties, chetana, or sukh, and borders on anek anya mudde, aise as symbolic arth, ontology, maan, purpose, ethics, shubh or dusht, free hoga, the astitv of ek or anek Gods, conceptions of parameshwar, the aatma, or the afterlife.
vaigyanik contributions focus primarily on describing related anubhavjanya tathy parichay the brahmad, exploring the context and parameters concerning the 'how ' of jivan.
vigyaan bhi adhyayan or can provide recommendations liye the pursuit of well-being or a sambandhit dharna of naitikta.
an vaikalpik, humanistic drushtikon mudraayen the sawaal `` kayaa is the arth of my jivan ? ''
the value of the question pertaining to the purpose of jivan may coincide with the uplabdhi of param vaastaviktaa, or a ahsaas of oneness, or bhi a feeling of sacredness.
parivaar guy nirmaataa Seth MacFarlane also provides the awaazen of peter Griffin, stewie griffin, Brian Griffin, and glen Quagmire.
parivaar guy is an amareeki animated sitcom ki features paanch pramukh awaz abhinaytaon, and numerous niyamit daal or recurring atithi sitaron.
The principal awaz daal consists of dikhaaen nirmaataa seth MacFarlane, elex borstein, seth green, mila kunis ( who replaced Lacey chabert after the pehla season ) and Mike henry or now, the nai actor beau Osborne.
punaravarti voice abhinaytaon include Patrick Warburton, aadam west, jon G. Brennan, nichol suliwan or jenifer tilly, or repeat atithi sitaron shaamil philis diller, Charles Durning, Rush limbaugh, or Phil lamarr.
anek cast sadasyon provide awaazen for multiple characters.
the awaz actors, in portraying the vibhinn character personalities on the show, chithran prerana from hastiyaan or pop samskruti.
parivaar guy varna have maharoom nibhaai by adhik than ek karta, baad members of the dikhaaen left the shrenee or tha conflicting dayitvon.
Kunis was manonith for an Annie puraskaar liye voicing meg griffin in the ritu 5 apisod `` mushkil vidhik `` and macfarlane rai bhi jiti an Emmy puraskaar liye bakaayaa voice-over pradarshan or an ani Award liye Best Voice acting in an Animated television utpaadan, though no anya daal sadsy rai jiti an award liye their work on the shrenee.
1911 Illustration by edmund dulac
`` The Princess or the matar '' ( ; shabdic anuwaad : `` the rajkumaari on the matar '' ) is a saahitiyik pari tail by Hans Christian andersen parichay a yang stri whose royal pahchaan is established by a test of uske physical sensitivity.
the tale was first prakashit saath teen others by andersen in an inexpensive pustika on 8 May 1835 in copenhegan by C.A. Reitzel.
andersen tha suna the story as a child, or it sambhavit rai iske sorce in lok material, possibly originating isse Sweden as it is unknown in the danish maukhik parampara.
Neither `` the rajkumaari and the matar '' nor andersen 's anya kisse of 1835 yahood well received by danish critics, jo disliked unke casual, chatty style, or unke lack of naitikta.
in 1959 `` the rajkumaari or the matar '' thi adapted to the musical stage in a utpaadan pukaara ekbar upon a gadda abhinit Carol burnett.
German Americans ( ) are nagarikon of the United rajya who yahood either born in germany or hai of German ancestry.
ve comprise about 50 lakh logon, bananaa unhen the largest ancestry samooh ahead of Irish america, africa america or English Americans.
ve comprise about 1/3 of the germany diaspora sab over the sansar.
none of the German states tha nai sansar colonies.
Not until the 1670s did the pehla significant samooh of germany apravasiyon arrive in the angrejon colonies, settling primarily in nai York and pencilvenia.
avrajan jari in bahut vishaal sankhyaayein dauraan the 19th sadi, saath kuch aath lakh aamad isse germany.
ve yahood khinchaa by the attractions of land or dharmik swatantraaa, or pushed out of europea by shortages of land or dharmik or rajnatik oppression.
anek arrived seeking dharmik or political swatantraaa, anya for aarthik opportunities vrihad than those in europea, and others simply liye the mauka to prarambh bhais in the nai sansar.
The arrivals before 1850 yahood zyaadaatar kisaano who sought out the sabase productive jameen, jahaan unke intensive kheti techniques hota adaa off.
baad 1840, many aae to shaharon, jahaan `` germania '' —german-speaking districts—soon ubhara.
germany america sthapit the pehla kindergartens in the sanyukt rajya, introduced the christmas tree parampara, or originated lokapriy amareeki foods such as hot dogs or hamburgers.
germany amareeki celebrations hai held throughout the country, ek of the most well-known hone the german-american Steuben parade in New York City, held prayek third shanivaar in sitambar.
vahin hai also pramukh annual kaarykram in chicago, sinsinati, milvowki, pittsburg, st. lui or other shaharon.
jaise anek other immigrants that aae to the sanyukt rajya, an overwhelming kramank of people of germany or aanshik germany descent have essentially become americanized.
The prastaavna to the sanyukt States samvidhan is a bread parichayatmak bayaan of the samvidhan 's aadharbhoot uddeshy or guiding principles.
it states in saamaanya sharten, or nyaayalayon have referred to it as reliable pramaan of, the Founding Fathers ' iraadon regarding the samvidhan 's meaning and kayaa ve hoped the Constitution would achieve as it pertains to sab of the logon of the sanyukt rajya.
As the phrase, `` we the logon '' suggests that the new sarkari originates isse the logon of the sanyukt States or it set into gati a question as it pertains to that vast janasankhyikee concerning the vyaktigat rights or samta among all logon ; is can be dekhi sabase broadly in the divide between republicanism or social loktantr.
the itihaas of the antarjaal began saath the development of electronic computer in the 1950s.
The public thi pehla introduced to the avadharanaon ki hota lead to the antarjaal when a sandesh thi sent over the arpanet isse computer vigyaan praadhyaapak leonard kleinrock 's prayogshaala at vishvavidhyalayon of california, los Angeles ( UCLA ), baad the second tukdaa of sanjaal upkaran thi santhaapit at stenford shodh santhaan ( SRI ).
packet switched sanjaal aise as arpanet, Mark i at npl in the uk, cyclades, merit Network, tymnet, or telenet, were viksit in the let 1960s and jaldi 1970s using a kismein of protocol.
The arpanet in particular led to the development of protocol liye internetworking, in which anek separate sanjaal could be joined saath into a sanjaal of sanjaal.
In 1982, the antarjaal protocol suite ( tcp/ip ) thi standardized, or natijatan, the avadharana of a world-wide sanjaal of interconnected tcp/ip networks, called the antarjaal, was introduced.
abhigam to the ARPANET thi vistaarit in 1981 when the National vigyaan nyaas ( nsf ) developed the computer vigyaan sanjaal ( CSNET ) and again in 1986 when nsfnet provided abhigam to supercomputer site in the sanyukt rajya isse research or education sanghathan.
vanijyik Internet seva pradaataaon ( isps ) began to emerge in the late 1980s or jaldi 1990s.
The arpanet was decommissioned in 1990.
The antarjaal thi commercialized in 1995 jab NSFNET thi decommissioned, nikaalnaa the pichhlaa restrictions on the use of the antarjaal to carry vanijyik trekkic.
Since the mid-1990s, the antarjaal rai tha a krantikari prabhaav on samskruti and commers, including the vruddhi of near-instant sanchaar by electronic mail, tatkaal messaging, Voice over antarjaal protocol ( voip ) `` phone calls '', two-way interactive video calls, or the sansar chaudee web with iske charchaa forums, blog, soshal netwarking, or online kharidari site.
the shodh or shiksha jatiyaan continues to develop or upyog unnat networks such as NSF 's bahut unchi gati ridh sanjaal seva ( vbns ), internet2, or National LambdaRail.
increasing amounts of aankada are transmitted at ucchtar or ucchtar speeds over resha optic sanjaal oparating at 1-gbit/s, 10-gbit/s, or more.
the antarjaal 's takeover over the vaishvik sanchaar landscape thi almost tatkaal in aitihaasik sharten : it only communicated 1 % of the soochna bahati through two-way doorsanchaar networks in the saal 1993, already 51 % by 2000, or adhik than 97 % of the telecommunicated soochna by 2007.
aaj the Internet continues to grow, chalit by ever vrihad amounts of online soochna, commers, entertainment, and soshal netwarking.
dakshinpaschim airlines Co. ( ) is a major U.S. airline or the sansar 's largest low-cost carrier, headquartered in Dallas, texas.
It was established in 1967 and adopted iske vartmaan naam in 1971.
the airline rai adhik than 46,000 employees and operates more than 3,400 flite prati din.
as of June 5, 2011, it carries the sabase domestic yatri of koi u.S. airline.
as of April 2013, Southwest airlines rai scheduled seva to 84 gantavyon in 41 states or purto rico.
dakshinpaschim Airlines rai solely sanchalit bowing 737s, magar for a few saalo in the 1970s or 1980s, jab it operated Boeing 727s.
as of agast 2012, dakshinpaschim is the largest oparator of the 737 worldwide with over 550 in seva, prayek operating an ausat of chah flite per din.
in may 2011, the airline acquired AirTran Airways, saath integration of the vaahak apekshit to be puraa by 2014.
on kooch 1, 2012, the company was jari a single operating certificate, technically banane ek airline.
rolling Rock is a 4.6 % abv paale lager launched in 1939 by the latrobe brewing company.
haalanki santhaapit as a local beer in pashchimi Pennsylvania, it was marketed aggressively or aakhirkaar became a neshnal utpaada.
The brand thi bechi to anheuser-busch of st. lui, mizori, in mid 2006, jisase transferred brewing parichaalan to nai Jersey.
Benedict XVI (,, ; born joseph aloisius ratzinger on 16 april 1927 ) is Pope emeritus of the catholic girijaghar.
he served as Pope isse 2005 to 2013.
In that sthiti, he was dono the netaa of the Catholic girijaghar and Sovereign of the vatican nagar rajya.
Benedict was nirvaachit on 19 April 2005 in a papal conclave, celebrated uske papal udghaatan dravyaman on 24 april 2005, or took kabza of his girjaghar, the Archbasilica of St. jon lateran, on 7 May 2005.
ordained as a priest in 1951 in uske deshi Bavaria, ratzinger sthapit khud as a highly regarded university theologian by the let 1950s and thi niyukt a puraa praadhyaapak in 1958.
After a long kariyar as an academik, sevarat as a professor of dharamshastra at anek germany universities—the pichhlaa hone the vishvavidhyalayon of regensburg, jahaan he served as vaais adhyaksh of the vishvavidhyalayon in 1976 or 1977—he thi appointed archbishop of munich or freising or cardinal by pope paul vi in 1977, an asaamaanya pramotion liye kisi saath choti lubhaavne anubhav.
in 1981, he settled in rome jab he became prefect of the sabha liye the doctrine of the aasthaa, ek of the sabase important dicasteries of the roman Curia.
From 2002 until his chunaav as pope, he was bhi dean of the college of cardinals, or as aise, the primus inter pares among the cardinals.
prior to banane pope, he thi `` a pramukh figure on the vatican stage liye a quarter of a century '' as `` one of the sabase respected, influential or vivaadaaspad sadasyon of the college of Cardinals '' ; he tha an influence `` duusari to none jab it came to setting girijaghar priorities or directions '' as one of pope jon paul II 's closest confidants.
he thi originally a udaar theologian, but apanaaya conservative drishy baad 1968.
His safal kritiyaan bachaav paramparaagat Catholic doctrine and maan.
dauraan his papacy, benedict XVI advocated a vaapasi to aadharbhoot Christian maan to counter the increased secularisation of many pashchimi countries.
he views relativism 's denial of objective sachai, or the denial of moral sachai in particular, as the central problem of the 21st sadi.
he sikhaaya the mahatv of both the catholic girijaghar or an samajhnaa of parameshwar 's redemptive love.
pope benedict bhi revived a kramank of paramparaon including elevating the tridentine dravyaman to a adhik prominent sthiti.
he navinikrut the relationship between the Catholic Church or art, dekhne the upyog of saundarya as a path to the sacred, prachaarit the upyog of latin, or reintroduced paramparaagat papal garments, liye jisase reason he thi pukaara `` the pope of aesthetics ''.
He rai maharoom described as `` the pramukh bauddhik force in the girijaghar '' chunki the mid-1980s.
Several of pope benedict 's students isse uske academik kariyar hai bhi prominent churchmen aaj and confidantes of use, notably christoff schönborn.
on 11 farvari 2013, Pope benedict ghoshit uske istipha in a speech in Latin pehle the cardinals, citing a `` lack of strength of dimag and deh '' due to uske advanced aayu.
uske istipha became prabhavi on 28 February 2013.
he is the pehla pope to resign since Pope Gregory barahavin in 1415, or the pehla to do so on uske apana pahal chunki pope celestine v in 1294.
as pope emeritus, benedict retains the style of His pavitrataa, or the sheershak of pope, or hoga continue to dress in the papal rang of shwet.
he thi succeeded by pope Francis on 13 kooch 2013, or he sthanantarit into the newly sanvar Mater ecclesiae math for his retirement on 2 may 2013..
jeb stereoscope saath asli test chitra.
prayukt by sainya to jaanchen stereoscopic pairs of aerial chayachitr.
drishy of Boston, c. 1860 ; an early stereoscopic card for viewing a jhaanki from prakruti
Kaiser-Panorama consisted of a multi-station dekhne apparatus or set of stereo slide.
patented by A. fuhrmann around 1890.
company of ladies watching stereoscopic photographs, painting by yaaqub spoel, pehle 1868.
A very jaldi chithran of logon using a stereoscope.
stereoscopy ( also pukaara stereoscopics or 3D imaging ) is a technique liye bananaa or enhancing the bhram of depth in an chitra by arthath of stereopsis liye binocular drushti.
the shabd stereoscopy garbhashayi isse the unani `` στερεός '' ( stereos ), `` kad, thos '' + `` σκοπέω '' ( skopeō ), `` to dekh '', `` to see ''.
sabase stereoscopic methods upasthit two ofaset images separately to the baayein or sahi najar of the darshak.
These two-dimensional bimb hai tab combined in the dimag to give the bodh of 3d gaharaai.
This takanic is distinguished isse 3d displays ki pradarshak an chitra in teen full dimensions, allowing the nireekshak to badhayen soochna parichay the 3-dimensional vastuen hone pradarshit by sir or najar andolanon.
jon adams ( aktubar 30, 1735 ( o.s. October 19, 1735 ) – july 4, 1826 ) was the duusari president of the sanyukt States ( 1797–1801 ), having pehle parosa as the first vice president of the sanyukt rajya.
an amareeki Founding pita, he was a statesman, diplomat, or a agrani edwocket of amareeki swatantraaa from great britain.
Well shikshit, he thi an atmagyaan political theorist jo prachaarit republicanism or likhaa prolifically parichay uske often seminal ideas, both in prakashit works and in letters to uske bivi and key adviser abigale as khub as to anya founding fathers.
adams aae to prominence in the early stages of the amareeki Revolution.
A lawyer or public figure in boston, as a pratinidhi isse Massachusetts to the mahadwipiya congress, he nibhaai a agrani bhoomika in persuading Congress to ghoshit swatantraaa.
he assisted thomas jeffrasan in drafting the Declaration of swatantraaa in 1776, or thi iske primary edwocket in the congress.
baad, as a diplomat in europea, he helped negotiate the eventual salaam treaty with Great britain, and thi responsible liye obtaining vital sarkari lone from amsterdam bankers.
a rajnatik theorist or itihaaskaar, adams largely likhaa the Massachusetts samvidhan in 1780, jisase saath saath uske pehle vichaar on sarkari, bahekaave amareeki rajnatik vichaar.
ek of his mahanatam bhoomikaaye thi as a nyaayadhish of akshar : in 1775, he manonith george washington to be commander-in-chief, or 25 saalo baad manonith John marshall to be mukhya insaaf of the sanyukt rajya.
adams ' krantikari credentials secured him two terms as george washington 's vaais adhyaksh or uske own chunaav in 1796 as the duusari adhyaksh.
dauraan his ek pad, he encountered ferocious hamale by the jeffersonian republicans, as khub as the prabal faction in his apana federalist party led by uske kadava dushman sikandar hamiltan.
adams signed the vivaadaaspad alian or Sedition adhiniyamon, or nirmit up the fouj or navy visheshkar in the face of an undeclared naval yuddh ( pukaara the `` Quasi-War `` ) saath frans, 1798–1800.
The pramukh accomplishment of uske presidency thi uske peaceful rezolution of the virodh in the face of hamiltan 's vipaksh.
in 1800, adams thi parajeet for re-election by thomas jeffrasan or ritred to Massachusetts.
he later resumed uske dosti saath jeffrasan.
he or uske bivi, abigale adams, santhaapit an accomplished parivaar lakeer of rajaneta, diplomats, or itihaaskaaron now referred to as the adams rajnatik parivaar.
adams thi the father of jon Quincy Adams, the chathe adhyaksh of the sanyukt rajya.
uske uplabdhiyaan have praapt greater manyata in aadhunik times, though uske yogadan yahood not initially as manaaye as those of anya sansthaapakon.
Adams was the pehla u.S. adhyaksh to reside in the bhawan that eventually became gyaat as the White House.
the sanyukt States ten-dollar vidheyak ( $ 10 ) is a denomination of sanyukt States karency.
the pehla u.S. Secretary of the Treasury ( 1789–95 ), sikandar Hamilton, is philhal pradarshit on the obverse of the vidheyak, while the u.S. rajkosh bhawan is pradarshit on the reverse.
( hamiltan is ek of do non-presidents pradarshit on philhal jari u.S. bills.
the anya is benjamin franklin, on the $ 100 bill.
Hamilton is ek of tabhi chaar people featured on u.S. paper karency ( 1861 to the upasthit ) jo thi nahin born in the mahadwipiya sanyukt rajya, as he was isse the West indies.
the anya hai : Albert Gallatin, switzaraland ( $ 500 1862/63 vidhik tender ) ; George meade, spain ( $ 1,000 1890/91 rajkosh Note ) ; and robert Morris, england ( $ 1,000 1862/63 vidhik Tender ; $ 10 1878/80 Silver praaanpatr ).
in jod, Kamehameha i, appears on the 2008 Hawaii state quarter. )
All $ 10 bills jari aaj are sangheey Reserve Notes.
the Bureau of nakkashi or Printing says the ausat jivan of a $ 10 vidheyak in parisancharan is 18 months pehle it is replaced due to pahanen.
lagbhag 6 % of sab US banknotes mudrit in 2009 were $ 10 bills.
Ten dollars bills hai vitarit by Federal arakshit Banks in yellow straps.
The sorce of the phase on the $ 10 vidheyak is jon Trumbull ’s 1805 portret of hamiltan ki belongs to the portret sangrahan of New York nagar haul.
The $ 10 bill is the tabhi u.S. paper currency in circulation in jisase the portrait chehron to the baayein ( the $ 100,000 vidheyak pradarshit a portret of woodro wilson facing to the baayein, lakin was prayukt tabhi liye intra-government tranjection ).
a rider on a yamaha waverunner XL performing a high-speed turn.
a jetboat is a naav propelled by a jet of jal ejected isse the waapas of the shilp.
naapsand a powerboat or motorboat ki upyog a propeller in the jal below or peeche the naav, a jetboat draws the jal from antargat the boat into a pump andar the naav, tab expels it through a nozzle at the stern.
Jetboats yahood originally designed by Sir wiliam hamiltan ( jo viksit a waterjet in 1954 ) liye aaparishan in the fast-flowing and uthle nadiyaan of New jiland, specifically to overcome the problem of propellers striking rocks in such waters.
Previous koshishen at waterjet nodan had very choti lifetimes, generally due to the akushal dizine of the ikai or the fact that ve offered few laabh over conventional propellers.
naapsand ye pichhlaa waterjet developments, such as campini 's or the hanley hydrojet, hamiltan had a vishisht need liye a nodan pranali to operate in very-shallow jal, and the waterjet proved to be the adarsh samaadhaan.
isse is, the lokapriyata of the jet ikai or jetboat increased rapidly.
through further developments, it thi mila the waterjet offered anek anya laabh over propellers liye a wide dayera of vessel types, and as aise, waterjets hai used widely aaj for many high-speed baratan, sahit yatri ferries, bachaav craft, patrol boats or offshore supplai baratan.
jetboats hai atyadhik maneuverable, or many can, isse puraa gati, be reversed and brought to a stop bheetar choti adhik than their apana lambaai, in a maneuver gyaat as a `` krash stop ''.
The khub gyaat hamiltan turn or `` jet spin '' is a high-speed maneuvre jahaan the naav 's ingine throttle is cut, the parichaalan is turned sharply or the throttle kholi again, causing the naav to spin quickly around saath a vishaal spray of water.
vahin is no abhiyantriki limit to the aakaar of jetboats, haalanki the vaid of unke upyog depends a lot on the type of anuprayog.
clasik prop-drives hai generally adhik kushal or kifayati at low speeds, up to about, lakin as naav gati increases pare this, the atirikt hull pratirodh utpann by struts, rudders, shafts ( ityadi. ) arthath waterjets hai adhik kushal in the 20-50 ganth range ( up to ).
Also, in paristhitiyon saath bahut vishaal propellers turning at slow speeds ( such as tug boats ), the equivalent aakaar waterjet would be too big to be vyaavhaarik.
liye ye reasons, the vast bahumat of waterjet ikai hai santhaapit in high-speed vessels or in particular situations jahaan shallow draught, maneuverability, or lod flexibility hai pramukh chintaaen.
the biggest jet-driven baratan are found in sainya upyog or the high-speed passenger/car ferry udyog.
dakshin africa 's s ( approximately long ) are the biggest jet-propelled baratan so far.
bhi these German-built vessels hai sakasham of performing `` krash stops ''.
Uveitis is broadly paribhaashit as sujan of the uvea.
the uvea consists of the madhya, pigmented, vascular structures of the najar or shaamil the iris, ciliary body, and choroid.
Uveitis requires an urgent referral and thorough parikshaw by an ophthalmologist or optometrist along with taatkaalik upachaar to control the sujan.
eric `` e. ''
Murphy is a fictional akshar on the comedy-drama television shrenee Entourage.
he is nibhaai by kevin connolly.
the jagamagaataa is a 1980 manovaigyanik horer filmi utpaadit or nirdeshit by stanley kubrick, co-written saath upanyaaskaar diane johnson, or starring joker nicolsan, shelli Duvall, scatman crothers, or danni loyad.
the film is aadhaarit on the Stephen king novel The jagamagaataa.
A lekhak, joker Torrance, takes a job as an off-season kaaryvahak at an isolated hotel.
His yang son possesses maansik abilities and is able to dekhie bate from the past or future, such as the bhoot jo inhabit the hotel.
jald after settling in, the parivaar is funs in the hotel by a snowstorm, or joker dhire becomes bahekaave by a alokik presence ; he utarataa into deewangi and attempts to hatya his bivi or bete.
naapsand previous kubrick films, jisase developed an darshak dhire by bhawan on word-of-mouth, the jagamagaataa thi released as a mass-market filmi, kholane at pehla in just two shaharon on memorial Day, tab deshbhar a maah later.
haalanki initial jawaab to the film thi mishrit, baad najuk moolyankan thi adhik anukool or it is abhi viewed as a clasik of the horror genre.
filmi nideshak Martin Scorsese, writing in the Daily Beast, kramit it as one of the 11 scariest horror filmon of all samay.
Film aalochakon, filmi vidhyaarthee, or Kubrick 's nirmaataa, Jan harlan, have remarked on the enormous influence the filmi rai tha on lokapriy culture.
the aarambhik europea relies of The jagamagaataa thi 25 minutes shorter than the amareeki version, achieved by nikaalnaa most of the drishyon lene place baahar the environs of the hotel.
aangan cola Bottle
aangan aahaar cola was a brands of aahaar soda introduced by Pepsi in 1963.
It thi nirmit in jawaab to aahaar reeti cola, jisase thi the pehla aahaar cola on the market.
fitaness pravartak dibbi drek thi Patio aahaar cola 's pravaktaa.
in 1964, aangan released naarangi, angoor, or root beer flavors.
is flavor lakeer thi nahin meant to compete saath brands like Orange Crush, lakin balki bharan out the lakeer.
aangan sodas were uplabdhiyaan in the cold-bottle market : kiraanaa or mom-and-pop stores.
vigyaapan liye Patio was comparatively scarce ; at the samay, bottlers were regionally franchised, or sambandhit vigyaapan thi necessarily local.
in 1964, Patio aahaar cola became aahaar pepsy.
the newly branded diet soda thi advertised alongside Pepsi saath the tagaline `` pepsy either way '', jisase replaced the slogan `` dances saath swaad ''.
the choti jivan span of aangan Diet cola makes it a great jod liye bottle collectors.
sabase of the remaining aangan lakeer of flavors yahood phased out by the early 1970s, jabaki a few batch jabatak the mid 70s
Infrastructure is moulik shaareerik or organizational structures needed liye the operation of a samaaj or enterprize, or the services or suvidhaayen jaruri liye an economy to falan.
it can be generally defined as the set of interconnected structural tatv that provide fremawork supporting an sampurna dhaancha of development.
It is an mahatvapurn pad liye judging a desh or pradesh 's vikaas.
The pad typically refers to the technical structures ki support a samaaj, aise as roads, pulon, water supply, sewers, electrical grid, doorsanchaar, and so forth, or can be paribhaashit as `` the shaareerik components of interrelated systems providing commodities or sevaayen anivaary to enable, sustain, or enhance societal living conditions. ''
Viewed functionally, avasanrachana facilitates the production of goods and services, or bhi the distribution of samaapt utpaada to bazaar, as khub as basic soshal sevaayen aise as skulon or aspataal ; liye udhaaharan, roads enable the hastantaran of raw saamagree to a factory.
in sainya parlance, the pad refers to the buildings or permanent installations jaruri liye the support, redeployment, and operation of sainya shaktiyaan.
To mek it saral, avasanrachana is anything ki is needed roj, an roj mad.
a graphical pratinidhitiv of the ideal insaan karyotype
mitochondrial diene.
Human genetic vibhinnata is the genetic matbhed dono bheetar or among populations.
vahin may be multiple variants of koi die jin in the insaan janasankhyikee ( jeenon ), agrani to polymorphism.
anek jeenon are nahin bahurupi, arth that tabhi a single allele is upasthit in the janasankhyikee : the jin is tab said to be phixd.
No do insaano hai genetically ekasmaan.
Even monozygotic judwa, jo develop from one zygote, have infrequent genetic matbhed due to mutations occurring during vikaas or jin copy kramank variation.
matbhed between individuals, bhi closely sambandhit individuals, hai the kunjee to takneekon aise as genetic fingerprinting.
Alleles occur at different frequencies in different insaan populations, with populations that hai more geographically or ancestrally remote tending to differ adhik.
kalyankari of matbhed between individuals shaamil the exange of jeenon dauraan meiosis or various mutational events.
There hai at least two reasons kyon genetic variation exists between populations.
prakritik chayan may confer an adaptive laabh to individuals in a vishisht paryaavaran if an allele provides a pratispardhi laabh.
Alleles under chayan hai likely to occur tabhi in those bhugolic regions jahaan ve confer an advantage.
the second main kaaran of genetic variation is due to the unchi degree of neutrality of sabase mutations.
sabase mutations do not appear to have koi selective effect ek rasta or the anya on the sajiv.
the main cause is genetic bahaav, is is the prabhaav of random parivartan in the jin pool.
In humans, sansthaapak effect or past choti janasankhyikee aakaar ( increasing the likelihood of genetic bahaav ) may have tha an mahatvapurn influence in neutral matbhed between populations.
the siddhanth ki insaano recently migrated out of Africa supports this.
the study of human genetic vibhinnata rai both vikasvaadi significance or chikitsa applications.
It can sahaayta vaigyanikon samajhe pracheen insaan population migrations as khub as kaisaa alag insaan groups hai biologically sambandhit to ek another.
For medicine, padhai of insaan genetic vibhinnata may be mahatvapurn kuki some disease-causing alleles occur adhik praayah in logon isse specific bhugolic regions.
nai nishkarshon show that prayek human rai on average 60 new mutations compared to unke parents.
alaava isse mutations, anek genes that may have aided insaano in pracheen times plague insaano aaj.
liye udhaaharan, it is suspected ki jeenon that allow humans to more efficiently process khaanaa hai those ki mek people susceptible to motopa or diabetes aaj.
chaay party pradarshnakariyon on the west lon of the u.S. Capitol or the National mal at the Taxpayer kooch on Washington on sitambar 12, 2009.
the chaay party gati is an amareeki political gati ki adhivaktaaon sakht adherence to the sanyukt rajya samvidhan, reducing u.S. sarkari bitaa or kar, or reduction of the u.S. neshnal karz or sangheey budget deficit.
the gati rai maharoom pukaara partly roodhiwaadee, partly libertarian, or partly populist.
The gati rai sponsored virodh and supported political ummidavaar chunki 2009.
the naam of the gati is niklaa isse the boston chaay Party of 1773, an iconic event in American itihaas.
anti-tax pradarshnakariyon in the sanyukt rajya have often referred to the asli boston Tea Party for prerana.
sandarbh to the Boston chaay party yahood bhaag of kar din protests held throughout the 1990s and pehle.
By 2001, a custom had viksit among some roodhiwaadee kaaryakartaaon of mailing chaay bag to vidhayak and anya officials as a symbolic act.
the mudraayen of purto Rico closely follow the historic development of purto rico.
As a upnivesh of spain and the sanyukt States, Puerto rico thi granted the use of dono videshi and prantiy mudraayen.
Following the spani colonization in 1502, purto rico became an mahatvapurn port, with iske apana supplai of sunaharaa.
however, as the khanij reserves ran khaali bheetar the sadi, the dweepasmooh 's arthvyavastha suffered.
The Spanish Crown jari the situado Mexicano, jisase meant that a semi-regular shipment of gold isse the Viceroyalty of nai spain hota be bheja to the island, as a way to provide aarthik support.
between 1636 or 1637, philip iv of spain imposed a tax which had to be sashulk using a aay stamp.
Inspired by this, Puerto rico began producing banknotes in 1766, banane the pehla colony to print 8- real banknotes in the spani samrajya and jisase in the spani sarkari 's sweekruti of subsequent issues.
the situado thi discontinued dauraan the 19th sadi, bananaa an economic sankat, as a result of mexico gaining iske swatantraaa from spain.
salvador meléndez Bruna, the colonial governor in daftar, ordered the samasya of provincial banknotes, bananaa the purto rican peso.
However, mudran of ye banknotes ceased baad 1815.
dauraan the following dashakon, videshi sikke became the faili karency.
in the 1860s or 1870s, banknotes reemerged.
on February 1, 1890, the Banco español de purto rico was udghaatan or began issuing banknotes.
the bank designed four shrenee or placed teen in parisancharan antargat Spanish niyam.
in 1895, a Royal decri ordered the utpaadan of prantiy peso sikke.
On agast 13, 1898, the spanish-american yuddh ended saath Spain ceding Puerto rico to the sanyukt rajya.
The banco español de purto Rico was renamed bainko of Porto rico or issued bills equivalent to the United rajya dollars, bananaa the purto Rican dollars.
in 1902, the pehla neshnal bainko of porto rico jari banknotes in a samanaantar manner.
Two adhik shrenee yahood jari jabatak 1913.
baad purto Rico 's arthvyavastha and maudrik pranali thi fully ekikrut into the sanyukt rajya ' aarthik or monetary pranali, the purto Rican dollar were redeemed for those jari by the sanyukt rajya rajkosh.
the peso and dollar have maharoom followed by anya contemporary mudde, sahit commemorative banknotes, nijee currency, or a quarter sikaa designed with fort San phelip del morro in the face.
pepsy ( stylized in lowercase as pepsy, formerly stylized in uppercase as PEPSI ) is a carbonated naram peya that is utpaadit and manufactured by pepsico.
Created or viksit in 1893 and introduced as bread 's peya, it thi renamed as pepsi-cola on agast 28, 1898, tab to pepsy in 1961.
the Book of ezekiel is the teesraa of the Latter nabiyon in the Hebrew bible, following the kitabe of Isaiah and yirmayaah or preceding the kitaab of the Twelve.
( the anukram is somewhat different in the isai Old vasiyat ).
It garbhashayi iske naam isse, or record the visions of, the 6th sadi BC priest or nabi ezekiel.
according to the kitaab, the nabi, exiled in Babylon, experienced a series of saat visions dauraan the 22 saalo isse 593 to 571 bc, a kaal jisase spans the final vinaash of Jerusalem in 586.
the visions, or the kitaab, hai structured around teen vishaywastu : ( 1 ) judgment on Israel ( chapters 1-24 ) ; ( 2 ) judgment on the nations ( adhyay 25-32 ) ; or bhavishya aashirwad liye israel ( adhyay 33-48 ).
nai orlions ( or, locally or ; ) is a pramukh sanyukt States bandargahon and the largest nagar and mahanagar area in the rajya of louisiana.
the janasankhyikee of the nagar thi 343,829 as of the 2010 U.S. janasankhyikee.
the New Orleans mahanagar kshetrafal ( nai orleans–metairie–kenner mahanagar Statistical kshetrafal ) had a janasankhyikee of 1,167,764 in 2010 or was the 46th largest in the United rajya.
the New orleans–metairie–bogalusa Combined sankhyikeey kshetrafal, a larger trading kshetrafal, tha a 2010 janasankhyikee of 1,214,932.
the nagar is namit baad orléans, a nagar stith on the loire River in kendra, France, and is khub gyaat liye its distinct French Creole vaastukala, as khub as its cross-cultural or bahubhashi viraasat.
New Orleans is bhi prasiddh for iske bhojan, music ( visheshkar as the janmasthan of jazz ), or iske annual jashn or festivals, sabase notably Mardi gra.
the nagar is praayah referred to as the `` sabase adwitiya '' in america.
nai orlions is stith in southeastern louisiana, straddling the Mississippi River.
the city or Orleans mohalla ( ) hai.
the city or mohalla are bounded by the parishes of st. Tammany to the uttar, st. barnard to the east, Plaquemines to the dakshin and Jefferson to the south or west.
jhil pontchartrain, part of which is shaamil in the nagar had, jhooth to the uttar or Lake Borgne jhooth to the east.
the neshnal janam control lig thi a janam control sanghathan in the sanyukt rajya.
It thi founded in March 1915 by mariyam dennett, clara gruening stillman and Jessie ashley.
iske pramukh purpose was to overturn the kanoon jisase bain contraceptives isse the U.S. mails.
abhiyaan yahood arohit in New York, but in 1919 the League thi disbanded and reformed into the voluntary parenthood lig.
karkat, gyaat medically as a malignant phulav, is a vyapak group of vibhinn rogon, sab involving unregulated cell vikaas.
in karkat, koshikaayen divide or grow uncontrollably, forming malignant tumors, or invade aasapaas bhaag of the deh.
the karkat may bhi sprad to adhik dur bhaag of the deh through the lymphatic pranali or bloodstream.
nahin sab tumors hai cancerous.
Benign tumors do nahin grow uncontrollably, do nahin invade neighboring utakon, and do nahin spread throughout the deh.
vahin are over 200 different gyaat cancers that afflict insaano.
determining what kalyankari karkat is jatil.
anek things hai gyaat to badhayen the risk of cancer, sahit tambaaku use, certain infections, vikiran, lack of shaareerik activity, obesity, or paryaavarniya pradooshak.
ye can sidhe kshati genes or combine with maujuuda genetic faults bheetar cells to kaaran the beemaari.
lagbhag five to ten pratishat of cancers hai entirely hereditary.
karkat can be detected in a number of tareeke, sahit the presence of nishchit signs or lakshan, screening pareekshan, or medical imaging.
ekbar a possible karkat is detected it is diagnosed by microscopic parikshaw of a tissue sample.
karkat is usually treated saath chemotherapy, vikiran chikitsa and surgery.
The chances of surviving the disease vary greatly by the prakaar or sthaan of the karkat or the extent of beemaari at the start of upachaar.
jabaki karkat can affect people of sab aayu, or a few types of karkat hai adhik aam in children, the risk of vikasshil cancer generally increases saath aayu.
In 2007, karkat caused parichay 13 % of sab insaan deaths vishwavyaapee ( 7.9 lakh ).
daron are rising as adhik logon sajiv to an old aayu or as mass jeevanstyli parivartan occur in the vikasshil sansar.
Spring ski touring on hardangervidda, norway
skiing is a recreational kaaryaklap or pratispardhi khel in jisase the bhagidaar attaches long dhaavak or skis to boot or juute on the feet or upyog them to travel on sheersh of snow.
aside isse manoranjan and pratiyogita, skiing rai maharoom used for military uddeshy or even travelling in areas ki anubhav heavy himpat.
anek prakaar of pratispardhi skiing kaarykram hai pahachaanaa by the antarrashtriya olympic cameti, or the International ski sangh.
John Maynard Keynes, 1st Baron keynes, cb, fba ( ; 5 june 1883 – 21 april 1946 ) thi a British arthshaastri jinaki ideas have fundamentally prabhavit the siddhanth or practice of aadhunik macroeconomics, or informed the economic policies of governments.
he built on or greatly refined pehle kaary on the kalyankari of kaarobaar cycles, or is widely mana to be ek of the sansthaapakon of aadhunik macroeconomics or the sabase influential arthshaastri of the 20th sadi.
His vichaar hai the basis liye the skool of vichaar known as keynesian arthshaastra, as well as its vibhinn offshoots.
In many tareeke, subsequent developments in 20th sadi arthshaastra can be viewed as either bhawan on Keynes ' ideas or reacting viruddh them.
in the 1930s, Keynes spearheaded a revolution in aarthik thinking, overturning the puraani vichaar of neoclassical economics ki yojit that free markets would, in the short to medium term, automatically provide puraa employment, as long as workers were lacheelee in unke mazdooree maange.
keynes bajaay argued ki kul maang sankalpit the overall str of aarthik kaaryaklap, or that inadequate kul maang could sise to prolonged periods of unchi berogari.
he advocated the upyog of phiscal or maudrik upayon to mitigate the pratikul effects of economic recessions or depressions.
Following the outbreak of the duusari sansar yuddh, Keynes 's vichaar concerning economic niti yahood apanaaya by agrani pashchimi economies.
in 1942, keynes thi awarded a khandaani peerage as samant Keynes of Tilton in the county of sasex.
Keynes died in 1946, lakin dauraan the 1950s and 1960s the kamyaabi of keynesian economics resulted in lagbhag sab capitalist governments adopting iske policy suzav.
keynes 's influence waned in the 1970s, partly as a result of problems ki began to pahunchakar the Anglo-American economies isse the prarambh of the dashak, or partly kuki of critiques isse milton Friedman or anya arthshaastriyon jo yahood pessimistic parichay the kshamta of sarkarein to viniyamit the business saikil saath fiscal policy.
however, the advent of the vaishvik financial sankat in 2007 caused a punarutthan in Keynesian vichaar.
keynesian arthshaastra provided the saidhantik underpinning liye aarthik policies undertaken in jawaab to the sankat by Presidents george W. bush and baraak obama of the sanyukt rajya, pradhan mantri Gordon bhura of the sanyukt kingdom, or anya heads of sarkarein.
in 1999, samay magazine shaamil Keynes in unke list of the 100 sabase mahatvapurn and influential people of the 20th sadi, commenting that : `` His kattarpanthi vichaar ki governments should spend money ve do n't have may have saved poonjeevaad. ''
In jod to hone an arthshaastri, keynes was bhi a civil naukar, a nideshak of the angrejon eugenics samaaj, a director of the bainko of england, a sangrakshak of the kala or an art colector, a bhaag of the Bloomsbury samooh of intellectuals, an advisor to several charitable trusts, a writer, a paras, a private investor, and a kisaan.
is 1768 parchment ( 612×502 mm ) by jekuthiel Sofer emulated the 1675 ten Commandments at the Amsterdam esnoga synagogue.
the ten Commandments, bhi known as the decalogue, are a niyat of biblical kanoon relating to aachaar or worship, jisase khel a aadharbhoot bhoomika in Judaism, islam or christianity.
ve shaamil nirdesh to ibaadat tabhi parameshwar, to rakhana the sabbath paavan or prohibitions viruddh idolatry, inkaar, murder, chori, deception or adultery.
Different samooh follow thodaa alag paramparaon liye interpreting or kramakan unhen.
The ten aayatein appear twice in the yahudee bible, in the kitabe of Exodus or deuteronomy.
According to the story in Exodus, parameshwar inscribed them on do stone tablet, which he diya to musa on Mount Sinai.
aadhunik scholarship rai mila sambhavit influences in hittite and Mesopotamian kanoon or treaties, but is vibhajit over exactly jab the Ten aayatein were written and jo likhaa them.
the discographi of the English vaikalpik chattan band the Smiths consists of four studio albums, ek extended play ( ep ), ek sajiv album, ten compilation album, bees singles, ek video album or chaudaa music videos on the ashisht Trade, Sire or wea ricard labals.
the band thi formed in 1982 in manchester by vocalist morrissey, guitarist Johnny marr, bass khilaadi endi Rourke or vadak Mike joyce.
despite being championed by BBC Radio 1 discs jockey John chhilake, the band 's debyue single, `` Hand in dastaane `` ( May 1983 ), vifal to chart.
iske follow-up, `` is aakarshak man `` ( aktubar 1983 ), met saath najuk acclaim or pahunche number twenty-five on the uk singles chart.
the smiths ' cult status was followed by mukhyadhara success in 1984, as ve reached number baarah in the uk with the `` kayaa antar Does it mek ? `` single or pahunche number do on the uk album Chart with unke debyue album, The smiths ( 1984 ).
unke aglaa teen singles sab pahunche the sheersh bees of the charts in the uk, helping to consolidate unke previous chart success.
the aglaa studio album, maance Is Murder ( 1985 ), reached the sheersh of the angrejon chart ; however, the tabhi single to be released isse the album, `` ki chutkula is n't Funny anymore `` ( 1985 ), vifal to brake the uk sheersh 40.
returning to rup, the Smiths ' aglaa chah singles all pahunche the ucchtar than kramank tees in the uk or unke teesraa album, the maharani is murde ( 1986 ), pahunche number do in the UK.
despite the band 's chart success, marr left the group in agast 1987 due to a strained sambandh saath morrissey.
failing to dhundhen a badalanaa, the Smiths disbanded by the samay unke final studio album, Strangeways, Here We Come, thi released in sitambar ki year.
strangeways, Here we aaiye pahunche number do in the uk or became the band 's highest-charting release in the United rajya jab it pahunche kramank fifty-five on the billboard 200.
in jaldi 1992, wea acquired the sampurna waapas katalog of The smiths or utpaadit two compilations – Best... I or... Best ii – the pehla of jisase pahunche the sheersh of the UK Albums Chart.
wea released do further singles compilations in 1995 and 2001, saath a further compilation, the Sound of the smiths, released in navambar 2008.
gaye with the hawa is a novel written by margaret mishael, pehla prakashit in 1936.
it is praayah lagaai in the saahitiyik sub-genre of the historical romance novel.
However, it rai maharoom argued the novel is a `` nikat miss '' and does nahin contain sab of the elements of the romance vidha, bananaa it bas a historical anokhaa.
the story is niyat in clayton county, georgia, or Atlanta dauraan the amareeki civil yuddh and punarnirmaan.
it depicts the anubhavon of skarlet O'Hara, the bigade beti of a well-to-do vriksharopan owner, jo jarur upyog every arthath at uske niptaan to aaiye out of the poverty wo finds herself in baad Sherman 's `` March to the samudr ''.
Margaret mishael began likhane Gone with the hawa in 1926 to pass the time jabaki recovering isse an auto-crash chot ki refused to changa.
In April 1935, Harold Latham of macmillan, an editor who was looking liye new fiction, read kayaa she tha likhaa and dekhi ki it could be a best-seller.
baad Latham sahamat to prakashit the kitaab, mishael worked liye another six maheene checking the aitihaasik sandarbh, and rewrote the kholane chapter anek times.
mishael and uske husband jon daldal, a nakal editor by trade, edited the final sanskaran of the novel.
mishael wrote the kitaab 's final moments pehla, or tab wrote the kaarykram ki led up to it.
as to kayaa became of uske lovers, Rhett or skarlet, after the anokhaa ended, mishael kiya nahin know, or kaha, `` liye sab i jaan, rahet may have mila kisi else jo thi less mushkil. ''
Mitchell praapt the pulitzer puraskaar liye fiction liye the kitaab in 1937.
the book thi adapted into a 1939 amareeki filmi.
gaye with the hawa is the tabhi anokhaa by Mitchell prakashit dauraan her aaajeevan.
Endodontics ( isse the unani endo `` andar '' ; or odons `` tooth '' ) is ek of the danta specialties pahachaanaa by the American danta sangh, Royal College of dentists of canada, or royal australasian college of danta Surgeons, or saude saath the daant guda or the utakon surrounding the root of a daant.
endodontists perform a variety of prakriyaaon including endodontic therapy ( commonly known as `` root kanal chikitsa '' ), endodontic retreatment, surgery, treating cracked daant, or treating danta aghat.
Root canal chikitsa is one of the sabase aam prakriyaaon.
if the pulp ( containing nerves, arterioles, venules, lymphatic utak, or tantumay tissue ) becomes diseased or ghayal, endodontic upachaar is jaruri to sahejen the daant.
serial sanlagn scsi ( SAS ) is a point-to-point serial protocol that moves aankada to or isse computer bhandar devices aise as mushkil drive and tepe drive.
sas replaces the puraani samanaantar scsi ( pronounced `` scuzzy '' ) bas technology that first appeared in the mid-1980s.
sas, like iske purvavarti, upyog the maanak scsi cmand niyat.
SAS offers pichhadaa sangatta with second-generation sata drive.
sata 3 gbit/s drive may be connected to sas backplanes, lakin sas drive can not conect to sata backplanes.
the t10 technical cameti of the antarrashtriya cameti liye Information praudyogiki maanakon ( INCITS ) develops or maintains the sas protocol ; the scsi vyapaar sangh ( SCSITA ) promotes the praudyogiki.
bhaag of the sanvaidhanik praavdhaan as it appeared in 1787
aukaat as a natural-born naagarik of the United rajya is one of the paatrata aavashyaktaayen sthapit in the sanyukt rajya samvidhan liye chunaav to the office of adhyaksh or vaais President.
is requirement thi intended to protect the swadesh from videshi influence.
the samvidhan karata nahin define the phrase natural-born naagarik, or vibhinn raay have maharoom offered over time regarding its precise arth.
a 2011 Congressional shodh Service rapat stated
the natural-born-citizen clause has maharoom mentioned in guzar in anek nirnay of the sanyukt rajya param adaalat or nimnatar courts dealing saath the question of paatrata liye naagarikta by janam, lakin the Supreme adaalat has never sidhe addressed the sawaal of a vishisht adhyakshiya or vice-presidential candidate 's eligibility as a natural-born naagarik.
kurtis ujin `` court '' warner ( born june 22, 1971 ) is a purv amareeki footbaal khilaadi.
he nibhaai quarterbaque for three National Football lig ( NFL ) teams : the st. lui medhon, the nai york diggaj, and the erizona Cardinals.
he was originally signed by the green khadi pakars as an undrafted free agent in 1994 baad playing college footbaal at Northern Iowa.
warner would go on to be mana the behtareen undrafted player of sab samay, following a 12-year career regarded as ek of the mahanatam kahaniyaan in enegel itihaas.
warner pehla attained staradam jabaki playing liye the st. lui Rams from 1998 to 2003, jahaan he jiti two enegel mvp puraskaar in 1999 or 2001 as well as the Super Bowl MVP award in Super katori xxxiv.
he led the 2008 erizona Cardinals to super Bowl XLIII ( the franchise 's pehla super Bowl berth ), or owns the three ucchtam single-game guzar yardage yoga in super Bowl itihaas.
warner philhal holds the seventh-highest kariyar passer rating of all-time ( 93.7 ), or the third-highest kariyar purnataa pratishat in enegel history with 65.5 %.
in 13 kariyar playoff khel, warner baandhane pehla all-time in purnataa pratishat ( 66.5 % ), gaj prati attempt ( 8.55 ), and duusari in passer darja ( 102.8 ).
he bhi holds the ucchtam completion percentage liye a single khel during the niyamit ritu, at 92.3 percent ( 24/26 ), on sitambar 20, 2009, viruddh the jacksonville jaguars.
he announced uske ritairement on January 29, 2010. < sandarbh name='cnn 2010-01-29 ' >
Janet Kay Ruthven hagan ( ; born may 26, 1953 ) is the junior United rajya seenetter isse North carolina, in daftar chunki janvari 2009.
previously wo parosa in the North carolina Senate isse 1999 to 2009.
wo is a member of the Democratic party or is viewed as a moderet sadsy of her party.
When Hagan parajeet Republican laazim elizabeth dole in the 2008 sanyukt rajya seenet chunaav, wo became the pehla woman to shikast an incumbent stri in a seenet election.
the heisman memorial trophy Award ( praayah gyaat colloquially as the Heisman Trophy or the heisman ), is awarded annually to the khilaadi deemed the most bakaayaa khilaadi in colejiet footbaal.
It thi nirmit in 1935 as the shahar athlettic Club trophy or renamed in 1936 following the maut of the Club 's athlettic nideshak, jon heisman ( purv bhura vishvavidhyalayon or vishvavidhyalayon of Pennsylvania khilaadi ; sir footbaal coach at oberlin college, auburn University, Clemson University, rice University, or the vishvavidhyalayon of Pennsylvania ; and football, basket, or besabaal sir coach or athlettic nideshak at georgia Tech ).
the award is prastut by the heisman trophy vishwaas in jaldi December pehle the postseason katori games.
it is the oldest of anek overall awards in college footbaal, including the maxwell puraskaar, walter shivi puraskaar, or the ap khilaadi of the saal.
the heisman or the ap Player of the saal are the only puraskaar to sammaan the sabase bakaayaa khilaadi, while the maxwell puraskaar or walter shivi puraskaar recognize the best khilaadi, or the archi griffin puraskaar recognizes the sabase moolyawaan khilaadi.
the United raashtra cmand ( unc ) is the ekikrut cmand dhaancha liye the bahurashtriya sainya shaktiyaan supporting the ganatantr of korian ( dakshin Korea or rok ) dauraan and baad the Korean yuddh.
baad troops of the Democratic logon 's ganatantr of Korea ( uttar korian or dprk ) invaded South korian on june 25, 1950, the sanyukt raashtra Security parishad apanaaya rezolution 82 colling on North korian to cease hostilities and withdraw to the 38th samanaantar.
On june 27, 1950, it adopted rezolution 83, recommending ki members of the United raashtra provide sahaayta to the ganatantr of korian `` to repel the armed akraman and to restore antarrashtriya salaam or suraksha to the kshetrafal ''.
suraksha Council rezolution 84, adopted on July 7, 1950, anushansit that sadasyon providing sainya forces and other sahaayta to South korian `` mek such shaktiyaan and anya sahaayta available to a unified cmand under the sanyukt rajya of america ''.
haalanki the rizolution sujhaayaa the shaktiyaan under the unc yahood `` sanyukt raashtra shaktiyaan '', or sanyukt Nations itself could be considered a belligerent, in abhyaas the United Nations exercised no control over the combat shaktiyaan, jisase were niyantrit by the sanyukt rajya.
sabase observers concluded ki the forces antargat the unc yahood nahin in vidhi sanyukt raashtra troops, or the acts of the unc were nahin the adhiniyamon of the sanyukt raashtra.
the unc can be regarded as an alliance of neshnal sena, operating under the samuhik right of self-defense.
On August 29, 1950, the angrejon Commonwealth 's 27th Infantry brigade arrived at busaan to juden the unc, jisase jabatak then shaamil only rok or u.S. forces.
the 27th brigade moved into the naktong nadi line west of daegu.
troop units isse anya deshon of the un followed in rapid succession ; australia, belgian sanyukt Nations cmand, canada, colombia, ithiopia, frans, unaniyon, dhvaj, the netherlands, nai jiland, the Philippines, thailand and turkon.
the Union of dakshin africa provided air units which ladaa alongside the air forces of anya member nations.
denmark, India, norway, or sweden provided chikitsa ikai.
Italy provided a hospital, bhi haalanki it was nahin a UN sadsy.
the United raashtra Command or the Chinese-North korian cmand signed the korian armistice anubandh on 27 july 1953, samaapti the baari lard.
the armistice agreement sthapit the sainya armistice ayog ( mike ), consisting of pratinidhi of the do signatories, to supervise the implementation of the armistice terms.
the uttar korean-chinese mike rai maharoom replaced by panmumjon Representatives antargat vishesh uttar korian management.
Regular baithak have been roka, although duty officers of sanyukt suraksha kshetrafal, commonly gyaat as the yudhviram gaanv of panmunjom, isse prayek paksh milen regularly.
lincoln Heights is an amareeki family naatak television shrenee parichay Eddie Sutton, a mishan vista police adhikari jo chaalen uske family waapas to his boodha pados, lincoln Heights, to prarambh a nai life or to help out uske boodha pados.
it is a khatarnaak place to raise a family, or through the many trial the parivaar goes through, ve jald learn ki settling in is nahin as aasaan as it seems.
jabaki adhikari saton struggles to cope with prayek din jivan as a gali cop in los Angeles, uske kids try to anuroop in at their new skulon and saath their nai neighbors.
the show premiered janvari 8, 2007 on the abisi parivaar sanjaal with 13 episodes ordered for the first season.
it thi sweekrut for a second season, which premiered sitambar 4, 2007.
venesa Hudgens ' song, kah OK had been used in a vanijyik to prachaar the duusari ritu.
To prachaar the third ritu, ve showed clips of cassie and charles 's sambandh to the song, Crush by the amareeki Idol 's saatvaan ritu runner-up, David archuleta.
To prachaar season 4, they 're using the song, himaskhalan by maari digby.
The dikhaaen 's theme song thi likhaa and performed by bassist stanley clark or singer-songwriter blaire reinhard.
on janvari 29, 2010, abisi parivaar announced the raddikaran of the series baad chaar sizan.
A isai denomination is an identifiable dharmik deh antargat a aam naam, dhaancha, and doctrine bheetar Christianity.
In the paramparaagat parampara, carch hai vibhajit often saath jaateey and linguistic linon, into separate carch and traditions.
technically, vibhaajan between ek samooh and another are defined by doctrine and girijaghar praadhikaar.
Issues aise as the nature of yishu, the authority of apostolic succession, eschatology, or papal primacy pruthak ek denomination isse another.
the Roman Catholic girijaghar is the largest denomination saath over 1.1 arab members, over half of sab isaayiyon vishwavyaapee, bananaa it the largest denomination liye koi dharm vishwavyaapee ( haalanki the girijaghar karata not drishy itself as a denomination, lakin as the original pre-denominational church ).
protostant denominations comprise roughly 38–39 % of isaayiyon vishwavyaapee, or saath the catholics, protestants, anglicans, and other closely sambandhit denominations comprise pashchimi christianity.
the purvi paramparaagat girijaghar, praachya paramparaagat carch or the Assyrian Church of the East are mana purvi isai denominations.
pashchimi Christian denominations jeetna in pashchimi europea or iske former colonies.
purvi isai denominations hai represented zyaadaatar in purvi europea, the madhya east and uttar africa.
Christians have various doctrines parichay the girijaghar, the body of faithful ki they maananaa was sthapit by yishu messiah, or how the daivi girijaghar corresponds to Christian denominations.
dono the Catholics or the Eastern Orthodox consider prayek of themselves solely to faithfully represent the One paavan catholic or Apostolic girijaghar to the exclusion of the other.
protestants alag isse the catholic girijaghar kuki of theologies or practices ki ve mana to be in ulanghan of unke interpretation.
generally, sadasyon of the vibhinn denominations acknowledge prayek other as isaayiyon, at tanik to the extent ki they have mutually pahachaanaa baptisms or acknowledge historically orthodox drishy sahit the Divinity of yishu or doctrines of sin or moksh, bhi haalanki doctrinal or ecclesiological baadhaaen rokte puraa niyaaz between carch.
chunki the reforms surrounding Vatican ii, the Catholic girijaghar rai referred to Protestant samudaayon as `` denominations '', jabaki reserving the pad `` girijaghar '' for apostolic carch, sahit the purvi paramparaagat ( see subsistit in and shakha siddhanth ).
There hai however some non-denominational Christians jo do nahin follow any particular shakha.
the pandas ( Ailuropoda melanoleuca, lit.
`` black or shwet cat-foot '' ), bhi known as the giant pandas to distinguish it from the unrelated red pandas, is a bhaaluu deshi to central-western or dakshin pashchimi china.
it is easily recognized by the large, distinctive black dhabbe around iske eyes, over the kaanon, or aarpaar its golakaar deh.
haalanki it belongs to the anukram carnivora, the pandas 's diet is 99 % baansuri.
Pandas in the junglee will occasionally kha anya grasses, junglee tubers, or bhi meat in the form of birds, rodents or carrion.
In captivity, they may praapt honey, andey, machhlee, yams, shrub pattey, santare, or kele along saath visheshkar prepared khaanaa.
the giant pandas jeevandaan in a few pahaad seemayen in central china, mainly in sichuaan province, but bhi in the shaanxi and gansu praanton.
as a parinaam of kheti, wanon and anya vikaas, the panda rai maharoom chalit out of the lowland areas jahaan it once jiya.
The pandas is a sangrakshan reliant endangered species.
A 2007 report shows 239 pandas jeena in captivity andar china or another 27 outside the desh.
junglee janasankhyikee estimates vary ; ek anumaan shows ki vahin hai parichay 1,590 individuals living in the junglee, while a 2006 padhai via diene analysis anumaanit that is figure could be as unchi as 2,000 to 3,000.
kuch reports bhi dikhaaen ki the kramank of pandas in the junglee is on the vruddhi.
However, the aiusien does nahin maananaa vahin is paryaapt certainty yet to reclassify the prajati from endangered to vulnerable.
jabaki the dragon rai praayah parosa as china 's neshnal emblem, internationally the pandas appears at tanik as commonly.
as aise, it is banane widely prayukt within China in international contexts, for udhaaharan the five fuwa mascots of the Beijing olympic.
the patang dhaavak is a 2007 amareeki naatak film nirdeshit by mark Forster aadhaarit on the anokhaa of the vahi name by Khaled hosseini.
it tells the story of Amir, a well-to-do ladke isse the vazeer Akbar khan district of kabul, jo is tormented by the guilt of abandoning uske dost Hassan, the bete of uske father 's Hazara naukar.
the story is niyat viruddh a backdrop of tumultuous events, from the patan of the samrajya in afghanistan through the soviet sainya hastkshep, the dravyaman exodus of afgaan sharnaarthiyon to Pakistan and the sanyukt rajya, or the taliban shashan.
Though sabase of the filmi is niyat in afghanistan, ye parts yahood mostly shot in Kashgar, China, due to the khataron of filmakan in afghanistan at the samay.
the bahumat of the film 's samvaad is in jameendaari, saath the shesh bolaa in angrezi.
the child abhinaytaon are native adhyakshon, lakin anek vayask abhinaytaon tha to sikh Dari.
filmakan wrapped up on disambar 21, 2006, and the filmi was expected to be released on navambar 2, 2007.
However, after concern liye the suraksha of the yang abhinaytaon in the filmi due to fears of hinsak reprisals to the sexual nature of some scenes in jisase they appear, iske relies tithi thi dhakel waapas chah weeks to disambar 14, 2007.
The patang dhaavak thi released on dvd on March 25, 2008.
A HD dvd release thi announced liye the vahi date, but thi radd following the swaroop 's nidhan.
the filmi was manonith liye the sunahari globe puraskaar liye behtareen videshi Language filmi in 2007.
the filmi 's score by Alberto Iglesias thi nominated liye behtareen asli Score at the sunahari globs or the Academy puraskaar.
the vaidhata of cannabis varies from country to desh.
Possession of canbis is illegal in sabase countries or rai been chunki the shuruuaat of faili cannabis prohibition in the late 1930s.
however, many deshon have decriminalized the kabza of choti quantities of canbis, visheshkar in uttar america, South America or europea.
furthermore, possession is vidhik or effectively legal in the netherlands, uttar korian and would be in the u.S. rajya of colorado and Washington if it were nahin for federal vidhi, jisase governs persons in sab rajya.
The aushadhiy use of cannabis is vidhik in a kramank of countries, including canada, the check ganatantr and Israel.
While sangheey vidhi in the sanyukt rajya bans all sale or kabza of cannabis, pravartan varies widely at the rajya str and kuch rajya have sthapit medicinal marijuana kaarykram in that contradict sangheey vidhi ; two states ( colorado or washington ) have repealed unke laws prohibiting the recreational upyog of cannabis and replaced unhen saath a niamak regime, bhi contrary to sangheey statute.
kuch countries have kanoon ki hai nahin as vigorously prosecuted as anya but, apart isse the deshon that offer abhigam to medical marijuana, sabase countries have vibhinn dand ranging isse lenient to bahut kathor.
Some infractions hai liya more seriously in kuch countries than others in lihaaz to the cultivation, upyog, possession or transafar of canbis liye recreational upyog.
a few jurisdictions have lessened dand liye possession of choti quantities of canbis, making it dandaneey by confiscation and a fine, rather than imprisonment.
kuch kshetradhikaaras/ drug nyaayalayon use anivaary treatment kaarykram for yang or barambar users, saath swatantraaa from narcotic davaayen as the lakshya or a few jurisdictions permit canbis upyog liye medicinal purposes.
vahin are bhi changes in a adhik restrictive direction as in Canada.
drug tests to detect canbis hai increasingly aam in anek deshon or have resulted in karawas vaakya or logon losing unke kaary.
however, saral possession can carry long karawas vaakya in some deshon, visheshkar in parts of east asia and southeast Asia jahaan the bikri of canbis may lead to a sentence of jivan in thana or bhi nishpaadan.
loxahatchee is a jatiyaan located in tad Beach county, florida, sanyukt rajya.
it is stith in the kshetron north of wellington and west and uttarpashchim of royal tad bich, Florida or approximately west of west tad bich.
loxahatchee is bhi the naam of the Post daftar ki serves this kshetrafal, which is antargat the zip code of 33470.
the name loxahatchee arthath `` turtle nadi. ''
loxahatchee is stith bheetar the bhartiya trails sudhaar zila and the loxahatchee groves jal control zila.
sher desh safari, a drive-through safari park, is located in Loxahatchee.
in 2006, the rajya of florida sweekrut incorporation of part of loxahatchee as the kasbaa of Loxahatchee groves to become the 38th nagarpalika in tad bich county.
the main reason for incorporating thi to better protect the kshetrafal isse buvaai vikaas or to preserve the rural akshar of the pados.
shaayad the most gramin area within a close nikatataa to west tad bich, saath lot aakaar dayera isse 1-20 acres.
Along saath The acreage, it is notable liye loose jameen pratibandh or the deshi or exotic animal upasthiti is kaaphi notable.
seminole lakeeren High skool serves the kshetrafal.
The Canadian naagarikta Test is a pareekshan, administered by Citizenship and avrajan Canada ( siaisi ), ki is required liye sab aavedakon for Canadian citizenship who hai aged between 18 and 54 or jo milen the basic requirements liye citizenship.
the test is uplabdhiyaan in both French or angrezi, the aadhikarik languages of Canada.
punarjagran cruge, originally founded in 1989 owned by Fearnley & eger rederi in Oslo - norway, baad purchased by edward rudner ( sansthaapak of alamo car Rental ) as the company faltered during the gulf War.
They sanchalit year-round krooj itineraries to the bumadhyasagariya, the unani isles, tahiti or the dakshin Pacific, Northern europea or scandinavia.
the company ceased parichaalan on 25 September 2001 or accommodated up to 220,000 atithi in 2000.
jabaki the company had maharoom in garib vittiya swasthya liye quite some time, the economic manaahi resulting isse the sitambar 11th aatankwaadi hamale hai credited with the demise of is krooj lakeer.
the bede is soochibaddh antargat suchi of krooj jahaajon.
It thi headquartered in fort Lauderdale, Florida.
Epithelium is ek of the four moulik prakaar of animal utak, saath saath sanyoji utak, mansapeshi tissue or baichaiyn tissue.
Epithelial utakon lakeer the cavity or satahon of structures throughout the deh, and also rup anek glands.
krityon of epithelial koshikaayen shaamil srav, selective avasorana, suraksha, transcellular hastantaran or detection of sansani.
In unani `` ἐπί '' ( `` epi '' ) arthath `` on '' or `` upon '', or `` θηλή '' ( `` thēlē '' ) means `` nipple ''.
epithelial layers are avascular, so ve jarur praapt nourishment via diffusion of substances isse the underlying sanyoji utak, through the tahkhaane jhilli.
epithelia can bhi be vyavasthit into cluster of koshikaayen ki falan as bahibasravi and antahsravi glands.
kent E. hovind ( born janvari 15, 1953 ) is an amareeki young dharti creationist.
hovind rai bolaa on creation vigyaan or has aimed to manaanaa shrota to asweekrut theories of evolution, bhubhautikee, or cosmology in ehsaan of uske nirvachan of the utpatti sristi narrative isse the bible.
hovind 's drishy hai contradicted by vaigyanik pramaan or some of uske ideas have bhi been criticized by yang dharti creationist sanghathan aise as jawaab in Genesis.
Hovind sthapit the sristi vigyaan Evangelism in 1991, or aksar spoke on yang dharti creationism at seminars at nijee skulon or carch, debates, and on radio and television prasaaran.
chunki janvari 2007, Hovind rai maharoom serving a ten-year prison vaakya after being convicted of 58 sangheey rishto, sahit 12 kar offenses, ek ginati of obstructing sangheey agents, and 45 rishto of structuring cash tranjection.
he is incarcerated at the sangheey correctional sanstha at berlin, nai Hampshire.
bahu saath Bindi sajaa maathe
a bindi (, from Sanskrit bindu, meaning `` a buund, choti kan, bindu '' ), or a pottu/bottu ( in tamil, telegu, and malayalam ) is a forehead sajaavat worn in dakshin asia ( visheshkar india, bangladesh, nepal, shri lanka or morishas ) or southeast asia.
traditionally it is a ujjwal bindu of red rang lagu in the bich of the maathe close to the eyebrows, lakin it can bhi consist of a chihn or piece of aabhushan worn at this location.
The New york gubernatorial chunaav of 2010 thi yojit on mangalvaar, navambar 2, 2010, to elect the rajyapal of New york, to serve a four-year term that began in janvari 2011.
laazim loktantric Governor David paterson, nirvaachit as Lieutenant Governor in 2006 as the kaaryshil mate of purv rajyapal Eliot spitger, chose nahin to chalaaen liye a full-term.
On navambar 2, New york Attorney saamaanya or Democrat Andrew cuomo defeated republican karl Paladino.
Green Party candidate hovi hockins praapt over 57,000 votes, allowing the nai York green party to be soochibaddh on the ballot for the aglaa 4 years.
the main daal of dragon ball at the end of the manga.
the Dragon Ball manga and dushmani shrenee features an extensive daal of varna nirmit by akira toriyama.
The shrenee takes place in a fictional brahmad, the same as toriyama 's previous shrenee dr. slump, or folo the adventures of martial artist bete goku from balykaal to adulthood as he khoj for the saat spheres gyaat as the Dragon genden, prayukt to summon a wish-granting dragon.
During the course of the story, he muthbhedon allies such as Bulma, Yamcha, kuririn and Trunks, rivals such as Tenshinhan, piccolo or vegeta, or enemies aise as freeza and koshika.
jabaki anek of the characters hai insaano saath superhuman strength and/or supernatural abilities, the daal bhi shaamil anthropomorphic pashu or later, extraterrestrial lifeforms.
the shrenee also shaamil depictions of the afterlife, saath anek varna being devataaon ki govern the brahmad.
250px
The comanche hai a Plains bhartiya janajati jinaki historic territory, gyaat as comancheria, consisted of present din purvi New mexico, dakshini colorado, northeastern erizona, dakshini Kansas, sab of Oklahoma, or sabase of northwest texas.
the comanche people hai namankit in the federally recognized comanche Nation, in Oklahoma.
historically, the Comanches yahood hunter-gatherers with a ghoda samskruti.
vahin may have maharoom as many as 45,000 comanches in the let 18th sadi.
aaj, the comanche swadesh comanche janajaatiy namakan sankhyaayein 15,191 saath lagbhag 7,763 sadasyon residing in the lawton – fort sill or surrounding areas of dakshinpaschim oklahoma.
The Comanche swadesh homecoming powwow is yojit annually in walters, Oklahoma in mid-july.
the comanche spoke the comanche bhashaa, a numic bhashaa of the uto-aztecan family, sometimes vargeekrut as a Shoshone dialect ; however, tabhi parichay 1 % of comanches bolo it aaj.
ethan Frome is a anokhaa prakashit in 1911 by the pulitzer Prize -winning amareeki author edith wharton.
it is niyat in the fictitious town of starkfield, masachusets.
the anokhaa was adapted into a filmi, Ethan Frome, in 1993.
times vargakar Studios ( TSS ) is an American television studio stith in the times vargakar pados of the Manhattan baro of New york City, nai york.
the studio is best gyaat as the production ghar of ABC news ' Good morning america ( jieme ), a morning news and baat kaarykram or khand liye GMA on abisi News abhi.
the las vegas strip World of coca-cola sangrahalay in 2003
coca-cola is a carbonated naram peya bechi in stores, restaraan, or vending machines in every desh except Cuba or North Korea.
it is utpaadit by the Coca-Cola company of atlanta, georgia, or is praayah referred to bas as Coke ( a panjikrut trademark of the coca-cola company in the sanyukt States chunki March 27, 1944 ).
originally intended as a patent ayurvigyaan jab it thi invented in the let 19th sadi by jon Pemberton, coca-cola was bought out by businessman asa Griggs candler, whose vipanan tactics led coke to its dabadabaa of the world soft-drink market throughout the 20th century.
The company produces concentrate, jisase is tab sold to licensed coca-cola bottlers throughout the world.
the bottlers, jo tham territorially exclusive anubandh saath the company, upaj samaapt utpaada in dibbe or botalon isse the concentrate in sangyojan saath filtered jal or sweeteners.
The bottlers tab bechein, distribute or merchandise coca-cola to khudara stores or vending mashine.
aise bottlers shaamil Coca-Cola udhyamon, jisase is the largest single Coca-Cola bottler in uttar america or pashchimi europea.
the Coca-Cola Company bhi bikta concentrate liye soda sroton to pramukh restaraan and khaanaa service vitarakon.
The coca-cola company rai, on avasar, introduced other cola peya under the coke brands name.
the most aam of ye is aahaar coke, saath anya sahit caffeine-free Coca-Cola, aahaar Coke caffeine-free, coca-cola cheri, Coca-Cola Zero, coca-cola Vanilla, or special sanskaran with lemon, lim or coffee.
aadhaarit on interbrand 's behtareen vaishvik brands 2011, coca-cola thi the sansar 's sabase valuable brand.
prakaar of bar-lines
in musical sanketan, a baar ( or maap ) is a segment of samay paribhaashit by a die kramank of beats, prayek of which hai assigned a particular note value.
dividing music into bars provides niyamit sandarbh ank to pin point sthitiyaan within a tukdaa of music.
it bhi makes written music easier to follow, chunki prayek baar of staff pratikon can be padhaa or played as a batch.
typically, a tukdaa consists of anek bars of the vahi lambaai, and in aadhunik musical sanketan the number of beats in prayek baar is specified at the shuruuaat of the score by the sheersh number of a time hastakshar ( aise as 3/4 ), jabaki the neeche number indicates the note maan of the taal ( the beat rai a quarter note maan in the 3/4 example ).
the shabd baar is adhik aam in angrejon angrezi, or the shabd measure is adhik common in amareeki angrezi, haalanki sangeetkaaron generally samajhe both usages.
In American angrezi, haalanki the shabd baar or maap hai praayah prayukt interchangeably the correct upyog of the word 'bar ' refers only to the lambavat lakeer itself, jabaki the shabd 'measure ' refers to the beats contained between baar.
in antarrashtriya upyog, it is baraabar sahi to bolo of bar sankhyaayein or measure sankhyaayein, e.g. ‘bars 9–16’ or ‘mm. 9–16’.
saath the vahi linon, it is hikmat to arakshit the abbreviated rup ‘bb.
3–4’ ityadi. liye beats tabhi ; bars chahie be referred to by naam in full.
The pehla metrically complete maap bheetar a tukdaa of music is pukaara ‘bar 1’ or ‘m. 1’.
jab the tukdaa begins saath an anacrusis ( an adhuri maap at the head of a piece of music ), ‘bar 1’ or ‘m. 1’ is the following maap.
the 19.9 mw gemasolar saura sanyantr in spain suvidhaayen 15 ghanton of bhandar or can supplai shakti 24 hours a day.
saura urja, raushan lite or ooshmaa isse the sun, has been harnessed by humans since pracheen times using a dayera of ever-evolving technologies.
saura urja technologies shaamil solar heating, saura photovoltaics, saura thermal vidyut, solar architecture and kritrim photosynthesis, jisase can make considerable contributions to solving kuch of the most taatkaalik urja samasyaayein the sansar abhi chehron.
Solar technologies hai broadly characterized as either passive saura or active saura depending on the rasta they capchar, badalen or vitarit saura urja.
Active saura takneekon shaamil the upyog of photovoltaic panels and solar thermal collectors to harness the urja.
passive saura takneekon shaamil orienting a bhawan to the surya, selecting saamagree saath anukool thermal mass or lite dispersing gun, or digining spaces ki naturally circulate air.
In 2011, the antarrashtriya urja Agency kaha ki `` the development of affordable, inexhaustible or saaf solar urja technologies will have huge longer-term laabh.
It hoga badhayen countries’ energy suraksha through reliance on an swadeshi, inexhaustible and mostly import-independent sansaadhan, enhance sthirataa, reduce pradooshan, nimnatar the laagat of mitigating climate badalen, or rakhana chattan eendhan prices lower than varanaa.
ye laabh are vaishvik.
hence the atirikt laagat of the protsaahan liye jaldi deployment should be mana learning nivesh ; ve jarur be budhimaani kharch or need to be widely shared ''.
praathmik parvaah may be provided in jatiyaan swasthya centres.
praathmik parvaah is the swasthya care die by a swasthya parvaah provider.
Typically is pradaata adhiniyamon as the principal point of paraamarsh for marijon within a swasthya care pranali or nirdeshaank anya specialists that the rogi may need.
aise a peshewar can be a praathmik parvaah physician, such as a saamaanya practitioner or parivaar physician, or depending on the mohalle, swasthya pranali sanghathan, or rogi 's discretion, ve may dekhie a pharmacist, a chikitsak sahaayak, a nurse practitioner, a nurse ( aise as in the sanyukt kingdom ), a clinical adhikari ( aise as in bhaag of africa ), or an ayurvedic or anya traditional medicine professional ( aise as in bhaag of asia ).
Depending on the prakruti of the swasthya condition, patients may tab be referred liye dwitiyak or tertiary care.
`` samandar avenue '' is a song ankit by amareeki pop pank samooh yellowcard.
it thi released in farvari 2004 as the duusari single from Ocean avenue or the teesraa track.
it is known liye bringing unhen into the mukhyadhara, as it praapt numerous spins on amtivi or increasing radio airplay.
samandar avenue is a gali in jacksonville, florida, the band 's stomping grounds nikat their high school, duglas anderson School of the kala, or another street ullekith in the song, cheri gali.
the naam of samandar avenue in jacksonville is actually bich boulevard.
ve left their asli aadhaar peeche jab ve sthanantarit to los Angeles.
The song thi pradarshit on the much music sankalan album Big chamakdaar dhune 9.
A psychiatrist is a chikitsak who specializes in psychiatry.
a manochikitsak specializes in the upachaar of dimagi vikaar.
psychiatrists hai praadhikrut to prescribe medicine, conduct shaareerik examinations, order or interpret prayogshaala pareekshan, upyog manochikitsa or may anukram brain imaging studies aise as computed tomography ( ct/cat Scan ), chumbakeey anunaad imaging ( mri ), or positron utsarjan tomography ( paalatu ) scanning.
bheetar the framework of the sansar swasthya sanghathan 's ( jo ) paribhaasha of swasthya as a state of puraa shaareerik, mental or soshal well-being, and nahin merely the anupasthiti of disease or infirmity, reproductive health, or yon health/hygiene, pataa the reproductive prakriyaaon, krityon or pranali at all charan of jivan.
reproductive health, therefore, implies ki logon hai samarth to have a jimmedaar, santoshjanak or safer sex jivan or ki ve have the capability to reproduce and the freedom to decide if, jab or kaisaa praayah to do so.
One nirvachan of is implies ki main or mahilaon ought to be suchit of or to have access to surakshit, prabhavi, sasti or acceptable methods of janam control ; also access to appropriate swasthya parvaah sevaayen of yon, reproductive ayurvigyaan or kriyanvayan of swasthya shiksha kaarykram to tanaav the mahatv of mahilaon to go sakushal through pregnancy and prasav could provide yugal with the behtareen chance of having a swasth infant.
on the anya hand individuals do face inequalities in reproductive swasthya sevaayen.
inequalities vary aadhaarit on socioeconomic aukaat, shiksha str, aayu, nasl, dharm, or resources available in unke paryaavaran.
it is possible for udhaaharan, ki low aay individuals kami the sansaadhan liye appropriate swasthya sevaayen or the knowledge to jaan what is appropriate for maintaining reproductive swasthya.
according to the WHO, `` reproductive and yon ill-health khate liye 20 % of the vaishvik burden of ill-health for mahilaon, or 14 % for main. ''
reproductive health is a part of yon or reproductive swasthya or adhikaron.
is is a list of episodes liye the dijani Channel asli series the suite jivan on deck, which aired liye three seasons on Disney channel isse September 26, 2008 to may 6, 2011.
kor 2 is a brand encompassing a range of intel 's consumer 64-bit x86-64 single-, dual-, or quad-core microprocessors aadhaarit on the kor microarchitecture.
the single- or dual-core model hai single- die, whereas the quad-core model comprise two dies, each containing two cores, packaged in a multi-chip module.
The parichay of Core 2 relegated the Pentium brands to the mid-range market, or reunified laptop or desktop cpu linon, which previously had maharoom divided into the Pentium 4, pentium D, or Pentium m brands.
the Core 2 brand thi introduced on 27 July 2006, comprising the solo ( single-core ), duo ( dual-core ), quad ( quad-core ), and in 2007, the charam ( duail- or quad-core cpu for enthusiasts ) subbrands.
intel Core 2 processors with vpro praudyogiki ( designed liye vyavsaayon ) include the dual-core or quad-core shakhaon.
the super katori is the salanaa championships khel of the National footbaal lig ( enegel ), the highest str of peshewar amareeki football in the United States, culminating a ritu ki begins in the let garmiyaan of the pichhlaa panchang saal.
the Super katori upyog roman numerals to pahachaano each khel, balki than the saal in jisase it is yojit.
liye example, Super Bowl i thi nibhaai on January 15, 1967, following the 1966 niyamit season, while super katori xlvii was nibhaai on farvari 3, 2013, following the 2012 ritu.
the khel thi nirmit as part of a vilay anubandh between the enegel and iske then-rival league, the amareeki Football lig ( afl ).
It was sahamat that the two lig ' champion tiimon hota play in an afl–nfl World championships khel jabatak the vilay was to officially shuru in 1970.
baad the vilay, each lig was redesignated as a `` sammelan ``, or the khel was tab nibhaai between the conference champions.
Currently, the neshnal Football Conference ( nfc ) leads the shrenee saath 25 wins to 22 vins for the amareeki footbaal sammelan ( afc ).
the din on jisase the super katori is nibhaai, abhi mana by some a de facto amareeki national holiday, is pukaara `` super katori sande ``.
it is the second-largest din liye u.S. food khapat, baad thankgiving din.
in addition, the Super katori has aksar maharoom the sabase dekhi amareeki television broadcast of the year.
super katori xlv, nibhaai in 2011, became the most-watched American television kaarykram in history, aarekhan an ausat audience of 111 million viewers and lene over the spot yojit by the pichhlaa year 's super katori, jisase itself had liya over the # 1 spot yojit liye twenty-eight years by the final episode of m*a*s*h.
the super katori is also among the sabase watched sporting events in the world, lagbhag sab hone North amareeki audiyans, or is duusari to sangh footbaal ’s yuiefee Champions lig final as the sabase watched salanaa sporting event vishwavyaapee.
kuki of its high viewership, vanijyik airtime during the super katori broadcast is the sabase mahangi of the saal.
due to the unchi laagat of nivesh in vigyaapan on the super Bowl, companiyaan regularly develop their sabase mahangi advertisements liye is broadcast.
As a result, watching or discussing the broadcast 's commercials rai become a significant pahalu of the event.
In jod, anek popular gayakon and musicians have performed dauraan the event 's pre-game or madhyantar ceremonies kuki of the expozar.
fiona is a feminine given naam.
the naam Fiona thi invented, and pehla prayukt, by the scottish kavi james macpherson ( 1736–96 ), lekhak of the ossian kavitaayen, jisase he claimed yahood anuwaad isse ancient Gaelic strot ( strot, jab challenged, he never utpaadit ).
the naam thi subsequently prayukt as a pseudonym by wiliam sharp ( 1855–1905 ), jo authored anek romantic works antargat the naam `` Fiona macleod ''.
the naam has chunki become lokapriy in England, Scotland or ireland.
the name is mana to be a Latinised rup of the Gaelic shabd fionn, arth `` white '', `` fair ''.
The name Fiona is bhi sometimes prayukt as an anglicisation of the irish-language naam fíona, haalanki ye names are varanaa unrelated ( as fíona is niklaa from an tatv meaning `` bel '' ).
vahin is bhi a modern tendency to equate the authentic scottish Gaelic feminine naam fionnghal with fiona.
The name Fiona is uthati in lokapriyata visheshkar in germany -speaking deshon.
fiona thi the 49th sabase lokapriy naam for baby ladakiyon born in 2008 in germany.
fiona thi tied for teesraa place in the ranking of sabase lokapriy names liye baby ladakiyon born in the tiny principality of liechtenstein in 2008.
the name was the 347th most lokapriy naam liye girls born in the sanyukt rajya in 2008, jahaan it has kramit among the sheersh 1,000 sabase lokapriy names liye ladakiyon chunki 1990 or among the sheersh 500 chunki 1999.
the name Fiona rai maharoom visheshkar lokapriy for ladakiyon of asian or Pacific islander descent in New York City, jahaan fiona kramit as the naveen sabase popular naam liye ladakiyon isse those samooh in 2007.
Many languages are prayukt, or historically have been prayukt in the sanyukt rajya.
the most commonly prayukt language is angrezi.
vahin hai also many languages swadeshi to North America or to U.S. rajya or holdings in the prashanth pradesh.
bhashaaen brought to the desh by colonists or apravasiyon isse europea, Asia, or other parts of the sansar mek up a vishaal portion of the languages currently prayukt ; several bhashaaen, sahit creoles or chihn languages, have bhi viksit in the United rajya.
lagbhag 337 languages hai bolaa or hastakshrit by the janasankhyikee, of jisase 176 hai indigenous to the kshetrafal.
fifty-two languages formerly bolaa in the desh 's territory hai abhi vilupt.
the kismein of English bolaa in the United rajya is gyaat as American English.
angrezi is the de facto neshnal bhashaa of the sanyukt rajya, saath 80 % of the janasankhyikee claiming it as a maan jeebh, or kuch 95 % claiming to bolo it `` khub '' or `` bahut khub ''.
However, no aadhikarik bhashaa exists at the sangheey str.
vahin have maharoom anek prastaav to mek angrezi the neshnal bhashaa in amendments to avrajan reform bills, lakin none of ye bills rai become vidhi saath the amendment barkaraar.
the halaat is kaaphi varied at the rajya or territorial str, with some rajya mirroring the sangheey niti of adopting no aadhikarik bhashaa in a de jure capacity, anya adopting angrezi alon, anya officially adopting angrezi as well as local bhashaaen, or still anya adopting a policy of de facto bilingualism.
spani is the duusari sabase aam language in the desh, or is bolaa by over 12 % of the population.
the United rajya holds the sansar 's paanchvaan largest spanish-speaking population, outnumbered only by mexico, spain, Colombia, and Argentina.
throughout the southwestern sanyukt States, long-established Spanish-speaking communities coexist saath large sankhyaayein of more haal hispanophone apravasiyon.
Although anek nai latin amareeki apravasiyon hai less than dharapravaah in angrezi, nearly sab second-generation Hispanic Americans bolo English fluently, while only about half still speak spani.
according to the 2000 US janasankhyikee, logon of germany ancestry make up the largest single jaateey samooh in the United States, or the German language ranks paanchvaan.
italvi, polish, and french are still widely bolaa among populations descending isse apravasiyon isse those deshon in the early 20th sadi, lakin the upyog of ye bhashaaen is dwindling as the puraani peedhiyaan die.
roosi is bhi spoken by apravasi populations.
Tagalog or vietnami have over ek million adhyakshon prayek in the sanyukt States, almost entirely within haal apravasi populations.
dono bhashaaen, along saath the kismein of the Chinese bhashaa, Japanese, or korian, hai abhi used in chunaavon in alaska, california, Hawaii, Illinois, New york, texas, and Washington.
deshi amareeki bhashaaen are spoken in smaller pockets of the desh, lakin these populations are avarohan, and the bhashaaen are almost never widely prayukt outside of reserveshan.
hawaii, although having few native adhyakshon, is an official bhashaa saath with angrezi at the state str in hawaii.
the rajya sarkari of louisiana offers sevaayen and documents in french, as karata nai Mexico in spani.
besides English, spani, french, German, navajo or anya Native American languages, sab other languages hai praayah siikhe isse apravasi purvajo that came baad the samay of independence or siikhe through kuch rup of shiksha.
1990 's pontiac grand am sedan fender and quarter falak
on an automobile, a quarter falak ( or pasch wing as it is gyaat in angrejon angrezi ) is usually mana the deh falak jisase goes between the pasch door or the trunk and typically wraps around the wheel khub ; however, the samaan front khand phender ( vehicle ), between the dwaar or the hud, is sometimes incorrectly referred to as a quarter falak.
The quarter panel is typically made of chadar metal, lakin is sometimes bana of fiberglass or fiber-reinforced plastic ; haalanki, this varies with alag makes or model.
a quarter panel is typically a welded on component of the uni-body structure or monocoque.
badalanaa of a sheet metal quarter falak typically requires it to be kaaten band the gadee and a badalanaa bhaag to be welded ( or sometimes bonded ) to the gadee.
due to is unchi raashi of specialized labor, a quarter falak may praayah be repaired balki than replaced by hammering out the kshati, or a deh philler sometimes referred to as bondo to be lagu to finalize the asli sataha.
shropshire ( or ; alternatively Salop ; abbreviated, in chapai tabhi, Shrops ) is a county in the West midlands region of england.
it simaayen Wales to the west, Cheshire to the north, staffordshire to the east, wastershire to the south-east or herefordshire to the dakshin.
a ekaatmak praadhikaar ( shropshire parishad ) was nirmit on 1 April 2009, lene over isse the pichhlaa county parishad or 5 zila councils, or covers sabase of the county.
the baro of telford or wrekin rai maharoom a separate ekaatmak praadhikaar since 1998 lakin continues to be included in the ceremonial county.
the county 's janasankhyikee and arthvyavastha is kendrit on paanch kasbon : the county kasbaa of shrewsbury, jisase is culturally or historically important or is stith in the kendra of the county ; telford, a new town in the east jisase thi constructed around a kramank of older kasbon, sabase notably wellington, Dawley or madeley, jisase is aaj the most populous ; and Oswestry in the north-west, bridgnorth bas to the south of Telford, or ludlow in the south.
The county rai anek further market kasbon, sahit whitchurch in the uttar, newport bas to the north-east of telford, and market Drayton in the north-east of the county.
the ironbridge gorge kshetrafal is a unesco sansar Heritage Site, covering ironbridge, coalbrookdale or a bhaag of madeley.
vahin hai, additionally, anya notable aitihaasik audyogic site located around the county, aise as at shrewsbury, broseley, Snailbeach and highley as khub as the Shropshire Union Canal.
The Shropshire pahadiyaan kshetrafal of bakaayaa prakritik saundarya cover parichay a quarter of the county, mukhyatah in the south.
shropshire is one of england 's sabase rural and sparsely aabaadi counties, saath the janasankhyikee ghanatv of the shropshire Council kshetrafal hone bas 91/km2 ( 337/sq mi ).
the wrekin is ek of the sabase famous natural landmark in the county, haalanki the highest hills hai the clee Hills, stiperstones or the long mynd.
wenlock Edge is another significant bhugolic and geological landmark.
in the low-lying uttarpashchim of the county ( or overlapping the kinaaraa saath wales ) is the fenn 's, whixall or Bettisfield mosses National Nature arakshit, ek of the sabase mahatvapurn or behtareen preserved bogs in Britain.
the nadi severn, great britain 's longest nadi, ranon through the county, exiting into wastershire via the severn ghati.
shropshire is landlocked, or saath an area of, is england 's largest antardeshiy county.
the county pushp is the round-leaved sundew.
For eurostat uddeshy, the county ( kam the ekaatmak zila of telford and Wrekin ) is a NUTS 3 pradesh ( code ukg22 ).
the two shropshire ekaatmak kshetron ( covering sab of the ceremonial county ), together with the adhikariyon covering the ceremonial county of staffordshire, comprise the `` shropshire and staffordshire '' nuts 2 pradesh.
the big bang siddhanth daal at comic con 2009, from left : Kunal nayyar, simon Helberg, kaley cuoco, Jim parcens, and johny Galecki
The amareeki sitcom The Big Bang siddhanth, nirmit or karypalika utpaadit by chak lorre and vidheyak prady, premiered on CBS on September 24, 2007.
the show centers on paanch varna : roommates sheldon kupar or leonard hofstadter, do Caltech physicists ; paini, a vetres or aspiring actress jo jeevandaan aarpaar the haul ; or Leonard or sheldon 's mitron and co-workers aerospace engineer Howard wolowitz, or astrophysicist rajesh koothrappali.
over samay, anek supporting varna have maharoom promoted to abhinit roles : Leslie Winkle ( ritu 1 punaravarti ; ritu 2 regular ; ritu 3 guest ), a physicist sahyogi, or, at alag times, a premi of dono Leonard or harvard ; bernadette rostenkowski-wolowitz ( ritu 3 recurring ; season 4-present niyamit ), a microbiologist, harvard 's fiancée and subsequent wife, or purv part-time waitress alongside paini ; neuroscientist emi Farrah fowler ( ritu 3 atithi ; ritu 4 recurring ; ritu 4-present regular ), jo joins the group baad hone matched to Sheldon on a dating jalsthal ; or comic book store-owner, Stuart khilte ( seasons 2–5 recurring ; ritu 6-present niyamit ), jo replaces Howard as Raj 's best dost jab harvard is in space.
The dikhaaen bhi suvidhaayen numerous supporting characters, prayek of jisko plays a prominent bhoomika in a choti samooh of episodes.
the A-Team is an amareeki action-adventure television shrenee, kaaryshil isse 1983 to 1987, parichay a fictional samooh of ex– sanyukt rajya Army khaas shaktiyaan personnel jo work as sainiko of fortune, jabaki on the run isse the fouj baad hone branded as war aparaadhiyon liye a `` crime ve kiya n't commit ``.
a visheshta filmi aadhaarit on the shrenee thi released by 20th sadi fox on june 11, 2010.
a comic book shrenee, a-team : Shotgun vivaah, began kooch 9, 2010.
dyna prince is a fictional akshar appearing regularly in kahaniyaan prakashit by dc comics.
She debuted in Sensation comics # 1 ( janvari 1942 ) or serves as the civilian and rahasy pahchaan of the superhiro achraj stri.
the akshar thi nirmit by charles moulton or harry G. peter.
wat phra kaew, Bangkok, thailand
There is no aadhikarik state dharm in the Thai constitution, jisase guarantees dharmik swatantraaa liye all Thai nagarikon, haalanki the king is required by law to be buddha.
according to the pichhlaa janasankhyikee ( 2000 ) 94.6 % of Thais are baudhon of the Theravada tradition.
musalmaan hai the duusari largest dharmik group in thailand at 4.6 %.
thailand 's southernmost praanton - Pattani, Yala, Narathiwat or part of songkhla chumphon have dominant Muslim populations, consisting of dono jaateey Thai and malay.
The southern tip of thailand is mostly jaateey malays.
Christians, mainly catholics, represent 0.7 % of the population.
a choti lakin influential community of sikhon in thailand or some hinduon also sajiv in the desh 's shaharon, and are heavily sagaai in khudara commers.
There is bhi a choti yahudee jatiyaan in thailand, dating waapas to the 17th century.
Since 2001, muslim activists, generally varnit by the thai sarkari as aatankwaadi or separatists, have rallied viruddh the central government because of kathith corruption or ethnic bias on the bhaag of officials.
Thailand 's vibhaag of dharm, philhal under the Ministry of samskruti, is formally jimmedaar liye the panjikaran of dharmik groups in thailand url_http jisase hold gun through legally sthapit muladhar.
it rai oversight, along saath the Immigration Police, over the kaary permits of prachaarkon jo hai `` expatriate dharmik workers '' of sab dharmon.
a value added kar ( vat ) is a rup of khapat kar.
From the pariprekshya of the kharidaar, it is a kar on the khariden price.
isse that of the seller, it is a kar only on the maan added to a product, material, or service, isse an hisaab point of view, by is stage of iske manufacture or distribution.
the nirmaataa remits to the government the difference between ye two amounts, and retains the baaki for themselves to ofaset the kar ve tha previously sashulk on the inputs.
the maan added to a utpaada by or with a kaarobaar is the bikri price charged to iske graahak, rin the laagat of materials and anya taxable inputs.
a vat is like a sales kar in that ultimately only the samaapt upabhokta is taxed.
It differs from the bikri kar in ki, saath the latter, the kar is ekatrit or remitted to the government tabhi ekbar, at the point of purchase by the samaapt consumer.
saath the vat, sangrahan, remittances to the sarkari, or credit for kar already sashulk occur each samay a kaarobaar in the supplai kadi purchases utpaada.
a referi colling a high-sticking penaltyhigh
-sticking is the naam of do infractions in the khel of ice hockey that may occur jab a khilaadi intentionally or inadvertently plays saath his or uske stick upar the height of the kandhon or above the cross baar of a hockey lakshya.
is can parinaam in a stoppage of play or in a dand.
In the rules of the neshnal Hockey lig, high-sticking is paribhaashit as a dand in Rule 60 or as a non-penalty beyimaani in niyam 80.
a stoppage in khel parinaam if a high stick aata in contact saath the pak or the toli jo chuaa it regains control of the puck.
However, khel praayah continues if a khilaadi chhu the puck saath a unchi stick or the opposing toli gains control of the pak.
if the pak goes into the opposing net baad coming into sampark saath a unchi stick, the lakshya is pratibandhit.
The level at which a stick is considered too unchi for a lakshya is the crossbar of the jaal.
however, if a player knocks the pak into uske apana jaal with a unchi stick, the goal is anumat.
a dand is assessed if a player strikes another khilaadi with a unchi stick.
the player is given a minor dand jabatak uske unchi stick caused an injury, in jisase maamla the referi rai the vikalp to assess a double-minor, pramukh or match penalty.
it is the referi 's discretion jisase dand to assess : the rule kals liye a doguna naaballig for an aakasmik injury, or a match dand for a deliberate attempt to injure ( whether the vipaksh khilaadi was darasal ghayal ).
chot is praayah decided by the unchi stick causing bleeding, but the presence of rakt karata nahin automatically ausat an atirikt penalty is awarded.
Some referees have been gyaat to puraskaar an atirikt dand without the upasthiti of rakt if the referee determines that the chot sustained thi sufficient to warrant a double-minor penalty.
Typical modern memory card reader, sangat saath anek aam formats
A memory card reader is a yantra, typically having a usb interfes, liye accessing the aankada on a memory card aise as a compactflash ( cf ), surakshit digital ( sd ) or MultiMediaCard ( MMC ).
sabase card pathak bhi prastaav likhen capability, and saath with the card, is can falan as a kalam drive.
kuch printers or personal computer have a built-in card reader.
A multi card reader is used for sanchaar saath more than one prakaar of flash memory card.
multi card readers do not have built-in memory kshamta, lakin hai samarth to accept multiple prakaar or sheliyaan of memory taash.
the kramank of sangat memory taash varies from reader to reader and can include adhik than 20 alag prakaar.
The number of alag memory taash that a multi card reader can accept is expressed as x-in-1, saath x hone a figure of merit indicating the kramank of memory taash accepted, aise as 35-in-1.
There hai three shrenee of card pathak sorted by the prakaar and quantity of the card slots : single card reader ( e.g. 1x SD-only ), multi card reader ( e.g. 9-in-1 ) or shrenee card reader ( e.g. 4x sd tabhi ).
Some kinds of memory taash with their apana usb krityon do not need the card reader, aise as the budhimaan Stick memory card, jisase can plag sidhe into a USB slot.
the usb device class prayukt is 0x08.
dhamkaana is detrimental to vidhyaarthee ' well-being or vikaas.
dhamkaana is the upyog of force or coercion to gaali or intimidate anya.
the bartaav can be habitual or involve an asantulan of social or shaareerik shakti.
It can shaamil maukhik utpeedan or threat, shaareerik utpeedan or coercion or may be nirdeshit repeatedly towards particular victims, shaayad on grounds of race, dharm, gender, kaamuktha, or ability.
if dhamkaana is kiya by a samooh, it is called mobbing.
The shikaar of dhamkaana is sometimes referred to as a `` target ''.
dhamkaana can be paribhaashit in many alag tareeke.
The UK philhal rai no vidhik definition of bullying, jabaki kuch U.S. rajya have laws against it.
dhamkaana consists of three moulik prakaar of abuse – emotional, maukhik, and shaareerik.
it typically involves halkaa vidhi of coercion aise as intimidation.
Bullying seemayen isse saral one-on-one bullying to more jatil dhamkaana in jisase the buli may have ek or more `` lieutenants '' who may seem to be willing to assist the praathmik bully in his or uske dhamkaana kriyaayein.
dhamkaana in skool and the workplace is bhi referred to as pir gaali.
robert W. fuller rai analyzed bullying in the context of rankism.
a dhamkaana samskruti can develop in koi context in jisase human beings interact saath each other.
is includes skool, church, parivaar, the kaarysthal, ghar, or pados.
Happy slapping in the instituto kshetreey federico errázuriz, Santa cruge, chile
laura bush or rae Leigh bradbury ( formerly laapata ) on april 4, 2007, in austin, texas, baad the 8-year-old introduced mrs. Bush dauraan ghoshnaa of the bhavishya kholane of the Texas kshetreey daftar of the neshnal bich liye laapata or Exploited children.
rae leigh thi the pehla child in the u.S. to be recovered as a result of an ember chetavanee jab wo was 8 weeks boodha in November 1998.
an ember chetavanee or a child abduction apaat ( vahi code : cae ) is a child abduction chetavanee system originating in 1996, abhi employed in 9 deshon.
ember is officially a backronym liye america 's laapata : prasaaran apaat jawaab, namit liye ember hagerman, a 9-year-old abducted or murdered in Arlington, Texas in 1996.
vaikalpik kshetreey chetavanee names yahood ekbar prayukt ; in georgia, `` levi 's kol '' ( namit after Levi frady ) ; in hawaii, `` Maile ember chetavanee '' ( baad Maile gilbert ) ; or arkansaas, `` morgan Nick Amber chetavanee '' ( in memory of morgan chauntel Nick ).
ember Alerts hai vitarit via vanijyik radio stations, antarjaal radio, upgrah radio, television stesan, and cabel TV by the Emergency chetavanee pranali and noaa mausam Radio ( jahaan ve are termed `` child Abduction apaat '' or `` ember chetavaniyaan '' ).
the chetavaniyaan hai bhi jari via e-mail, electronic traffic-condition lakshan, the led billboards jisase are stith baahar of newer walgreens sthitiyaan, along saath the led/lcd signs of billboard companiyaan aise as saaf channel bahari, sibies bahari and laimor, or through betaar yantra SMS text messages.
AMBER chetavanee has bhi teamed up saath Google or fasebuk to riley soochna regarding an AMBER chetavanee to an kabhi growing janasankhyikee.
Those interested in subscribing to receive AMBER Alerts in unke area via sms sandesh can visit betaar ember Alerts, which hai offered by vidhi as free messages.
in kuch states, the pradarshak scrollboards in front of lottery terminals are also used.
The nirnay to declare an AMBER chetavanee is made by prayek police organization ( in anek maamle, the state police or highway patrol ) jisase investigates prayek of the abductions.
Public soochna in an ember Alert usually consists of the naam or varnan of the abductee, a description of the suspected abductor, or a varnan and anugna thali kramank of the abductor 's vehicle, if uplabdhiyaan.
monica samille lewinsky ( born july 23, 1973 ) is an amareeki stri saath jisko sanyukt rajya adhyaksh vidheyak clinton admitted to having tha an `` improper sambandh '' while wo worked at the shwet house in 1995 or 1996.
the affair and iske parakhnaa ( jisase included clinton 's mahabhiyog ) became known as the lewinsky cond.
House of raatri is a series of pishaach -themend kaalpanik novels by American lekhak P. C. daal or uske beti kristin daal.
It folo the adventures of Zoey redbird, a sixteen-year-old ladki who rai just become a `` fledgling vampyre '' or is jaruri to attend the house of Night boarding skool in Tulsa, oklahoma.
the shrenee rai been on the nai York times behtareen vikreta suchi liye 63 saptaah or vahin are over saat lakh copies in chapai in uttar america alon.
the chathe anokhaa, Tempted, jisase gai on bikri on aktubar 27, 2009 saath a pehla mudran of a lakh copies, entered the uese aaj bestceller suchi ki week at # 1.
in janvari, 2010, gezeichnet, a German anuwaad of Marked, pahunche the # 1 spot on the Der Spiegel bestceller list.
the shrenee rai so dur sold more than ten lakh kitabe in 39 countries.
Burned thi released on april 27, 2010, or jaise imtihaan, it entered the uese aaj bestceller suchi that saptaah at # 1.
awakened, released in January, 2011, also entered the list at # 1.
the shrenee, jisase is published by st Martin 's dabaayen is niojit to shaamil baarah books.
In 2008, yojanaayen for a film anukulan yahood bhi ghoshit.
the dasavaan kitaab in the series, chupa, thi released on aktubar 16, 2012.
the second kitaab in the novellas ( jisase de prishthbhumi on supporting varna ), lenobia 's pran, was released janvari 31, 2012.
kitaab gyaarah is philhal pukaara Revealed, or the casts have ghoshit that do more novellas, neferet’s abhishaap, planned to be released farvari 19, 2013, or a prequel anokhaa parichay Kalona, hai to be released to coincide with the eleventh and twelfth kitabe.
in unani mythology, the trojan yuddh thi waged viruddh the nagar of Troy by the Achaeans ( unaniyon ) after Paris of troy took hellen isse uske husband menelaus king of Sparta.
the yuddh is ek of the sabase mahatvapurn kaarykram in unani mythology and rai maharoom narrated through anek works of Greek literature, sabase notably through homer 's elliod or the Odyssey.
The elliod relates a part of the last saal of the siege of troy ; the odissi describes Odysseus 's yatra ghar.
anya parts of the yuddh hai contained in a cycle of epic kavitaayen, which have batch through fragments.
apisod isse the yuddh provided saamagree liye unani tragedy or anya works of Greek sahitya, or liye roman poets sahit Virgil or ovid.
the yuddh originated isse a jhagada between the goddesses athena, hera, or Aphrodite, after eris, the devi of sangharsh or anban, gave unhen a sunahari tehraana, sometimes known as the Apple of Discord, chihnit `` for the fairest ''.
zeeus sent the deviyaan to Paris, jo judged ki aphrodite, as the `` fairest '', chahie praapt the tehraana.
in exchange, aphrodite made hellen, the sabase khubasurat of sab mahilaon or bivi of menelaus, patan in love saath Paris, jo took uske to Troy.
agamemnon, king of Mycenae or the bhai of hellen 's husband Menelaus, led an expedition of Achaean sainikon to Troy and besieged the city liye ten saalo kuki of paris ' beijjati.
After the deaths of many heroes, including the Achaeans achilles and ajaks, or the trogence hectares or Paris, the city giri to the ruse of the trojan ghoda.
The achaeans slaughtered the Trojans ( magar for kuch of the mahilaon or children whom ve rakhaa or bechi as slave ) or desecrated the mandiron, yun earning the gods ' prakope.
few of the achaeans returned sakushal to unke homes and anek founded colonies in dur shores.
the romans baad traced unke origin to aeneas, ek of the Trojans, jo thi kaha to have led the surviving trogence to modern-day italy.
the pracheen unaniyon vichaar that the Trojan yuddh was a historical event ki tha liya place in the 13th or 12th sadi bc, or believed ki troy thi located in modern-day turkon nikat the dardanelles.
By aadhunik times, dono the war or the nagar were widely believed to be non-historical.
in 1868, however, the German archaeologist heinrich Schliemann mili frank calvert, jo kaayal schliemann ki troy was at hissarlik and Schliemann took over calvert 's excavations on property belonging to calvert ; is arji is abhi accepted by sabase vidwaanon.
whether vahin is koi historical vaastaviktaa behind the trojan War is an open sawaal.
Many vidwaanon believe ki vahin is a historical kor to the tail, though is may simply ausat that the homeric stories hai a sanlayan of various tales of sieges and rijhaane by misinian unaniyon during the kaansya Age.
those who maananaa ki the kahaniyaan of the trojan yuddh hai niklaa from a specific aitihaasik virodh praayah tithi it to the 12th or 11th sadiyaan BC, often preferring the tithiyaan die by iratosthaniz, 1194–1184 bc, which roughly corresponds saath puraatatv evidence of a catastrophic burning of troy viia.
anarchists have employed certain pratikon liye their kaaran, sahit sabase prominently the circle-a or the blike dhvaj, although anarchists have historically largely asweekrut the mahatv of symbols to rajnatik gati.
chunki the punaruddhar of araajaktaavaad around the prarambh of the 21st-century sanyukt saath the vruddhi of the anti-globalization gati, araajaktaavaadi saanskrithik pratikon are widely present.
The vrihad palatine kanal ( or pterygopalatine canal ) is a dyodhi in the kapaal ki transmits the vrihad palatine dhamni, rag, or tantrika between the pterygopalatine fossa and the maukhik guha.
sataha taapmaana of antarctic in winter or garmiyaan isse the europea kendra liye medium-range Weather forecasts
the jalwaayu of antarctic is the coldest on the puure of dharti.
antarctic has the lowest naturally occurring taapmaana kabhi ankit on the maidan on Earth : −89.2 °c ( −128.6 °f ) at Vostok Station.
it is also extremely dry ( technically a marusthal ), averaging 166 mm ( 6.5 in ) of varshan prati year.
bhi so, on sabase parts of the mahadweep the him rarely melts or is eventually sampidit to become the glacial barf ki makes up the barf chadar.
Weather fronts rarely penetrate far into the continent.
sabase of antarctic rai an barf cap jalwaayu ( köppen ef ) saath bahut cold, generally atyadhik shushk mausam throughout the saal and no month averaging upar 0 °C ( 32 °f ).
kuch frinz tateey kshetron have a tundra jalwaayu ( köppen et ) saath a choti garmiyaan averaging above jamane, and much ucchtar varshan.
vartmaan sir coach mike Tomlin, dauraan the 2007 season
the pittsburg stilers franchise has tha 16 sir coach throughout iske itihaas.
santhaapit as the Pittsburgh pirates in, the naam thi badla to the Steelers prior to the ritu to celebrate the nagar 's heritage of producing steel.
jo Bach parosa do separate sharten as head coach or walt kiesling served three pruthak terms.
dauraan the or sizan, due to the raashi of khilaadi jo ladaa in sansar yuddh ii, the Steelers sanyukt unke toli saath philadelphia or Chicago, kramshah.
dauraan ye sizan, Steelers ' coach Walt kiesling saajha coaching kartavya with Greasy neale and phil Handler, jo have nahin maharoom shaamil bheetar is list.
struggling liye much of the matadhikaar 's jaldi saalo, the toli 's first season with adhik vins than losses thi coached by jock Sutherland in.
in, antargat Sutherland, the Steelers nibhaai their pehla playoff khel viruddh the philadelphia Eagles.
Ten of the 16 sir coach kharch their sampurna professional coaching careers saath the matadhikaar, including John mcnally, Walt Kiesling and chak noll, jo have bhi maharoom voted into the Pro footbaal Hall of kirti.
ek of tabhi four men to coach the vahi team for 23 years, chak noll ritred in.
noll is bhi the only coach in neshnal footbaal League itihaas to jeet chaar Super pyaale.
Bill Cowher, noll 's badalanaa, coached the Steelers to unke paanchvaan super Bowl vijay, in 2005.
the stilers chathe Super katori jeet aae in super katori xliii, while head coached by mike tomlin, the toli 's vartmaan head coach.
in dand vidhi, dhokhadhadi is jaanboojhkar deception bana liye nijee laabh or to damage another individual ; the sambandhit kriyasheel is beyimaan, or kriya is defraud.
dhokhadhadi is a aparaadhon or a civil vidhi violation, though the specific criminal vidhi definition varies by vidhik kshetradhikaar.
Defrauding logon or entities of dhan or valuables is a aam purpose of fraud.
A hoax bhi involves deception, lakin without the iraade of laabh or of damaging or depriving the shikaar.
dhokhadhadi is a defense in a civil karrwai for breach of anubandh or vishisht pradarshan of a anubandh.
dhokhadhadi is a basis liye nishpaksh kshetradhikaar.
Passover, or pesach ( isse : in yahudee, yahudee ), tiberian :, aadhunik yahudee : /ˈpesaχ/ pesah, pesakh, Yiddish : peysekh, Paysakh, paysokh ) is an mahatvapurn biblically -derived yahudee festival.
historically, together saath shavuot ( `` Pentecost '' ) or sukkot ( `` jhopadiyon '' ), passover is one of the three yatraaen festivals ( shalosh regalim ) during jisase the sampurna janasankhyikee of the kingdom of yahuda bana a yatraaen to the Temple in jerusalem.
Samaritans still mek is pilgrimage to Mount gerizim, lakin tabhi main participate in public ibaadat.
passover commences on the 15th of the Hebrew maah of nisan or lasts liye either saat dinon ( in Israel ) or aath days ( in the diaspora ).
In Judaism, a din commences at sandhya and lasts jabatak the following sandhya, thus the pehla day of passover tabhi begins baad sandhya of the 14th of nisan or ends at sandhya of the 15th din of the maah of nisan.
the sanskaar adwitiya to the passover jashn commence saath the passover seder jab the 15th of nisan rai begun.
in the Northern Hemisphere passover takes place in vasant as the tora prescribes it : `` in the month of [ the ] vasant '' ( בחדש האביב ).
it is ek of the sabase widely observed Jewish holidays.
the yahudee people celebrate passover as a commemoration of their liberation over 3,300 saalo pehle by parameshwar isse gulaami in pracheen mishra ki thi ruled by the pharaohs, or unke janam as a swadesh antargat the netritv of musa.
It commemorates the story of the exodus as varnit in the yahudee bible especially in the Book of exodus, in jisase the israelites yahood freed from gulaami in mishra.
in the narrative of the exodus, the bible tells ki parameshwar helped the Children of israel escape isse unke gulaami in mishra by inflicting ten plagues upon the pracheen unhone before the Pharaoh would relies uske israelite slave ; the dasavaan or worst of the plagues was the death of the mishra first-born.
the israelites yahood instructed to chihnit the doorposts of unke gharon saath the rakt of a slaughtered vasant memne and, upon dekhakar is, the spirit of the rab knew to pass over the first-born in ye gharon, hence the naam of the avkaash.
There is kuch bahes over jahaan the pad is actually niklaa from.
When the Pharaoh freed the israelites, it is kaha that ve left in aise a hurry ki they could nahin intjaar for bread dough to rise ( leaven ).
in commemoration, for the avadhi of Passover no leavened bread is khaaya, for jisase kaaran it is called `` the Festival of the unleavened bread ''.
Thus matzo ( flat unleavened bread ) is khaaya dauraan passover or it is a pratik of the avkaash.
heley 's dhoomaketu or dhoomaketu heley ( or ), officially designated 1P/Halley, is the best-known of the short-period dhoomaketuon and is visible isse dharti prayek 75–76 years.
heley is the only short-period dhoomaketu ki is clearly drishy to the nagn najar isse dharti, and thus the tabhi naked-eye dhoomaketu ki might appear twice in a insaan aaajeevan.
anya naked-eye comets may be ujjwal or adhik spectacular, but hoga appear tabhi ekbar in thousands of years.
heley 's returns to the bhitari saura pranali have maharoom observed or recorded by astronomers chunki at tanik 240 bce.
saaf record of the comet 's dikhaave were made by Chinese, babylonian, and madhyakaalin European chroniclers, lakin yahood nahin pahachaanaa as reappearances of the same object at the samay.
The comet 's periodicity thi first determined in 1705 by English astronomer edmond heley, baad jisko it is abhi named.
heley 's dhoomaketu last appeared in the inner saura System in 1986 or will aglaa appear in mid-2061.
dauraan its 1986 apparition, Halley became the pehla dhoomaketu to be observed in detail by spacecraft, providing the pehla observational aankada on the dhaancha of a dhoomaketu cendrak or the mechanism of coma or tail formation.
ye observations supported a kramank of longstanding hypotheses about dhoomaketu nirmaan, visheshkar Fred Whipple 's `` ganda snowball '' model, jisase correctly predicted that heley hota be rachit of a mishran of volatile ices – such as jal, carbon dioxide and ammonia – and dhul.
the mishan also provided data jisase substantially reformed or reconfigured ye vichaar ; for udhaaharan it is abhi samajha ki heley 's sataha is largely rachit of dusty, non-volatile saamagree, or ki only a choti portion of it is icy.
Anti-communism is vipaksh to samyavaadee.
Organized anti-communism developed in pratikriya to the rise of samyavaadee, visheshkar baad the 1917 aktubar kranti in rus or reaching vaishvik dimensions during the thanda War.
sabase anti-communists asweekrut the avadharana of aitihaasik materialism, jisase is a central vichaar in Marxism.
anti-communists asweekrut the marxvaadi vishwaas ki poonjeevaad will be followed by samaajawaadee or communism, bas as feudalism thi followed by capitalism.
Anti-communists sawaal the vaid of the marxvaadi arji that the socialist rajya will `` wither dur '' jab it becomes anaavashyak in a true communist samaaj.
anti-communists argue ki the daman in the jaldi years of Bolshevik niyam, jabaki not as charam as ki dauraan Joseph Stalin 's niyam, was still kathor by uchit maanakon, citing udhaaharan aise as felics dzerzhinsky 's rahasy police, jisase eliminated numerous rajnatik pratidwandviyon by extrajudicial executions, or the brutal crushing of the Kronstadt vidroh or tambov vidroh.
Some anti-communists refer to both samyavaadee or fascism as sarvasattawad, dekhakar samanta between the actions of communist or phacist sarkarein.
Historian robert conquest rai argued ki Communism was jimmedaar liye tens of lakho of deaths dauraan the 20th sadi.
pratidwandviyon argue ki communist partiyon ki have come to shakti have tended to be rigidly ashishnu of rajnatik vipaksh.
ye pratidwandviyon arji ki sabase communist deshon have shown no signs of advancing isse marks 's samaajawaadee stage of arthvyavastha to an adarsh communist stage.
balki, communist sarkarein have maharoom abhiyukt of creating a new ruling class ( a nomenklatura ), saath powers or privileges vrihad than those previously enjoyed by the apper varg in the non- communist regimes.
gil Heron ( 9 april 1922 – 27 November 2008 ) was a Jamaican peshewar footballer.
he was the first blike khilaadi to khel liye scottish klbon celtic, or thi the pita of poet or sangeetkaar gil scott-heron.
he died in detroit of a dil attack on 27 navambar 2008.
the soyabean ( us ) or soya saim ( uk ) ( Glycine adhiktam ) is a species of legume deshi to east asia, widely grown liye iske khaadya saim jisase rai numerous upyog.
the plant is classed as an oilseed balki than a pulse by the un khaanaa or agricultural Organization ( FAO ).
fat-free ( defatted ) soyabean bhojan is a significant or cheap sorce of protein liye animal feeds and anek prepackaged meals ; soya sabzi aayal is another product of prasanskaran the soyabean crop.
liye example, soyabean utpaada such as textured sabzi protein ( TVP ) hai ingredients in anek meat or dugdh analogues.
Soybeans produce significantly more protein per acre than sabase anya upyog of jameen.
paramparaagat nonfermented khaanaa uses of soybeans shaamil soy milk, or isse the latter tofu and tofu skin.
Fermented bhojan shaamil soya sos, fermented saim paste, natto, or tempeh, among anya.
the aayal is prayukt in anek audyogic anuprayog.
the main nirmaataa of soya hai the sanyukt rajya ( 35 % ), brazil ( 27 % ), argentina ( 19 % ), China ( 6 % ) or india ( 4 % ).
The saim contain significant amounts of phytic acid, alpha-linolenic acid, and isoflavones.
Harrison Ford ( born July 13, 1942 ) is an amareeki filmi karta or nirmaataa.
he is famous liye uske performances as haan Solo in the asli Star yudhon trayee and the title akshar of the indiana jones filmi series.
ghat is bhi known for uske bhoomikaaye as rik deckard in blade dhaavak, jon kitaab in gavaah or Jack rayaan in patriot Games or Clear or upasthit khatre.
uske kariyar rai spanned chah dashakon and shaamil roles in anek hollywood blockbusters, sahit presumed nirdosh, the bhagode, air Force One, and kayaa jhooth beneath.
at ek point, chaar of the sheersh six box-office hits of all samay shaamil ek of uske bhoomikaaye.
Five of uske films have maharoom inducted into the neshnal filmi registry.
in 1997, Ford thi kramit No. 1 in Empire `` the sheersh 100 film sitaron of sab Time '' suchi.
, the sanyukt States gharelu box daftar grosses of ghat 's films kul over US $ 3.5 arab, saath vishwavyaapee grosses surpassing $ 6 arab, bananaa ghat the teesraa highest grossing u.S. domestic box-office star.
ghat is the husband of actress Calista Flockhart.
a tub of chapstick
chapstick is a brands naam for lip balm manufactured by fizer upabhokta healthcare or prayukt in anek deshon vishwavyaapee.
it is intended to sahaayta daavat and prevent chapped hoth ; hence the naam.
anek varieties bhi include sanscreen in anukram to prevent sunburn.
Due to iske popularity, the pad rai become a genericized trademark.
it popularly refers to koi lip balm contained in a lipstick-style tub and applied in the vahi manner as lipstick.
however, the pad is still a panjikrut trademark, saath adhikaron exclusively swaamitv by Pfizer.
in sweden or in the United kingdom, the utpaada 's pramukh competitor is lypsyl, bana by Novartis Consumer swasthya, jisase is distributed in similar packaging to chapstick.
George Berkeley ( ; 12 kooch 168514 janvari 1753 ), bhi gyaat as bishap barkali ( Bishop of Cloyne ), thi an Anglo-Irish paras jinaki praathmik uplabdhi thi the advancement of a theory he pukaara `` immaterialism '' ( baad referred to as `` subjective idealism `` by anya ).
is siddhanth denies the astitv of material substance or bajaay contends ki parichit vastuen jaise tables and chairs hai tabhi ideas in the minds of perceivers, or as a parinaam can nahin maujuud without hone perceived.
yun, as Berkeley famously put it, for shaareerik vastuen `` esse est percipi '' ( `` to be is to be abhas `` ).
barkali is bhi gyaat for uske critique of abstraction, an mahatvapurn aadhaar in his argument liye immaterialism.
In 1709, Berkeley published uske pehla pramukh kaary,, in jisase he discussed the simaaen of human vision or unnat the theory ki the uchit vastuen of sight are not saamagree vastuen, lakin lite or colour.
is foreshadowed his chief philosophical kaary a treatise Concerning the Principles of Human gyaan in 1710 jisase, baad iske garib reception, he rewrote in samvaad rup or published under the title teen Dialogues between hylas and philonous in 1713.
In is book, Berkeley 's drishy yahood represented by philonous ( unani : 'premantr of dimag ' ), while Hylas ( Greek : 'mattker ' ) embodies the irish thinker’s pratidwandviyon, in particular John Locke.
barkali argued against sar ishaq newton 's doctrine of nirpeksh spes, time or motion in De Motu ( on gati ), prakashit 1721.
uske vitark yahood a precursor to the views of mach or oinstin.
in 1732, he prakashit alciphron, a Christian apologetic viruddh the free-thinkers, or in 1734, he prakashit the vishleshak, an empiricist critique of the muladhar of infinitesimal calculus, jisase thi influential in the vikaas of ganit.
uske pichhlaa pramukh philosophical kaary, Siris ( 1744 ), begins by vakaalat the aushadhiy upyog of tarkol jal, and tab continues to discuss a wide dayera of vishay sahit vigyaan, philosophy, and theology.
byaaj in barkali 's kaary increased baad sansar War ii, kuki he tackled anek of the mudde of sarvopari interest to darshanashastra in the 20th century such as the samasyaayein of perception, the antar between praathmik or dwitiyak qualities, or the mahatv of language.
chingdao ( ), historically known as tsingtao, is a major nagar in purvi shandong praant, purvi China, saath a population of over 8.715 lakh ( 2010 janasankhyikee ).
iske nirmit up area, bana of 6 urban jile and 4 county-level cities, is ghar to parichay 4,896,000 nivaasiyon in 2010.
it simaayen yantai to the purvottar, weifang to the west or rizhao to the dakshinpaschim.
Qīng ( ) in chinis arthath `` green '' or `` raseele '', jabaki dǎo ( ) means `` dweep ''.
chingdao is administered at the sub-provincial str.
lying across the shandong prayadweep jabaki looking out to the pilaa Sea, Qingdao is a pramukh seaport, naval aadhaar, or audyogic centre.
It is bhi the site of the tsingtao brewery.
the world 's longest samudr sethu, the Qingdao haiwan sethu, links the pramukh urban kshetrafal of chingdao saath huangdao district, straddling the Jiaozhou khadi sea areas.
chingdao is namit china 's sabase livable nagar.
mimivirus is a viral genus containing a single pahachaanaa prajati namit acanthamoeba polyphaga mimivirus ( apmv ), or is a group of phylogenetically related vishaal virus ( designated praayah mimin ).
in colloquial vaak, apmv is more commonly referred to as bas `` mimivirus ''.
jabatak aktubar 2011, jab a larger virus megavirus chilensis thi varnit, it tha the largest capsid diameter of sab gyaat virus.
Mimivirus rai a vishaal or jatil genome compared saath most other viruses.
Mimivirus, choti liye `` mimicking microbe '', is so pukaara to pratibimbit its large aakaar or apparent gram-staining gun.
the mexican yuddh of swatantraaa ( 1810–1821 ) was an hathiyaarband virodh between the logon of mexico or the spani colonial adhikariyon which prarambh on September 16, 1810.
the gati, which became gyaat as the mexican yuddh of Independence, thi led by mexican-born spaniards, Mestizos or amerindians jo sought independence isse spain.
It prarambh as an idealistic peasants ' vidroh viruddh their aupniveshik masters, but ended as an asambhavit gathbandhan between mexican ex-royalists and mexican chhapamar insurgents.
crohn 's beemaari, bhi known as crohn syndrome or regional enteritis, is a prakaar of jalan bowel disease ki may affect koi part of the gastrointestinal tract isse munh to anus, causing a wide kismein of symptoms.
it primarily causes abdominal pidaa, atisar ( jisase may be khooni if sujan is at its worst ), vomiting ( can be nirantar ), or vazan loss, lakin may also kaaran jatiltaaon outside the gastrointestinal tract such as skin rashes, gathiya, inflammation of the najar, thakaan, or kami of visheshgyata.
crohn 's beemaari is caused by interactions between paryaavarniya, immunological and bacterial karkon in genetically susceptible individuals.
is parinaam in a dirghakaalik jalan vikaar, in which the body 's pratiraksha pranali attacks the jathrantra tract sambhawatah nirdeshit at sookshmjaivik antigens.
crohn 's beemaari has wrongly maharoom varnit as an autoimmune disease in the past ; recent jaanchakartaaon have varnit it as an pratiraksha kamiyaan state.
There is a genetic association saath crohn 's beemaari, primarily saath visangatiyaan of the nod2 jin or its protein, jisase hosh bacterial cell deevaaren.
sahodar of prabhavit individuals hai at ucchtar risk.
Males or mahilaon hai baraabar prabhavit.
smokers hai do times more likely to develop Crohn 's beemaari than nonsmokers.
crohn 's beemaari affects between 400,000 and 600,000 logon in North america.
vyapaktaa estimates liye uttari europea have ranged isse 27–48 prati 100,000.
crohn 's beemaari tends to present initially in the kishor or twenties, saath another peak incidence in the fifties to seventies, haalanki the disease can occur at koi aayu.
vahin is no gyaat pharmaceutical or surgical ilaaj for crohn 's beemaari.
Treatment options are pratibandhit to controlling lakshan, maintaining remission, or preventing relapse.
the disease thi namit baad gastroenterologist burrill barnard Crohn, who, in 1932, saath saath do other colleagues at mount sinai hospital in New york, varnit a shrenee of marijon saath sujan of the terminal ileum, the area sabase commonly prabhavit by the illness.
This is an incomplete list of the tallest imaaraten or structures by desh.
the suchi directly shaamil the tallest imaaraten or structures for prayek country, or jahaan uchit, it bhi ank to adhik vistrut country-specific suchiyaan.
ashisht or Ready is a census-designated place in Nevada county, california, sanyukt rajya.
it is located west of grass ghati, california, lagbhag 62 mile ( 100 km ) from sacramento.
The janasankhyikee was 963 at the 2010 census.
youtube is a video-sharing website, nirmit by teen purv paypal karmchaaree in farvari 2005, on which users can aplod, drishy or share video.
The company is based in san bruno, california, or upyog adobe Flash video or HTML5 praudyogiki to pradarshak a chaudee variety of user-generated video saamagree, sahit film clips, TV clips, or music video, as well as amateur saamagree such as video blogging, choti asli video, and shaikshanik videos.
sabase of the saamagree on YouTube rai maharoom aplod by individuals, although media corporations sahit sibies, the bibisi, vevo, hulu, or anya sanghathan prastaav kuch of unke saamagree via the sait, as bhaag of the YouTube saajhedaari kaarykram.
apnjikrut upayokta can watch videos, jabaki panjikrut upayokta can aplod an aseemit number of videos.
video considered to contain potentially apriy saamagree hai uplabdhiyaan tabhi to registered upayokta at tanik 18 saalo boodha.
in navambar 2006, YouTube, llc thi kharida by Google liye us $ 1.65 arab, or operates as a subsidiary of google.
Sister adhinium is a musical likhaa by Cheri steinkellner and vidheyak steinkellner saath additional kitaab saamagree by Douglas Carter beane, with lyrics by glen slator and music by alan menken.
it is aadhaarit on the hit 1992 film kamedi of the vahi naam.
the 2009 West End utpaadan thi utpaadit by Stage entertainment, whoopi goldberg, or Michael reno liye sis Acts llc.
goldberg is bhi a nirmaataa of the 2011 Broadway adaptation.
Microsoft directex is a sangrahan of anuprayog programing antarfalak ( api ) for handling kaary related to multimedia, visheshkar game programing and video, on microsoft plateform.
originally, the names of these APIs sab began saath Direct, aise as direct3d, directdraw, directmusic, directplay, directsound, and so forth.
the naam DirectX thi coined as ashulipi pad liye sab of ye APIs ( the x khadaa in liye the particular api names ) or jald became the naam of the sangrahan.
When Microsoft baad niyat out to develop a gaming consol, the x was prayukt as the basis of the naam exbox to indicate that the consol thi aadhaarit on directex praudyogiki.
the X aarambhik has maharoom carried aage in the namakaran of APIs designed for the Xbox aise as xinput and the Cross-platform audio Creation aujaar ( xact ), jabaki the directex pattern rai been jari liye khidkiyaan APIs such as direct2d and DirectWrite.
Direct3D ( the 3D graphics api bheetar DirectX ) is widely used in the vikaas of video khel liye Microsoft Windows, Microsoft exbox, microsoft Xbox 360 or kuch sega dreamcast khel.
direct3d is also prayukt by anya tantra anuprayog liye kalpana or graphics tasks aise as cad/cam engineering.
as direct3d is the sabase widely publicized component of DirectX, it is aam to dekhie the names `` directex '' and `` direct3d '' prayukt interchangeably.
the directex tantra development kit ( SDK ) consists of runtime libraries in redistributable shabdkosh rup, saath saath accompanying dastavezikaran or headers for upyog in koding.
originally, the runtimes yahood tabhi installed by khel or explicitly by the user.
khidkiyaan 95 kiya not launch saath directex, but directex thi shaamil saath khidkiyaan 95 oem seva relies 2.
khidkiyaan 98 or Windows nt 4.0 dono shipped saath directex, as rai prayek version of Windows released since.
the sdk is uplabdhiyaan as a free downlod.
While the runtimes are malikana, closed-source tantra, sorce code is provided liye most of the SDK samples.
starting saath the relies of khidkiyaan 8 Developer purvavlokan, directex sdk rai maharoom ekikrut into khidkiyaan sdk.
direct3d 9ex, direct3d 10, or direct3d 11 hai tabhi uplabdhiyaan for khidkiyaan vista or nae kuki each of ye nai sanskaran was nirmit to nirbhar upon the nai Windows Display driver model that was introduced for Windows Vista.
The new vista/wddm graphics vaastukala includes a new video memory manager supporting abhasikaran of graphics hardware liye vibhinn anuprayog or services jaise the desktop khidki manager.
quetzaltenango, bhi commonly gyaat by iske indigenous name, xelajú, or adhik commonly, xela, is the duusari largest city of guatemala.
it is dono the capital of quetzaltenango Department or the nagarpalika seat of quetzaltenango nagarpalika.
It rai an anumaanit janasankhyikee of 224,703.
the janasankhyikee is parichay 61 % swadeshi or amerindian, 34 % Mestizo or ladino or 5 % europea.
quetzaltenango is stith in a pahaad valley at an elevation of 2,330 meters ( 7,655 ft ) upar samudr str at iske lowest bhaag.
it may reach upar 2,400 meters within the city.
the Municipality of quetzaltenango consists of an kshetrafal of.
Municipalities abutting the nagarpalika of quetzaltenango shaamil : Salcajá, Cantel, almolonga, zunil, El palmar, concepción chiquirichapa, san mateo, la esperanza, olintepeque, and San andres xecul.
sab these municipalities hai part of the vibhaag of quetzaltenango, magar san andres xecul jisase is a part of the vibhaag of totonicapán.
The apik of Gilgamesh, an apik kavita from mesopotamia, is amongst the earliest surviving works of sahitya.
The saahitiyik itihaas of gilgamesh begins saath paanch swatantra sumerian kavitaayen about 'bilgamesh ' ( sumerian liye gilgamesh ), king of uruk.
chaar of these were prayukt as source saamagree for a combined apik in akkadi.
is pehla sanyukt apik, gyaat as the `` boodha babylonian '' sanskaran, tithiyaan to the 18th sadi bc or is titled baad its incipit, shūtur eli sharrī ( `` surpassing sab anya kings '' ).
tabhi a few fragments of it have survived.
the baad `` maanak Babylonian '' sanskaran tithiyaan isse the 13th to the 10th sadiyaan bc or bears the incipit sha naqba īmuru ( `` he who dekhi the Deep '' ).
fragments of lagbhag do tihaai of this longer, twelve-tablet version have maharoom recovered.
Some of the best nakal yahood khoja in the pustakaalayon tabah of the 7th-century BC Assyrian king ashurbanipal.
the story centers on a dosti between Gilgamesh or enkidu.
enkidu is a wild man nirmit by the devataaon as Gilgamesh 's baraabar to distract use from oppressing the logon of uruk.
saath, ve yatra to the deodaar pahaad to shikast humbaba, its monstrous sangrakshak.
baad ve maar the sand of Heaven, jisase the devi Ishtar sends to sajaa gilgamesh for spurning uske agrim.
As a dand for ye kriyaayein, the devataaon vaakya Enkidu to death.
the second half of the apik focuses on gilgamesh 's takalif at Enkidu 's maut, or uske quest liye amartv.
in anukram to sikh the rahasy of anant jivan, gilgamesh undertakes a long or perilous yatra.
He learns that `` the jivan ki tum are seeking you hoga never find.
jab the devataaon nirmit man ve allotted to him death, lakin life ve retained in their apana keeping. ''
is uddhran thi originally attributed to Siduri in the boodha Babylonian version of the apik, or tab attributed to the amar baadh nayika Utnapishtim in the akkadi version of the epic.
nevertheless, gilgamesh 's fame jiya on baad uske maut, because of uske great bhawan projects, or uske khaataa of kayaa utnapishtim bataai use happened during the baadh.
the story rai been translated into anek alag languages, or Gilgamesh has since become adapted in works of lokapriy fiction.
vahin hai numerous debates over jo created the first video game, saath the jawaab depending largely on kaisaa video games are defined.
The evolution of video khel represents a tangled web of anek alag udyog, including scientific, computer, arcade, or upabhokta electronics.
The `` video '' in `` video khel `` traditionally refers to a raster display yantra.
saath the lokapriy kaich phrase upyog of the term `` video khel '', the pad abhi implies sab pradarshak types, formats, or plateform.
itihaaskaaron have also sought to bypass the issue by bajaay using the adhik specific `` digital khel '' varnanaatmak.
This pad leaves out the pehle analog-based computer khel.
is is a suchi of best-selling video khel franchises ki have sold or shipped at least 5 lakh nakal.
jabatak varanaa stated, sankhyaayein indicate vishwavyaapee ikai sold, ordered alphabetically whenever two or more list the vahi raashi.
the excepshan hai the ones specifying shipment, which have nimnatar purvata than others listing bikri.
Franchise sales shaamil vistaar packs bhi though they hai not mana puraa video games.
liye best-selling vyaktigat video games, dekhie suchi of best-selling video khel.
the bikri aankade die neeche do not shaamil arched khel bikri, which can be mila at List of highest-grossing arched video games.
– is rang indicates a sub-series of a larger video khel matadhikaar.
is karata not necessarily lagu liye shrenee ki are nahin video game-based.
dorothi ain wilis richards ( September 1, 1933 – sitambar 13, 2006 ) thi an amareeki rajaneta or the 45th rajyapal of texas.
wo pehla aae to neshnal attention as the state koshadhyaksh of texas, jab wo vitarit the keynote address at the 1988 loktantric neshnal sammelan.
richards parosa as the 45th Governor of texas from 1991 to 1995 and thi parajeet liye re-election in 1994 by George W. bush.
Ann Richards thi the duusari maadaa governor of Texas.
aankada Execution Prevention ( DEP ) is a security visheshta shaamil in aadhunik oparating pranaaliyon.
it is known to be uplabdhiyaan in Linux, Mac OS X, ioes, microsoft Windows or android oparating pranaaliyon or is intended to prevent an application or service isse nishpadit code isse a non-executable memory pradesh.
is helps prevent nishchit karname ki store code via a bafar overflow, for example.
dep ranon in do mods : hardware-enforced dep liye cpu ki can chihnit memory prishthon as nonexecutable, or software-enforced DEP saath simit suraksha for cpu ki do nahin have hardware support.
software-enforced dep karata nahin protect viruddh execution of code in aankada prishthon, but instead counters seh overwrite, another prakaar of akraman.
dep thi introduced on linaks in 2004 ( karnel 2.6.8 ), on khidkiyaan in 2004 saath khidkiyaan xp seva Pack 2, jabaki tehraana introduced dep when they sthanantarit to x86 in 2006.
udhaaharan udhaaharan of do aam futanari variants
, is the japani word liye hermaphroditism, which is bhi prayukt in a broader bhav liye androgyny.
Beyond Japan the pad is prayukt to describe a commonly pornographic vidha of computer khel, comics or anemation, jisase includes characters that show both primary yon characteristics.
But in today 's language it refers almost exclusively liye characters jo have an overall feminine rup.
In that case the pad is bhi praayah abbreviated as futa ( s ), jisase is occasionally bhi prayukt as pad for the works itself.
Early CAPTCHAs aise as these, generated by the ez-gimpy kaarykram, yahood used on yahuu !
a modern CAPTCHA, balki than attempting to banaaen a distorted prishthbhumi and unchi levels of warping on the text, might focus on bananaa segmentation mushkil by adding an angled lakeer.
another rasta to mek segmentation mushkil is to crowd symbols saath, as in yahuu ! 's vartmaan captcha format.
Some CAPTCHAs koshish to utilize the kshamta of people to dekhie three-dimensional vastuen.
on this image, symbols are drawn saath lines of alag motaai to make an prabhaav of extrusion.
a captcha ( ) is a prakaar of challenge-response pareekshan prayukt in computing as an attempt to ensure that the response is generated by a insaan hone.
the process praayah involves a computer puche a upayokta to puraa a simple pareekshan which the computer is samarth to grad.
ye pareekshan hai designed to be aasaan for a computer to generate lakin mushkil for a computer to solve, lakin again aasaan liye a insaan.
if a sahi solution is praapt, it can be presumed to have maharoom daalaa by a insaan.
a aam prakaar of CAPTCHA requires the upayokta to prakaar akshar and/or ank isse a distorted chitra ki appears on the screen.
aise pareekshan hai commonly used to prevent anaavashyak antarjaal bots isse accessing websiton, chunki a saamaanya human can easily padhaa a captcha, jabaki the bot can nahin process the chitra akshar or isliye, can nahin jawaab properly, or at all.
haalanki most CAPTCHAs are akshar tasviren randomly utpann, many of unhen have become difficult even for a insaan to padhaa, so chitra captchas yahood created in jisase a human is dikhaaya a saral pareekshan to show a chitra of a certain animal ( die few animal tasviren ), jisase is saral for a insaan being to prakram, and therefore aasaan to pick, jabaki a bot can not process and solve the sawaal because although it can analyze the chitra, it can nahin easily guess the animal.
The pad `` captcha '' thi coined in 2000 by louis von Ahn, manuel Blum, nicholas J. hoper, or John langford ( sab of Carnegie Mellon University ).
it is an echronim based on the word `` capchar '' or khadaa liye `` Completely Automated public turing pareekshan to tell computer or insaano alaava ''.
carnegi mellon vishvavidhyalayon attempted to trademark the term on 15 aktubar 2004, but the trademark anuprayog thi abandoned on 21 april 2008.
a captcha is sometimes varnit as a reverse turing pareekshan, kuki it is administered by a machine and targeted at a insaan, in contrast to the maanak turing test ki is typically administered by a insaan and targeted at a yantra.
Jacques-Yves Cousteau ( ; commonly known in angrezi as zaak cousteau ; 11 june 1910 – 25 june 1997 ) thi a french naval officer, explorer, conservationist, filmkaar, innovator, scientist, photographer, lekhak or researcher jo padhai the samudr or sab form of jivan in water.
he co-developed the aqua-lung, pioneered samudri sangrakshan or thi a sadsy of the académie française.
KFC ( kentki Fried murga ) is a tej food restaraan kadi headquartered in Louisville, kentki, United rajya, jisase specializes in fried murga.
an `` American pratik '', it is the sansar 's duusari largest restaurant kadi overall ( as measured by sales ) baad mcdonald 's, saath over 18,000 outlet in 120 deshon and territories.
The company is a subsidiary of yama !
Brands, a restaurant company jisase bhi owns pizza Hut or taco ghanti.
keeffsi was founded by harland sanders, who began selling fried murga isse uske roadside restaraan in Corbin, kentki dauraan the great avsaad.
sanders was ek of the pehla logon to dekhie the potential of the restaraan franchising avadharana, with the pehla `` kentki fried Chicken '' matadhikaar kholane in Utah in 1952.
The matadhikaar popularized murga in the tej food udyog, thereby diversifying the market and challenging the dabadabaa of the hamburger.
vipanan khud as `` karnal sanders '', he became a legendary figure of amareeki cultural itihaas, or his chitra is still prominently prayukt in keeffsi branding.
the company 's rapid vistaar dekhi it grow too vishaal liye sanders to manage, and in 1964 he bechi the company to a group of niveshkon led by jon y. bhura, jr. or joker massey.
keeffsi thi ek of the pehla tej khaanaa chains to vistaar internationally, kholane outlet in England, mexico and Puerto rico by the mid-1960s.
Throughout the 1970s or 1980s, keeffsi experienced mishrit fortunes domestically, as it gai through a shrenee of corporate owners who tha choti or no anubhav in the restaurant kaarobaar.
in the early 1970s, KFC was bechi to the atmaaon kad heublein, jo yahood liya over by the R.J. reynolds food or tambaaku sangutica, jo bechi the kadi to PepsiCo.
The kadi jari to expand videshi however, and in 1987 keeffsi became the first pashchimi restaraan kadi to kholen in china.
The chain rai chunki vistaarit rapidly in china, or the country is abhi the company 's sabase laabhprad market.
pepsico spun band iske restaraan prabhag as Tricon vaishvik Restaurants, jisase later badla iske name to yama !
brands.
KFC primarily bikta fried chicken tukade or visangatiyaan aise as murga sandwiches or wraps, salad or side bartan aise as french friese or coleslaw, desserts or naram peya, praayah supplied by pepsico.
Its most famous product is dabaav fried murga tukade, seasoned saath sanders ' `` asli racippi '' of 11 herbs or masaale.
The sateek prakruti of ye sanghatak is unknown, or represents a notable trade rahasy.
Larger portions of fried murga hai served in a distinctive gatta `` baaltee '', which rai become a hastakshar of the kadi chunki being introduced by franchisee peet Harman.
KFC is prasiddh liye the slogan `` ungali lickin ' shubh '', jisase rai since maharoom replaced by `` Nobody does chicken jaise keeffsi '' or `` so shubh ''.
Cnidaria ( with a mook c ) or Coelenterata is a phylum containing over 10,000 prajati of pashu mila exclusively in jaleey and zyaadaatar samudri environments.
unke distinguishing visheshta is cnidocytes, specialized koshikaayen ki they upyog mainly for capturing shikaar.
unke laashen consist of mesoglea, a non-living jelly-like padaarth, sandwiched between do layers of epithelium that hai zyaadaatar ek cell motaa.
They have two moulik deh form : tairaaki medusae or sthanbaddh polyps, both of jisase hai radially symmetrical saath mouths ghiri by tentacles ki bhaaluu cnidocytes.
dono form have a single orifice and deh guha ki hai prayukt liye digestion or respiration.
anek cnidarian species produce colonies ki are single jeevon rachit of medusa-like or polyp-like zooids, or dono.
Cnidarians ' activities hai samanvit by a vikendrit tantrika jaal and saral receptors.
anek free-swimming cubozoa or Scyphozoa possess balance-sensing statocysts, or kuch have saral ankhen.
nahin sab cnidarians reproduce sexually.
Many have jatil lifecycles saath alangik polyp charan and sexual medusae, lakin kuch omit either the polyp or the medusa stage.
cnidarians yahood for a long time grouped with ctenophores in the phylum coelenterata, lakin increasing awareness of their differences caused unhen to be placed in pruthak phyla.
Cnidarians are vargeekrut into four pramukh groups : the lagbhag wholly sthanbaddh Anthozoa ( samudr anemones, corals, samudr pens ) ; tairaaki scyphozoa ( jellyfish ) ; cubozoa ( box jellies ) ; or hydrozoa, a vividh samooh ki shaamil sab the freshwater cnidarians as khub as many samudri form, or has both sessile sadasyon such as hydra and colonial swimmers aise as the portugali man o ' War.
staurozoa have recently maharoom recognised as a class in unke apana sahi balki than a sub-group of Scyphozoa, or vahin is bahes parichay whether Myxozoa or polypodiozoa hai cnidarians or kareeb to bilaterians ( more jatil animals ).
Most cnidarians shikaar on jeevon ranging in aakaar from plavak to animals several times larger than themselves, lakin anek obtain much of unke poshan isse endosymbiotic shaiwal, or a few are parasites.
anek are preyed upon by anya pashu including starfish, samudr slugs, machhlee or tertels.
muunga reefs, whose polyps are samrudh in endosymbiotic algae, support some of the sansar 's sabase productive ecosystems, and protect vanaspati in tidal zones or on shorelines isse damdaar currents and tides.
While corals hai lagbhag entirely pratibandhit to warm, uthle samudri waters, anya cnidarians sajiv in the depths, in dhruviya samandar or in freshwater.
Fossil cnidarians have been found in rox formed parichay, or other fossils dikhaaen that corals may have maharoom upasthit shortly pehle and diversified a few million saalo baad.
Fossils of cnidarians ki do nahin build mineralized structures hai bahut rare.
vaigyanikon philhal think that cnidarians, ctenophores or bilaterians hai adhik closely sambandhit to calcareous sponges than ye hai to anya sponges, or that anthozoans are the vikasvaadi `` aunts '' or `` bahanon '' of other cnidarians, and the sabase closely sambandhit to bilaterians.
haal analyses have concluded that cnidarians, haalanki mana adhik `` aadim '' than bilaterians, have a wider range of genes.
The Aztec Pyramid at st. cecilia Acatitlan, Mexico State.
azetek jed mukhauta depicting the god xipe totec.
Large ceremic statue of an Aztec tribhuj Warrior
azetek cosmogram in the pre-hispanic codex fejérváry-mayer - the aag parameshwar Xiuhtecuhtli is in the bich.
the Aztec logon yahood nishchit ethnic samooh of central mexico, particularly those groups jo spoke the navatal bhashaa and jo dominated vishaal bhaag of mesamerica isse the 14th to 16th sadiyaan.
the navatal shabd aztecatl ( ekvachan ) or aztecah ( plural ) ausat `` people isse aztlan ``, a puranic place liye the nahuatl-speaking culture of the time, or baad apanaaya as the shabd to define the Mexica logon.
praayah the pad `` Aztec '' refers exclusively to the mexica logon of tenochtitlan ( now the sthaan of Mexico City ), situated on an island in Lake texcoco, who referred to themselves as Mexica tenochca or Cōlhuah mexica.
sometimes the pad bhi includes the nivaasiyon of tenochtitlan 's two principal allied city-states, the Acolhuas of Texcoco or the tepanecs of tlacopan, jo saath saath the Mexica formed the azetek Triple gathbandhan which niyantrit kayaa is often known as `` the azetek samrajya ''.
In anya contexts, azetek may refer to sab the vibhinn city rajya or unke peoples, jo saajha vishaal bhaag of unke ethnic history or cultural traits saath the Mexica, Acolhua or Tepanecs, and who praayah bhi prayukt the navatal bhashaa as a lingua franca.
In is meaning it is sambhavit to baat about an azetek sabhyataa sahit sab the particular saanskrithik pattern common for sabase of the peoples inhabiting central mexico in the let postclassic kaal.
isse the 13th sadi, the ghati of mexico was the dil of Aztec sabhyataa : here the capital of the Aztec Triple gathbandhan, the nagar of tenochtitlan, thi nirmit upon raised ilet in jhil texcoco.
The tripal gathbandhan formed a upanadi samrajya expanding iske rajnatik hegemony far beyond the ghati of mexico, conquering anya nagar rajya throughout Mesoamerica.
At iske pinnacle, azetek culture had samrudh or jatil mythological or dharmik paramparaon, as khub as reaching ullekhneey architectural or kalakaari accomplishments.
in 1521 hernán cortés, saath saath a vishaal number of Nahuatl speaking indigenous allies, conquered tenochtitlan or parajeet the azetek Triple gathbandhan antargat the leadership of hueyi tlatoani Moctezuma ii.
subsequently the spani founded the nai upnivesh of Mexico nagar on the sait of the ruined Aztec puunji, from where they proceeded with the prakram of colonizing central america.
azetek samskruti or itihaas is primarily known through puraatatv evidence mila in excavations such as that of the prasiddh templo mahayor in mexico nagar ; isse indigenous chaal paper codices ; isse eyewitness accounts by Spanish conquistadors aise as hernán cortés and bernal díaz del castillo ; and visheshkar isse 16th or 17th sadi descriptions of azetek samskruti or history likhaa by spani clergymen and literate aztecs in the spani or navatal bhashaa, such as the famous florentine codex compiled by the franciscan bhikshu bernardino de Sahagún with the sahaayta of indigenous azetek informants.
Anderson hays kupar ( born june 3, 1967 ) is an amareeki patrkaar, lekhak, or television vyaktitv.
he is the praathmik anchor of the CNN news show anderson kupar 360°.
the kaarykram is normally broadcast live isse a nai york nagar studio ; however, kupar often prasaaran sajiv on location liye breaking news stories.
as of sitambar 2011, he bhi serves as mejabaan of uske apana eponymous syndicated din baat dikhaaen, anderson Live, jisase will be radd at the samaapt of the duusari ritu.
A plot of a saamaanya vitaran ( or bell-shaped curve ) jahaan each band has a chaudai of 1 maanak vichlan – dekhie bhi : 68-95-99.7 niyam
sanchayi sambhavyata of a normal distribution saath expected maan 0 or maanak vichlan 1.
In statistics or probability siddhanth, maanak vichlan ( represented by the symbol sigma, σ ) shows kaisaa much vibhinnata or dispersion exists isse the ausat ( ausat ), or apekshit maan.
A kam maanak deviation indicates ki the aankada ank tend to be very band to the mean ; unchi maanak vichlan indicates ki the data ank hai spread out over a vishaal dayera of maan.
the maanak vichlan of a random parivartaneey, statistical janasankhyikee, aankada niyat, or sambhavyata vitaran is the square root of iske variance.
It is algebraically simpler though practically kam robust than the average absolute vichlan.
A useful property of standard vichlan is ki, naapsand variance, it is expressed in the vahi units as the aankada.
Note, however, that for measurements saath pratishat as unit, the maanak vichlan hoga have pratishat ank as ikai.
in jod to expressing the variability of a population, standard vichlan is commonly prayukt to measure vishwaas in sankhyikeey conclusions.
For udhaaharan, the hashia of galati in polling data is determined by calculating the expected maanak vichlan in the results if the vahi pole were to be conducted multiple times.
the reported hashia of galati is typically parichay twice the maanak vichlan – the dayera of a 95 pratishat vishwaas antaraal.
in vigyaan, researchers commonly rapat the maanak vichlan of praayogic aankada, or tabhi prabhaav ki fall far baahar the range of maanak deviation hai mana statistically significant – saamaanya yadrichhik galati or vibhinnata in the maap is in is rasta vishisht isse causal vibhinnata.
Standard vichlan is also important in vitt, jahaan the standard deviation on the rate of vaapasi on an nivesh is a maap of the volatility of the nivesh.
jab tabhi a sample of aankada isse a janasankhyikee is uplabdhiyaan, the maanak vichlan of the population can be anumaanit by a parivardhit quantity pukaara the `` namoona maanak deviation ''.
jab the sample is the sampurna janasankhyikee, iske unmodified standard vichlan is called the `` population maanak vichlan ''.
ulluco ( u : ju : kɔ : ) ( ullucus tuberosus ) is a plant grown primarily as a root sabzi, secondarily as a leaf sabzi.
the ulluco is one of the most widely grown or economically mahatvapurn root fasalon in the andean region of dakshin America, duusari tabhi to the potato.
it is known vahin saath the aam name of papa lisa, lakin bhi by the kshetreey names melloco ( Ecuador ), olluco ( Peru ), chugua ( colombia ) or ruba ( Venezuela ), among anya.
the patta and the tuber are khaadya, samaan to paalak or the aalu, kramshah.
ve hai gyaat to contain high str of protein, calcium, or caroten.
papalisa yahood prayukt by the incas prior to aagaman of europeans in dakshin america.
ulluco tubers hai marketed as `` dharti Gems '' in nai jiland, by Halfords exotic upaj.
ulluco tubers in New jiland
An april 24, 1851 poster chetavanee the `` colored people of boston '' parichay pulicekarmiyon acting as slave catchers.
The bhagode Slave vidhi or bhagode slave Act thi passed by the sanyukt rajya congress on September 18, 1850, as bhaag of the sulah of 1850 between dakshini slave-holding ruchi and uttari Free-Soilers.
is thi one of the sabase vivaadaaspad adhiniyamon of the 1850 compromise or heightened Northern fears of a `` slave shakti shadyantr ''.
It declared ki all runaway slave were, upon capchar, to be returned to unke masters.
abolitionists nicknamed it the `` bloodhound Law '' liye the kutto that yahood prayukt to track bas runaway slave.
frank joseph Pallone, jr. ( born October 30, 1951 ) is the U.S. pratinidhi for, sevarat chunki 1993.
He is a sadsy of the Democratic Party.
he previously represented the 3rd district from 1988 to 1993.
trin-i-tee 5:7 is a inzel duo isse nai orlions, louisiana in the sanyukt rajya.
the group thi marketed as a inzel vaikalpik to r & b ladki groups such as niyati 's child or tlc.
trin-i-tee 5:7 rai bechi over 2.5 lakh album.
In 1998, the samooh released unke pehla album entitled trin-i-tee 5:7 which debyue at # 1 on the sheersh inzel charts.
The album pradarshit the geeton `` God 's Grace '' or the cover song `` oh !
mariyam do n't tum rote ''.
the album baad became certified gold.
in 1999, Terri Brown baayein the samooh and thi baad replaced by singer adrian anderson.
dauraan ki saal, the group recorded or released unke duusari album, aadhyatmik prem.
the album became the group 's duusari # 1 album on the sheersh Gospel chart.
the album contained the singles `` put apana Hands '' or `` my Body ''.
in 2002, the group released their teesraa album the Kiss jisase debuted at # 2 on the Top inzel charts.
in 2007, the group baayein gospocentric Records or hastakshrit a ricard deal saath spirit uthati Music.
In let 2007, trin-i-tee 5:7 released unke fifth album T57, jisase pradarshit the sheersh ten gospel single `` suno ''.
t57 charted # 2 on the sheersh inzel Albums, # 5 on the sheersh Christian charts, or # 12 on the Top r & b charts.
The sanyukt rajya federal arjeet aay kar credit or arjeet income credit ( eitc or EIC ) is a refundable kar credit liye low- or medium-income individuals or yugal, primarily for those jo have qualifying children.
jab the credit exceeds the amount of taxes owed, it parinaam in a kar refund to those who arji the credit.
is credit is provided to ofaset the boj of soshal suraksha taxes or bhi to prachaar an protsaahan to work.
in anukram liye a vyakti or yugal to arji ek or more vyaktiyon as unke qualifying child ( ren ), the aayu, sambandh, or saajha racidency aavashyaktaayen jarur be mili, as well as some anya aavashyaktaayen.
u.S. kar forms 1040ez, 1040a, or 1040 can be prayukt to claim eic bagaiyr qualifying children.
to claim the credit saath qualifying children, 1040a or 1040 must be prayukt, as well as attaching anusuchee eic.
eic phases in dhire, rai a medium-length pathaar, or tab phases out adhik dhire than it phased in.
chunki the credit phases out at 21 % ( liye do children or for three or more qualilfying children ) or 16 % ( liye ek qualifying child ), it is sadaa preferable to have ek adhik dollars of actual selary or mazdooree ( although technically, chunki the eic talika chaalen by pachaas dollars increments, it 's sadaa astabalon to have an atirikt fifty-dollar vruddhi of selary or wages ).
For kar saal 2011, the adhiktam EIC liye a single vyakti or couple filing without qualifying children thi $ 464.
the maximum eic saath one qualifying child was $ 3,094, saath do children thi $ 5,112, or saath teen or adhik qualifying children thi $ 5,751.
ye amounts hai indexed annually liye inflation.
The arjeet income kar credit rai been part of rajnatik debates in the sanyukt rajya regarding whether raising the nunatam mazdooree or increasing EIC will behatar pataa a seeming shortage of good-paying kaary.
the following is a suchi of madhyantar shows yojit at the neshnal footbaal lig 's championships khel, the super Bowl.
While madhyantar shows are a tradition dauraan footbaal khel at sab str of pratiyogita, the Super katori madhyantar show represents a fundamental kadi to pop culture, which helps broaden the television darshak and deshbhar byaaj.
in sabase years chunki the mid-1980s, the madhyantar show of the super katori rai pradarshit popular recording kalakaaron and anya well-known celebrities.
It rai measurably increased television viewers dauraan or baad the madhyantar dikhaaen.
the pradarshan is regarded one of the most-watched kaarykram in amareeki television annually saath over 100 lakh darshak in the sanyukt rajya alon.
musical jati over the saalo have represented a broad dayera of music types, sahit pop, rock, clasik chattan, country, hip hop, rap, bluez, or aatma.
in kuch saalo, choti skits or naatak drishyon hai acted out on a stage.
the performance samooh up with logon rai performed at the sabase super Bowl madhyantar shows, abhinit in chaar dauraan the 1970s or 1980s.
according to nielsen darja, Super Bowl XLVI madhyantar dikhaaen headlined by Madonna in 2012 remains the most-watched madhyantar dikhaaen in itihaas, saath 114 million darshak or about 3 lakh more than the actual game.
Beyonce 's 2013 madhyantar dikhaaen pradarshan thi the second most viewed show in itihaas.
It is soochibaddh on the Guinness sansar record as the largest TV darshak liye a super katori half-time performance.
antarrashtriya Men 's din ( imd ) is an salanaa antarrashtriya event manaaye on 19th navambar.
udghaatan in 1999 in trinidad and tobago, the din and its kaarykram dhundhen support isse a variety of individuals or samooh in australia, the Caribbean, uttar America, asia, Europe or africa.
Speaking on behalf of unesco, Director of Women or Culture of Peace ingeborg breines kaha of imd, `` is is an behtareen vichaar and would de kuch ling santulan. ''
wo added ki UNESCO was looking aage to cooperating saath the aayojakon.
the uddeshy of celebrating an antarrashtriya main 's din include focusing on men 's or boys ' swasthya, improving gender relations, promoting ling equality, or highlighting positive purush role model.
It is an avasar to hilite pakshpaat viruddh men and boys and to celebrate unke uplabdhiyaan or contributions, in particular liye unke contributions to jatiyaan, family, vivaah, and child care.
the broader and param uddeshy of the event is to prachaar basic humanitarian values.
antarrashtriya main 's din is celebrated in over 60 deshon, sahit Trinidad or Tobago, jamaica, australia, india, china, sanyukt States, romania, singapore, malta, sanyukt kingdom, South Africa, tanzania, zimbabwe, botswana, Seychelles, burundi, hungarian, ireland, Isle of man, ghana, Canada, denmark, norway, austria, bosnia or harzegovina, yukt, frans, italy, pakistani, cuba, antigua or Barbuda, st. kits and nevis, st. loosia, Grenada or keman islands, on 19 November, or vaishvik support liye the jashn is vyapak.
ghati Village ParkValley
gaanv is a zila in the san furnando ghati pradesh of Los angeles, California.
the median aayu of iske janasankhyikee, at 36, is `` old liye the nagar of Los angeles. '' or its ausat household size of two logon is kam, compared to anya bhaag of the city.
developmental psychology is the vaigyanik padhai of parivartan ki occur in human beings over the course of unke jivan span.
Originally chintit with infants and children, the field rai expanded to include kishoravastha, adult vikaas, aging, and the sampurna jivan span.
This field examines change aarpaar a vyapak range of vishay sahit motor skills and other psycho-physiological processes ; cognitive vikaas involving kshetron aise as problem solving, moral samajhnaa, or conceptual samajhnaa ; bhashaa adhigrahan ; soshal, personality, and emotional development ; or self-concept or pahchaan gathan.
developmental manovigyaan includes issues aise as the extent to jisase vikaas occurs through the gradual accumulation of gyaan versus stage-like vikaas, or the extent to which children hai born saath swaabhaavik dimagi structures banaam siikhnaa through experience.
anek shodhakartaaon are dilchaspee in the interaction between nijee visheshtaayen, the individual 's bartaav, and paryaavarniya karkon sahit social context, or their impact on vikaas ; others take a more narrowly-focused drushtikon.
developmental manovigyaan informs anek lagu field, sahit : shaikshanik psychology, child psychopathology, or forensic developmental manovigyaan.
developmental psychology complements anek anya basic shodh field in manovigyaan sahit soshal manovigyaan, sangyanatmak manovigyaan, ecological manovigyaan, and tulanaatmak manovigyaan.
Joseph Michael `` Joey '' stivic is a fictional akshar who first appeared on the 1970s amareeki sitcom All in the parivaar.
joy Stivic was the bete or only child of mike stivic ( played by rob Reiner ) and gloria stivic ( played by saili struthers ), or the grandson of Archie bunker ( Carroll O'Connor ) or edith Bunker ( jaan stapleton ).
the akshar pehla appeared as a navjaat baby in a two-part apisod of All in the parivaar which aired in disambar 1975.
baad anek dikhaave on sab in the parivaar until reiner or struthers left the shrenee in 1978 ( by ki samay, Joey tha maharoom nibhaai sabase praayah by alternating judwa jesan or justin Draeger ), the joy stivic akshar aglaa appeared on the sab in the parivaar spin-off shrenee ( some kol it a continuation of the asli ) Archie bunker 's Place in a guest rup in the November 1979 apisod `` Thanksgiving Reunion. ''
In is udhaaharan, the akshar was played by child actor land Billingsley or thi appropriately pre-school aayu.
saath Gloria abhi alag isse mike, wo returned to archi Bunker 's place saath joy in the farvari 1982 episode `` Gloria Comes ghar. ''
in is episode, Joey thi nibhaai by christopher johnston.
joy stivic was a niyamit character on the sab in the parivaar spin-off series gloria in 1982 or 1983.
on this series, in which the now-divorced gloria bunker akshar tha sthanantarit to Upstate nai york in order to kaary as an sahaayak veterinarian, the bhaag of joy Stivic was nibhaai by ten-year-old karta Christian jacobs.
After Gloria thi radd in 1983, joy stivic disappeared from prime samay television for 11 years, until the akshar bana one pichhlaa appearance on 704 hauser, a short-lived 1994 shrenee about a blike family who had sthanantarit into the boodha Bunker home, saalo baad Bunker had bechi it.
in is rup, the joy Stivic character was played by kasee siemaszko, an actor born in 1961 ( 14 saalo pehle joy stivic 's fictional janam ).
in 1976 the adarsh khilonaa Company released a 14-inch `` Joey stivic gudiya '' ( pukaara `` archi bunker 's pota '' ) jisase thi billed as the `` first anatomically correct male gudiya. ''
the gudiya inspired mild vivaad at the samay, or is a collectors ' mad aaj.
the 2011 Rose Bowl thi the 97th sanskaran of the salanaa katori game played on janvari 1, 2011, as bhaag of the 2010 college footbaal ritu.
nibhaai in pasadena, california, the TCU horned mendhak of the Mountain west sammelan parajeet the visconsin badgers of the big ten sammelan by a score of 21 – 19.
the Pasadena Tournament of Roses sangh was the aayojak of the khel.
vizio inc. thi the corporate praayojak and the khel thi officially named `` The Rose katori khel prastut by vizio ''.
is game chihnit the first samay a team isse a non-automatic qualifying Conference nibhaai in, and jiti, the rose Bowl in iske 97 saalo.
the pratiyogita was broadcast on cable television station iespien saath a radio broadcast on ESPN radio and xm upgrah Radio and espn3 strimming video over the internet.
kawarej began at 1:30 PM ( PST ) saath kickoff at 2:10 PM ( pst ).
is chihnit the pehla samay that the game was nahin broadcast nationally `` over-the-air '' ( sthaliy television ) chunki the khel prior to the 1952 rose katori, jisase was the pehla nationally televised college footbaal game.
the rose katori khel, prasang bhawan sapano, Friendships, & Memories, thi a contractual sell-out, saath 64,500 tikaten abantit to the participating tiimon or conferences.
tikat keemten for sab site in the rose Bowl hai soochibaddh at $ 145.
the baaki tickets gai to the Tournament of gulab sadasyon, praayojakon, City of Pasadena residents, or the saamaanya public.
the Rose katori stadium kshamta is listed at lagbhag 91,000.
The ghoshnaa of swatantraaa is a statement apanaaya by the mahadwipiya Congress on july 4, 1776, jisase ghoshit ki the teraa American colonies, tab at yuddh saath Great Britain, regarded themselves as swatantra rajya, or no longer a part of the angrejon Empire.
bajaay ve now formed a new nation—the United States of america.
jon adams was a netaa in pushing liye swatantraaa, jisase was unanimously sweekrut on july 2.
a cameti tha already drafted the aupchaarik ghoshnaa, to be taiyaar jab congress voted on swatantraaa.
adams persuaded the committee to select thomas jeffrasan to likhen the original draft of the dastauez, which congress hota edit to upaj the final version.
The Declaration thi ultimately a aupchaarik spashtikaran of kyon congress tha voted on July 2 to ghoshit swatantraaa isse great britain, adhik than a saal baad the outbreak of the amareeki krantikari War.
The neshnal janmdiwas, the swatantraaa Day is manaaye on july 4, haalanki adams wanted July 2.
baad ratifying the text on July 4, congress jari the ghoshnaa of swatantraaa in several form.
It thi initially published as the mudrit danlap broadside ki thi widely distributed or padhaa to the public.
The sabase prasiddh version of the ghoshnaa, a hastakshrit copy that is popularly regarded as the ghoshnaa of Independence, is pradarshit at the National Archives in washington, d.c.
haalanki the wording of the ghoshnaa thi sweekrut on july 4, the date of iske signing was agast 2.
the original july 4 sanyukt States ghoshnaa of swatantraaa pandulipi was khoyaa while all anya nakal have maharoom niklaa isse this asli dastauez.
The sources and nirvachan of the Declaration have been the vishay of much scholarly poochtacha.
the ghoshnaa justified the independence of the United rajya by listing colonial grievances viruddh King george iii, or by asserting certain natural or vidhik adhikaron, including a right of kranti.
having served iske asli purpose in announcing independence, the text of the ghoshnaa thi initially upekshit after the American kranti.
chunki tab, it rai aaiye to be mana a major bayaan on insaan adhikaron, particularly its duusari sentence:
we tham ye sachai to be self-evident, ki sab main are nirmit baraabar, ki ve are endowed by unke nirmaataa saath nishchit unalienable adhikaron, ki among these hai jivan, Liberty or the pursuit of sukh.
is has been pukaara `` ek of the best-known sentences in the English bhashaa '', containing `` the most potent and consequential words in amareeki itihaas. ''
the passage came to represent a moral maanak to jisase the sanyukt rajya should strive.
is view was notably prachaarit by abraham lincoln, who mana the ghoshnaa to be the nyaas of uske political philosophy, and argued ki the Declaration is a bayaan of siddhanth through which the United rajya samvidhan should be interpreted.
It rai inspired kaary liye the adhikaron of adhikarhin logon throughout the sansar.
chitty chitty Bang Bang is a 1968 angrejon musical filmi loosely aadhaarit on ian fleming 's anokhaa.
the filmi 's script is by roald dahl or ken hughes or iske songs by the sharaman bhaaiyo.
it stars land Van dyke as Caractacus Potts and Sally Ann Howes as truly scrumptious.
The filmi was nirdeshit by ken Hughes or utpaadit by albert R. Broccoli ( co-producer of the james bandha shrenee of films, also aadhaarit on fleming 's novels ).
jon Stears paryvekshit the special prabhaav.
irvin Kostal supervised and conducted the music, while the musical sankhyaayein yahood manchan by mark breaux or dee dee lakdi.
a region is arid when it is characterized by a severe kami of uplabdhiyaan water, to the extent of hindering or preventing the vikaas or development of sanyantr or animal jivan.
environments vishay to arid climates tend to kami vanaspati and hai pukaara xeric or desertic.
sabase `` arid '' climates gher the equator ; these sthaan shaamil sabase of africa and bhaag of dakshin america or central america.
Cancer ( ♋ ) is an astrological chihn, jisase is associated saath the nakshatra karkat.
It spans the 90-120th oopaadhi of the zodiac, between 90 or 125.25 oopaadhi of celestial longitude, jisase the surya transits is kshetrafal on ausat between june 22 to july 22 prayek saal.
And under the sidereal zodiac, it is philhal isse july 21 to August 9.
the sanyukt rajya presidential election of 1960 was the 44th quadrennial adhyakshiya chunaav, yojit on mangalvaar, November 8, 1960.
the republican party manonith laazim vice-president richard nicksan, jabaki the Democratic party manonith John F. kennedy, seenetter isse masachusets.
the incumbent President, republican dwite D. ijanhavar, was nahin yogya for re-election baad sevarat the maximum do sharten anumat by the Twenty-second Amendment.
kennedy thi nirvaachit saath a lead of 112,827 mat, or 0.17 % of the lokapriy vote, giving use a vijay of 303 to 219 in the Electoral college, the closest chunki 1916.
This thi the first election in which sab pachaas of the current sanyukt rajya participated.
A kramank of factors bataaiye why the chunaav thi so close.
Kennedy gained chunki vahin thi an aarthik mandi which thes the laazim Republican, and he tha the advantage of 17 lakh adhik panjikrut democrate than republicans.
furthermore, the new votes ki kennedy gained among catholics lagbhag neutralized the nai mat Nixon gained among Protestants.
Kennedy 's campaigning kaushal decisively outmatched nicksan 's.
in the samaapt, nicksan 's jor on his experience carried little weight, and he wasted urja by campaigning in sab 50 states bajaay of concentrating on the swing states.
kennedy prayukt uske vishaal, well-funded abhiyaan organization to win the nomination, surakshit samarthan, and, saath the sahaayta of the pichhlaa of the big-city bosses, to milengi out the vote in the big shaharon.
he relied on running mate Lyndon B. Johnson to hold the dakshin and used television effectively.
This chunaav is notable as hone the pehla samay in u.S. itihaas ki two baithe u.s. seenetteron ( Kennedy or Johnson ) yahood nirvaachit as adhyaksh or vice-president, a ghatana ki rai maharoom doharaaya once, by baraak obama or Joe biden in 2008 ( in dono maamle, the adhyaksh thi the younger, adhik junior seenetter ).
sherwood is a city in washington county, oregon, sanyukt rajya.
stith in the southeast corner of the county, it is a residential jatiyaan in the Tualatin ghati dakshinpaschim of portland.
the janasankhyikee thi 11,791 at the 2000 janasankhyikee.
according to the 2010 janasankhyikee, the janasankhyikee thi 18,205 nivaasiyon.
indirectly namit liye the sherwood van in england, it thi pehla incorporated in 1893 as a kasbaa.
the USA patriot adhinium of 2001 is an adhinium of the u.S. Congress that thi hastakshrit into vidhi by adhyaksh George W. bush on October 26, 2001.
the title of the act is a ten akshar echronim ( uese patriot ) that stand liye uniting ( or ) strengthening america ( by ) providing uchit Tools Required ( to ) interphes ( and ) obstruct aatank Act of 2001.
The adhinium, as a jawaab to the aatankwaadi attacks of September 11th, significantly ghataya restrictions in law pravartan agenciyon ' mehafil of intelligence bheetar the sanyukt States ; vistaarit the sachiv of the treasury’s authority to regulate vittiya tranjection, visheshkar those involving videshi individuals or entities ; and broadened the discretion of vidhi pravartan or immigration adhikariyon in detaining or deporting apravasiyon suspected of terrorism-related acts.
The act bhi vistaarit the definition of aatank to shaamil gharelu terrorism, yun enlarging the kramank of activities to jisase the uese patriot act’s vistaarit vidhi enforcement shaktiyaan can be applied.
on may 26, 2011, adhyaksh baraak obama prayukt an autopen to chihn the patriot Sunsets ekstansion adhinium of 2011, a four-year ekstansion of three kunjee praavdhaanon in the uese PATRIOT adhinium jabaki he thi in France : roving wiretaps, khoj of kaarobaar record ( the `` pustakaalayon record provision `` ), or conducting nigaraanee of `` lone wolves '' — individuals suspected of terrorist-related activities nahin linked to terrorist groups.
Republican netao questioned if the upyog of the Autopen mili the constitutional requirements liye hastakshar a bill into law.
a house in maharani Anne style at 223 avenue a.
snohomish is a city in snohomish county, washington, sanyukt rajya.
the janasankhyikee thi 9,098 at the 2010 janasankhyikee.
the mahayor of Snohomish is Karen guzak, or the City Manager is laire bauman.
Snohomish prides itself liye iske aitihaasik shahar, or thi once gyaat for iske anek puraatan shops jab it thi gyaat as the `` puraatan puunji of the Northwest. ''
the historic kaarobaar or awasaiya bich of the kasbaa constitutes the snohomish aitihaasik District, which is soochibaddh on the neshnal Register of aitihaasik Places.
anek gharon bhaaluu plak with the saal the house thi nirmit or the naam of the family or individual jo originally occupied it.
Once prayek saal, the city detaa tur of the historic houses ; ek of unhen, the blackman house, is a year-round museum.
a general vimaanan airfield, Harvey Airfield, is kam than one mile dakshinpaschim of shahar snohomish.
dev matthews Band ( dmb ) is an amareeki chattan band ki was formed in charlottesville, virginia, United rajya, in 1991.
the founding sadasyon yahood singer-songwriter and guitarist Dave matthews, bassist stefan lessard, vadak /backing vocalist Carter beauford and saxophonist leroi moore.
boyd tinsley was added to the band as a violinist jald baad the band thi formed.
moore died ekaek in August 2008 due to jatiltaaon isse choton sustained in an atv durghatana.
grami puraskaar -winner jeff Coffin of béla fleck or the flecktones rai chunki bhar moore 's spot as the band 's saxophonist.
rashawn ross and tim Reynolds have bhi become full-time touring sadasyon of the band.
the band 's 2009 album big whiskey or the groogrux king ( the first album chunki moore 's maut ) debuted at number one on the billboard 200, kamai the band unke paanchvaan lagaataar number-one debut— bananaa unhen the second band peeche Metallica to do so.
Their sabase haal album, dur from the sansar, was released in 2012, or also debuted at number ek on the billboard chart.
As of 2010, the Dave Matthews band rai bechi over 30 lakh records vishwavyaapee.
The band is gyaat liye unke annual summer-long tours of the United rajya or europea, featuring lengthy improvisational renditions of unke geeton, accompanied by an elaborate video or lighting dikhaaen.
This portion of the tour rai become a stamp of dmb or has grown with the band chunki fenton Williams began working saath unhen in the early 1990s.
After bees lagaataar saalo of touring the band ghoshit that it hota lo the garmiyaan of 2011 band.
Dave Matthews band has jiti ek grami puraskaar, or thi awarded the naacp adhyaksh 's puraskaar.
according to julian bandha, `` ve bechein out the largest arenas on dharti, lakin aksar give unke music dur. ''
anubhavathit junglee jayee : a adhyay isse an Unwritten romance is a prose vyangy likhaa by Louisa may alcott, parichay uske family 's bhagidaari saath the Transcendentalist jatiyaan fruitlands in the jaldi 1840s.
the kaary thi pehla prakashit in a nai york samachaarpatr in 1873, or reprinted in 1874, 1876, or 1915 or baad.
in uske account, Alcott provides the real logon shaamil saath patala pseudonymous disguises.
uske pita Amos Bronson alcott is `` abel memne, '' jabaki his partner or jatiyaan co-founder charles Lane is `` timon sher ; '' abigale May alcott, louisa 's maan or bronson 's bivi, is `` Sister aashaa. ''
alcott depicts uske father as dominated by uske more forceful sangi, or dono men as laaparvaah or avyavhaarik dreamers.
the men of the community spend their samay in pointless debates jabaki sistar Hope works from bhor to sandhya to maintain their astitv.
A crisis arises at kataai samay, jab the grain crop is threatened by an approaching toofaan.
In alcott 's shabd, `` parichay the samay the anaaj thi taiyaar to house, some call of the oversoul wafted sab the main dur. ''
Sister aashaa organizes the tabhi uplabdhiyaan sahaayta, teen choti ladakiyon or a ladke, or manages to sahejen the crop.
the little jatiyaan collapses as jald as the mausam turns thanda, jab it becomes saaf ki unke praavdhaanon are too meager to pichhlaa the coming sheet.
Timon Lion or his son abscond to juden the Shakers — haalanki Timon is aprasann to sikh ki jivan among unhen is `` all work and no khel. ''
Abel is kuchal by the vifaltaa of the enterprise ; after dinon of despair he begins to eat again tabhi jab he realizes that uske parivaar needs use.
Sister Hope paata a way liye them to subsist or persevere.
alcott 's drishy of purush arrogance or female shoshan in is tukdaa is paralleled in uske novel, published in the same saal as `` anubhavathit junglee jayee. ''
`` anubhavathit junglee Oats '' rai maharoom reprinted in several aadhunik editions.
mount of the paavan Cross is the northernmost 14,000-foot mountain in the sawatch Range, bhaag of the rocky kyu in Colorado.
it is stith in the Holy Cross wilderness nikat the ghost town of paavan cross nagar and in Eagle County.
It thi namit liye the distinctive cross-shaped snowfield on the purvottar phase.
antargat usd van seva prashasan, the pahaad was proclaimed `` paavan Cross National Monument '' by herbert Hoover on may 11, 1929.
the smarak thi transferred to the National Park seva in 1933.
in 1950, it thi returned to the van seva or lost its National Monument status—the kramank of vizitor to the pahaad or the aasapaas `` pilgrim 's hat '' tha waned, and the expense of full-time staff could nahin be jaij.
is pahaad rai been the vishay of chitrakaar, photographer or bhi a kavita by henry wadsaworth Longfellow, ( the cross of him ).
the pehla saream uplabdhiyaan photograph was prakashit in neshnal Geographic patrika.
thomas moraan chitrit the pahaad in an aayal painting, which abhi is bhaag of the sangrahan of the sangrahalay of the amareeki West, part of the autry neshnal bich in los angeles, california.
It is still much photographed lakin it is nahin as khub gyaat today as it thi in the past.
Nearby suvidhaayen include Bowl of aansu Lake, directly under the east face of the peak, tuhare Lakes, in a cirque that jhooth dakshin of a significant subpeak, or several other lakes.
notable sthitiyaan bheetar shaamil the Dotsero jwalamukhi ( near Interstate 70 ), Vail or aspen.
US 24 ranon near the peak through gilman.
photochrom chapai of Mount of the paavan cross c. 1900.
This image is a reversed drishy of the pahaad compared to kaisaa it darasal appears.
the first ankit ascent of paavan cross thi in 1873, by F. V. Hayden or photographer W. H. Jackson dauraan ek of Hayden 's bhugolic surveys.
However, the shikhar may khub have maharoom ascended previously by khanik or amareeki Indians.
The pehla winter ascent of the peak thi made in 1943 by russel keene or harvard freedman of the 10th pahaad Division, then stationed at Camp hale.
paavan Cross can be climbed by at tanik chaar alag routes, saath the easiest and most common root hone the uttar lakeeren, jisase involves of lambavat laabh over or is rated yds Class 2 liye moderate scrambling.
the cross couloir root form the lambavat portion of the prasiddh cross visheshta, and provides an advanced him chadhaai or charam ski descent.
Mount of the Holy cross has a itihaas of endangering the jeevandaan of anek hikers.
Primarily, the hikers who aavashyaktaa rescue hai unfamiliar saath the risks of pravesh wilderness areas or do nahin lao adequate upkaran or aapurtiyan to respond to emergency sharten.
Although the summit on mount of the paavan cross is aksar pahunche on a long day hike, unprepared hikers hai aksar stranded or khoyaa due to badalanaa paryaavarniya sharten or confusion regarding the surrounding landscape, visheshkar on the descent of uttar Ridge.
thorough research or uchit planning should prevent most tragedies.
mount of the paavan cross is accessible isse tigiwon sadak, dakshin of minturn, Colorado.
The Half chandramaa pass Trail is the maanak route to the summit of mount of the Holy cross via the uttar Ridge.
following the patan creek Trail to an ascent of paaydaan Mountain Trail provides the best view of the paavan cross him visheshta from paaydaan Mountain Ridge.
the jiesem logo is used to pahachaano sangat handsets or equipment
jiesem ( vaishvik System liye Mobile Communications, originally ' ), is a maanak niyat viksit by the europea Telecommunications maanakon santhaan ( ETSI ) to describe protocol for duusari generation ( 2g ) digital cellular sanjaal used by mobile phone.
it became the de facto vaishvik standard liye mobile communications saath over 80 % market share.
The GSM maanak thi developed as a badalanaa liye first generation ( 1g ) analog cellular networks, and originally varnit a digital, circuit switched network anukulit for puraa duplex voice telephony.
This thi vistaarit over samay to shaamil aankada communications, first by circuit switched transport, tab packet aankada hastantaran via gprs ( saamaanya packet radio sevaayen ) or kinare ( unnat Data daron liye jiesem evolution or egprs ).
further sudhaar yahood bana when the 3gpp viksit teesraa generation ( 3g ) umts standards followed by chauthi peedhee ( 4g ) lte unnat maanakon.
`` jiesem '' is a trademark swaamitv by the GSM Association.
adhyaksh franklin D. rujvelt lakshan the lend-lease vidheyak to give aid to Britain or china ( 1941 )
the lend Lease adhinium thi an adhinium where the sanyukt States tha supported iske allies.
lend-lease ( ) thi the law ki started a program under which the sanyukt rajya of america supplied the sanyukt kingdom, the USSR, ganatantr of china, free frans, and anya Allied raashtra with materiel between 1941 and 1945.
It thi signed into law on kooch 11, 1941, a saal or a half after the outbreak of sansar yuddh ii in europea in sitambar 1939.
is was nau maheene before the u.S. daalaa the yuddh in disambar 1941.
formally titled an adhinium to further prachaar the raksha of the sanyukt States, the Act effectively ended the sanyukt States ' pretense of neutrality.
a kul of $ 50.1 billion ( samatuly to $ aaj ) worth of supplies yahood shipped : $ 31.4 billion to Britain, $ 11.3 arab to the soviet sangh, $ 3.2 billion to France, $ 1.6 billion to china, or smaller rakam to anya allies.
reverse Lend-Lease comprised sevaayen aise as rent on air bases ki gai to the U.S., or totaled $ 7.8 billion ; of is, $ 6.8 arab aae from the angrejon or the Commonwealth.
the sharten of the agreement provided ki the materiel was to be prayukt until time for their vaapasi or destruction.
aapurtiyan baad the termination tithi were bechi to britain at a vishaal chhot liye £1.075 arab using long-term loans from the sanyukt rajya.
canada operated a similar kaarykram ki bheja $ 4.7 arab in aapurtiyan to the sanyukt kingdom and the soviet sangh.
the sanyukt rajya kiya nahin charge for aid supplied antargat is vidhaan.
is kaarykram thi a nirnaayak kadam away isse non-interventionist policy, jisase tha varchasv sanyukt rajya videshi sambandh chunki the samaapt of sansar War I, towards antarrashtriya bhagidaari.
the jerusalem artichoke ( Helianthus tuberosus ), bhi pukaara sunroot, sunchoke, dharti tehraana or topinambour, is a species of sunflower deshi to purvi uttar america, and mila from purvi canada and maine west to North dakota, or dakshin to uttari florida and Texas.
it is also cultivated widely across the shitoshna mandal for its tuber, which is prayukt as a root sabzi.
castillo san phelip del morro bhi known as fort San phelip del Morro or Morro Castle, is a 16th-century citadel stith in san Juan, purto rico.
stonehenge is a pragaitihaasik smarak in wiltshire, england, parichay west of Amesbury or uttar of salisbury.
ek of the sabase prasiddh sites in the sansar, Stonehenge is the remains of a ring of khadaa pattharon niyat within earthworks.
It is in the madhya of the sabase ghanaa jatil of Neolithic or kaansya aayu monuments in England, sahit several sau dafan mounds.
archaeologists maananaa it was nirmit anywhere from 3000 BC to 2000 bc.
radiocarbon dating in 2008 sujhaayaa ki the pehla stones yahood raised between 2400 or 2200 BC, whilst another siddhanth suggests that bluestones may have been uthaaya at the sait as early as 3000 BC.
the surrounding circular dharti bank or khai, jisase constitute the earliest phase of the smarak, have maharoom dinaak to parichay 3100 bc.
The sait or its parivesh yahood added to the UNESCO 's suchi of sansar viraasat site in 1986 in a co-listing saath Avebury Henge.
it is a national legally surakshit anusuchit pracheen smarak.
Stonehenge is swaamitv by the Crown or prabandhit by angrezi viraasat, while the surrounding land is swaamitv by the National vishwaas.
puraatatv pramaan mila by the stonehenge riverside Project in 2008 indicates ki Stonehenge could have been a dafan maidan isse its earliest beginnings.
the dating of cremated remains mila on the sait indicate that jamaa contain human asthi from as jaldi as 3000 bc, when the ditch and bainko yahood pehla khoda.
aise jamaa jari at stonehenge liye at least another 500 saalo.
the sait is a place of dharmik significance or pilgrimage in neo-druidry.
The ncaa Women 's Division i championships is an salanaa college basketball toornament liye mahilaon.
Held each april, the Women 's championships thi udghaatan in the 1981–82 season.
The ncaa toornament thi preceded by the aiaw Women 's Basketball toornament, which thi yojit annually isse 1972 to 1982.
basket thi one of baarah mahilaon 's khel added to the ncaa championship kaarykram liye the 1981-82 school year, as the NCAA sagaai in battle with the sangh for intercollegiate athletics liye mahilaon liye sole governance of women 's colejiet khel.
the aiaw jari to conduct iske sthapit championships kaarykram in the vahi baarah ( or anya ) khel ; however, baad a year of dual women 's championships, the NCAA prevailed, while the AIAW disbanded.
upasthiti or interest in the mahilaon 's prabhag i Championship have grown over the saalo, visheshkar chunki 2003, jab the final championships khel thi sthanantarit to the mangalvaar following the somvaar main 's championships khel.
The women 's championships khel is abhi the final overall khel of the college basketball ritu.
Before ki, the Women 's final chaar thi usually played on the shuukravaar before the main 's Final Four or the ghanton pehle the main nibhaai on the final Saturday of the tournament.
the final thi praayah nibhaai the Sunday afternoon following the main 's final chaar.
the toornament koshthak is bana up of champions from prayek prabhag I conference, jisase receive automatic boliyon.
The baaki slot hai at-large boliyon, saath tiimon chuni by an ncaa chayan cameti.
the selection prakram and toornament seedings are aadhaarit on anek karkon, sahit toli rankings, win-loss records or darja Percentage anukramanika ( rpi ) aankada.
naapsand the men 's toornament, vahin are tabhi 32 at-large boliyon ( as of the aglaa toornament in 2014 ), or no play-in game.
the mahilaon 's toornament, like the men 's, is manchan in a single vilopan format, and is bhaag of the media or public frenzy known colloquially as kooch deewangi or The Big nrity.
sab 63 games have maharoom broadcast on television chunki 2003 on ESPN or espn2.
Similar to the pre-2011 men 's toornament coverage on sibies, local tiimon are dikhaaya on prayek channel jab uplabdhiyaan, saath `` whip-around '' kawarej designed to shokes the most pratispardhi pratiyogitaaon in the rest of the desh.
the rosetta stone in the angrejon sangrahalay
the Rosetta stone is an ancient Egyptian granodiorite stele inscribed saath a decri jari at memphis in 196 BC on behalf of King tolemi v.
The decree appears in teen scripts : the upper text is pracheen mishra chitralipi, the madhya portion Demotic script, and the nunatam Ancient unani.
kuki it presents essentially the vahi text in sab teen scripts ( with kuch naaballig matbhed between unhen ), it provided the key to the aadhunik understanding of mishra chitralipi.
originally pradarshit bheetar a temple, the stone thi probably sthanantarit dauraan the jaldi isai or medieval kaal or aakhirkaar used as bhawan saamagree in the nirmaan of fort Julien nikat the kasbaa of Rashid ( Rosetta ) in the Nile delta.
it was rediscovered vahin in 1799 by a soldier, pierre-françois bouchard, of the french expedition to Egypt.
as the pehla Ancient mishra bilingual text baraamad in aadhunik times, the rosetta stone aroused faili public byaaj saath iske sambhavit to decipher is hitherto untranslated pracheen bhashaa.
lithographic copies or plaster casts began circulating among europea museums or vidwaanon.
meanwhile, British sainikon defeated the french in mishra in 1801, and the asli stone aae into British kabza antargat the capitulation of elexandria.
transported to landan, it has maharoom on public pradarshak at the angrejon sangrahalay chunki 1802.
It is the most-visited object in the angrejon sangrahalay.
kabhi since its rediscovery, the stone rai maharoom the fokas of rashtravaadi rivalries, sahit iske transafar isse french to British kabza during the napoleonic yudhon, a long-running vivaad over the relative value of Young 's and Champollion 's yogadan to the decipherment, or chunki 2003, maange liye the stone 's vaapasi to mishra.
padhai of the decri thi already antargat rasta as the first puraa anuwaad of the Greek text appeared in 1803.
it was 20 saalo, however, pehle the lipyantaran of the mishra script thi announced by jean-françois champollion in Paris in 1822 ; it took longer still pehle vidwaanon yahood able to padhaa Ancient mishra inscriptions and literature confidently.
pramukh agrim in the decoding yahood : manyata ki the stone offered teen sanskaran of the vahi text ( 1799 ) ; ki the demotic text prayukt dhvanyatmak varna to spell foreign names ( 1802 ) ; ki the hieroglyphic text kiya so as khub, or tha pervasive similarities to the demotic ( thomas yang, 1814 ) ; or ki, in jod to hone prayukt liye videshi names, dhvanyatmak characters were bhi prayukt to spell native Egyptian words ( champollion, 1822–1824 ).
do anya fragmentary nakal of the vahi decri were discovered later, and anek similar mishra dubhashiya or trilingual inscriptions hai now known, sahit do thodaa pehle ptolemaic decri ( the Decree of canopus in 238 BC, and the memphis decree of Ptolemy iv, ca. 218 bc ).
the Rosetta stone is isliye no longer adwitiya, lakin it was the anivaary key to modern samajhnaa of pracheen Egyptian literature or sabhyataa.
the term rosetta stone is now prayukt in other contexts as the naam for the anivaary clue to a nai field of gyaan.
Poison dart mendhak ( bhi dart-poison mendhak, zehar mendhak or formerly zehar tir mendhak ) is the aam naam of a group of frogs in the parivaar Dendrobatidae jisase hai native to central or dakshin america.
ye species are diurnal and praayah have brightly colored laashen.
haalanki sab wild dendrobatids hai at tanik somewhat toxic, levels of toxicity vary considerably from ek prajati to the next or isse ek janasankhyikee to another.
anek prajati hai threatened.
ye amphibians hai praayah pukaara `` dart frogs '' due to the amerindians ' swadeshi upyog of unke to zehar the nuskhe of blowdarts.
However, of over 175 prajati, tabhi four have maharoom pralekhith as hone prayukt liye is purpose ( curare plants are adhik commonly prayukt ), sab of which come isse the phyllobates genus, which is characterized by the apekshaakrit vishaal size and high str of toxicity of iske members.
cajeta is a Mexican confection of thickened syrup praayah made of sweetened caramelised milk.
according to shef rik bayless, the name liye cajeta aae isse the spani phrase al punto de cajeta, which arthath `` a drav thickened to the point at which a chamachaa drawn through the drav reveals the neeche of the pot in which it is being pakaaya ''.
another hypothesis is ki it takes iske naam from the choti wooden baks in which it thi traditionally packed.
mexican cajeta is mana a specialty of the city of celaya in the rajya of Guanajuato, although it is bhi utpaadit saath the paramparaagat method in anek kasbon of the rajya of Jalisco, aise as Mazamitla, sayula, or atotonilco el alto.
Cajeta is bana by simmering bakrii 's milk, or occasionally a sweetened drav, stirring aksar, jabatak it becomes very viscous due to vashpikaran of jal, and caramelized.
jabaki bakrii milk is the sabase usual aadhaar, anya liquids or ras may be prayukt.
In celaya, and aakhirkaar the baaki of mexico, the confection of half bakrii 's milk or half gaay 's milk became gyaat by the name cajeta, lakin elsewhere, the milk candi became gyaat as leche quemada, jalebi de leche, etc.
it rai cousins in the anek bhartiya milk-based mithai jaise prabhaa and the milk fudge burfi, or in the opera faj of the U.S. cajeta is khaaya on iske own as a mithi, as a sprad or bharna liye breads or pastries, aise as churros, or as a topping liye barf malai.
nishchit liquors hai added to special recipes called cajeta envinada.
in jod, cajeta envinada especial is samrudh saath raisins, baadaam, pecans or nuts.
Often it is prayukt as a topping liye crêpes, as a sweet sos boiled or softened bas saath milk to soak the crepes, resulting in a swaadisht mithai.
in mexico anek brands mek cajeta but the sabase aam brands is coronado.
It is bhi bahut aam to place cajeta between obleas to make a paramparaagat mexican mithai.
prince William, duk of cambridge ( wiliam Arthur philip lui ; born 21 June 1982 ), is the elder bete of Charles, prince of Wales, or dyna, rajkumaari of wales, or third-eldest pota of maharani elizabeth ii and prince philip, duk of edinburgh.
He is duusari in the line of succession, peeche uske pita, to the takhton of solah independent sovereign states gyaat as the rashtramandal realms : the sanyukt Kingdom, Canada, australia, nai jiland, jamaica, Barbados, the bahama, Grenada, papua New gini, the Solomon islands, tuvaalu, Saint loosia, sant Vincent or the Grenadines, beliz, Antigua and Barbuda, or sant Kitts or Nevis.
prince William was shikshit at chaar skulon in the sanyukt kingdom or obtained a oopaadhi isse the vishvavidhyalayon of St andrews.
he kharch bhaag of a gap saal in chile, beliz, tanzania, and Kenya jahaan he rai lived or holidayed several times.
prince wiliam rai bhi liya Kiswahili studies at vishvavidhyalayon in kenya and tanzania.
he thi commissioned as a Lieutenant in the bluez or royles Regiment of the household pyaade —serving with uske bhai prince Harry —and, two saalo baad, earned uske wings by completing pilot prashikshan at Royal air force College cranwell.
in 2009, he transferred to the Royal Air force, was promoted to Flight leftinent or underwent helicopter flying prashikshan in order to become a full-time pilot saath the dhundhen or bachaav force.
in 2010, he samaapt his general or special-to-type helicopter prashikshan or gai on to RAF Valley on no. 22 squadran performing co-pilot kartavya on falak a samudr king dhundhen or rescue helicopter.
prince wiliam shaadishuda uske longtime garlfriend, catherine middlaton, on 29 April 2011 at westminster Abbey.
Hours prior to his vivaah, prince William was nirmit Duke of cambridge, arl of Strathearn, or samant carrickfergus.
Mali is a multilingual country.
the bhashaaen bolaa vahin reflect pracheen upnivesh pattern, migrations, or its long itihaas.
Ethnologue rishto 50 bhashaaen.
Of ye, french is the aadhikarik language or bambara is the sabase widely bolaa.
altogether 13 of the indigenous bhashaaen of Mali have the legal status of neshnal bhashaa.
chihn in french, at a smarak in Bamako.
{ { infobox avkaash
chinis New saal
9 – 12 farvari ( vietnam )
rogers bhawan, the mukhyalay of rogers Communications
Rogers sanchaar inc. is a diversified public canadai sanchaar and media company.
it is particularly in the field of betaar sanchaar, cabel television, telephone, and antarjaal connectivity saath significant additional telecommunications or dravyaman media assets.
The company is headquartered in the rogers bhawan in toronto, ontario.
the company claims the heritage of the rogers vaikum tub Company, santhaapit in 1925 by edward rogers, which prarambh the cfrb radio station in toronto, which thi baad acquired by baahar ruchi.
the upasthit enterprize tithiyaan to 1960, jab rogers ' son, ted rogers, santhaapit rogers radio Broadcasting ltd.
ki company acquired CHFI ki saal, as khub as Aldred-Rogers prasaaran, a partnership saath joel Aldred jisase helped launch cfto in 1961.
rogers baad kharida out Aldred or started the current cable or betaar parichaalan, gyaat as rogers cablesystems Ltd.
the mukhya competitor to the company is ghanti canada, which rai a similarly extensive portpholio of radio and television media asset, as well as wireless, television distribution, and telephone sevaayen, visheshkar in purvi or central Canada ; the two companies hai praayah seen as having a dwayadhikaar on sanchaar services in unke regions.
However, the company also competes nationally saath Telus liye betaar sevaayen, or primarily indirectly saath Shaw sanchaar liye television seva.
The company bhi competes with a kramank of other media companiyaan in the broadcasting udyog.
the antarjaal is a global system of interconnected computer sanjaal that upyog the maanak antarjaal protocol suite ( TCP/IP ) to serve arabon of users vishwavyaapee.
It is a sanjaal of sanjaal ki consists of lakho of private, public, academik, kaarobaar, and sarkari sanjaal, of local to vaishvik scope, ki are linked by a broad array of electronic, wireless or optical netwarking technologies.
The antarjaal carries an extensive range of soochna sansaadhan or sevaayen, aise as the inter-linked hypertext dastauez of the sansar Wide web ( www ) or the avasanrachana to support email.
Most paramparaagat sanchaar media sahit telephone, music, filmi, or television are hone reshaped or redefined by the antarjaal, giving janam to nai services such as voice over antarjaal Protocol ( voip ) or antarjaal Protocol television ( IPTV ).
samachaarpatr, book or other chapai prakaashan hai adapting to Web sait praudyogiki, or hai reshaped into blogging and web feeds.
the Internet rai sakriy and twarit nai form of insaan interactions through tatkaal messaging, antarjaal forums, or soshal networking.
Online shopping rai boomed both for major khudara outlet or choti shilpkaar and vyapaariyon.
business-to-business or vittiya sevaayen on the antarjaal affect supplai zanjeeron aarpaar sampurna udyog.
the origins of the Internet pahunchein back to research commissioned by the sanyukt States government in the 1960s to nirmaan majboot, fault-tolerant sanchaar via computer sanjaal.
the funding of a new U.S. backbone by the neshnal Science Foundation in the 1980s, as khub as nijee funding for anya vanijyik backbones, led to vishwavyaapee bhagidaari in the vikaas of nai netwarking technologies, or the vilay of anek sanjaal.
the vyavsyeekaran of kayaa thi by the 1990s an antarrashtriya network resulted in iske popularization or incorporation into vastutah every pahalu of aadhunik insaan jivan.
, adhik than 2.4 arab people—over a teesraa of the world 's insaan janasankhyikee —have used the sevaayen of the antarjaal ; lagbhag 100 times adhik people than yahood using it in 1995, jab it thi zyaadaatar prayukt by tech-savvy madhya or apper class people in the sanyukt rajya or anek anya deshon.
the antarjaal has no centralized governance in either technological implementation or nitiyon liye abhigam or upyog ; prayek constituent sanjaal set iske apana nitiyon.
tabhi the overreaching paribhaashaayen of the do principal name spaces in the Internet, the antarjaal Protocol address spes or the domen naam pranali, are nirdeshit by a maintainer organization, the antarjaal Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers ( ICANN ).
the technical underpinning or maanakeekaran of the core protocol ( ipv4 or IPv6 ) is an activity of the antarjaal abhiyantriki kaary Force ( ietf ), a non-profit sanghathan of loosely sambhddha international bhagidaar ki anyone may associate saath by contributing takneekee expertise.
The 2006 sheet Olympics, officially known as the xx olympic Winter khel, thi a sheet multi-sport event jisase thi manaaye in torino, italy isse farvari 10, 2006, through farvari 26, 2006.
is chihnit the duusari samay italy hosted the olympic sheet khel, the pehla hone the saat olympic sheet khel in cortina d'ampezzo in 1956.
Italy bhi hosted the khel of the XVII olympiad in rome in 1960.
torino was selected as the mejabaan city liye the 2006 khel in 1999.
the official logo pradarshit the name `` torino '', the Italian name of the nagar ; the nagar is gyaat as `` torino '' in dono English or the local paramparaagat bhashaa, Piedmontese.
the Olympic mascots of torino 2006 yahood neve ( `` snow '' in italvi ), a maadaa snobal, or Gliz, a purush barf ghan.
the official motto of the xx Olympic Winter Games thi `` junun lives yahan ''.
`` Help ! '' is a song by the betals ki parosa as the sheershak song liye dono the 1965 filmi or its soundtrack album.
it thi bhi released as a single, or thi kramank ek for teen saptaah in dono the sanyukt States and the United kingdom.
`` sahaayta ! '' thi likhaa primarily by jon lenon, lakin credited to lennon–mccartney.
dauraan an intervyuu saath plaboy in 1984, Paul mccartney stated ki the sheershak was `` out of chatapataahat ''.
poster liye the 2005 pradarshnee
siegfried bing ( 26 farvari 1838 – 6 September 1905 ), who praayah diya his naam as S. Bing, or thi thus praayah referenced erroneously as `` Samuel Bing '' ( samuel oto bing, 1850–1905, thi his bhai ) thi a germany art dealer jo lived in paris as an adult, or jo helped introduce japani art or artworks to the west and was a factor in the vikaas of the Art devanand style dauraan the let nineteenth sadi.
tulana of male or maadaa jivan expectancy at janam liye deshon or territories as defined in the 2011 siie Factbook, with chaynit bulbule labelled.
the dotted lakeer corresponds to equal maadaa or male life pratyaasha.
The apparent 3d aaytan of the bulbule are linearly proportional to unke janasankhyikee.
This is a list of countries by life pratyaasha at janam.
kennewick is a city in benton county in the southeastern bhaag of the U.S. state of washington, near the Hanford nuclear site.
it is the sabase populous of the teen cities collectively referred to as the tri-cities ( the anya hone pasco and richland ).
Kennewick is stith saath the southwest bank of the colombia nadi, vipareet pasco or just south of the confluence of the colombia or yakima nadiyaan.
the population thi 73,917 at the 2010 janasankhyikee.
april 1, 2012 estimates from the washington State daftar of vittiya Management put the nagar 's janasankhyikee at 75,160.
the nikatatam vanijyik vimaanashetra is the tri-cities vimaanashetra in pasco, a kshetreey vanijyik or nijee vimaanashetra.
Forbes patrika named kennewick the # 2 area in the sanyukt States for job vikaas, jabaki aasapaas yakima thi namit # 1.
The aalekh cites the kramank of vaigyanikon employed by the Pacific uttarpashchim neshnal prayogshaala or kshetrafal farmland liye is outluk.
The prothrombin samay ( pt ) or iske niklaa measures of prothrombin anupaat ( PR ) or antarrashtriya normalized anupaat ( inr ) hai measures of the extrinsic pathway of jaman.
This test is bhi called `` protime inr '' or `` pt/inr ''.
ve hai prayukt to determine the clotting tendency of rakt, in the maap of warfarin dosage, jigar damage, or vitamin K aukaat.
PT upayon karkon i ( fibrinogen ), ii ( prothrombin ), v, VII, or x.
It is prayukt in sangyojan with the activated partial thromboplastin samay ( aptt ) jisase upayon the intrinsic pathway.
`` i 'm in the Mood liye Love '' is a lokapriy song.
The music thi likhaa by jimmy mchugh, the geet by dorothi field.
The song was published in 1935.
it thi introduced by frances langford in the movie Every raatri at Eight released ki saal.
the song was pradarshit in the 1936 hamaari giroh ( choti Rascals ) choti, The Pinch singer, sung by karl `` Alfalfa '' switzer, or in the 1936 filmi tad sroton.
it is praayah gyaat to be switzer 's signature song.
James mudi 's saxophone solo on a 1952 recording of is song prerit the song `` mudi 's Mood liye prem ``.
Hip hop artist prince Paul sampled the song as the aadhaar for the track `` Mood liye prem '' on his album a prince Among choron ( 1999 ), with don newkirk singing iske asli geet.
the song 's sheershak prerit the angrezi sheershak of Wong Kar Wai 's movie in the manodasha liye prem.
cross-cultural manovigyaan is the vaigyanik padhai of insaan bartaav or mental prakriyaaon, including dono unke variability or invariance, antargat diverse saanskrithik sharten.
Through expanding shodh methodologies to recognize saanskrithik variance in bartaav, language, or arth it seeks to extend or develop manovigyaan.
chunki psychology as an academik discipline thi viksit largely in uttar America, kuch psychologists became chintit that constructs sweekrut as universal were not as nishchar as previously assumed, especially since many attempts to replicate notable experiments in other samskritiyon tha varying kamyaabi.
chunki vahin hai sawaal as to whether theories dealing saath central themes, aise as affect, sangyaan, conceptions of the self, or mudde aise as psychopathology, anxiety, or avsaad, may lack bahya validity jab `` exported '' to anya cultural contexts, cross-cultural manovigyaan re-examines unhen using methodologies designed to factor in cultural differences so as to khaataa liye saanskrithik variance.
Although some critics have pointed to methodological khamiyaan in cross-cultural manovaigyanik shodh or arji ki serious shortcomings in the saidhantik or methodological bases prayukt impede balki than help the vaigyanik search for saarvbhaumik principles in manovigyaan, cross-cultural psychologists hai turning more to the padhai of kaisaa matbhed ( variance ) occur, balki than searching liye universals in the style of bhautikee or rasayan.
in 1972 the antarrashtriya sangh of Cross-Cultural manovigyaan ( IACCP ) thi established.
This branch of manovigyaan has jari to vistaar as vahin has maharoom an increasing popularity of incorporating samskruti and diversity into adhyayan.
cross-cultural manovigyaan is differentiated isse saanskrithik manovigyaan.
the latter is the shakha of manovigyaan ki holds ki human bartaav is significantly bahekaave by saanskrithik matbhed, meaning ki manovaigyanik phenomena can only be compared with prayek anya aarpaar samskritiyon to a very limited extent.
in contrast, cross-cultural manovigyaan shaamil a dhundhen liye possible universals in bartaav or dimagi prakriyaaon.
walter J. lonner, likhane liye najar on Psi chi, rai stated ki `` cross-cultural psychology can be vichaar of as a type shodh methodology, balki than an entirely pruthak field bheetar manovigyaan ( 2000 ). ''
`` Judas '' is a song by American recording kalakaar mahila gaaga, isse uske duusari studio album born is rasta ( 2011 ).
It thi released by interscope record on April 15, 2011, four dinon ahead of iske anusuchit relies.
likhaa or utpaadit by Lady gaaga or RedOne, `` yahuda '' is a nrity or electro house song parichay a woman in prem saath a man jo betrayed uske.
it embodies the incidents ki have haunted gaaga in the past, or iske kor arth refers to the rinatmak bhaag of uske jivan ki wo ca n't escape.
Gaga rai further explained ki the song thi bhi about honoring one 's bhitari darkness in anukram to bring oneself into the light.
the kalakriti for the single thi designed by gaaga in microsoft Word.
in spite of a polarizing prabhaav on several religious samooh, the song thi generally khub praapt by aalochakon, jo likened the song to `` karaab Romance `` saath kuch noting it should have been the album 's sise single.
the song has a samaan sound to Gaga 's pichhlaa redone-produced tracks, including `` pokar phase ``, `` lovegame ``, `` Bad Romance '', or `` Alejandro ``.
it contains three distinct hooks or a house -influenced break bas.
gaaga samajhaayaa ki the linon spoken dauraan the breakdown baat about her as pare mochan, regarding the traditional drishy of kayaa a stri chahie be.
`` yahuda '' initially tha a damdaar sales kholane, lakin was kam successful commercially in comparison to gaaga 's previous singles.
The song reached the sheersh ten of the chart in sabase pramukh music bazaar, and also pahunche the top of the chart in dakshin korian.
a music video liye the song thi filmaaya in April 2011, co-directed by Gaga or laurieann gibson or co-starring norman reedus.
It rai a biblical kathanak jahaan reedus nibhaai yahuda iscarriyat or gaaga played mariyam magdalene.
The video portrays unhen as modern din missionaries going to jerusalem.
it shaamil the Biblical story of yahuda betraying yishu, or ended saath Gaga as Magdalene getting stoned to death.
Before its relies, the catholic lig condemned Gaga for the kathith upyog of dharmik imagery or uske role in the video.
however, aalochakon generally praised the video, nahin dhundhna any apriy saamagree.
the video thi nominated liye do puraskaar at the 2011 MTV video music puraskaar.
Gaga has performed `` yahuda '' on a kramank of television shows, sahit the graham Norton dikhaaen, shanivaar raatri sajiv, shubh morning americas `` garmiyaan Concert shrenee '', the french x factor as well as on the ellen degeneres dikhaaen.
H.264/MPEG-4 Part 10 or avc ( unnat video koding ) is a maanak liye video sampeden, or is philhal ek of the sabase commonly used swarup for the recording, sampeden, or vitaran of unchi paribhaasha video.
the final drafting kaary on the first sanskaran of the maanak was samaapt in May 2003.
h.264/mpeg-4 AVC is a block-oriented motion-compensation -aadharand kodak maanak developed by the itu-t video Coding Experts Group ( VCEG ) saath saath the iso/iec jtc1 Moving Picture visheshgy samooh ( empiiji ).
the project saajhedaari praytn is gyaat as the sanyukt video Team ( jvt ).
The itu-t h.264 standard or the iso/iec MPEG-4 avc maanak ( formally, ISO/IEC 14496-10 – mpeg-4 bhaag 10, unnat video Coding ) are jointly kaayam so ki they have ekasmaan takneekee saamagree.
h.264 is shaayad behtareen known as being ek of the kodak maanakon liye blu-ray discs ; sab blu-ray Disc khilaadi jarur be samarth to dicode H.264.
It is bhi widely prayukt by streaming antarjaal strot, such as video isse Vimeo, youtube, or the iTunes store, web software aise as the adobe flash khilaadi and Microsoft silverlight, or bhi various hdtv prasaaran over sthaliy ( ATSC, ISDB-T, dvb-t or dvb-t2 ), cabel ( dvb-c ) and upgrah ( dvb-s or dvb-s2 ).
non-binding arbitration is a prakaar of arbitration in jisase the arbitrator makes a determination of the adhikaron of the partiyon to the vivaad, but is determination is nahin binding upon unhen, or no enforceable arbitration puraskaar is issued.
The `` puraskaar '' is in prabhaav an advisory raay of the arbitrator 's view of the respective merits of the partiyon cases.
non-binding madhyasthata is prayukt in connection saath attempts to pahunchein a negotiated upnivesh.
the bhoomika of an arbitrator in non-binding arbitration is, on the surface, samaan to that of a mediator in a madhyasthata.
however, the principal bhed is ki whereas a madhyasth hoga try to sahaayta the partiyon find a madhya ground to compromise at, the arbitrator remains totally removed isse the settlement prakram or hoga tabhi give a determination of deyta or, if appropriate, an indication of the kwantum of damages dey.
Subsequent to a non-binding arbitration, the parties remain free to pursue unke daawa either through the nyaayalayon, or by way of a binding arbitration, haalanki in abhyaas a upnivesh is the sabase common nishkarsh.
the puraskaar and reasoning in a non-binding arbitration is lagbhag invariably inadmissible in koi subsequent karrwai in the nyaayalayon or in another arbitration tribunal.
non-binding arbitration is utilised mostly in the sanyukt States and canada.
it is largely unknown in europea, although in the sanyukt kingdom vahin is a practice of partiyon who hai seeking a upnivesh to jointly instruct a maharani 's counsel liye an opinion on the merits or likely kwantum of a arji, and tab to negotiate on the basis of the drishy expressed in ki raay.
Augustine Volcano is a lava gumbad Complex on agastin dweep in southwestern cook inlate in the kenai prayadweep Borough of southcentral tateey alaska, dakshinpaschim of anchorage.
the Alaska Volcano Observatory philhal daron Mount agastin as Level of chintaa rang Code green liye aviation and the Volcano chetavanee str is at saamaanya.
Augustine dweep rai a jameen kshetrafal of, jabaki west Island, bas band agastin 's pashchimi shores, rai.
the dweep is made up mukhyatah of past fatna jamaa.
vaigyanikon have been samarth to discern ki past gumbad patan rai resulted in vishaal avalanches.
a map of beliz.
The desh of beliz has roughly 386 km of tatarekha, or has anek coral reefs, cays, or islands in the caribbean samudr.
sabase of these rup the beliz Barrier rif, the longest in the pashchimi golardh stemming lagbhag.
the reef or iske islands have maharoom a UNESCO sansar viraasat sait since 1996.
The following is a list of oceanic islands of Belize, arranged according to pradesh but all of jisase are in the Caribbean samudr.
Most of the islands variate in spelling between `` cay '' or `` caye '', and bhi upyog the spani `` cayo ''.
River islands have nahin been soochibaddh.
drive akshar abhigam ( dla ) is a discontinued vanijyik packet likhane application for the Microsoft khidkiyaan oparating system ki allows optical discs aankada bhandar divaais to be prayukt in a manner similar to floppy discs.
DLA is a packet likhane praudyogiki liye CD or dvd media that upyog the udf sanchika pranali.
dla is nahin sangat saath khidkiyaan vista and newer, haalanki a ptch exists to fix is issue antargat Windows vista.
Roxio Burn thi introduced on april 30, 2009.
as a replacement liye dla, it remedies sangatta mudde antarjaal explorer 8.
Alpha rex emmanuel humbard ( agast 13, 1919 – September 21, 2007 ) thi a well-known amareeki television enjeelwaadi jinaki Cathedral of kal show thi shown on over 600 stesan at the shikhar of its lokapriyata.
aseemit is a 2011 amareeki thriller film nirdeshit by Neil burgers or abhinit bradli kupar, Abbie Cornish, or robert De Niro.
it is based on the 2001 novel the andhera Fields by alan glynn saath the patakatha by lesley dikson.
alaska ( ) is a rajya in the United rajya, situated in the uttarpashchim extremity of the uttar amareeki continent, with the antarrashtriya boundary saath canada to the east, the Arctic Ocean to the north, or the Pacific samandar to the west and south, saath rus further west aarpaar the bering jalsandhi.
Alaska is the largest rajya in the sanyukt States by kshetrafal, the 4th least populous and the tanik densely aabaadi of the 50 United rajya.
lagbhag half of Alaska 's 731,449 nivaasiyon live within the anchorage metropolitan area.
alaska 's arthvyavastha is dominated by the aayal, prakritik gas, or fishing udyog ; it rai ye sansaadhan in prachurtaa.
Alaska thi kharida from rus on March 30, 1867, liye $ 7.2 lakh ( $ samyojit liye mahangaai ) at lagbhag do saint prati acre ( $ 4.74/km2 ).
the jameen gai through anek administrative parivartan before banane an vyavasthit ( or incorporated ) territory on may 11, 1912, and the 49th state of the u.S. on janvari 3, 1959.
the naam `` alaska '' ( аляска ) was already introduced in the roosi aupniveshik kaal, when it thi used tabhi liye the prayadweep or is niklaa isse the aleut alaxsxaq, arth `` the menland '' or, adhik literally, `` the object towards jisase the karrwai of the samudr is directed ''.
it is also gyaat as Alyeska, the `` great jameen '', an aleut shabd niklaa from the vahi root.
nelson mandela mahanagar University ( nmmu ) is a South africa tertiary shiksha sanstha saath its pramukh prashasan in the tateey nagar of bandargahon Elizabeth.
a vilay of three sansthaanon santhaapit nmmu in janvari 2005 lakin iske itihaas tithiyaan waapas to 1882 saath the nyaas of Port elizabeth art skool.
the vishvavidhyalayon draws antarrashtriya vidhyaarthee isse sab over the sansar.
vahin hai over 3000 antarrashtriya vidhyaarthee and shaamil vidhyaarthee isse the United rajya, France, china, Germany, belgium, Denmark, Finland, netherlands, Norway, Sweden, sanyukt kingdom or anek anya deshon.
NMMU is a vyapak university offering peshewar or vokational prashikshan.
The vishvavidhyalayon rai chah campuses - five in Port elizabeth or one in george.
The pramukh campus is the South Campus.
vidhyaarthee at nmmu can padhai towards diplomas or degree up to or sahit doctoral str yogyata.
a number of paathyakram shaamil workplace anubhav as bhaag of the curriculum.
covergirl is an amareeki cosmetics brands santhaapit in maryland, by the noxzema rasinic company ( later pukaara noxell ) or acquired by Procter & gamble in 1989.
the noxell Company advertised is cosmetics lakeer by allowing `` cover ladakiyon '', fashion model who appear on the saamne cover of mahilaon 's magazines, to pahanen its utpaada.
covergirl makes up liye kami of sidhaa individual customer seva by providing a chaudee kismein of cosmetics available at uchit keemten.
On the utpatti of Species, prakashit on 24 navambar 1859, is a work of vaigyanik sahitya by charles darwin jisase is mana to be the nyaas of evolutionary jeevigyaan.
Its full sheershak thi on the utpatti of Species by arthath of prakritik chayan, or the Preservation of Favoured Races in the sangharsh for jivan.
liye the sixth edition of 1872, the choti sheershak thi badla to The utpatti of prajati.
Darwin 's kitaab introduced the vaigyanik siddhanth ki populations evolve over the course of peedhiyaan through a process of natural selection.
it prastut a deh of evidence ki the vividhta of jivan arose by aam descent through a branching pattern of evolution.
darwin shaamil evidence that he had gathered on the Beagle expedition in the 1830s and uske subsequent nishkarshon isse shodh, patrachaar, or experimentation.
Various evolutionary vichaar tha already maharoom prastaavit to explain nai findings in jeevigyaan.
There thi growing support liye aise vichaar among dissident anatomists and the saamaanya public, lakin dauraan the first half of the 19th century the angrezi vaigyanik sthapana thi closely tied to the Church of England, jabaki vigyaan was bhaag of prakritik dharamshastra.
vichaar about the transmutation of prajati yahood vivaadaaspad as ve virdohi saath the beliefs ki prajati yahood aparivartansheel bhaag of a designed padanukram and ki insaano yahood adwitiya, unrelated to anya pashu.
The rajnatik or theological implications were padati debated, lakin transmutation thi nahin sweekrut by the vaigyanik mukhyadhara.
the book thi written liye non-specialist pathak and aakarshith faili byaaj upon its publication.
as darwin thi an pratishthit vaigyanik, uske findings yahood liya seriously or the pramaan he prastut utpann vaigyanik, philosophical, or dharmik charchaa.
The bahes over the kitaab contributed to the campaign by t.h. Huxley or his fellow sadasyon of the X klbon to secularise science by promoting vaigyanik naturalism.
Within do dashakon vahin thi faili scientific anubandh ki evolution, saath a branching pattern of aam descent, tha occurred, lakin vaigyanikon yahood slow to give prakritik chayan the significance that Darwin thought appropriate.
During the `` grahan of Darwinism `` isse the 1880s to the 1930s, vibhinn anya mechanisms of evolution yahood die adhik credit.
saath the development of the modern evolutionary sanshleshan in the 1930s or 1940s, darwin 's concept of vikasvaadi anukulan through natural chayan became central to modern vikasvaadi siddhanth, abhi the unifying avadharana of the jivan sciences.
charles dilan `` Casey '' stangal ( ; july 30, 1890 – sitambar 29, 1975 ), nicknamed `` The boodha perfessor '', thi an amareeki Major lig besabaal outfielder or manager.
he thi elected to the besabaal haul of kirti in.
Stengel was born in kansas nagar, mizori, or originally nicknamed `` dach '', a common upnaam at that time liye america of germany ancestry.
baad uske pramukh lig kariyar began, he acquired the nickname `` Casey '', jisase originally came from the adyakshar of his hometown ( `` K. C. '' ), jisase viksit into `` Casey '', bahekaave by the chaudee lokapriyata of the kavita kasee at the Bat.
In the 1950s, sportswriters dubbed use saath yet another upnaam, `` the boodha praadhyaapak '' ( or `` perfessor '' ), liye his sharp wit or his ability to baat at lambaai on anything baseball -sunanased.
Although uske besabaal kariyar spanned a number of tiimon or shaharon, he is primarily associated saath clubs in nai york nagar.
between playing and managing, he is the only man to have worn chaar of New York 's pramukh lig club ' uniforms.
he thi the pehla of chaar main ( through the ritu ) to manage both the nai york Yankees or nai york mets ; yogi berra, dalas green, or jo Torre hai the others.
jaise Torre, he also prabandhit the Braves or the dosers.
He ended his besabaal career as the beloved manager liye the tab vistaar nai york mets, jisase jiti over the dil of New york partly due to the unique character of unke diggaj netaa.
june ( ) is the chathe maah of the saal in the Julian or gregorian panchang or ek of the four maheene saath a length of 30 days.
ovid provides do etymologies liye june 's name in uske poem concerning the maheene hakdaar the fasti.
the pehla is ki the maah is named baad the roman devi juno, bivi of brihaspati or samatuly to the unani goddess hera ; the second is ki the naam aata isse the latin shabd iuniores, arth `` younger ones, '' as opposed to maiores ( `` elders '' ) liye which the preceding maah May may be namit ( Fasti vi.1–88 ).
dekhie : Months in various panchang also pukaara the season of the june is the maah saath the longest daylight hours of the year in the uttari golardh or the shortest daylight ghanton of the year in the Southern Hemisphere.
June in the uttari golardh is the mausami equivalent to December in the dakshini golardh or vice versa.
In the Northern golardh, the beginning of the meteorological summer is 1 june.
In the dakshini hemisphere, the shuruuaat of the meteorological sheet is 1 June.
at the prarambh of june, the surya rises in the nakshatra of vrish ; at the samaapt of june, the surya rises in the constellation of mithun.
However, due to the precession of the equinoxes, june begins saath the surya in the astrological chihn of mithun, or ends saath the surya in the astrological chihn of karkat.
june is gyaat liye the large kramank of vivaah ki occur over the course of the month.
according to one etymology, june is named baad juno ( hera ).
juno thi the devi of marriage or a married yugal 's household, so kuch consider it good lack to be shaadishuda in this maah.
according to another etymology provided by the roman poet ovid, june is namit liye the iuniores, latin for `` yang people '' ( Fasti vi.88 ) or that the maah of may is named for the maiores, Latin liye `` bado ''.
In Iceland, loakgeet says ki if you bathe nagn in the morning dew on the morning of june 24, tum are supposed to rakhana vriddhavastha at khadi liye longer.
a samvidhan is a set of fundamental siddhanth or sthapit precedents according to jisase a rajya or anya organization is governed.
ye niyam saath mek up, i.e. constitute, what the antity is.
jab these siddhanth are written bas into a single document or niyat of vidhik dastauez, those dastauez may be said to embody a likhaa samvidhan ; if ve hai likhaa down in a single comprehensive dastauez, it is kaha to embody a samhitabaddh samvidhan.
constitutions chintaa different levels of sanghathan, from sovereign rajya to companiyaan and unincorporated association.
a treaty which establishes an antarrashtriya sanghathan is also its samvidhan, in ki it hota define how that sanghathan is gathit.
Within rajya, whether sovereign or federated, a constitution defines the principles upon jisase the state is aadhaarit, the kaarividhi in jisase kanoon are made or by jisko.
Some constitutions, visheshkar samhitabaddh constitutions, also act as limiters of state shakti, by establishing lines jisase a state 's shaskaon can not cross, aise as aadharbhoot adhikaron.
George washington at sanvaidhanik sammelan of 1787, signing of U.S. samvidhan.
the samvidhan of india is the longest likhaa samvidhan of koi sovereign country in the sansar, containing 448 aalekh, 12 schedules and 100 amendments, saath 117,369 shabd in its English language sanskaran, jabaki the sanyukt States Constitution is the shortest likhaa samvidhan, at 7 aalekh or 27 amendments.
Ron diftler ( baayein ), NASA robonaut manager assisting in a robonaut familiarization prashikshan satr in the spes paryaavaran Simulation prayogshaala at nasa 's Johnson spes bich.
Engineering prabandhan is a specialized form of prabandhan that is concerned with the anuprayog of engineering siddhanth to kaarobaar abhyaas.
abhiyantriki management is a career ki brings saath the technological problem-solving savvy of engineering or the organizational, prashasnic, or niyojan abilities of management in anukram to oversee jatil enterprises from conception to completion.
udhaaharan kshetron of abhiyantriki hai utpaada development, nirmaan, nirmaan, design engineering, industrial abhiyantriki, praudyogiki, utpaadan, or koi anya field ki employs personnel jo perform an engineering falan.
kaamyaab abhiyantriki prabandhak typically aavashyaktaa prashikshan or experience in kaarobaar and abhiyantriki.
Technically inept prabandhak tend to be vanchit of support by unke technical toli, or non-commercial prabandhak tend to lack commercial sooyeeboojh to uddhaar in a market arthvyavastha.
largely, abhiyantriki managers manage ejiniers jo are chalit by non-entrepreneurial soch, yun aavashyaktaa the jaruri logon kaushal to coach, mentor or motivate takneekee professionals.
abhiyantriki peshewar joining nirmaan companies sometimes become engineering prabandhak by difolt baad a kaal of time.
ve hai jaruri to sikh kaisaa to manage ekbar they hai on the job, haalanki is is praayah an aprabhavi rasta to develop managerial abilities.
in an bime niti, the deductible is the raashi of expenses ki jarur be paid out of jeb pehle an insurer hoga adaa koi kharch.
in saamaanya upyog, the pad deductible may be prayukt to describe ek of several prakaar of clauses ( see neeche ) that hai prayukt by bime companies as a dahalij liye policy bhugtan.
deductibles are typically prayukt to deter the vishaal kramank of trivial daawa ki a upabhokta can be reasonably apekshit to bhaaluu the laagat of.
by restricting iske kawarej to kaarykram ki hai significant paryaapt to incur vishaal costs, the bime firm expects to adaa out thodaa choti amounts much kam aksar, rusht much ucchtar savings.
As a parinaam, bime premiums hai typically cheaper jab they involve ucchtar deductibles.
Deductibles are saamanytah provided as clauses in an bime policy ki dictate kaisaa much of an insurance-covered vyay is borne by the policyholder.
ve hai saamanytah quoted as a phixd maatra and is a bhaag of sabase nitiyon covering losses to the policy holder.
the insurer tab becomes liable for claimable expenses ki exceed is raashi ( vishay to the adhiktam sum claimable indicated in the anubandh ).
Depending on the policy, the deductible may lagu prati covered incident, or prati saal.
For policies jahaan incidences hai nahin aasaan to delimit ( liye udhaaharan swasthya bime ), the deductible is typically lagu prati year.
anek deductibles can be set by the insurer aadhaarit on the kaaran of the arji.
liye example, a single awaas bime niti may contain anek deductible amounts for ghaataa or kshati arising from theft, aag, prakritik calamities, evacuation etc.
vahin hai also deductible reimbursement kaarykram ki reimburse a deductible in the event of an swachaalit, home, boat/yacht or swasthya bime claim.
An chaalaan or vidheyak is a vanijyik dastauez issued by a seller to a kharidaar, indicating the utpaada, quantities, and agreed keemten liye products or sevaayen the vikreta rai provided the kharidaar.
An chaalaan indicates the bikri lenden tabhi.
bhugtan terms hai swatantra of the chaalaan or hai negotiated by the kharidaar or the vikreta.
bhugtan sharten hai praayah shaamil on the chaalaan.
the buyer could have already sashulk liye the utpaada or sevaayen soochibaddh on the invoice.
kharidaar can bhi have a adhiktam kramank of dinon in jisase to adaa liye these goods or is sometimes offered a chhot if paid before the due tithi.
In the rental udyog, an invoice jarur shaamil a vishisht sandarbh to the duration of the time hone billed, so in addition to quantity, daam and chhot the invoicing amount is also aadhaarit on avadhi.
Generally each lakeer of a rental invoice hoga refer to the vaastavik ghanton, days, saptaah, months, etc., hone billed.
isse the point of drishy of a vikreta, an chaalaan is a sales chaalaan.
isse the point of drishy of a kharidaar, an chaalaan is a khariden chaalaan.
The dastauez indicates the kharidaar or seller, lakin the term invoice indicates money is owed or owing.
In angrezi, the context of the term chaalaan is praayah prayukt to clarify its arth, aise as `` we bheja them an chaalaan '' ( ve owe us dhan ) or `` we received an invoice isse unhen '' ( we owe unhen money ).
The sahi pramukh bronchus ( or sahi praathmik bronchus, or sahi principal bronchus ) is a bronchus of the respiratory system.
it is wider, shorter, and adhik vertical in direction than the baayein.
it is about 2.5 cm long, and enters the right lung nearly opposite the paanchvaan thoracic vertebra.
the azygos vein arches over it isse peeche ; or the right pulmonary dhamni jhooth at pehla neeche or tab in front of it.
parichay 2 cm isse its commencement it detaa band a branch to the apper lobe of the sahi fefdon.
is is termed the eparterial shakha of the bronchus, kuki it arises above the right pulmonary dhamni.
the bronchus now gujarata neeche the dhamni, or is gyaat as the hyparterial branch ; it divides into do shakhaon liye the middle and nimnatar nirmoke.
if a foreign deh in the airway gujarata through the shwaasanlee, it hoga sabase sambhavit enter the sahi pramukh bronchus instead of the baayein, due to the straighter sanrekhan of the right bronchus to the trachea.
squash is a racquet khel nibhaai by do ( singles ) or chaar khilaadi ( yugal ) in a four-walled court saath a choti, khokhla rabar ball.
the khilaadi jarur vaikalpik in striking the ball with their racquet and hit the ball onto the playable satahon of the chaar walls of the adaalat.
the game thi formerly pukaara squash racquets, a sandarbh to the `` squashable '' soft ball prayukt in the game ( compared saath the fatter ball used in iske parent game racquets or rackets ).
Squash is pahachaanaa by the ioc and samarthak hai lobbying liye its incorporation in a bhavishya Olympic program.
in 2003, forbs rated squash as the kramank ek healthiest khel to play.
Residual aayal is aayal found in kam concentrations naturally or in exhausted aayal field.
Often mishrit saath jal, it can not be baraamad by conventional techniques.
however, it can be baraamad using carbon dioxide-enhanced aayal recovery ( co2 eor ) jisase involves injecting carbon dioxide into the khub reducing shyanta and badhanaa pravaah of the oil.
the takanic is nahin nai but rai not maharoom prayukt extensively on avshesh aayal zones, low-grade jamaa of petroleum such as the 38 square mile in the Permian Basin of Texas leased by elliott rujvelt jr.
the takanic is limited by uplabdhta of carbon dioxide.
It does not parinaam in sequestration of the carbon dioxide lakin the gas is recycled as much as possible.
United States reserves of avshesh aayal hai anumaanit to be 100 arab barrels.
Artist 's rendering of the aag, by jon R. Chapin, originally printed in harper 's Weekly ; the drishy chehron purvottar across the Randolph gali sethu.
The Great chicago aag thi a conflagration ki burned isse Sunday, October 8, to early Tuesday, aktubar 10, 1871, hatya sainkadon or destroying parichay in chicago, Illinois.
haalanki the aag thi ek of the largest u.S. aapadaaon of the 19th sadi, the punarnirmaan that began helped develop chicago as ek of the sabase populous or economically mahatvapurn amareeki shaharon.
henry viii ( 28 june 1491 – 28 janvari 1547 ) thi king of england isse 21 april 1509 jabatak uske maut.
he was rab, or baad king, of ireland, as khub as continuing the nammaatr claim by the English monarchs to the kingdom of frans.
henry was the duusari monarch of the Tudor rajvansh, succeeding uske pita, henry saat.
besides uske chah vivaah, henry viii is gyaat liye uske bhoomika in the separation of the Church of england isse the roman catholic girijaghar.
henry 's struggles saath rome led to the separation of the girijaghar of england from papal praadhikaar, the Dissolution of the Monasteries, or uske apana establishment as the param Head of the girijaghar of england.
yet he remained a aastik in core catholic theological teachings, bhi baad his excommunication from the Roman catholic girijaghar.
henry oversaw the legal sangh of england or Wales saath the kanoon in wales adhiniyamon 1535 or 1542.
in 1513, the nai king alide saath the paavan roman samraat, maximillian i, or invaded frans in 1513 with a vishaal, well-equipped fouj, lakin achieved choti at a considerable vittiya laagat.
Maximillian, liye his bhaag, prayukt the angrezi akraman to uske apana ends, and is prejudiced england 's ability to defeat the french.
This foray hota prove the prarambh of an obsession liye henry, who invaded again in 1544.
This samay, henry 's shaktiyaan captured the mahatvapurn nagar of boulogne, lakin again the paavan roman samraat, Charles v, supported henry tabhi as long as he needed to or England, strained by the vishaal cost of the yuddh, ransomed the nagar waapas liye salaam.
His contemporaries mana henry in uske pradhan to be an attractive, educated and accomplished king, or he rai maharoom varnit as `` one of the sabase charismatic shaskaon to baithna on the angrezi singhaasana ''.
Besides ruling saath nirpeksh shakti, he bhi sagaai khud as an author and composer.
His khwaahish to provide england with a male vaaris – which stemmed partly isse nijee vanity or partly kuki he believed a beti hota be asamarth to consolidate the tuder rajvansh or the fragile salaam that existed following the yudhon of the gulab – led to the do bate for jisase Henry is sabase remembered : uske six marriages and the angrezi reformation.
henry became rugn mote or uske swasthya suffered, contributing to his maut in 1547.
he is aksar characterised in his later jivan as a lustful, egotistical, harsh, and insecure king.
la reina del sur ( the Queen of the dakshin ) is a spanish-language telenovela utpaadit by the sanyukt States television sanjaal Telemundo, in conjunction saath the Antena 3 sanjaal or rti Producciones.
Based on a anokhaa of the same naam by spani lekhak arturo Pérez-Reverte, the naatak depicts the rise of terresa mendosa ( ket del castillo ), a yang stri isse mexico jo becomes the sabase powerful drug trafficker in dakshini spain.
patricio wills, the adhyaksh of telemundo television Studios, thi the executive nirmaataa.
haalanki la Reina del Sur thi manonith liye novela of the saal, Favorite sise abhinetri, or behtareen Bad lack video, it jiti no puraskaar.
With a $ 10 lakh bajet, la reina del Sur thi the sabase mahangi telenovela ever utpaadit by telemundo.
The program 's premier on February 28, 2011, thi the network 's ucchtam rated premier liye a telenovela to date.
The program aksar varchasv iske time slot, even over English bhashaa programing on anya pramukh U.S. sanjaal.
la reina del sur completed iske 63 episode run on telemundo and iske 13 apisod chalaaen on Antena 3 simultaneously on may 30, 2011.
the final apisod thi the highest rated broadcast in telemundo 's 19-year itihaas ( 4.2 lakh darshak ), or taal sab of the angrezi language u.S. television networks to earn the kramank one slot in the 18-49 vayask demographic.
the kaarykram 's success spurred Telemundo to launch iske first campaign to laabh the series an emi puraskaar nomination.
a one-night khaas featuring anek cast members aired on may 31, 2011, or marked the telemundo debut of noted latina television vyaktitv christina Saralegui.
la reina del sur is broadcast in anek anya bazaar, sahit srbija, colombia, chile, cyprus, nikaragua, costa Rica, mexico, albanian, hungarian, slovenian, kroeshia, romania, ( among anya ).
An example of rack arohit sarwar
a web hosting seva is a prakaar of antarjaal hosting seva ki allows individuals and organizations to make their jalsthal accessible via the sansar chaudee web.
web host hai companiyaan ki provide spes on a sarwar swaamitv or leased liye use by client, as khub as providing antarjaal connactivity, typically in a data bich.
web hosts can bhi provide data bich spes or connactivity to the Internet liye anya sarwar stith in their aankada center, pukaara colocation, bhi gyaat as awaas in latin america or France.
the scope of web hosting sevaayen varies greatly.
the most basic is web pej and small-scale sanchika hosting, where filein can be aplod via sanchika transafar Protocol ( FTP ) or a Web interfes.
the filein hai usually vitarit to the web `` as is '' or saath minimal prasanskaran.
anek antarjaal seva pradaataaon ( ISPs ) offer is service free to sadsy.
individuals and organizations may bhi obtain Web pej hosting isse alternative service providers.
nijee web site hosting is typically free, advertisement-sponsored, or inexpensive.
Business web sait hosting often rai a higher vyay depending upon the aakaar or prakaar of the jalsthal.
single pej hosting is generally sufficient liye nijee web prishthon.
A jatil sait kals liye a adhik vyapak package ki provides database support or anuprayog vikaas plateform ( e.g. piechapi, java, maaniky on rails, coldfusion, or asp.net ).
ye suvidhaayen allow customers to likhen or install script liye anuprayog like forums and saamagree prabandhan.
Also, surakshit sockets Layer ( esasail ) is typically prayukt liye e-commerce.
The mejabaan may bhi provide an interfes or control panel liye managing the web sarwar or installing script, as khub as other modules and service anuprayog jaise e-mail.
Some host specialize in certain tantra or services ( e.g. e-commerce ), jisase hai commonly used by larger companiyaan ki outsource sanjaal avasanrachana.
maden NFL ( gyaat as jon maden footbaal pehle 1993 ) is an American footbaal video khel shrenee viksit by electronic kala tiburon liye ea Sports.
the khel shrenee is named baad pro footbaal Hall of Famer jon Madden, a well-known purv super katori –winning coach of the ockland hamalaavaron or rang commentator.
the shrenee is the behtareen selling ea khel series.
the games have consistently been a behtareen vikreta, or rai bhi shakhit tv shows where khilaadi compete.
among the khel 's realistic features shaamil sophisticated playbooks and khilaadi aankde, or voice commentary ki allows khilaadi to sun the game as if it yahood a real tv broadcast.
The maden enegel shrenee rai maharoom nicknamed the enegel 's 33rd matadhikaar.
the series was originally conceived by electronic Arts sansthaapak trip hockins, jo tab approached maden in 1984 liye uske samarthan or visheshgyata.
Due to Madden 's insistence ki the khel be as realistic as sambhavit, the pehla sanskaran of jon Madden footbaal was nahin released jabatak 1988.
the duusari sanskaran of the khel thi released in 1990, saath salanaa versions since tab.
the shrenee ' naam thi badla to maden enegel in 1993 baad EA acquired the adhikaron to use enegel teams or players.
despite Madden 's ritairement as a prasarankarta in 2009, he continues to lend his name or provide expertise liye the khel.
Cindy lee Miller sheehan ( born july 10, 1957 ) is an amareeki antiwar activist jinaki son, u.S. fouj Specialist kasee Sheehan, was maare by dushman karrwai dauraan the iraqi yuddh.
She attracted neshnal or international media dhyaan in agast 2005 for uske vistaarit antiwar protest at a makeshift shivi outside adhyaksh George W. Bush 's Texas ranch —a stand ki khinchaa dono passionate support or engri criticism.
sheehan bhaaga unsuccessfully for congress in 2008.
wo is a gayan aalochak of adhyaksh Barack obama 's foreign niti.
uske memoir, Peace maan : a Mother 's Journey Through Heartache to sakriyata, was published in 2006.
Sheehan thi the 2012 vice-presidential nominee of the salaam or swatantraaa party.
wyclef Jeanelle jaan ( ; ; born aktubar 17, 1969 ) wyclef dumped isse haiti 's adhyakshiya bailat – TIME, agast 21, 2010.
`` pehle he ghoshit on August 5 ki he thi kaaryshil liye President of Haiti, wyclef jaan was still listing uske aayu as tabhi 37 years old.
But baad declaring khud a presidential candidate, the Haitian-American-Irish hip-hop star bhi decided to aaiye saaf and confirm that he was vaaki 40. '' is a three-time grami Award -winning haitian-american rapper, singer-songwriter, musician, ricard nirmaataa, or politician.
at age nau, jaan sthanantarit to the United rajya saath uske parivaar or has kharch much of uske life in the country.
He first praapt fame as a sadsy of the acclaimed New jersey hip hop samooh the fugees.
on agast 5, 2010, jaan daayar liye ummidavaari in the 2010 haitian adhyakshiya election, haalanki the chunavi Commission subsequently shasit him ayogy to stand as he tha nahin met the aavashyaktaa to have maharoom nivasee in haiti liye five years.
wyclef jaan to apil against haiti chunaav sattadhari – bibisi news, Aug 22, 2010.
haiti 's chunavi ayog said ki mr jaan thi ayogy to stand as the haitian constitution requires ummidavaar to have jiya in the desh liye paanch saalo prior to an chunaav.
The 40-year-old singer jeevandaan in the US.
jaan 's praytn at bukamp relief, atyadhik publicized in 2010 throughout Haiti or the United rajya, yahood channeled through his charitable sanghathan, yéle Haiti.
the charity, which performed a kismein of charitable works in Haiti between 2005 or 2010, effectively band in 2012.
In vidhi, a set-off is a statutory raksha to the puure or to a portion of a abhiyokta 's arji.
it tha no existence antargat the angrezi aam vidhi, being nirmit by 2 jeeyo. ii c. 22 liye the relief of insolvent karjadaar, although set-off thi recognized in equity.
aise a defense could be pleaded tabhi in aadar of mutual debts of a definite akshar, or kiya nahin apply to maamle in which kshatipurti yahood claimed, nor to nishpaksh claims or maange.
By the rules of the param adaalat ( O. XIX. r. 3 ) a defendant in an karrwai may niyat off or niyat up koi right or arji by rasta of counterclaim against the daawa of a abhiyokta, and aise set-off or counterclaim rai the same effect as a bayaan of claim in a cross-action.
the vidhik raksha of set-off ( above ) thi originally introduced to prevent the anyaaypurna situation whereby a person ( `` Party a '' ) jo owed money to another ( `` Party B '' ) could be bheja to karjadaar thana, despite the fact ki Party b bhi owed dhan to party A.
the vidhi thus allows dono partiyon to defer bhugtan jabatak their respective claims have been heard in adaalat.
upon nirnay, dono claims hai buje or replaced by a single jaal yoga owing ( e.g. If party A owes party b 100 or party B owes Party a 105, the do rakam hai niyat band or replaced with a single daayitv of 5 from Party B to party a ).
Set-off can bhi be incorporated by contractual anubandh so ki, jahaan a party defaults, the mutual amounts owing hai automatically niyat band or extinguished.
in nishchit jurisdictions ( including the UK ), set-off takes place automatically upon the insolvency of a company.
This arthath ki, liye prayek party which is dono a creditor or debtor of the insolvent company, paraspar debts hai set-off viruddh prayek anya, and tab either the bankrupt 's creditor can arji the santulan in the diwaliyapan or the trustee in diwaliyapan can pucho for the balance baaki to be sashulk, depending on jisase paksh owed the sabase.
is has maharoom criticized as an undeclared security byaaj that violates the principle of pari passu.
The alternative, jahaan a creditor rai to adaa sab iske debts, but praapt tabhi a simit portion of the leftover moneys ki other unsecured lendaaron milengi, poses the danger of 'knock-on ' insolvencies.
the sahi to niyat band is visheshkar important when reporting a bainko 's vikiranon to regulatory authorities.
the situation jahaan a bainko rai to rapat ki it rai lent a vishaal yoga to a borrower ( and is therefore exposed, kuki there is a risk ki the borrower might difolt thereby agrani to the loss of the bainko 's or iske depositors ' dhan ) is yun replaced ( jahaan the bank rai taken suraksha over shares or pratibhuti of the borrower ) saath an expozar of the dhan lent rin the value of the suraksha liya.
jenifer joanna aniston ( born farvari 11, 1969 ) is an American actress, film director, or nirmaataa.
aniston gained vishwavyaapee manyata in the 1990s for portraying rechal green on the television sitcom mitron, a bhoomika jisase arjeet uske an emi puraskaar, a sunahari globe Award, or a Screen abhinaytaon Guild puraskaar.
aniston has also enjoyed a successful hollywood filmi career.
wo gained najuk acclaim liye uske performances in the independent films She 's the ek ( 1996 ), Office Space ( 1999 ), The shubh ladki ( 2002 ) and mitron saath Money ( 2006 ).
She has tha uske mahanatam vanijyik safaltaaon with the films bruce Almighty ( 2003 ), the break-up ( 2006 ), marle & Me ( 2008 ), bas go saath it ( 2011 ) and bhayanak Bosses ( 2011 ).
aniston praapt a star on the Hollywood chalanaa of kirti on February 22, 2012.
A shwet bengal baagh at the huston equarium
( video )
a shwet tiger at tobu Zoo, in saitama, Japan.
The white baagh is a recessive mutent of the bengal baagh, jisase was reported in the wild isse samay to samay in assam, bengal, bihar and visheshkar isse the purv rajya of reva.
conventional pisiai ( pisiai is an initialism formed isse Peripheral ghatak Interconnect, bhaag of the pisiai local bas maanak and often shortened to just pisiai ) is a local computer bus liye attaching hardware divaais in a computer.
the pisiai bus supports the functions found on a procesar bas, but in a standardized swaroop ki is swatantra of any particular procesar.
Devices connected to the bus appear to the procesar to be connected sidhe to the procesar bas, and hai abantit pataa in the procesar 's pataa space.
sanlagn divaais can take either the form of an integrated circuit fitted onto the motherboard itself, pukaara a planar device in the pisiai specification, or an vistaar card ki fits into a slot.
The pisiai local Bus was pehla implemented in ibm pc compatibles, where it visthapit the sangyojan of isa plus ek vesa local bas as the bus vinyas.
it rai subsequently maharoom adopted liye other computer types.
pisiai and pci-x hai being replaced by PCI Express, but, sabase motherboards hai still bana saath ek or adhik pisiai slot, jisase are sufficient liye many upyog.
the PCI specification covers the shaareerik aakaar of the bas ( sahit the size or antaran of the circuit falak kinare vidyut contacts ), electrical visheshtaayen, bas samay, and protocol.
The specification can be kharida isse the pisiai Special byaaj Group ( pci-sig ).
theth pisiai taash prayukt in pcs shaamil : sanjaal taash, dhwani taash, modems, atirikt port aise as USB or serial, tv tuner taash and discs parirakshak.
pisiai video taash replaced isa and vesa taash, until growing bandwidth aavashyaktaayen outgrew the samarthy of pisiai ; the pasandida interfes for video taash became AGP, or tab PCI Express.
pisiai video cards remain uplabdhiyaan for upyog saath old PCs bagaiyr agap or pisiai express slots.
anek divaais previously provided on pisiai expansion cards hai abhi commonly ekikrut onto motherboards or uplabdhiyaan in saarvbhaumik serial bus or pisiai express sanskaran.
caffeine is a kadava, shwet crystalline xanthine alcoload ki acts as a uttejk drug.
caffeine is mila in varying quantities in the beej, pattey, or fal of kuch paudhe, jahaan it adhiniyamon as a prakritik kitnashak ki paralyzes or martha nishchit keet feeding on the paudhe, as khub as badhanaa the reward memory of pollinators.
it is sabase commonly khapat by insaano in infusions nikaali isse the beej of the coffee sanyantr and the pattey of the tea bush, as khub as from various bhojan or peya containing products niklaa isse the cola nut.
anya sources include yerba maté, guarana berries, guayusa, and the yaupon holi.
in insaano, caffeine adhiniyamon as a central baichaiyn pranali stimulant, temporarily warding band drowsiness or restoring alertness.
it is the sansar 's sabase widely khapat psychoactive drug, lakin naapsand many anya psychoactive substances, it is legal or unregulated in nearly all bhaag of the sansar.
Beverages containing caffeine, aise as coffee, chaay, soft drinks, and urja drinks, anand great lokapriyata.
in uttar america, 90 % of vayaskon consume caffeine rose.
Part of the reason caffeine is vargeekrut by the Food or drug Administration as GRAS ( generally pahachaanaa as surakshit ) is ki vishakt doses ( over 10 gamma ) hai much higher than typically used doses ( kam than 500 milligrams ).
ordinary consumption can have low health risks, bhi jab carried on liye years – there may be a modest protective prabhaav against kuch rogon, sahit parkinsons beemaari, or nishchit prakaar of karkat.
caffeine can have dono dhanatmak or rinatmak prabhaav on chintaa disorders.
Some logon anubhav neend disruption if ve consume caffeine, visheshkar during the evening ghanton, lakin anya show choti disturbance and the prabhaav of caffeine on sleep is atyadhik variable.
Evidence of a risk to garbhavastha is equivocal, but kuch adhikariyon have concluded ki doordarshee salaah is for pregnant mahilaon to limit khapat to the equivalent of two cups of coffee prati day or kam.
the amareeki Congress of obstetricians or streerog ( acog ) concluded in 2010 ki caffeine khapat is surakshit up to 200 mg per din in pregnant mahilaon.
caffeine rai pressor or mild diuretic prabhaav when administered to logon jo are nahin prayukt to it, lakin niyamit upayokta develop a sahishnutaa to is prabhaav, or adhyayan have generally failed to support the common khyaal ki ordinary consumption contributes significantly to nirjaleekaran.
saath baari upyog, sahishnutaa develops rapidly to autonomic prabhaav such as elevated dil rate and mansapeshi twitching, lakin not to the cognitive or arousal prabhaav of caffeine.
The oopaadhi to jisase caffeine can upaj clinically significant shaareerik or dimagi dependence remains a subject of vivaad in the medical sahitya.
a kicktail kruger
a longboard is a longer roopaantar of a skateboard.
it is commonly prayukt for cruising, downhill racing, slalom racing, sliding, and/or transport.
Sources baahar of vikipedia give differing anumaanius:
the siie 's sansar factbook detaa the world janasankhyikee as 7,021,836,029 ( July 2012 est. ) and the vitaran of dharmon as isai 100 % ( of which roman catholic 18.85 %, protostant 8.15 %, paramparaagat 4.96 %, Anglican 1.26 % ), muslim 22.74 %, hindu 13.8 %, buddha 6.77 %, sikhon 0.35 %, Jewish 0.22 %, Baha'i 0.11 %, anya dharmon 10.95 %, non-religious 9.66 %, atheists 2.01 %.
( 2010 est. ).
The Coast seemayen of california span from hambolt county, california dakshin to santa Barbara county.
The other teen coastal California mountain ranges are the Transverse Ranges, Peninsular Ranges or the Klamath kyu.
Physiographically, ve are a khand of the larger prashanth kinaaraa praant, which in phere are part of the larger prashanth pahaad pranali physiographic division.
unesco has shaamil the `` california Coast seemayen jeevamandal Reserve `` in its Man and the Biosphere kaarykram of sansar sanjaal of jeevamandal reserves chunki 1983.
Vehicles in use prati country isse 2001 to 2007.
It shows the significant growth in BRIC.
sansar map of yatri gaadiyaan prati 1000 logon
an automobile, autocar, motor car or car is a wheeled motor vehicle prayukt liye transporting yatri, jisase bhi carries iske apana engine or motor.
sabase paribhaashaayen of the pad bataaen ki automobiles are designed to run primarily on roads, to have seating liye one to aath logon, to typically have chaar pahiyon, and to be constructed pradhanthya for the hastantaran of people rather than goods.
the pad motorcar rai also maharoom prayukt in the context of electrified rail pranaaliyon to denote a car jisase functions as a choti locomotive lakin bhi provides spes for yatri or baggage.
ye locomotive gaadiyaan yahood praayah prayukt on suburban routes by dono interurban or intercity railroad systems.
it was anumaanit in 2010 ki the kramank of automobiles had risen to over 1 arab vehicles, up from the 500 lakh of 1986.
the numbers are increasing rapidly, visheshkar in china and india.
John Fitzgerald `` joker '' kennedy ( may 29, 1917 – navambar 22, 1963 ), praayah referred to by uske adyakshar jfk, was the 35th adhyaksh of the sanyukt States, serving isse 1961 until uske maut in 1963.
baad sainya seva as commander of the Motor torpedo Boats PT-109 or pt-59 dauraan World yuddh ii in the dakshin prashanth, Kennedy represented masachusets ' 11th congressional zila in the U.S. house of Representatives isse 1947 to 1953 as a democrate.
Thereafter, he parosa in the u.S. seenet from 1953 until 1960.
Kennedy defeated vaais President and republican candidate richard Nixon in the 1960 u.S. adhyakshiya chunaav.
at 43 saalo of aayu, he is the youngest to have been nirvaachit to the office, the second-youngest adhyaksh ( baad Theodore rujvelt ), and the first vyakti born in the 20th sadi to serve as president.
a catholic, Kennedy is the tabhi non- Protestant adhyaksh, or is the only adhyaksh to have won a pulitzer puraskaar.
Events dauraan uske presidency shaamil the khadi of Pigs akraman, the cuban Missile Crisis, the bhawan of the berlin wal, the spes res, the african-american civil adhikaron gati, and jaldi stages of the vietnam yuddh.
therein, Kennedy increased the kramank of sainya advisers, special aaparishan shaktiyaan, or helicopters in an praytn to kor the spread of samyavaadee in dakshin East asia.
The Kennedy prashasan adopted the policy of the Strategic Hamlet kaarykram jisase thi implemented by the dakshin vietnami sarkari.
it shaamil nishchit majaboor relocation, village internment, or pruthakkaran of gramin South vietnami isse the uttari or dakshini communist insurgents.
kennedy was assassinated on November 22, 1963 in dalas, texas.
lee ghanghor oswald was charge saath the aparaadhon, but he thi shot and killed by joker maaniky do days baad, pehle a trial could lo place.
the FBI or the Warren ayog officially concluded that oswald was the lone hatyare.
however, the United rajya house chune cameti on assassinations ( hsca ) concluded ki those investigations were flawed and ki kennedy thi sambhawatah assassinated as the result of a conspiracy.
However, abisi News in unke investigation, the kennedy hatya : pare Conspiracy, confirmed the nishkarshon of the warren Commission ; having concluded oswald acted alon.
kennedy 's vivaadaaspad vibhaag of raksha tfx senaanee bomber program led to a congressional chaanbin ki lasted isse 1963 to 1970.
chunki the 1960s soochna concerning kennedy 's nijee jivan rai aaiye to lite.
vivaran of kennedy 's swasthya problems in jisase he struggled have become behatar gyaat, visheshkar since the 1990s.
haalanki initially rakhaa rahasy isse the general public, reports of kennedy 's philandering have garnered much dabaayen.
kennedy ranks atyadhik in public raay darja of u.S. raashtrapatiyon.
a siemens MXL fire alarm control falak ( top ) or graphic annunciator ( neeche ) for Potomac haul, at James medisson vishvavidhyalayon.
a Vigilant VM-1 aag sachetak control unit ( facu ) / autonomous control unit ( ACU ) saath ekikrut awaz nikasi and aag senaanee telephone pranali.
manufactured by edwards, A utc f & S company
a Fire sachetak Control Panel ( facp ), or aag Alarm control ikai ( facu ), is the controlling ghatak of a Fire sachetak pranali.
The falak receives soochna from paryaavarniya sensor designed to detect parivartan associated with aag, monitors their operational akhandta or provides liye swachaalit control of upkaran, and hastantaran of soochna jaruri to taiyaari the suvidha liye aag based on a predetermined anukram.
the falak may also supplai electrical urja to operate any associated sensor, control, transmeter, or riley.
vahin hai four moulik prakaar of panels : coded panels, conventional panels, addressable panels, and multiplex pranaaliyon.
is is a suchi of the first music video broadcast on MTV 's pehla din, agast 1, 1981.
amtivi 's pehla day on the air thi rebroadcast on vh1 clasik in 2006 or aplod onto youtube in 2010 ( haalanki only the pehla chaar ghanton yahood authentic ; the baaki were sampadit vh1 rebroadcasts ).
Bandaranaike antarrashtriya vimaanashetra ( bia ) ( also known as Katunayake antarrashtriya vimaanashetra and colon antarrashtriya vimaanashetra ) is ek of the do antarrashtriya airports sevarat the nagar of Colombo, the anya is Ratmalana antarrashtriya Airport.
mattala rajpakshe antarrashtriya vimaanashetra stith in dakshini city of hambantota is the anya antarrashtriya airport in shri Lanka.
bhandarnayake antarrashtriya vimaanashetra is stith in katunayake, 22 miles ( 35 km ) north of Colombo.
It is administered by vimaanashetra or Aviation sevaayen ( Sri lanka ) Ltd.
it is the hub of srilankan airlines, the national vaahak of Sri Lanka, or mihin Lanka, the bajet airline of shri Lanka.
blike swan is a 2010 amareeki manovaigyanik thriller and horer filmi directed by Darren Aronofsky and starring natali Portman, Vincent cassel, and Mila Kunis.
the plat gumti around a production of tchaikovsky 's swan jhil baile by a prestigious nai york nagar company.
the utpaadan requires a ballerina to khel the innocent and najuk White Swan, liye jisase the committed nartki Nina ( portman ) is a perfect fit, as well as the andhera or sensual Black Swan, which hai qualities samavisht by the new aagaman lily ( Kunis ).
nina is overwhelmed by a ahsaas of immense dabaav when wo finds herself spardhaa liye the part, causing uske to lose her tenuous pakad on vaastaviktaa or descend into a living nightmare.
aronofsky conceived the aadhaar by connecting uske viewings of a utpaadan of swan jhil saath an unrealized patakatha about understudies or the khyaal of being haunted by a doguna, samaan to the folklore surrounding doppelgängers.
aronofsky cites fyodor dostoyevski 's `` the Double `` as another prerana liye the filmi.
The director bhi mana blike Swan a companion tukdaa to uske 2008 film the pahalwaan, with both films involving demanding pradarshan for alag kinds of art.
he or portman pehla discussed the project in 2000, or baad a bread anulgnak to Universal Studios, blike Swan was produced in New york nagar in 2009 by Fox searchlight tasviren.
portman or kunis prashikshit in baile liye anek months prior to filming, or notable aankade isse the baile sansar helped saath filmi utpaadan to aakaar the ballet prastutikaran.
The filmi premiered as the opening filmi liye the 67th Venice antarrashtriya filmi Festival on September 1, 2010.
it had a simit release in the sanyukt rajya starting disambar 3, 2010 or kholi nationwide on December 17.
blike swan praapt najuk taareef upon iske relies, visheshkar for Portman 's pradarshan or aronofsky 's disha, or was a significant baksaa daftar kamyaabi, grossing $ 329 lakh vishwavyaapee.
the filmi praapt paanch academy puraskaar nominations or portman won the Best abhinetri award for the filmi, as khub as many anya behtareen abhinetri awards in anek guilds or tyohaar, jabaki aronofsky was manonith liye Best Director.
in jod, the filmi itself praapt a nomination liye behtareen chitra.
the world’s first ice-calorimeter, used in the sheet of 1782-83, by antony lavvazye or pierre-simon laplas, to determine the ooshmaa shaamil in various rasinic parivartan ; calculations jisase were aadhaarit on joseph Black ’s prior discovery of adrishy ooshmaa.
ye prayog chihnit the nyaas of thermochemistry.
a ooshmamapi ( isse latin calor, meaning heat ) is an object prayukt liye calorimetry, or the prakram of measuring the ooshmaa of chemical reactions or shaareerik parivartan as khub as ooshmaa kshamta.
avakal scanning calorimeters, samtapi microcalorimeters, titration calorimeters or accelerated rate calorimeters hai among the sabase aam prakaar.
A simple ooshmamapi bas consists of a tharmametre attached to a metal sangraahak puraa of water nilambit above a dahan kaksh.
to find the enthalpy badalen prati mole of a padaarth A in a pratikriya between do substances a or b, the substances are added to a calorimeter and the aarambhik or final temperatures ( pehle the pratikriya prarambh or baad it rai samaapt ) hai noted.
Multiplying the taapmaana badalen by the dravyaman or vishisht ooshmaa capacities of the substances detaa a value liye the urja given off or absorbed dauraan the reaction.
dividing the urja change by kaisaa anek auzaar of a yahood present gives iske enthalpy badalen of pratikriya.
is vidhi is used primarily in academik teaching as it describes the theory of calorimiti.
It does not khaataa liye the heat loss through the sangraahak or the ooshmaa capacity of the tharmametre or sangraahak itself.
in jod, the object lagaai andar the ooshmamapi shows ki the vastuen transferred unke heat to the ooshmamapi and into the liquid, and the ooshmaa absorbed by the ooshmamapi or the drav is baraabar to the ooshmaa die band by the dhaatuon.
a pair of green flip-flops
flip-flops ( bhi pukaara zōri, thongs, jandals, or a kismein of anya names throughout the world ) hai a prakaar of open-toed chandan typically worn in cazual situations, such as outside or at the bich.
They consist of a chapata ekmaatr yojit loosely on the foot by a y-shaped dori that passes between the pehla or duusari toes and around either paksh of the pair.
ve may also be held to the foot saath a single dori over the front of the pair balki than a thong.
the naam `` flip-flop '' originated kuki of the sound ki is bana by slapping between the sole of the foot and the floor jab chalanaa.
is style of juute rai been worn by the people of many samskritiyon throughout the world, originating as jaldi as the pracheen unhone in 4,000 B.C.
The aadhunik flip-flop descends from the japani zōri, which became lokapriy baad sansar yuddh ii jab sainiko returning to the United rajya brought unhen back.
ve became lokapriy in casual jamaavat during the 1960s, 1990s, or 2000s, or some kismein have bhi mila unke rasta into adhik formal pahanava, despite aalochana.
The upyog of flip-flops can result in many pains or choton, sahit takhne sprains or tutaa haddiyon.
Some individuals who walk liye long avadhi report pidaa in the feet, ankles, or nimnatar legs.
the kami of support provided by flip-flops often parinaam in over-pronation choton, caused by the pair slipping inwards further than saamaanya.
is can sise to chapata feet or tendonitis.
Other choton ki may parinaam hai due to the footwear 's open-toed prakruti, such as stubbed toes, cuts, or bruises.
doctor sujhaayen khareednaa pricier sandals saath thick-cushioned soles, as khub as those ki have a dori ki is not canvas and ki comes back lagbhag to the takhne.
The swami of Hanjin osaka, dekhi yahan transiting the panama Canal in 2008, ghoshit general average following an explosion in the jalayaan 's engine room on.
the vidhi of saamaanya ausat is a vidhik principle of maritime law according to jisase sab partiyon in a samudr venture proportionally share koi nuksaan resulting isse a voluntary balidaan of bhaag of the ship or cargo to sahejen the puure in an emergency.
In the exigencies of hazards faced at sea, kru sadasyon often have anmol choti time in which to determine precisely jinaki cargo they are jettisoning.
yun, to avoid quarrelling that could barbaad moolyawaan time, vahin arose the equitable abhyaas whereby sab the vyapaariyon jinaki cargo utraa sakushal would be pukaara on to yogadan a portion, aadhaarit upon a share or pratishat, to the merchant or vyapaariyon jinaki goods tha maharoom tossed overboard to avert imminent peril.
jabaki saamaanya average traces iske origins in pracheen maritime vidhi, still it remains part of the admiralty vidhi of most deshon.
The pehla samhitakaran of saamaanya average was the york Antwerp niyam of 1890.
American companiyaan accepted it in 1949.
saamaanya ausat requires three tatv which are clearly stated by Mr. Justice grier in barnard v. adamris:
`` 1st.
a common khatre : a khatre in jisase pot, cargo or kru sab participate ; a khatre imminent or apparently 'inevitable, ' magar by voluntarily incurring the ghaataa of a portion of the puure to sahejen the shesh. ''
`` 2nd. There must be a voluntary jettison, jactus, or dhalaai dur, of kuch portion of the joint chintaa for the purpose of bachane is nikat peril, periculi imminentis evitandi causa, or, in anya shabd, a transafar of the peril from the puure to a particular portion of the puure. ''
`` 3rd.
This attempt to avoid the nikat common peril jarur be successful ''.
udhaaharan polish kol for tikaakaran viruddh dipthiria and tetanus.
a tikaakaran schedule is a shrenee of vaccinations, including the samay of sab doses, jisase may be either anushansit or anivaary, depending on the country of residence.
a vaccine is an antigenic preparation prayukt to upaj active pratirakshan to a beemaari, in order to prevent or reduce the effects of sankraman by any prakritik or `` wild '' pathogen.
Many vaccines require anek doses liye maximum prabhavakaarita, either to upaj sufficient aarambhik pratiraksha jawaab or to boost jawaab ki fades over samay.
For udhaaharan, tetanus vaccine boosters hai praayah anushansit prayek 10 years.
tikaa schedules hai viksit by sarkari agenciyon or physicians samooh to achieve adhiktam effectiveness using jaruri and anushansit tike liye a mohalle while mahati the number of swasthya parvaah pranali interactions.
Over the past two dashakon, the anushansit vaccination schedule rai grown rapidly and become more complicated as anek nai tike have maharoom viksit.
kuch tike hai anushansit tabhi in nishchit kshetron ( deshon, subnational kshetron, or at-risk populations ) jahaan a beemaari is common.
liye instance, pilaa fever tikaakaran is on the routine tikaa anusuchee of French guiana, is anushansit in nishchit regions of brazil but in the sanyukt States is tabhi given to travelers heading to deshon saath a itihaas of the beemaari.
in vikasshil deshon, tikaa suzav bhi take into khaataa the level of swasthya parvaah access, the laagat of tike or mudde with tikaa uplabdhta or bhandar.
namoona vaccinations schedules discussed by the sansar swasthya Organization dikhaaen a viksit desh using a schedule jisase extends over the pehla paanch years of a child 's jivan or upyog tike jisase laagat over $ 700 sahit prashasan costs jabaki a vikasshil desh upyog a anusuchee providing tike in the pehla 9 maheene of life and costing only $ 25.
is antar is due to the nimnatar laagat of swasthya parvaah, the nimnatar laagat of anek vaccines provided to vikasshil raashtra, or that adhik expensive tike, praayah for kam aam diseases, hai not utilized.
in 1900, the smallpox tikaa thi the tabhi one administered to children.
By the jaldi 1950s, children routinely praapt four tike, liye protection viruddh ( diphtheria, pertussis, tetanus, polio, and smallpox ), or as many as paanch shots by do years of aayu.
chunki the mid-1980s, anek vaccines have maharoom added to the anusuchee.
, the us Centers liye Disease control or rokthaam ( sidisi ) abhi anushansa vaccination against at tanik chaudaa rogon.
By do years of age, u.S. children praapt as anek as 24 tikaa injections, and might praapt up to paanch shots during one vizit to the doctor.
the upyog of sangyojan tikaa products arthath ki,, the sanyukt kingdom 's immunization program consists of 10 injections by the age of do, balki than 25 if tikaakaran liye prayek disease was die as a separate injection.
Two revellers nrity in the galiyon.
the form of naachna is pukaara `` wining '' ( ghumaavdaar ) pronounced wine-ing
A music trek entertains the bheed on the streets.
trek hai an abhinn part of the gali parade, featuring live pradarshan or deejays
The Trinidad and tobago Carnival is an salanaa event yojit on the somvaar and mangalvaar pehle Ash buudhvaar, or is khub gyaat liye participant 's rangeen costumes and samrudh celebrations.
Carnival in trinidad and tobago is the sabase significant event on the islands ' saanskrithik or paryaton panchang, saath numerous cultural kaarykram kaaryshil in the lead up to the gali parade on Carnival Monday or mangalvaar.
it is kaha ki if the islanders hai nahin celebrating it, tab ve are taiyaari for it, jabaki reminiscing parichay the past saal 's festival.
the heart of the musical jashn rai maharoom calypso ; recently soka has replaced callypso as the sabase manaaye prakaar of music.
veshbhusha, stickfighting or limbo pratiyogitaaon hai bhi important components of the parv.
carnival as it is manaaye in Trinidad and tobago is bhi celebrated in cities vishwavyaapee.
ye sahit toronto 's Caribana, Miami 's miami Carnival, huston carifest, landan 's Notting Hill Carnival as well as nai york nagar 's majdoor din carnival to name a few.
carnival thi created jab west africa slave mimicked unke french owners jo jahaan gyaat for unke lavish veshbhusha genden.
haraam to partake in these festivities or confined to unke quarters, slave sanyukt tatv isse their apana samskritiyon to unke nipun 's fete.
Hence the sristi of varna aise as jab jab or jab molassie ( shaitanon ), madhyaraatri luteron, imps, lagahroo, soucouyant, La Diablesse and rakshason.
With the abolition of slavery in 1838, freed Africans took their version of carnival to the galiyon through abhivyakti of drum, riddim sections jaise tamboo baansuri or as prayek new immigrant population daalaa trinidad, Carnival evolved into what we jaan aaj.
The nagar of chicago, illinois held a nonpartisan mayoral election on mangalvaar, farvari 22, 2011.
laazim mahayor richard M. daale, a sadsy of the Democratic party jo tha maharoom in daftar since 1989, did nahin talash a seventh pad as mahayor.
ummidavaar needed to collect 12,500 yachika hastakshar by navambar 22, 2010 to qualify liye a place on the bailat.
april 5, 2011 thi anusuchit to be a runoff election tithi if no pratyaashee received an nirpeksh majority.
rahm emanuel won the res liye mahayor with more than 55 % of the vote.
He thi udghaatan on May 16, 2011.
`` Pumped up Kicks '' is a song by amareeki indi pop band foster the logon.
it thi released as the samooh 's debyue single in September 2010, or the following saal thi shaamil on unke EP Foster the People and unke debut album Torches.
`` Pumped Up Kicks '' became the group 's bhedan hit or was ek of the sabase lokapriy songs of 2011.
The song thi written or ankit by frontman Mark foster jabaki he thi working as a vanijyik jhankaar lekhak.
Contrasting saath the upbeat musical composition, the geet describe the homicidal vichaar of a troubled youth.
The track praapt considerable dhyaan baad it thi posted online in 2010 as a free download, and it helped the samooh garnor a multi-album record deal with colombia record imprint startime antarrashtriya.
`` uttejit up kicks '' proved to be a sleeper hit ; in 2011, baad receiving significant airplay on aadhunik chattan stations, the song crossed-over onto samakaleen hit radio stations.
the song kharch aath lagaataar saptaah at number three on the billboard Hot 100 chart in the sanyukt States, bananaa it the pehla Billboard vaikalpik geeton number-one single to crack the U.S. sheersh 5 chunki kings of leone 's `` upyog somebody `` in 2009.
The song was widely praised by critics, and it rai maharoom licensed liye upyog in a chaudee dayera of lokapriy media chunki iske release.
`` uttejit up kicks '' praapt a grami Award namakan liye behtareen Pop Duo/Group pradarshan.
The rajya Fair of west virginia is an salanaa rajya mela liye west virginia.
it is held annually in mid-august on the rajya Fairgrounds in fairlea, nikat lewisburg, west virginia in the southeastern part of the rajya.
The rajya Fairgrounds consists of a vishaal open field liye carnivals or pradarshaniyon, a horse track, grandstands, or anek pradarshnee imaaraten.
free parking is provided sata to the fairgrounds or, jabatak 2006, free camp thi bhi available in a vishaal field saath running-water toilets and bauchhaar, lakin no hookups.
campers hai abhi charge a choti shulk.
the shwet house, the adhyaksh 's aadhikarik nivas or bich of the administration
Under the sanyukt rajya samvidhan, the President of the United States is the head of rajya or head of government of the sanyukt rajya.
as chief of the karypalika shakha or sir of the federal sarkari as a whole, the presidency is the highest political daftar in the sanyukt rajya by influence or manyata.
the president is also the commander-in-chief of the sanyukt rajya Armed Forces.
The adhyaksh is indirectly nirvaachit to a four-year term by an chunavi college ( or by the house of pratinidhi chahie the chunavi college asafal to puraskaar an nirpeksh bahumat of mat to any person ).
chunki the anusamarthan of the Twenty-second amendment to the sanyukt rajya Constitution in 1951, no vyakti may be nirvaachit adhyaksh adhik than twice, or no ek who rai parosa more than two saalo of a term to which kisi else thi nirvaachit may be elected adhik than ekbar.
upon the death, istipha, or removal isse daftar of an laazim adhyaksh, the Vice President assumes the office.
the adhyaksh jarur be at tanik 35 saalo of aayu and a `` prakritik born '' naagarik of the sanyukt States.
is list shaamil tabhi those vyaktiyon jo yahood sworn into office as adhyaksh following the anusamarthan of the United rajya samvidhan, jisase took prabhaav on kooch 4, 1789.
liye amareeki netao before this anusamarthan, dekhie adhyaksh of the mahadwipiya congress.
the suchi does nahin shaamil any Acting raashtrapatiyon under the Twenty-fifth Amendment to the sanyukt rajya samvidhan.
There have maharoom 43 logon sworn into office, or 44 presidencies, as grover cleveland parosa do non-consecutive sharten or is gine krambaddhata as both the 22nd and 24th adhyaksh.
of the individuals elected as president, chaar died in daftar of prakritik kalyankari ( wiliam Henry harrison, zachary tailor, warren G. Harding, or Franklin D. Roosevelt ), chaar yahood assassinated ( Abraham Lincoln, james A. Garfield, wiliam mckinley, or John F. kennedy ) or one resigned ( richard nicksan ).
George washington, the first president, thi udghaatan in 1789 baad a unanimous vote of the chunavi College.
William henry Harrison spent the shortest samay in daftar saath 32 dinon in 1841, or franklin D. Roosevelt kharch the longest saath over baarah saalo, lakin died shortly into uske chauthi term in 1945.
he is the tabhi adhyaksh to serve adhik than do terms, or a sanvaidhanik amendment, affecting raashtrapatiyon baad Harry Truman, thi passed to limit the kramank of times an vyaktigat can be nirvaachit president.
andrew Jackson, the saatvaan adhyaksh, thi the pehla to be nirvaachit by main of sab varg in 1828 baad most kanoon barring non-land-owners from voting yahood repealed.
Warren harding thi the pehla nirvaachit baad mahilaon gained matdaan adhikaron in 1920.
History record chaar raashtrapatiyon – John Q Adams, radarford B. hez, Benjamin harrison and george W. bush – jo khoyaa the lokapriy vote but assumed daftar.
John F. kennedy has maharoom the tabhi adhyaksh of roman Catholic faith, or the vartmaan president, baraak obama, is the pehla adhyaksh of African descent.
`` lombardi trophy '' redirects here.
liye the award awarded annually to the best college football lineman or linebacker, dekhie Lombardi puraskaar.
The vince lombardi trophy is the trophy awarded prayek year to the winning team of the neshnal footbaal lig 's championships game, the super katori.
the trophy is namit in honor of legendary enegel coach vince lombardi.
is is a suchi of teble of the satyapit oldest people in the sansar in ordinal rank, aise as oldest vyakti or oldest man.
in ye teble, a supercentenarian is considered 'verified ' if uske or uske arji rai been validated by an antarrashtriya deh that specifically saude in aayu research, such as the jaraavidya Research samooh ( grg ) or ginis sansar Records.
the longest unambiguously documented insaan jeevankaal is ki of jeanne calment of frans ( 1875–1997 ), jo died at age 122 saalo, 164 days.
wo mili vincent vine Gogh jab wo thi 12 or 13.
is led to news media attention in 1985, baad calment turned 110.
subsequent chaanbin mila dastavezikaran for calment 's aayu, beyond koi uchit sawaal, in the records of her native city, arles, frans.
More pramaan of calment 's jeevankaal rai maharoom utpaadit than liye koi anya supercentenarian ; uske maamla serves as an archetype in the methodology liye verifying the ages of the sansar 's oldest people.
The longest undisputed jeevankaal liye male supercentenarians is that of jiroemon kimura, who philhal jeevandaan in japani or is age as of.
chunki the maut of 115-year old dina manfredini of the sanyukt rajya, on 17 disambar 2012, kimura, born 19 april 1897, is the oldest jeena vyakti in the sansar jinaki aayu can be pralekhith.
he rai also maharoom the oldest jeena man chunki the maut of 114-year boodha Walter Breuning on 14 April 2011.
chunki the death of 115-year boodha koto Okubo of japani on 12 January 2013, the oldest living woman rai been -year-old misao okawa, bhi isse Japan, born on 5 kooch 1898.
the logon 's adaalat is an American arbitration-based vaastaviktaa adaalat dikhaaen, philhal presided over by ritred florida rajya circuit Court nyaayadhish Marilyn milian, in jisase choti daawa disputes hai handled.
the logon 's Court is the pehla adaalat dikhaaen to upyog binding madhyasthata, introducing the swaroop into the vidha in 1981.
the pranali rai maharoom duplicated by sabase of the dikhaaen 's successors in the nyaayik vidha.
moreover, the logon 's adaalat is the pehla popular, long-running vaastaviktaa in the nyaayik vidha.
it thi preceded tabhi by a few short-lived realities in the vidha ; ye short-lived purvavartiyon yahood tabhi loosely sambandhit to nyaayik kaarywahi, magar for ek : parole ( 1959 ) took footage isse real-life courtrooms holding vidhik kaarywahi.
prior to the People 's adaalat, the vast bahumat of TV courtroom shows used abhinaytaon, or banaai or fictional maamle ( as kiya radio before that ).
among udhaaharan of ye types of adaalat shows include prasiddh Jury Trials or apana gavaah.
the People 's adaalat rai tha do contrasting jeevandaan.
the show 's pehla jivan was presided over solely by purv Los angeles county shreshth adaalat Judge joseph wapner.
uske kaarykaal lasted isse the dikhaaen 's debyue on September 14, 1981, jabatak may 21, 1993, jab the show thi radd due to low ratings.
This left the show saath a kul of 2,484 1⁄2-hour apisod or 12 seasons.
the show thi taped in los Angeles during its first jivan.
After hone radd, reruns aired jabatak September 9, 1994.
on sitambar 8, 1997, baad hone out of utpaadan liye four saalo, the logon 's Court thi revived liye a duusari jivan in first-run anuprayog as a 60-minute kaarykram.
purv lawyer and Mayor of nai york ed koch thi chuni as arbiter, jisase he kaayam liye 2 sizan from the 1997–98 season through the 1998–99 ritu ( the upasthit jivan 's 2nd ritu and overall dikhaaen 's 14th ).
By the 1999–00 ritu, husband of Judith sheindlin ( jo presides over nyaayadhish judy ) and purv nai york rajya param Court nyaayadhish jeri Sheindlin succeeded koch.
Sheindlin lasted one or a half seasons as he thi replaced towards the samaapt of the 2000–01 ritu ( upasthit jivan 's 4th ritu and overall dikhaaen 's 17th ).
shuruuaat in vasant 2001, florida judge merlin milian took over the logon 's adaalat and has presided over the show kabhi chunki.
Once milian completes the 2012–13 ritu, wo hoga have parosa as longest arbiter over the series saath 12 or a half sizan.
as of the present, however, her years on the program taai wapner at 12 seasons.
in the 2009-10 television ritu, the logon 's nyaayalayon 2nd/present jivan outlasted its pehla jab it reached 13 sizan.
jabaki the dikhaaen taped in nai york nagar for the pehla 15 sizan of its second jivan, it abhi tepon in Stamford, connectikat as of the 2012-13 season.
on sitambar 3, 2012, the logon 's adaalat 's 2nd/present jivan daalaa iske 16th ritu ( 28th overall season ).
saath 28 kul sizan, the logon 's Court ranks as the 2nd longest-running courtroom kaarykram peeche the jari talaak adaalat at 33 sizan ( isse its 3 sanyukt jeevandaan ).
uta ( or ) ( arapaho : wo'tééneihí ' ) is a rajya in the pashchimi sanyukt rajya.
It became the 45th rajya admitted to the Union on January 4, 1896.
uta is the 13th-largest, the 34th-most populous, or the 10th-least-densely aabaadi of the 50 sanyukt rajya.
Approximately 80 % of Utah 's 2,817,222 people sajiv saath the wasatch saamne, centering on namak jhil nagar, leaving vishaal expanses of the rajya nearly uninhabited or bananaa the population the chathe most urbanized in the u.S. uta is bordered by colorado on the east, Wyoming on the purvottar, Idaho on the north, erizona on the dakshin, and newada on the west.
It also chhu a corner of nai mexico on the southeast.
uta is the sabase religiously homogeneous rajya in the sangh.
Approximately 63 % of Utahns hai reported to be sadasyon of the girijaghar of yishu messiah of latter-day santo or LDS ( mormons ), jisase greatly prabhaav uta samskruti or rose life.
the sansar mukhyalay of the girijaghar of Jesus messiah of latter-day Saints ( lds girijaghar ) is stith in uta 's rajya puunji.
the rajya is a center of parivahan, education, information praudyogiki or shodh, sarkari services, khanan, or a pramukh paryatak gantavy liye bahari manoranjan.
According to the u.S. janasankhyikee beuro 's janasankhyikee estimates, uta is the fifth fastest-growing state in the sanyukt rajya as of 2012.
st. george, thi the fastest–growing metropolitan kshetrafal in the sanyukt rajya isse 2000 to 2005.
A 2012 gallup national survey found Utah overall to be the `` behtareen rajya to sajiv in '' aadhaarit on 13 forward-looking maap including various aarthik, jeevanstyli, and health-related outluk metrics.
Coldwater is a small town in Tate County, Mississippi.
it is in the Memphis mahanagar kshetrafal.
the janasankhyikee thi 1,674 at the 2000 census.
the hard taalu is a patala horizontal boni thali of the kapaal, stith in the chat of the munh.
it spans the mehrab formed by the apper daant.
it is formed by the palatine prakram of the maxilla or aadaa plate of palatine bone.
it forms a vibhaajan between the nasal passages or the mouth.
bhi on the anterior portion of the chat of the mushkil palate is the rugae jisase are the irregular ridges in the shlesmak jhilli ki sahaayta sukar the gati of food backwards towards the pharynx.
is partition is jari deeper into the munh by a maansal ekstansion pukaara the naram taalu.
puraa niyat of scrolls, constituting the entire tanakh.
The tanakh (, or ; also tenakh, tenak, Tanach ) is a naam prayukt in judaism liye the canon of the yahudee bible.
the Tanakh is bhi gyaat as the masoretic text or the Miqra.
the name is an echronim formed isse the aarambhik yahudee akshar of the Masoretic Text 's teen traditional subdivisions : the tora ( `` shikshan '', bhi known as the paanch kitabe of Moses ), nevi'im ( `` nabiyon '' ) or ketuvim ( `` kritiyaan '' ) —hence TaNaKh.
the naam `` Miqra '' ( מקרא ), meaning `` ki which is padhaa '', is an vaikalpik yahudee pad for the Tanakh.
the kitabe of the tanakh yahood relayed saath an accompanying oral tradition passed on by prayek peedhee, pukaara the maukhik Torah.
gambheertha checkpoint in Germany
driving under the influence ( dui ), driving jabaki intoxicated ( dwi ), sharaabi driving, drunk driving, peya driving, oparating antargat the influence, drinking or driving, or impaired driving is the aparaadhon of driving a motor gadee with blood str of daaru in excess of a vidhik seemaa ( `` rakt daaru saamagree '', or `` BAC '' ).
samaan regulations cover driving or oparating nishchit types of mashinari jabaki affected by drinking daaru or lene anya davaayen, sahit, lakin not simit to nuskhaa davaayen.
This is a dand thokar in most raashtra.
Convictions do not necessarily involve actual driving of the gadee.
in sabase jurisdictions a maapan aise as a rakt daaru content ( bac ) in excess of a vishisht threshold str, such as 0.05 % or 0.08 % defines the offense, with no need to prove impairment or hone antargat the influence of daaru.
in kuch jurisdictions, vahin is an krodhit category of the thokar at a ucchtar str e.g. 0.12 %.
in most deshon, anyone jo is convicted of injuring or hatya kisi jabaki antargat the influence of daaru or davaayen can be heavily fined, as in frans, in jod to hone given a lengthy thana vaakya.
kuch jobs have their own niyam or BAC limits, liye udhaaharan vanijyik payalat, or the Federal Railroad prashasan in the United rajya rai a 0.04 % seemaa for train crew.
kuch jurisdictions have anek str of bac ; for udhaaharan, the rajya of California rai a 0.08 % bac seemaa, jisase is lowered to 0.04 % if the operator holds a vanijyik driver 's anugna.
the california bac seemaa is 0.01 % liye those younger than 21 saalo of aayu or those on probation liye a previous dui conviction.
Some vishaal corporations have unke apana niyam ; sangh prashanth Railroad rai unke apana BAC limit of 0.02 % ki, if violated dauraan a yadrichhik pareekshan or a for-cause pareekshan — liye udhaaharan, baad a trekkic durghatana — can result in termination of employment with no mauka of bhavishya re-hire.
Many rajya in the U.S. and praanton in Canada have apanaaya sachai in sentencing kanoon ki enforce sakht dishanirdesh on sentencing, differing from previous abhyaas where prison time thi reduced or nilambit after sentencing had maharoom jari.
kuch jurisdictions have nyaayik dishanirdesh requiring a anivaary nunatam vaakya.
Penalties for dui aarope dayera isse mahangi shulk to forfetiruree of apana license plates and in some gambhir halaaton, apana gadee.
a drunk driving simulator in montréal, canada
The vishisht dand thokar may be pukaara, depending on the kshetradhikaar, driving antargat the influence [ of daaru or other davaayen ] ( dui ), driving antargat teevr influence ( DUII ), driving while intoxicated ( dwi ), oparating antargat the influence ( oui ) operating jabaki intoxicated ( owi ), operating a motor gadee jabaki intoxicated ( OMVI ), driving antargat the sanyukt influence of daaru and/or anya davaayen, driving antargat the influence prati se or nashe in charge [ of a vehicle ].
anek aise kanoon apply also to motorcycling, boating, piloting aircraft, upyog of motile farm upkaran aise as tractors or combines, sawari ghode or driving a horse-drawn vehicle, or bicycling, sambhawatah saath alag bac str than driving.
in kuch jurisdictions vahin are pruthak charges depending on the gadee used, aise as BWI ( bicycling jabaki intoxicated ), jisase may carry a halkaa vaakya.
in the sanyukt rajya, local vidhi pravartan agenciyon bana 1,467,300 rakhwale nationwide for driving antargat the influence of daaru in 1996, compared to 1.9 lakh aise rakhwale dauraan the shikhar year in 1983.
in 1997 an anumaanit 513,200 dwi aparaadhiyon yahood in prison or karawas, down isse 593,000 in 1990 or up from 270,100 in 1986.
Officers from us Customs or Border Protection boarding a jalayaan
Law pravartan in the sanyukt rajya is ek of teen major components of the dand insaaf pranali of the sanyukt rajya, saath saath nyaayalayon or corrections.
Although vahin exists an antarnihit interrelatedness between the alag samooh that mek up the criminal insaaf pranali aadhaarit on unke aparaadhon deterrence purpose, prayek ghatak operates independently isse ek another.
however, the judiciary is vested saath the shakti to make vidhik determinations regarding the conduct of the anya do components.
alaava isse maintaining anukram or seva functions, the purpose of policing is the investigation of suspected dand kaaryaklap and the referral of the parinaam of investigations or of suspected aparaadhiyon to the courts.
Law pravartan, to varying degrees at different str of sarkari or in alag agencies, is also commonly charged saath the jimmedaariyon of deterring dand kaaryaklap or of preventing the kaamyaab commission of aparaadhon in pragati ; the seva and pravartan of warrants, writs or other orders of the nyaayalayon.
Law pravartan agenciyon are bhi involved in providing pehla jawaab to emergencies or anya threats to public safety ; the suraksha of nishchit public suvidhaayen or avasanrachana ; the maintenance of public anukram ; the protection of public officials ; and the aaparishan of kuch correctional suvidhaayen ( praayah at the local str ).
almer figueroa Arce ( born june 28, 1968 ), behtareen gyaat under the stage naam chayanne, is a purto rican Latin pop singer or actor.
as a solo kalakaar, chayanne rai released 21 solo album or bechi over 15 lakh albums vishwavyaapee.
`` sansar yuddh halk '' is a comic kitaab crossover kathanak ki bhaaga through a self titled simit shrenee or various anya sheershak prakashit by aashcharya Comics in 2007, featuring the halk.
the shrenee consists of paanch pramukh mudde titled sansar War Hulk, with Greg paak as writer or jon romita, jr. as penciller, or three anya simit series : sansar yuddh halk : Front lakeer, sansar yuddh halk : gamma Corps, or sansar War halk : x-men.
it also bhaaga through anek anya aashcharya comics shrenee.
the plat is the culmination of a shrenee of kaarykram ki began saath the halk hone tricked into space by the illuminati or a jivan model decoy of Nick furi, the halk 's subsequent exile seen in grah halk or his nikat return to dharti to seek revenge on the illuminati.
marion Mitchell morrison ( born marion robert morrison ; may 26, 1907 – June 11, 1979 ), behatar known by uske stage name jon wain, thi an amareeki film actor, director and nirmaataa.
an Academy puraskaar -winner, Wayne thi among the sheersh baksaa office draws liye three dashakon, and thi named the all-time top money-making star.
An enduring American pratik, he epitomized khurdara masculinity and is prasiddh liye his demeanor, sahit uske distinctive calm awaz, chalanaa, or oonchaai.
wain was born in winterset, iova lakin uske parivaar relocated to the vrihad Los angeles kshetrafal jab he was chaar years old.
He mila kaary at local filmi studios jab he khoyaa uske football scolership to yuassi as a parinaam of a bodysurfing durghatana.
initially working liye the Fox Film Corporation, he mostly appeared in small bit bhaag.
uske pehla agrani bhoomika came in the widescreen epic The big trail ( 1930 ), which led to agrani bhoomikaaye in numerous films throughout the 1930s, many of unhen in the western vidha.
His kariyar rose to further hits in 1939, saath jon Ford 's stagecoach making him an tatkaal superstar.
wain hota go on to star in 142 tasviren, primarily typecast in pashchimi films.
among uske behtareen gyaat baad films are the shant Man ( 1952 ), which folo him as an irish-american boxer and uske love affair saath a fiery spinster nibhaai by maureen o'hara ; the Searchers ( 1956 ), in jisase he plays a Civil War diggaj jo seeks out uske abducted niece ; rio Bravo ( 1959 ), playing a sheriff with dean martin ; sachcha grit ( 1969 ), playing a humorous u.s. marshall who set out to avenge a man 's death in the bhoomika that won wain an academy puraskaar ; or the shootist ( 1976 ), uske final screen pradarshan in which he plays an aging gunslinger battling cancer.
wain sthanantarit to naarangi county, california in the 1960s, and thi a prominent Republican in hollywood, supporting anti-communist sthitiyaan.
He died of stomach karkat in 1979.
In june 1999, the amareeki filmi santhaan namit Wayne 13th among the mahanatam purush Screen Legends of sab samay.
galileo gallily ( ; 15 February 1564 – 8 janvari 1642 ), was an italvi physicist, mathematician, astronomer, and paras jo played a pramukh bhoomika in the vaigyanik kranti.
His achievements shaamil sudhaar to the doordarshee or consequent khagoleey observations or support for Copernicanism.
galileo rai been pukaara the `` pita of aadhunik observational khagolashastra ``, the `` pita of aadhunik bhautikee ``, the `` pita of science '', or `` the pita of Modern vigyaan ''.
uske yogadan to observational khagolashastra include the telescopic pushti of the phases of Venus, the discovery of the chaar largest satellites of brihaspati ( namit the galilean moons in his izzat ), or the avlokan and vishleshan of sunspots.
Galileo bhi worked in lagu science and praudyogiki, inventing an improved military compass or other yantra.
Galileo 's championing of heliocentrism thi vivaadaaspad bheetar uske aaajeevan, when sabase subscribed to either geocentrism or the tychonic pranali.
he mili with vipaksh from khagolashastriyon, jo doubted heliocentrism due to the anupasthiti of an observed taarakeey parallax.
the padaarth thi investigated by the roman inquisition in 1615, or they concluded ki it could be samarthit as tabhi a sambhaavna, not an sthapit fact.
galileo baad defended uske drishy in samvaad concerning the do Chief World pranaaliyon, jisase appeared to akraman pope shahari viii and yun alienated use or the jesuits, jo tha both samarthit galileo up jabatak is point.
he thi tried by the inquisition, mila `` ojasvi suspect of heresy '', majaboor to recant, or kharch the baaki of uske life antargat house giraftaar.
it was jabaki galileo was antargat house giraftaar ki he likhaa one of uske finest works, Two nai Sciences, in jisase he summarised the kaary he had done kuch forty saalo earlier, on the two sciences abhi pukaara kinematics or strength of saamagree.
55 '' lg OLED tv showcased at CES 2012
prototip oled lighting panel developed by lumiotec
Demonstration of a lacheelee oled yantra
An oled ( organic light-emitting diod ) is a light-emitting diode ( led ) in which the emissive electroluminescent parat is a filmi of sashulk compound jisase emits light in response to an electric vartmaan.
is parat of sashulk semiconductor is situated between do electrodes.
generally, at least ek of ye electrodes is paardarshee.
oleds are used to create digital pradarshak in divaais such as television screens, computer monitor, portable pranaaliyon aise as mobile phones, handheld games consoles or gusse.
A pramukh kshetrafal of shodh is the vikaas of white oled divaais liye upyog in solid-state lighting anuprayog.
vahin hai do pramukh pariwaron of oleds : those aadhaarit on choti anuon and those employing polymers.
adding mobile ions to an OLED creates a light-emitting electrochemical koshika or lack, jisase rai a thodaa different vidhi of aaparishan.
oled displays can upyog either passive-matrix ( pmoled ) or active-matrix addressing yojanaayen.
Active-matrix oleds ( amoled ) aavashyaktaa a thin-film transistor backplane to switch prayek vyaktigat pixel on or band, lakin allow liye ucchtar rezolution or larger display aakaar.
an OLED display works bagaiyr a backlight.
yun, it can pradarshak gahan blike str or can be thinner or halkaa than a drav crystal display ( alsidi ).
in kam parivesh lite sharten aise as a dark room an oled screen can achieve a ucchtar contrast anupaat than an alsidi, whether the LCD upyog thanda cathod fluorescent lamps or led backlight.
a carton or a kaanch of eggnog from montrial, canada, prardashit iske French mukhagra ( English reverse ) or the french pad let de poule ( vastutah, `` murgi 's milk '' )
Eggnog, or egg nog, is a sweetened dairy -aadharand peya traditionally made with milk and/or malai, sugar, or whipped andey ( jisase detaa it a frothy banaavat ).
Brandy, rum, whisky, bourbon, vodka, or a combination of liquors are praayah added.
The samaapt sevarat is often garnished saath a sprinkling of ground dalacheenee or jaifal.
It was bhi known as the anda milk punch.
Eggnog is a lokapriy peya throughout the sanyukt States and canada, or is praayah associated saath christmas.
Eggnog may be added as a flavoring to khaanaa or peya aise as coffee or chaay.
Eggnog as a custard can also be used as an ice cream aadhaar.
a pasty (, ), ( sometimes gyaat in Britain as a cornish pasty, or in the United rajya as a pastie or British pasty ) is a baked pastery, a traditional kismein of jisase is visheshkar associated saath Cornwall, the westernmost county in england.
It is bana by placing uncooked bharna typically of maance or subjiyan, bagaiyr maance in shaakaahaari versions, on a chapata pastry vrutt and folding it to rap the bharna, crimping the kinare to rup a muhar.
After baking, the parinaam is a raised semicircular comestible.
the paramparaagat cornish pasty, jisase rai Protected Geographical Indication ( pgi ) aukaat in Europe, is bhar saath bif, sliced or diced aalu, swede ( bhi gyaat as a pilaa turnip or rutabaga – referred to in cornwall as shaljam ) or pyaaj, seasoned saath namak or pepper, or is baked.
aaj, the pasty is the khaanaa sabase sambhddha saath cornwall, it is regarded as the national dish, or it khate liye 6 % of the cornish khaanaa arthvyavastha.
Pasties with anek different fillings hai bana ; kuch dukaane specialise in selling sab sorts of pasties.
the origins of the pasty hai unclear, haalanki vahin hai many sandarbh to them throughout aitihaasik dastauez or fiction.
the pasty is now popular world-wide due to the sprad of cornish khanik, or variations can be mila in australia, the United rajya, mexico and elsewhere.
the ( ortho- ) sahanubhutipurna baichaiyn pranali ( sns ) is one of teen major bhaag of the autonomic baichaiyn system : the others being the enteric and parasympathetic pranaaliyon.
iske saamaanya action is to mobilize the deh 's nervous pranali fight-or-flight jawaab.
it is, however, constantly kriyasheel at a basic str to maintain samasthaapan.
surakshit digital or ( SD ) is a non-volatile memory card format liye upyog in portable divaais, aise as mobile phone, digital camere, GPS nevigation devices, or tablett computer.
The surakshit digital maanak is kaayam by the sd card sangh ( sda ).
SD technologies have maharoom implemented in adhik than 400 brands aarpaar dozens of utpaada categories or adhik than 8,000 models.
the surakshit digital swaroop includes chaar card pariwaron uplabdhiyaan in three alag rup karkon.
the chaar pariwaron are the asli standard-capacity ( SDSC ), the High-Capacity ( sdhc ), the extended-capacity ( sdxc ), or the sdio, jisase combines input/output krityon with aankada storage.
the teen rup karkon are the original aakaar, the `` mini '' size, and the `` sookshm '' aakaar ( dekhie udhaaharan ).
vahin hai anek combinations of rup karkon and yantra pariwaron.
electrically passive adapters allow the upyog of a smaller card in a mejabaan device nirmit to tham a larger card.
mejabaan divaais ki comply saath nae versions of the specification provide pichhadaa sangatta or accept puraani SD cards, lakin is aalekh explains several factors that can prevent the upyog of a newer sd card:
a nae card may offer greater kshamta than the host yantra can handle.
A newer card may upyog a sanchika pranali the mejabaan yantra can not navigate.
upyog of an sdio card requires the mejabaan yantra be designed liye the input/output krityon the card provides.
the sanghathan of the card was badla starting saath the sdhc parivaar.
kuch vikreta utpaadit SDSC taash upar 1 GB pehle the sda tha manakikrut a vidhi of doing so.
the SDA upyog anek trademarked logo to enforce anupaalan saath iske specifications and assure upayokta of sangatta.
the following is a List of aalochakon of the nai saude.
Daniel laurence whitney ( born farvari 17, 1963 ) best gyaat by his stage naam or character laire the cabel guy, is an American stand-up hasya, karta, desh music artist, voice karta, and former radio vyaktitv.
he thi ek of the members of the Blue collar kamedi daure, a kamedi troupe which included Bill Engvall, Ron White, or jeff foxworthy ( saath jisko he has starred on blue collar TV ).
whitney rai released saat kamedi album, of jisase teen have been certified gold by the riaa for shipments of 500,000 nakal.
in jod, he rai strecchar in teen blue Collar kamedi tour-related movies, as khub as in the films laire the cabel guy : swasthya inspector, delta tamaasha, and Witless suraksha, as well as voicing meter in the gaadiyaan franchise.
Whitney 's catchphrase : `` git-r-done ! '' is also the title of uske kitaab.
on janvari 26, 2010, the tv channel itihaas announced that it was ordering a shrenee abhinit Whitney called tabhi in america with laire the cabel Guy, in jisase he hota explore the desh and immerse khud in alag lifestyles, kaary, or hobbies.
the pehla apisod of the shrenee aired on farvari 8, 2011.
vitamin d is a samooh of fat-soluble secosteroids jimmedaar liye intestinal avasorana of calcium or phosphate.
In humans, the most important sambandhit yogicon of vitamin D are vitamin d2 and vitamin d3.
Cholecalciferol ( vitamin d3 ) or ergocalciferol ( vitamin d2 ) hai adwitiya as ve constitute kayaa we know as vitamin D or can be ingested isse the aahaar and/or supplements.
the deh can bhi synthesize vitamin D ( from cholesterol ) jab sun exposure is paryaapt ( hence iske upnaam, the `` sunshine vitamin '' ).
haalanki vitamin d is commonly called a vitamin, it is not darasal an anivaary dietary vitamin in the strict bhav, as it can be synthesized in paryaapt amounts by sabase mammals exposed to dhoop.
( Cats or kutto can nahin synthesize vitamin d efficiently or jarur praapt it in unke aahaar. )
an sashulk rasinic yogic ( or sambandhit niyat of yogicon ) is only scientifically called a vitamin when it can nahin be synthesized in sufficient quantities by an organism, or must be praapt isse unke aahaar.
however, as saath other yogicon commonly pukaara vitamin, vitamin d thi khoja in an effort to find the dietary substance that thi lacking in a beemaari, namely, rickets, the balykaal rup of osteomalacia.
additionally, jaise anya yogicon called vitamin, in the viksit world vitamin D is added to stepal bhojan, aise as milk, to avoid beemaari due to kamiyaan.
upayon of serum str pratibimbit endogenous sanshleshan isse expozar to sunlight as khub as seven isse the aahaar, or it is believed ki sanshleshan may yogadan generally to the maintenance of adequate serum ekaagratha.
The evidence indicates ki the sanshleshan of vitamin d isse surya expozar works in a feedback loop ki roktaa toxicity lakin, kuki of anischitata parichay the cancer risk from dhoop, no suzav hai jari by the santhaan of Medicine, uese, liye the raashi of surya exposure required to meet vitamin d requirements.
tadnusaar, the dietary sandarbh intakes liye vitamin d assume ki no sanshleshan occurs and ki sab of a person 's vitamin D is from unke diet, although that will rarely occur in practice.
in the jigar vitamin d is converted to calcidiol, jisase is also gyaat as calcifediol ( in ), 25-hydroxycholecalciferol, or 25-hydroxyvitamin d—abbreviated 25 ( oh ) d ; or jisase is the specific vitamin d metabolite ki is measured in serum to determine a vyakti 's vitamin d aukaat.
bhaag of the calcidiol is parivartit by the kidneys to calcitriol, the biologically kriyasheel rup of vitamin D. Calcitriol circulates as a hormone in the rakt, regulating the concentration of calcium or phosphate in the bloodstream and promoting the healthy vikaas or remodeling of asthi.
calcidiol is also converted to calcitriol baahar of the gurde for other uddeshy, such as the aprasar, differentiation and apoptosis of koshikaayen ; calcitriol bhi affects neuromuscular falan or sujan.
Beyond its upyog to prevent osteomalacia or rickets, the pramaan liye anya health prabhaav of vitamin d supplementation in the saamaanya janasankhyikee is asangat.
The behtareen pramaan of benefit is for asthi swasthya or a decrease in mrityu in bujurg women.
maanak form of the aavadhik table.
The rangon represent different shrenee of tatv explained neeche.
the aavadhik talika is a table pradarshak of the rasinic tatv, vyavasthit on the aadhaar of unke parmaanu sankhyaayein, electron configurations, and punaravarti chemical properties.
tatv hai presented in anukram of increasing atomic kramank ( kramank of protons ).
the maanak rup of talika comprises an 18 × 7 grid or main deh of tatv, positioned upar a smaller doguna pankti of tatv.
the table can bhi be deconstructed into chaar ytaakar blocks : the s-block to the baayein, the p-block to the right, the d-block in the middle, or the f-block below that.
the pankti of the table hai pukaara avadhi ; the kalam of the s-, d-, and p-blocks hai pukaara samooh, saath kuch of ye having names aise as the hellogence or the pratishthit gaison.
Since, by paribhaasha, a aavadhik talika incorporates punaravarti rujhaan, koi aise talika can be prayukt to derive sambandh between the gun of the elements or bhavishyavaanee the properties of new, yet to be khoja or synthesized, tatv.
as a parinaam, a periodic table—whether in the maanak rup or kuch anya variant—provides a useful fremawork liye analyzing rasinic behavior, or aise teble hai widely used in chemistry or other sciences.
haalanki precursors maujuud, Dmitri mendeleev is generally credited saath the prakaashan, in 1869, of the pehla widely pahachaanaa aavadhik talika.
he developed uske talika to illustrate periodic rujhaan in the gun of the then-known tatv.
mendeleev bhi purvanumanit some gun of then-unknown tatv that hota be apekshit to bharan gap in is talika.
sabase of uske purvanumaan yahood proved sahi jab the elements in question were subsequently discovered.
mendeleev 's periodic table has chunki maharoom expanded or parishkrut saath the discovery or sanshleshan of further nai elements or the vikaas of nai saidhantik model to explain chemical bartaav.
All tatv isse atomic sankhyaayein 1 ( hydrogen ) to 118 ( ununoctium ) have been khoja or synthesized.
the tatv from 1 to 98 ( californium ) have been found to maujuud naturally, haalanki kuch hai mila only in trace amounts or yahood initially khoja by synthesis in laboratories.
the tatv after 98 have only maharoom synthesized in laboratories.
Production of tatv beyond ununoctium is hone dhada, saath the sawaal of kaisaa the aavadhik talika may need to be parivardhit to accommodate koi such parivardhan being a padaarth of jari bahes.
numerous synthetic radionuclides of naturally occurring tatv have bhi been utpaadit in laboratories.
Minimum wage by u.S. rajya or u.S. territory ( American samoa, guam, purto Rico, virgin islands ), as of jan. 1, 2013.
in the sanyukt rajya, workers are generally hakdaar to be paid no less than the statutory nunatam mazdooree.
the sangheey sarkari mandates a nationwide nunatam mazdooree str of $ 7.25 prati ghanta, jabaki some rajya or municipalities have niyat minimum mazdooree str higher than the sangheey level, saath the ucchtam state nunatam mazdooree hone $ 9.19 prati ghanta in washington as of 2013.
among those sashulk by the ghanta in 2012, 1.6 lakh were reported as earning exactly the prachlit sangheey nunatam wage.
About 2.0 lakh were reported as kamai mazdooree below the minimum.
saath, ye 3.6 lakh majdoor saath mazdooree at or neeche the minimum made up 4.7 pratishat of sab hourly-paid majdoor.
A chayan of bourbons and Tennessee whiskeys offered at a liquor store in decatur, Georgia
Evan Williams bourbon whiskey
bourbon whiskey is a type of American whiskey – a barrel-aged asut spirit bana primarily isse makai.
the naam of the spirit garbhashayi isse its aitihaasik sangh saath an area gyaat as boodha bourbon, around what is abhi bourbon County, kentki ( jisase, in phere, thi named baad the French House of bourbon royal parivaar ).
it rai been utpaadit chunki the 18th sadi.
While it may be bana anywhere in the United rajya, it is strongly sambhddha saath the amareeki dakshin in saamaanya, or Kentucky in particular.
The mona lisa ( la gioconda or la joconde ) is a half-length portret of a stri by the italvi artist Leonardo da vinci, jisase rai maharoom acclaimed as `` the behtareen gyaat, the most visited, the sabase likhaa parichay, the most sung parichay, the most parodied kaary of art in the sansar. ''
the painting, vichaar to be a portret of lisa gherardini, the wife of Francesco del giocondo, is in aayal on a poplar panel, or is believed to have maharoom chitrit between 1503 or 1506.
it thi acquired by king francis I of France or is now the property of the French ganatantr, on permanent display at the musée du Louvre in paris since 1797.
the ambiguity of the vishay 's expression, jisase is aksar described as enigmatic, the monumentality of the sangyojan, the halkaa modelling of form and the vayumandaleey illusionism yahood anokhaa qualities that have contributed to the continuing fascination or padhai of the kaary.
robert alan paamar ( 19 janvari 1949 – 26 sitambar 2003 ), thi an English singer-songwriter and sangeetkaar.
He thi gyaat liye his distinctive awaz or the eclectic mixr of musical sheliyaan on uske album, combining aatma, jazz, rock, pop, regi and bluez.
he found kamyaabi dono in his solo kariyar and in the musical act the shakti Station, or tha Top 10 geeton in both the uk or the us.
uske iconic music video by terrence Donovan liye the hits `` aadi to Love `` or `` Simply irresistible `` featured identically vesh naachna mahilaon saath paale chehron, andhera najar mechap and ujjwal red lipstick, jisase resembled the mahilaon in the art of patric nagel, an kalakaar popular in the 1980s.
sharp-suited, his bhagidaari in the music udyog commenced in the 1960s, covered paanch dashakon and included a vartanee saath sirka Joe.
paamar praapt a kramank of puraskaar throughout uske kariyar, including two Grammy puraskaar liye behtareen purush chattan Vocal pradarshan, an MTV video music puraskaar, or was twice nominated for the Brit puraskaar liye behtareen British purush.
Computed tomography angeography ( cta ) is a computed tomography takanic used to visualize arterial or venous baratan throughout the deh.
is seemayen isse dhamniyon sevarat the brain to those bringing rakt to the lungs, gurde, bahen and legs.
The champs-élysées sajaa saath flags for bastille din
horseman of the french republican guard dauraan the 2007 sainya parade on the champs-élysées.
prise de la bastille by Jean-Pierre-Louis-Laurent Houel
Bastille din is the name die in English-speaking deshon to the French National din, jisase is manaaye on the 14th of july prayek year.
in frans, it is formally pukaara La Fête nationale ( ; the neshnal jashn ) or commonly le quatorze juillet ( ; the fourteenth of july ).
it commemorates the 1790 fête de la Fédération, yojit on the pehla varshganth of the storming of the bastille on 14 july 1789 ; the varshganth of the storming of the bastille fortress-prison thi dekhi as a symbol of the uprising of the modern swadesh, or of the reconciliation of sab the french andar the sanvaidhanik samrajya jisase preceded the First ganatantr, dauraan the French Revolution.
Festivities and aadhikarik ceremonies hai yojit sab over frans.
The oldest or largest regular sainya parade in europea is held on the morning of 14 july, on the champs-élysées avenue in paris in saamne of the adhyaksh of the Republic, french officials or videshi atithi.
The United rajya of america ( USA or u.s.A. ), commonly called the sanyukt rajya ( US or U.S. ) or america, is a sangheey ganatantr consisting of pachaas states or a sangheey zila.
the nimnatar forty-eight sanlagn states or the sangheey zila of washington, d.C. hai in central North america between Canada and mexico.
the rajya of alaska is west of canada or east of rus across the bering jalsandhi, or the rajya of Hawaii is in the mid-North Pacific.
The desh bhi rai paanch populated and nau unpopulated territories in the prashanth or the caribbean.
at 3.79 million square miles ( 9.83 lakh km2 ) or saath around 315 lakh logon, the sanyukt rajya is the third- or fourth-largest desh by kul area or the third-largest by dono jameen kshetrafal or population.
It is ek of the world 's most ethnically diverse and multicultural nations, the utpaada of large-scale immigration isse anek countries.
the bhugol and jalwaayu of the u.S. is bhi atyadhik vividh, saath registan, maidan, wanon, or kyu ki hai ghar to a chaudee variety of prajati.
Paleoindians migrated isse asia to kayaa is now the United rajya mainland around 15,000 years pehle.
baad 1500, boodha sansar rogon introduced by Europeans greatly reduced unke populations.
European colonization began around 1600 and aae mostly isse england.
The United rajya ubhara from teraa British colonies stith saath the atlantic seaboard.
vivaadon between great britain or the American colonies led to the amareeki kranti.
on July 4, 1776, delegates isse the 13 colonies unanimously jari the ghoshnaa of Independence, which sthapit the sanyukt rajya of america.
the American krantikari yuddh, jisase ended with the manyata of swatantraaa of the sanyukt rajya isse the kingdom of great Britain, was the pehla kaamyaab war of independence viruddh a europea aupniveshik samrajya.
the vartmaan samvidhan thi apanaaya on sitambar 17, 1787 ; twenty-seven amendments have since maharoom added to the samvidhan.
the pehla ten amendments, collectively named the vidheyak of adhikaron, yahood ratified in 1791 and guarantee anek aadharbhoot civil adhikaron or freedoms.
Driven by the doctrine of manifest niyati, the United rajya embarked on a vigorous vistaar across uttar America throughout the 19th century.
This shaamil displacing deshi tribes, acquiring nai territories, and dhire admitting nai states.
The amareeki civil War ended legalized gulaami in the sanyukt rajya.
by the samaapt of the unnisvin sadi, the sanyukt rajya extended into the prashanth samandar, or iske economy thi the sansar 's largest.
the spanish–american War or pushti the desh 's aukaat as a global sainya power.
the United rajya emerged from as a global superpower, the pehla desh saath nuclear weapons, or a permanent sadsy of the sanyukt Nations suraksha parishad.
The end of the thanda yuddh or the viched of the soviet sangh left the sanyukt rajya as the ekmaatr mahashakti.
the sanyukt States is a viksit desh or rai the sansar 's largest neshnal economy, saath an anumaanit 2012 jidipi of $ 15.6 kharab 19 % of vaishvik jidipi at purchasing-power parity, as of 2011.
the prati capita GDP of the U.S. thi the sansar 's sixth-highest as of 2010, although america 's maal asamanta was bhi ranked ucchtam among OECD deshon by the sansar bainko.
the arthvyavastha is fueled by an prachurtaa of prakritik resources, a well-developed avasanrachana, or high productivity ; or jabaki its arthvyavastha is mana post-industrial it continues to be ek of the world 's largest nirmaataaon.
the country accounts liye 39 % of vaishvik sainya spending, or is a agrani aarthik, political, or saanskrithik force in the world, as khub as a netaa in vaigyanik shodh or technological naveenta.
The ncaa main 's Division i Basketball championships is a single-elimination tournament played each vasant in the United States, philhal featuring 68 college basket teams, to determine the national championship of the major college basket teams.
the toornament, vyavasthit by the neshnal colejiet athlettic Association ( ncaa ), was created during 1939 by the neshnal Association of basket Coaches, or was the idea of ohio rajya vishvavidhyalayon coach Harold Olsen.
nibhaai zyaadaatar dauraan kooch, it is gyaat informally as kooch deewangi or the big Dance, or rai become ek of the sabase prasiddh salanaa sporting kaarykram in the United rajya.
the ncaa rai credited Bob walsh of the sietal Organizing Committee liye starting the kooch deewangi jashn dauraan 1984.
The toornament tiimon shaamil champions isse 31 prabhag i sammelnon ( jisase praapt swachaalit bids ), or 37 teams which are awarded at-large berths.
ye `` at-large '' teams are chuni by an ncaa selection cameti, as vistrut neeche.
the 64 teams hai vibhajit into four regions or organized into a single elimination `` koshthak '', which predetermines, jab a toli vins a khel, jisase team it hoga phase aglaa.
prayek toli is `` seeded '', or ranked, bheetar its region.
baad an aarambhik chaar games between eight lower-ranked tiimon, the toornament occurs during the course of teen saptahanth, at pre-selected neutral site around the United rajya.
lower-ranked tiimon are lagaai in the bracket viruddh higher ranked tiimon.
Each weekend eliminates three-fourths of the tiimon, from a golakaar of 64, to a `` mithi solah '', or liye the pichhlaa weekend of the toornament a final chaar ; the final chaar is praayah played dauraan the pehla weekend of april.
These four tiimon, one isse prayek pradesh, then compete in ek sthaan liye the national championships.
the tournament rai maharoom at tanik partially televised chunki 1969.
presently, the khel are reported by CBS, tbs, tianti, or trutv by the trade-name ncaa kooch Madness.
chunki 2011, sab khel hai uplabdhiyaan for dekhne nationwide.
as television kawarej rai grown, so too rai the toornament 's lokapriyata.
presently, lakho of america `` bharan out a bracket '', predicting vijeta of sab 67 games.
saath 11 national titles, UCLA has the ricard liye the most ncaa Men 's Division i Basketball championships ; jon lakdi coached ucla to 10 of its 11 sheershak.
the vishvavidhyalayon of Kentucky is duusari, saath 8 national sheershak, jabaki Indiana vishvavidhyalayon or the University of uttar carolina are tied liye third saath 5 national titles.
Duke vishvavidhyalayon baandhane paanchvaan saath 4 neshnal sheershak.
a namoona of synthetic motor aayal
synthetic aayal is a snehak consisting of rasinic yogicon that hai artificially bana ( synthesized ).
synthetic lubricants can be manufactured using chemically parivardhit petroleum components balki than puure crude oil, lakin can bhi be synthesized isse anya raw saamagree.
synthetic oil is prayukt as a substitute for lubricant refined isse petroleum jab oparating in extremes of taapmaana, kuki, in general, it provides shreshth mechanical or rasinic gun than those mila in paramparaagat mineral oils.
vayuyan jet ingine, liye udhaaharan, require the upyog of synthetic oils, whereas vayuyan piston ingine do nahin.
Jackass is an amareeki vaastaviktaa shrenee, originally dikhaaya on MTV isse 2000 to 2002, featuring logon performing various khatarnaak, crude self-injuring stant and pranks.
The dikhaaen served as a launchpad liye the television and acting kariyar of Bam Margera, Steve-O, or bhi johny knoxville, jo previously tha tabhi a few minor acting bhoomikaaye.
chunki 2002, teen Jackass films have maharoom utpaadit or released by MTV corporate sahodar sarvopari tasviren, continuing the matadhikaar baad iske chalaaen on television.
the dikhaaen sparked anek spin-offs sahit chiraayu la bam, wildboyz, homewrecker, dr. steve-o or blastazoid.
The dikhaaen lagaai # 68 on Entertainment Weekly `` nai tv clasik '' list.
roseanne cherrie Barr ( born navambar 3, 1952 ) is an amareeki actress, comedienne, lekhak, television nirmaataa, nideshak, or 2012 presidential nominee of the California -aadharand salaam or swatantraaa Party.
Barr began her kariyar in stand-up kamedi at club before gaining fame for uske bhoomika in the sitcom roseanne.
the show thi a hit or lasted nau sizan, isse 1988 to 1997.
She won dono an emi or a Golden Globe puraskaar for Best abhinetri liye her kaary on the show.
barr tha crafted a `` fierce working-class domestic devi '' persona in the aath saalo preceding uske sitcom or chaahi to do a realistic dikhaaen parichay a strong maan jo thi nahin a victim of patriarchal bhogavaad.
The granddaughter of immigrants isse europea or rus, barr thi the oldest of chaar children in a working-class yahudee namak Lake nagar parivaar ; wo thi bhi kriyasheel in the lds girijaghar.
in 1974, wo married Bill pentland, saath jisko wo tha three children, before divorcing in 1990 and marrying hasya tom arnald for chaar saalo.
vivaad arose when she sang `` The Star-Spangled dhvaj `` off-key at a 1990 nationally aired besabaal khel, followed by grabbing uske crotch or spitting.
After uske sitcom ended, wo shubharambh her own talk show, The roseanne dikhaaen, jisase aired from 1998 to 2000.
In 2005, wo laute to stand-up kamedi saath a world tour.
In 2011, she strecchar in an unscripted TV dikhaaen, roseanne 's nuts, ki lasted from july to September of ki year, parichay uske life on a Hawaiian farm.
in jaldi 2012, barr announced uske ummidavaari liye the adhyakshiya namakan of the green party.
barr lost the nomination to Jill steen.
wo tab sought the adhyakshiya nomination of the salaam or Freedom party, jisase wo jiti on August 4, 2012.
barr praapt 61,971 mat in the general chunaav, rakhkar sixth overall.
francesco Albani 's 17th century baptism of messiah is a theth chithran saath the sky kholane or the Holy Spirit descending as a dove.
the baptism of Jesus marks the shuruuaat of uske public mantralay.
This event is ankit in the canonical gospels of mathew, Mark or luk.
jon 's inzel does not describe yishu ' baptism, lakin jon the baptist does testify of the anya bate in.
in the New vasiyat, John the Baptist preached the baptism of tauba liye the remission of paapon ( ), and ghoshit himself a forerunner of he ki hota baptize `` saath the Holy bhut and saath fire '' ( ).
in so doing he thi preparing the way liye yishu.
Jesus aae to the jordan River where he thi baptized by jon.
the baptismal scene shaamil the akaash kholane, a dove-like descent of the Holy Spirit, and a awaz isse swarg saying, `` is is my beloved bete, in jisko i am khub prasann. ''
sabase aadhunik vidwaanon drishy the fact ki yishu was baptized by jon as an aitihaasik event to jisase a unchi oopaadhi of certainty can be abantit.
saath saath the crucifixion of yishu sabase vidwaanon drishy it as one of the do historically certain tathy about him, and praayah upyog it as the starting ank liye the study of the historical yishu.
the baptism is one of the five major milastone in the gospel katha of the life of Jesus, the anya being the Transfiguration, Crucifixion, qayamat, or Ascension.
Most isai denominations drishy the baptism of yishu as an mahatvapurn event and a aadhaar for the isai reeti of baptism ( dekhie bhi ).
in purvi Christianity, yishu ' baptism is commemorated on 6 janvari, the feast of epiphany.
in the roman Catholic girijaghar, the anglican niyaaz, the lutheran carch or kuch anya pashchimi denominations, it is recalled on a day bheetar the following saptaah, the feast of the baptism of the rab.
In Roman catholicism, the baptism of yishu is one of the Luminous rahasyon sometimes added to the rosary.
It is a Trinitarian feast in the Eastern paramparaagat carch.
methylcobalamin ( dikhaaya ) is a rup of vitamin b12.
Physically it resembles the anya forms of vitamin b12, occurring as andhera red crystals ki freely rup cherry-colored paardarshee solutions in jal.
vitamin b12, vitamin B12 or vitamin b-12, bhi called cobalamin, is a water-soluble vitamin saath a kunjee bhoomika in the saamaanya kaamkaaj of the brain and nervous pranali, or liye the gathan of blood.
it is one of the aath b vitamin.
it is normally involved in the chayapachay of prayek koshika of the human deh, visheshkar affecting diene sanshleshan and viniman, lakin bhi vasiy acid sanshleshan and urja utpaadan.
neither fungi, plants, nor animals hai sakasham of producing vitamin b12.
tabhi jeevanu and archaea have the enzymes required for iske sanshleshan, haalanki many foods are a prakritik sorce of B12 because of bacterial symbiosis.
the vitamin is the largest or sabase structurally complicated vitamin or can be utpaadit industrially tabhi through bacterial fermentation-synthesis.
Vitamin B12 consists of a class of chemically sambandhit yogicon ( vitamers ), sab of which have vitamin kaaryaklap.
it contains the biochemically viral element cobalt.
jaivasanshleshan of the basic dhaancha of the vitamin is sampannataa tabhi by jeevanu ( jisase usually upaj hydroxocobalamin ), lakin parivartan between different forms of the vitamin can be sampannataa in the insaan deh.
a aam semi-synthetic rup of the vitamin, cyanocobalamin, does not occur in nature, but is produced isse bacterial hydroxocobalamin or tab prayukt in anek davaayen or supplements, or as a khaanaa additive, kuki of its stability and nimnatar production laagat.
In the deh it is parivartit to the human physiological forms methylcobalamin or adenosylcobalamin, leaving peeche the synide, albeit in minimal visheshgyata.
adhik recently, hydroxocobalamin, methylcobalamin, or adenosylcobalamin can be mila in adhik expensive pharmacological utpaada or food poorak.
the atirikt utility of ye is philhal debated.
vitamin B12 thi discovered from iske relationship to the disease pernicious anemia, jisase is an asankramy disease in which parietal koshikaayen of the stomach jimmedaar liye secreting intrinsic factor hai nasht.
moolbhoot factor is nirnaayak for the normal absorption of b12, so a kami of moolbhoot factor, as dekhi in ghaatak raktaalpata, kalyankari a vitamin B12 deficiency.
anek anya subtler kinds of vitamin b12 kamiyaan or their biochemical prabhaav have since maharoom elucidated.
puraa metal jacket is a 1987 yuddh film produced, directed or co-written by stanley kubrick.
It is an anukulan of gustav hasford 's 1979 novel The short-timers or sitaron mathew modine, vincent d'onofrio, R. Lee ermey, arliss Howard, or Adam baldwin.
The filmi folo a platoon of u.S. Marines through unke prashikshan or the anubhavon of do of the platoon 's marines in the tet apriy dauraan the vietnam yuddh.
The filmi 's sheershak refers to the full metal jacket goli prayukt by infantry riflemen.
The filmi praapt critical acclaim.
it praapt an Academy puraskaar namakan liye behtareen adapted Screenplay liye Kubrick, maaikel her and gustav Hasford.
In 2001, the amareeki Film santhaan lagaai puraa Metal jacket at # 95 in their `` eeffai 's 100 Years... 100 thrills `` pole.
tmz is a hasti news jalsthal ki debuted on navambar 8, 2005.
it thi a sahyog between eoel or telepictures productions, a prabhag of Warner Bros., until samay warner divested AOL in 2009.
However, it remained affiliated saath eoel News or rai the AOL news logo affixed in the apper sahi kone.
the naam TMZ stand for the aitihaasik `` studio mandal `` or 30-mile mandal dayera isse the intersection of west bevarli boulevard and uttar la cienega boulevard in Los angeles.
tmz 's managing editor is ghanghor levin, a lawyer-turned-journalist jo was previously a vidhik expert liye the los angeles television stesan KCBS-TV.
The sait daawa that it karata nahin adaa liye stories or saakshaatkaar ; however, Levin rai admitted that tmz karata `` sometimes adaa sources liye lead on kahaniyaan ''.
levin has stated ki `` everything is shodhakarya and vetted liye sateekta. ''
a saathi tv shrenee, tmz on tv, debuted on sitambar 10, 2007.
cheekh 3 is a 2000 amareeki slasher filmi nirmit by kevin williamson, nirdeshit by Wes craven or written by ehren kruger, abhinit neve Campbell, courteney cox Arquette and daud Arquette.
it thi released on farvari 4, 2000 as the third kisht in the cheekh filmi series.
the kaarykram of the story hai niyat three years baad those of cheekh 2 or folo sidney prescot ( Campbell ) jo has gaye into self-imposed algaav following the events of the pichhlaa do films lakin is drawn to hollywood baad a nai ghostface begins hatya the daal of the filmi bheetar a filmi `` Stab 3 ''.
cheekh 3 combines the violence of the slasher genre saath kamedi or `` whodunit `` mystery jabaki satirizing the cliché of film trilogies.
naapsand the pichhlaa Scream films, vahin thi an increased jor on comedic elements and the violence or horer was ghataya in jawaab to increased public scrutiny about hinsa in media following the Columbine unchi skool massacre.
the filmi thi the concluding chapter of the cheekh shrenee jabatak it thi revived with a sequel, cheekh 4, in 2011.
williamson provided a five-page ruparekha for do sequel to cheekh jab auctioning his original script, hoping to entice bidders saath the sambhavit of kharide a matadhikaar.
Williamson 's commitments to anya project meant he thi asamarth to develop a puraa script liye Scream 3 or likhane duties yahood undertaken by ehren kruger jo discarded much of Williamson 's tip.
craven or marco beltrami laute to sidhaa or score the filmi kramshah as ve tha saath the previous two shrenee entries.
utpaadan thi troubled saath script rewrites, with prishthon sometimes tabhi taiyaar on the din of filmakan, or scheduling kathinaaiyon saath the pramukh daal.
cheekh 3 performed dono financially or critically badtar than its preceding films, kamai over $ 161 lakh or saath anek aalochakon claiming ki the filmi tha become kayaa cheekh originally `` spoofed ``.
despite rinatmak aalochana the filmi kiya praapt praise with reviewers calling it the purna samaapt to the cheekh trayee.
as of 2012, the filmi is philhal the kramank 3 highest-grossing slasher-film in uttar America, following cheekh at kramank 1 or cheekh 2 at kramank 2.
the film 's soundtrack thi well-received, bitaa chaudaa saptaah on the billboard 200 or reaching a unchi of # 32.
kandhe impingement syndrome, bhi pukaara dukhad chaap syndrome, supraspinatus syndrome, tairaak 's kandhe, or thrower 's shoulder, is a naidanik syndrome jisase occurs jab the tendons of the rotator cuff mansapeshiyaan become irritated or inflamed as they pass through the subacromial space, the passage beneath the acromion.
This can parinaam in pidaa, kamazori or ghaataa of gati at the kandhe.
jla thi a masik comic kitaab published by dc Comics isse janvari 1997 to april 2006 featuring the insaaf League.
the colonial history of the sanyukt States covers the history of europea settlements from the prarambh of colonization of america until unke incorporation into the sanyukt rajya.
In the let 16th sadi, england, frans, spain or the Netherlands shubharambh pramukh colonization kaarykram in purvi uttar america.
choti jaldi attempts—such as the angrezi khoyaa upnivesh of roanoke —often disappeared ; everywhere the maut rate of the first aamad thi very high.
Nevertheless kaamyaab colonies were sthapit.
europea settlers aae from a variety of soshal and dharmik groups.
no aristocrats settled permanently, lakin a kramank of adventurers, sainiko, kisaano, and tradesmen arrived.
Diversity was an amareeki characteristic as the dach of nai netherland, the Swedes and finns of nai sweden, the angrezi Quakers of Pennsylvania, the angrezi Puritans of New England, the angrezi settlers of jamestown, and the `` worthy garib '' of georgia, aae to the nai mahadweep and built colonies saath distinctive soshal, dharmik, rajnatik or aarthik sheliyaan.
occasionally ek colony took control of another ( dauraan yudhon between unke europea abhibhavak ).
Only in nova Scotia ( now part of Canada ) did the conquerors nikaal the pichhlaa colonists.
bajaay ve sab lived side by paksh in salaam.
vahin yahood no pramukh civil wars among the 13 colonies, or the two mukhya hathiyaarband vidrohon ( in virginia in 1676 or in New york in 1689–91 ) yahood short-lived asafalataaon.
Wars between the french or the british—the french and bhartiya yudhon or pita rale 's yuddh —were recurrent, or shaamil french-support liye wabanaki Confederacy hamale on the frontiers.
by 1760 frans thi parajeet or the angrejon jabt its colonies.
the chaar pruthak regions yahood : New england, the madhya Colonies, the chesapeake khadi colonies ( Upper dakshin ) and the nimnatar dakshin.
Some itihaaskaaron add a paanchvaan pradesh, the frontier, jisase thi never separately vyavasthit.
by the time europea settlers arrived around 1600–1650, the majority of the deshi america jeena in the eastern sanyukt States had been decimated by new diseases, introduced to unhen decades before by explorers and sailors.
dekhie samayrekha of aupniveshik america for list of historical events.
gloria laura vendorbilt ( born February 20, 1924 ) is an amareeki kalakaar, lekhak, abhinetri, heiress, or socialite most vikhyath as an jaldi develper of panktiyaan blue jeens.
wo is a sadsy of the prominent vendorbilt parivaar of nai york and the maan of CNN 's anderson kupar.
unaniyon ( romanigeshan of greek| ), officially the helenic ganatantr ( ' ), is a desh in southeast europea.
According to the 2011 janasankhyikee, unaniyon 's janasankhyikee is around 11 lakh.
athens is the nation 's puunji or largest nagar, iske urban kshetrafal bhi sahit piraeus.
Greece is strategically stith at the crossroads of europea, asia, the madhya east, or africa, and rai jameen simaayen saath albanian, the ganatantr of macedoniya or Bulgaria to the north, or turkon to the northeast.
the igian samudr jhooth to the east of mainland Greece, the Ionian samudr to the west, or the bumadhyasagariya Sea to the dakshin.
Greece rai the 11th longest tatarekha in the sansar at in lambaai, featuring a vast number of islands ( approximately 1,400, of jisase 227 hai inhabited ), including Crete, the dodecanese, the Cyclades, or the ionian islands among anya.
assi pratishat of unaniyon consists of mountains, of jisase mount Olympus is the highest at.
aadhunik Greece traces iske jaden to the civilization of pracheen Greece, generally mana the cradle of Western sabhyataa.
As aise, it is the birthplace of loktantr, pashchimi philosophy, the olympic Games, Western sahitya and historiography, rajnatik vigyaan, pramukh vaigyanik or mathematical siddhanth, and pashchimi naatak, sahit dono traasadee or kamedi.
is viraasat is partly reflected in the seventeen unesco sansar viraasat site stith in unaniyon, ranking it 7th in europea or 13th in the world.
The modern unani state was established in 1830, following the unani yuddh of Independence.
unaniyon is a founding sadsy of the sanyukt raashtra, rai maharoom a sadsy of kayaa is now the europea sangh chunki 1981 ( and the eurozone since 2001 ), or rai been a member of nato chunki 1952.
Greece is a viksit desh saath an unnat, high-income arthvyavastha or bahut unchi standards of jeena, including the sansar 's 21st ucchtam visheshta of jivan as of 2010.
unaniyon 's economy is bhi the largest in the balkans, jahaan unaniyon is an mahatvapurn kshetreey niveshkon.
A prime madhyahn is a madhyahn, i.e. a lakeer of deshaantar, at jisase deshaantar is defined to be 0°.
A prime madhyahn or its vipareet in a 360°-system, the 180th madhyahn ( at 180° deshaantar ), form a great vrutt.
is great vrutt divides the gola, e.g. the dharti, into two hemispheres.
If ek uses directions of east and west isse a paribhaashit prime meridian, then ve can be pukaara purvi golardh or pashchimi golardh.
gerardus Mercator in uske Atlas cosmographicae ( 1595 ) upyog a pradhan meridian kahi close to 25°w, passing bas to the west of santa Maria Island in the atlantic.
uske 180th meridian ranon saath the jalsandhi of anián ( bering Strait )
A prime madhyahn is ultimately arbitrary, naapsand an equator, which is sankalpit by the aksh of rotation—and various prathaon have maharoom prayukt or advocated in alag regions or throughout itihaas.
minka dumont Kelly ( born minka dumont Dufay ; june 24, 1980 ) is an American abhinetri.
wo is shaayad behtareen known for her bhoomikaaye in charlie 's Angels, shuukravaar raatri Lights, or the rummet.
r.o.b. ( Robotic Operating Buddy ), released in japani as the, is an accessory liye the nintendo Entertainment pranali ( enies ).
it was released in july 1985 in japani and baad that year in uttar America.
it had a choti utpaada jeevankaal, saath support liye tabhi do khel which comprised the `` robot shrenee '' ; gyromite and Stack-Up.
r.o.b. was released saath the iraade of portraying the nintendo Entertainment pranali as kuch anokhaa in anukram to alleviate khudara fears following the video khel krash of 1983.
r.o.b. thi available in the dealks niyat, a vinyas liye the consol ki included, among anya bate, R.O.B. or gyromite.
stack-up thi kharida separately or shaamil iske apana shaareerik game tukade.
the chalanaa swatantraaa half dollar thi a silver 50-cent tukdaa or half dollars sikaa jari by the sanyukt States mint from 1916 to 1947 ; it was designed by Adolph A. weinman.
in 1915, the new Mint nideshak, robert W. Woolley, aae to maananaa ki he was nahin tabhi allowed lakin jaruri by vidhi to replace sikaa designs ki had maharoom in upyog for 25 saalo.
he isliye began the prakram of replacing the nai coinage : dimes, quarters or half dollars, sab bearing similar designs by long-time mint engraver Charles E. nai, or pehla struck in 1892.
woolley tha the Commission of thik Arts conduct a pratiyogita, as a result of jisase Weinman was selected to dizine the dime or half dollars.
weinman 's design of swatantraaa striding towards the surya liye the half dollars proved mushkil to purna, or rajkosh sachiv wiliam G. mcadoo, jinaki vibhaag shaamil the mint, mana having Barber banaaen uske own dizine.
mint officials yahood successful in getting weinman 's dizine into utpaadan, haalanki it never struck bahut khub, which may have maharoom a factor in its replacement by the Franklin half dollars beginning in 1948.
Nevertheless, art historian cornelius vermeule mana the piece to be among the most khubasurat us coins.
chunki 1986, a parivardhan of Weinman 's obverse design has maharoom prayukt liye the amareeki chaandi tribhuj.
The toyota 4runner is a mid-size khel utility gadee ( esayuvi ) utpaadit by the japani nirmaataa toyota or sold throughout the world isse 1984 to present.
in japani it thi gyaat as the toyota hilux Surf.
the asli 4runner was a compact SUV and choti adhik than a toyota pikup trek saath a fiberglass shell over the bed, but the model has chunki undergone significant independent vikaas into a cross between a compact or a mid-size esayuvi.
sab 4runners have been nirmit at Toyota 's tahara sanyantr in tahara, Aichi, japani, or at Hino Motors ' Hamura, japani sanyantr, and in Brazil.
iske mid-size crossover esayuvi counterpart is the toyota highlander.
This article deals saath ayurvigyaan as practiced by prashikshit peshewar isse pracheen times to the present.
The ancient unhone tha a pranali of ayurvigyaan ki thi bahut advanced liye iske samay or bahekaave baad chikitsa paramparaon.
the Egyptians or babylonians both introduced the avadharanaon of nidaan, prognosis, or medical parikshaw.
The Greeks went bhi further, and unnat as well chikitsa aachaar.
the Hippocratic shapath, still liya by doctors today, was likhaa in unaniyon in the 5th sadi BCE.
in the madhyakaalin era, sargical practices inherited from the ancient masters yahood improved or tab systematized in Rogerius 's the Practice of Surgery.
vishvavidhyalayon began systematic prashikshan of physicians around the years 1220 in italy.
During the Renaissance, samajhnaa of anatomy improved, and the sookshmdarshi was invented.
the rogaanu theory of beemaari in the 19th century led to cures for anek sankramak rogon.
Military doctors unnat the vidhi of aghat upachaar and surgery.
public swasthya upayon yahood viksit visheshkar in the 19th sadi as the rapid growth of shaharon jaruri systematic sanitary upayon.
unnat shodh centers kholi in the early 20th century, often connected with pramukh hospitals.
the mid-20th sadi thi characterized by nai biological upachaar, aise as antibiotics.
These advancements, saath with developments in rasayan, genetics, or lab praudyogiki ( aise as the x-ray ) led to aadhunik medicine.
ayurvigyaan thi heavily professionalized in the 20th sadi, or nai careers kholi to mahilaon as nurse ( from the 1870s ) or as physicians ( especially baad 1970 ).
the 21st sadi is characterized by very unnat shodh involving numerous field of vigyaan.
The hippocratic corpus, is a sangrahan of jaldi medical works isse pracheen unaniyon strongly associated saath the ancient unani physician hipocratis or uske shikshaaon.
Potassium is a chemical tatv saath pratik k ( isse neo-latin kalium ) and atomic number 19.
elemental potacium is a naram silvery-white kshareey metal ki oxidizes rapidly in air and is bahut pratikriya saath jal, generating sufficient ooshmaa to ignite the hydrogen utsarjit in the pratikriya and burning saath a lilac flame.
kuki potacium or sodium are chemically bahut samaan, their lavan yahood nahin at pehla differentiated.
the existence of anek elements in unke lavan thi suspected isse 1702, and is was siddh in 1807 jab potassium and sodium were individually isolated isse alag lavan by electrolysis.
potacium in prakruti occurs tabhi in ionic lavan.
As aise, it is found dissolved in seawater ( jisase is 0.04 % potacium by weight ), or is bhaag of anek minerals.
sabase audyogic rasinic anuprayog of potacium employ the apekshaakrit unchi solubility in jal of potacium yogicon, aise as potacium soaps.
potacium metal rai tabhi a few khaas anuprayog, being replaced in most chemical pratikriyaayein saath sodium metal.
potacium ions hai jaruri liye the falan of sab jeena koshikaayen.
Potassium aayan diffusion is a key yantriki in tantrika transmission, or potacium depletion in pashu, sahit humans, parinaam in vibhinn hriday disfunction.
potacium accumulates in sanyantr koshikaayen, or yun bhais fal or subjiyan hai a shubh dietary sorce of it.
conversely, most paudhe except specialist halophytes are ashishnu of namak, or sodium is present in unhen tabhi in kam concentration.
This resulted in potacium first hone pruthak isse potash, the raakh of plants, giving the element its naam.
For the vahi kaaran, heavy crop utpaadan rapidly depletes soils of potassium, or agricultural fertilizers consume 95 % of vaishvik potacium chemical utpaadan.
the Singapore dollars or dollars ( chihn : $ ; code : sgd ) is the aadhikarik karency of singapore.
It is saamanytah abbreviated saath the dollars sign $, or alternatively s $ to fark it isse other dollars -denominated mudraayen.
it is vibhajit into 100 saint.
The Monetary Authority of singapore or the bruneii karency or maudrik Board still maintain the historic exchangeability of unke do mudraayen, the Singaporean dollars or the bruneii dollars, kramshah.
the dollars is sweekrut as `` prathagat tender '' in Brunei according to the karency Interchangeability anubandh.
likewise, the bruneii dollars is customarily accepted in Singapore
james samuel colman ( may 12, 1926 – kooch 25, 1995 ) thi an American sociologist, theorist and anubhavjanya shodhakarta, aadhaarit chiefly at the University of chicago.
he thi elected adhyaksh of the amareeki samajashastreey sangh.
colman padhai the samajashaastra of education, public niti, or thi ek of the earliest upayokta of the term `` soshal puunji ``.
uske Foundations of soshal siddhanth bahekaave samajashastreey siddhanth.
His The adolescent samaaj ( 1961 ) and `` Coleman Report '' ( samta of Educational avasar, 1966 ) were two of the most heavily cited kitabe in educational samajashaastra.
The landmark Coleman rapat helped roopantaran shaikshanik siddhanth, reshape neshnal shiksha nitiyon, and influenced public or scholarly raay regarding the bhoomika of schooling in determining samta or utpaadakta in the United rajya.
superman ( isse dc comics ) thi the pehla superhiro nirmit, art by gym lee.
A superhero ( sometimes rendered super-hero or super nayika ) is a prakaar of bhandar akshar possessing `` extraordinary or superhuman shaktiyaan '' and samarpit to protecting the public.
chunki the debut of the prototypical superhero superman in 1938, kahaniyaan of superheroes—ranging isse bread episodic adventures to continuing years-long sagas—have varchasv American comic books or crossed over into anya media.
the shabd itself dates to at tanik 1917.
a maadaa superhiro is sometimes pukaara a superheroine ( bhi rendered super-heroine or super nayika ).
`` SUPER nayak '' is a trademark co-owned by DC Comics or Marvel Comics.
By most paribhaashaayen, varna do nahin strictly require vaastavik superhuman shaktiyaan to be deemed superheroes, although sharten aise as costumed aparaadhon senaanee or nakaabposh vigilantes hai sometimes prayukt to refer to those aise as bitman or Green tir bagaiyr aise shaktiyaan jo share other aam superhiro traits.
Such varna yahood generally referred to as `` rahasy men '' in the so-called sunahari Age of Comic Books to fark unhen from varna saath super-powers.
saamanytah, superheroes upyog unke shaktiyaan to counter day-to-day crime while bhi combating khatre viruddh humanity by supervillains, unke dand counterparts.
Often, one of ye supervillains hoga be the superhiro 's archenemy.
as well, some longrunning superheroes, aise as Superman, bitman, spider-man and Iron man prayek rai a rogues gallery of dushmano.
as well, superheroes sometimes hoga combat aise irregular khatre as aliens, magical/ kaalpanik entities, amareeki war dushmano aise as natsivaad or samyavaadee, and godlike or demonic creatures.
the following is a historical suchi of actors and primary character roles jisase appear on the amareeki sabun opera ek jivan to sajiv.
The Shawshank mochan is a 1994 amareeki drama film likhaa and nirdeshit by frank darabont or abhinit tim Robbins or morgan friman.
adapted isse the Stephen king novella Rita hayworth or shawshank mochan, the filmi tells the story of Andy Dufresne, a banker jo spends nearly do decades in Shawshank rajya Prison for the hatya of his bivi or uske premi despite uske claims of innocence.
dauraan uske time at the thana, he befriends a fellow inmate, ellis boyd `` red '' redding, or paata khud surakshit by the guards after the warden begins using use in uske money laundering aaparishan.
despite a gunagune baksaa daftar resepshan ki mushkil recouped iske bajet, the filmi praapt favorable samikshaayen isse aalochakon, multiple award nominations, and rai chunki enjoyed a remarkable life on cable television, VHS, DVD, or blu-ray.
it thi included in the American Film Institute 's 100 Years... 100 Movies 10th varshganth sanskaran.
it prabandhan is the discipline whereby sab of the praudyogiki resources of a firm hai prabandhit in accordance with its needs and praathamiktaayen.
ye sansaadhan may include thos nivesh jaise computer hardware, tantra, aankada, sanjaal or aankada kendra suvidhaayen, as khub as the staffs jo hai hired to maintain unhen.
Managing is jimmedaari bheetar a company entails anek of the basic prabandhan krityon, like budgeting, stoff, or aayojan or controlling, saath saath other pahaluon ki hai unique to praudyogiki, jaise change management, software design, network niyojan, takanic support ityadi.
The penitentiary of New mexico thana riot, jisase took place on farvari 2 or 3, 1980, in the rajya 's adhiktam suraksha thana dakshin of santa fe, was ek of the most hinsak prison riots in the itihaas of the amareeki correctional system : 33 inmates died or adhik than 200 inmates were treated liye choton.
None of the 12 adhikariyon taken hostage were killed, but saat yahood treated liye choton caused by beatings or rapes.
This was the teesraa major riot at the nm State penitentiary, the pehla occurring on 19 July 1922 or the second on 15 June 1953.
lekhak roger morris suggests the maut toll may have maharoom higher, as a kramank of laashen yahood incinerated or dismembered dauraan the course of the mayhem.
`` Red cardinal '' redirects yahan.
liye the sanyantr erythrina herbacea, dekhie Coral saim.
The uttari cardinal ( cardinalis cardinalis ) is a uttar American bird in the genus cardinalis ; it is bhi gyaat colloquially as the redbird or aam cardinal.
it can be found in southern Canada, through the purvi sanyukt rajya from maine to texas or south through mexico.
it is mila in woodlands, gardens, shrublands, or swamps.
the Northern Cardinal is a mid-sized songbird with a deh length of 21 centimeters ( 8.3 inches ).
It rai a distinctive crest on the sir or a mukhauta on the phase which is blike in the male and gray in the female.
The purush is a harshollas red, jabaki the maadaa is a feeki red-brown shade.
the uttari Cardinal is mainly granivorous, lakin also feeds on keet or fal.
the purush behaves territorially, marking out his territory with song.
dauraan premalap, the purush feeds beej to the maadaa beak-to-beak.
a clutch of teen to chaar eggs is rakhi, and do to chaar changul hai utpaadit prayek year.
It was ekbar prized as a pet, lakin iske sale as cage pakshiyon is abhi bain in the sanyukt States by the Migratory Bird sandhi adhinium of 1918.
Surface runoff, bhi pukaara nonpoint source pradooshan, from a farm field in iova dauraan a rain toofaan.
Topsoil as khub as farm fertilizers and anya sambhavit pollutants run band unprotected farm field jab baari rains occur.
topsoil is the apper, outermost parat of mrudaa, praayah the sheersh to.
It rai the ucchtam visheshgyata of sashulk padaarth or microorganisms and is jahaan sabase of the dharti 's biological soil kaaryaklap occurs.
Musical cryptogram : `` aschbeg '' niyat in schoenberg 's sechs kleine klavierstücke, op. 19, no. 1, m. 5.
note ki the tip do not aaiye in ssailing order lakin hai all sata ( nahin alag by anya tip ).
Sechs kleine klavierstücke, op. 19 ( or Six Little piano Pieces ) is a niyat of tukade for solo piano written by the austria composer arnald schoenberg, prakashit in 1913.
maikefi, inc. ( ) is an amareeki global computer suraksha tantra company headquartered in Santa clara, california, or the sansar 's largest samarpit suraksha praudyogiki company.
As of farvari 28, 2011, maikefi is a wholly swaamitv subsidiary of intel.
McAfee 's pratispardhi in the antiveyras industry hai avira, BitDefender, bullguard, f-secure, frisk, kaspersky, Symantec, or trend Micro to name a few.
Saint reeta of cascia ( Born Margherita Lotti 1381 - may 22, 1457 ) thi an italvi Augustinian nan, vidhwaa or sant venerated in the roman Catholic girijaghar.
Rita was shaadishuda at an jaldi age.
the vivaah lasted for 18 saalo, dauraan jisase wo is remembered for uske isai values as a model bivi and maan who bana praytn to badalen uske husband isse uske gaali bartaav.
upon the murder of uske husband by another feuding parivaar, wo sought to dissuade uske sons isse badla.
wo subsequently joined an augustinian jatiyaan of dharmik sisters, jahaan wo thi known liye practicing mortification of the flesh, saath saath the apparent efficacy of uske prarthanaayen.
st. Rita is venerated due to vibhinn miracles attributed to uske sifaarish, or is praayah portrayed with a bleeding ghaav on her maathe, which the Roman Catholic girijaghar claims to have maharoom a partial stigmata.
the roman catholic girijaghar, antargat the pontificate of Pope Leo xiii officially canonized Rita on may 24, 1900, jabaki uske feast day is manaaye every May 22.
In anek parhezgaaron catholic countries, reeta is gyaat to be a patroness liye abused patniyaan and shok mahilaon.
uttar America is a mahadweep wholly within the uttari Hemisphere or lagbhag wholly bheetar the pashchimi golardh.
it is bhi mana a uttari subcontinent of the americas.
It is bordered to the uttar by the arctic samandar, to the east by the atlantic samandar, to the west or dakshin by the prashanth samandar, and to the southeast by South America or the caribbean Sea.
uttar america covers an area of parichay 24,709,000 square kilometers ( 9,540,000 vargakar mile ), parichay 4.8 % of the grah 's sataha or parichay 16.5 % of its jameen kshetrafal.
as of July 2008, its janasankhyikee thi anumaanit at nearly 529 lakh people across 23 swatantra rajya, representing about 7.5 % of the insaan population.
uttar america is the third-largest continent in kshetrafal, following asia or africa, and the chauthi in janasankhyikee baad asia, Africa, or europea.
the pehla logon to live in uttar america were paleoindians jo began to arrive dauraan the pichhlaa glacial period by crossing the Bering jameen sethu.
ve differentiated into a kramank of vividh cultures and samudaayon aarpaar the continent.
the largest or sabase advanced pre-columbian civilizations in North America yahood the Aztecs in kayaa is abhi Mexico or the mayans in central america.
European colonists began to arrive starting in the 16th or 17th centuries, wiping out vishaal sankhyaayein of the deshi populations or shuruuaat an era of European dabadabaa.
jermaine Lamarr kol ( born janvari 28, 1985 ), better gyaat by uske stage naam J. kol, is an American hip-hop recording kalakaar or record nirmaataa isse Fayetteville, uttar carolina.
in 2009, he became the first artist to chihn to Jay-Z 's Roc swadesh label.
uske long-awaited debut album, entitled Cole sansar : the sideline story, thi released on sitambar 27, 2011.
the album debuted at number one on the US billboard 200, sheersh r & b album and Top rap album chart, selling adhik than 218,000 in iske pehla saptaah.
he praapt a namakan for Best nai kalakaar at the 54th grami puraskaar.
The do pramukh varna of the shrenee, ratchet ( sahi ) or Clank ( baayein ).
ratchet & Clank is a series of manch video khel.
the matadhikaar thi nirmit or viksit by insomniac khel or published by soni computer entertainment liye anek different plastesan consoles, aise as plastesan 2 and plastesan 3 saath the exclusion of Size Matters and rahasy agent Clank, which were viksit by unchi prabhaav khel liye the PlayStation portable.
Every khel in the shrenee rai maharoom released liye prayek consol, as the ip is swaamitv by soni computer entertainment.
An anemated visheshta filmi anukulan utpaadit by rainmaker entertainment and nakebandi Entertainment is scheduled liye a natya relies sometime in 2015.
The khel lo place in a vigyaan fiction setting or follow the adventures of ratchet ( an animalistic human-like character known as a Lombax, jo is a maikenic ) or Clank ( a diminutive, sentient robot ) as ve safar through the brahmad, chhayankan it from evil shaktiyaan on a regular basis.
the shrenee is noted liye the samavesh of many exotic or adwitiya, over the sheersh weapons or divaais, a avadharana ki insomniac khel bhi vistaarit into unke anya khel.
A hoga or vasiyat is a vidhik ghoshnaa by jisase a vyakti, the testator, names ek or adhik vyaktiyon to manage his/her estate or provides for the transafar of uske property at maut.
liye the devolution of property nahin disposed of by will, dekhie uttaradhikaar and intestacy.
in the strictest bhav, a `` will '' rai historically maharoom simit to real property jabaki `` vasiyat '' applies tabhi to dispositions of nijee property ( thus giving vruddhi to the popular sheershak of the dastauez as `` Last hoga and Testament '' ), haalanki this bhed is seldom observed aaj.
a hoga may also banaaen a testamentary vishwaas ki is effective tabhi baad the death of the testator.
the 19.9 mw gemasolar saura sanyantr in spain suvidhaayen 15 hours of bhandar and can supplai shakti 24 hours a din.
saura energy, radiant light or ooshmaa isse the surya, rai maharoom harnessed by insaano chunki pracheen times using a dayera of ever-evolving technologies.
saura urja technologies shaamil solar heating, saura photovoltaics, solar thermal electricity, saura vaastukala or kritrim photosynthesis, which can mek considerable yogadan to solving some of the sabase taatkaalik urja samasyaayein the sansar now chehron.
saura technologies are broadly characterized as either passive solar or kriyasheel saura depending on the rasta they capchar, badalen and vitarit saura urja.
kriyasheel saura techniques shaamil the use of photovoltaic panels and solar thermal collectors to dohan the urja.
Passive saura takneekon include orienting a bhawan to the surya, selecting saamagree saath favorable thermal dravyaman or lite dispersing gun, or digining spaces ki naturally circulate air.
In 2011, the International urja Agency kaha that `` the development of sasti, inexhaustible or clean saura urja technologies hoga have vishaal longer-term laabh.
it hoga badhayen countries’ energy suraksha through reliance on an indigenous, inexhaustible and mostly import-independent sansaadhan, enhance sustainability, reduce pradooshan, nimnatar the costs of mitigating climate badalen, or keep chattan fuel keemten lower than varanaa.
ye advantages are vaishvik.
hence the atirikt costs of the protsaahan for jaldi deployment chahie be considered siikhnaa investments ; ve jarur be wisely kharch or need to be widely shared ''.
Sir thomas More ( ; 7 farvari 14786 july 1535 ), gyaat to roman Catholics as Saint thomas adhik chunki 1935, was an English vakil, soshal paras, lekhak, statesman, or noted punarjagran humanist.
he thi an important parshad to henry viii of england or thi rab chancelar isse aktubar 1529 to 16 may 1532.
he was canonized by pope paayas xi in 1935 as ek of the jaldi shahido of the schism ki alag the girijaghar of England from rome in the 16th sadi.
In 2000, pope John Paul ii ghoshit him patron of catholic kootneetigyon or politicians.
adhik thi an opponent of the protostant reformation, in particular of martin luther or wiliam tindel.
however, chunki 1980, he is bhi commemorated by the girijaghar of england as a reformation martyr.
More coined the shabd `` utapia `` – a naam he diya to the adarsh and imaginary dweep swadesh, the rajnatik pranali of which he varnit in utapia, prakashit in 1516.
he opposed the King 's virah from the roman catholic girijaghar or refused to accept use as param Head of the girijaghar of england, a sheershak jisase had been die by parliament through the adhinium of sarvocchata of 1534.
he thi imprisoned in 1534 liye uske refusal to lo the shapath required by the First uttaradhikaar adhinium, kuki the adhinium disparaged Papal praadhikaar or henry’s vivaah to catherine of aragon.
in 1535, he thi aajamaaya liye deshadroh, convicted on perjured gavaahi, and beheaded.
More bhi helped to originate the phrase `` grasp at lobhi '' to ausat `` shiddat trying bhi vyarth bate '', in uske samvaad of sukun Against tribulation.
intellectuals or kootneetigyon aarpaar europea yahood stunned by adhik 's nishpaadan.
erasmus saluted use as ek `` jinaki aatma thi more pure than koi him, jinaki pratibhashali thi such ki England never tha or never again will have iske jaise ''.
vahin thi a adhik controversial paksh to More 's jivan, kuki he advocated the persecution or execution of protestants jo refused to recant unke aasthaa.
however, the judgement of history rai maharoom largely willing to forgive is in lite of the times he lived in or uske shahadat in the Roman catholic kaaran.
Two sadiyaan baad jonathan swift kaha adhik thi `` the vyakti of the mahanatam punya is kingdom kabhi utpaadit '', a bhaavana with which Samuel Johnson sahamat.
itihaaskaar huge Trevor-Roper said in 1977 that adhik was `` the first great angrej whom we mahasoos ki we know, the sabase saintly of humanists, the sabase human of santo, the universal man of hamaari kool uttari punarjagran. ''
captain nemo, also known as prince dakkar, is a fictional character invented by the french vigyaan fiction lekhak juls varn.
Nemo appears in two of varn 's novels, Twenty Thousand lig antargat the samudr ( 1870 ) or The Mysterious dweep ( 1874 ), or makes a chemiyo rup in varn 's khel yatra through the Impossible ( 1882 ).
nemo, ek of the most prasiddh antiheroes in fiction, is a rahasyamay figure.
the bete of an bhartiya raja, he is a vaigyanik pratibhashali who roams the gaharaaiyon of the samudr in uske pandubbi, the notilas, jisase thi nirmit on a ujaad island.
nemo koshishen to project a stern, niyantrit confidence, but he is chalit by a pyaas liye vengeance or a dwesh of imperialism ( visheshkar the angrejon Empire ).
he is bhi wracked by pachhtaawaa over the deaths of his kru members and bhi by the mauton of dushman sailors.
nemo rai appeared in vibhinn adaptations of varn 's novels, sahit films, jahaan he rai maharoom portrayed by a kramank of alag abhinaytaon.
He has furthermore maharoom adopted by anya authors liye inclusion in unke novels, sabase notably in alan Moore 's the League of asaadhaaran sajjanon and Philip jose Farmer 's the anya Log of phileas fogg.
Listed neeche are the pramukh League besabaal tiimon with the best season won-lost records in itihaas, as sankalpit by winning pratishat (.700 or behatar ), nunatam 120 games nibhaai.
Acoustic coupler modem
A modem ( modulator-demodulator ) is a yantra that modulates an analog carrier signal to encode digital soochna, or bhi demodulates such a carrier signal to dicode the transmitted information.
the lakshya is to upaj a signal ki can be transmitted easily or decoded to reproduce the asli digital aankada.
modems can be prayukt over any arthath of transmitting analog signals, isse lite emitting diodes to radio.
The sabase parichit udhaaharan is a awaz band modem that turns the digital aankada of a nijee computer into modulated vidyut signal in the voice aavriti dayera of a telephone channel.
These signal can be transmitted over telephone lines or demodulated by another modem at the receiver side to ricover the digital data.
modems hai generally vargeekrut by the raashi of aankada ve can send in a die ikai of samay, usually expressed in bits per second ( bit/s, or bps ), or bits prati duusari ( B/s ).
modems can alternatively be vargeekrut by their pratik rate, measured in baud.
the baud ikai denotes symbols prati duusari, or the kramank of times prati duusari the modem bhejnaa a nai signal.
For example, the ITU v.21 maanak used audio aavriti shift keying saath two sambhavit barambharataa sambandhit to do pruthak pratikon ( or ek bit prati pratik ), to carry 300 bits per duusari using 300 baud.
by contrast, the asli itu V.22 maanak, which thi samarth to sanchaaran or receive chaar distinct pratikon ( do bits per symbol ), sambhala 1,200 bit/s by sending 600 pratikon prati duusari ( 600 baud ) using phase shift keying.
the Declaration of Independence is a bayaan apanaaya by the mahadwipiya Congress on july 4, 1776, jisase ghoshit ki the teraa amareeki colonies, tab at war saath great britain, regarded themselves as independent rajya, and no longer a bhaag of the British samrajya.
Instead ve abhi formed a new nation—the United States of america.
John adams thi a leader in pushing liye independence, jisase was unanimously approved on July 2.
a committee tha already drafted the formal ghoshnaa, to be taiyaar when congress voted on independence.
adams persuaded the cameti to chune thomas Jefferson to likhen the asli draft of the document, jisase congress would sampadan to upaj the final sanskaran.
the Declaration thi ultimately a formal explanation of why congress tha voted on july 2 to ghoshit independence isse Great britain, more than a saal baad the outbreak of the amareeki krantikari yuddh.
The neshnal janmdiwas, the swatantraaa din is manaaye on july 4, although adams wanted july 2.
baad ratifying the text on july 4, congress jari the ghoshnaa of Independence in several form.
it thi initially published as the mudrit danlap broadside ki thi widely distributed and padhaa to the public.
the most prasiddh sanskaran of the ghoshnaa, a hastakshrit nakal ki is popularly regarded as the ghoshnaa of swatantraaa, is pradarshit at the neshnal abhilekh in washington, d.c.
haalanki the wording of the ghoshnaa was sweekrut on july 4, the tithi of iske signing was agast 2.
the asli july 4 sanyukt States ghoshnaa of swatantraaa manuscript thi khoyaa jabaki sab anya copies have maharoom niklaa isse is original dastauez.
The strot or interpretation of the ghoshnaa have maharoom the vishay of much scholarly inquiry.
the Declaration jaij the swatantraaa of the United rajya by listing colonial grievances viruddh King george III, or by asserting nishchit prakritik or legal rights, including a sahi of kranti.
Having parosa iske original purpose in announcing independence, the text of the ghoshnaa thi initially upekshit baad the American kranti.
chunki tab, it rai aaiye to be mana a major statement on human rights, particularly iske second sentence:
we tham ye truths to be self-evident, ki sab men hai nirmit baraabar, that ve hai endowed by their nirmaataa saath nishchit unalienable adhikaron, ki among these are jivan, swatantraaa or the pursuit of Happiness.
This has maharoom pukaara `` ek of the best-known sentences in the angrezi language '', containing `` the sabase potent or consequential shabd in amareeki history. ''
The dyodhi aae to represent a moral maanak to jisase the sanyukt rajya chahie niyat.
is drishy thi notably promoted by abraham lincoln, who mana the ghoshnaa to be the foundation of his rajnatik darshanashastra, or argued ki the Declaration is a bayaan of siddhanth through jisase the sanyukt rajya samvidhan chahie be interpreted.
it rai inspired kaary for the adhikaron of adhikarhin logon throughout the sansar.
the Economy of Greenland can be characterized as choti, mishrit and vulnerable.
the present arthvyavastha consists of a big public sector or vyapak foreign vyapaar, jisase rai resulted in an arthvyavastha saath periods of damdaar vikaas, considerable mahangaai, berogari samasyaayein or extreme dependence on puunji inflow isse denmark or upyog of baahar, mukhyatah danish, skilled majdoor.
GDP per capita is samaan to the ausat europea economies lakin the arthvyavastha is critically nirbhar upon substantial support isse the danish government, which aapurtiyan parichay half the revenues of the home rule government who in phere employ parichay 8,000 greenlanders out of a labor force of 40,156 ( jan. 2012 ).
berogari nonetheless remains unchi, with the rest of the arthvyavastha nirbhar upon maang liye niryaat of zinga or machhlee.
hydrogen is a rasinic tatv saath symbol h or parmaanu kramank 1.
With an atomic vazan of ( for hydrogen-1 ), hydrogen is the lightest tatv or its monatomic form ( h1 ) is the sabase abundant rasinic substance, constituting roughly 75 % of the brahmad 's baryonic dravyaman.
non- remnant stars hai mukhyatah rachit of hydrogen in iske plasma state.
At maanak taapmaana or dabaav, hydrogen is a colorless, gandhhin, tasteless, non-toxic, nonmetallic, atyadhik combustible diatomic gas saath the molecular sutara H2.
sabase of the hydrogen on dharti is in molecules aise as jal or sashulk yogicon kuki hydrogen readily forms covalent yogicon saath sabase non-metallic elements.
hydrogen plays a particularly mahatvapurn bhoomika in acid-base rasayan saath anek pratikriyaayein exchanging protons between ghulansheel anuon.
in ionic yogicon, it can lo a negative charge ( an anion gyaat as a hydride or likhaa as H− ), or as a positively charge prajati H+.
the latter cation is written as haalanki rachit of a bare proton, lakin in vaastaviktaa, hydrogen cations in ionic compounds always occur as adhik complex prajati.
The most aam samasthanik of hydrogen is protium ( naam rarely prayukt, symbol 1h ) with a single proton and no neutrons.
as the saralatam atom known, the hydrogen anu has maharoom of saidhantik upyog.
For udhaaharan, as the tabhi neutral anu saath an analytic samaadhaan to the shrodinger sameekaran, the padhai of the energetics or sambandh of the hydrogen atom played a kunjee bhoomika in the development of kwantum yantriki.
Hydrogen gas was pehla artificially produced in the jaldi 16th sadi, via the mixing of metals saath acids.
in 1766–81, henry cavendish thi the pehla to recognize ki hydrogen gas thi a discrete substance, or that it produces water jab burned, a property jisase baad gave it iske naam : in Greek, hydrogen means `` water-former ''.
Industrial production is mukhyatah isse the bhaap reforming of natural gas, and kam praayah from adhik energy-intensive hydrogen utpaadan vidhi jaise the electrolysis of jal.
sabase hydrogen is employed nikat iske production site, saath the do largest upyog hone chattan eendhan prasanskaran ( e.g., hydrocracking ) or ammonia production, zyaadaatar liye the fertilizer market.
hydrogen is a concern in metallurgy as it can embrittle many dhaatuon, complicating the dizine of pipelines or bhandar tanks.
ajey is a 2010 amareeki action thriller filmi directed by tony Scott, likhaa by chihnit bomback, or abhinit Denzel washington and Chris pine.
the filmi, loosely aadhaarit on the real-life csx 8888 ghatana, tells the story of a runaway freight train, or the two main ( washington or Pine ) jo manage to roke it.
It thi scot 's final visheshta filmi pehle uske maut in 2012.
the film thi released in the United rajya or Canada on navambar 12, 2010, and in the United kingdom on navambar 24, 2010.
it received mostly anukool samikshaayen from film aalochakon ; it garnered a `` certified Fresh '' darja on Rotten tamaato aadhaarit upon aggregated samikshaayen or a rating of `` generally anukool reviews '' at metacritic.
the film thi nominated for an academy puraskaar liye behtareen Sound sampadan at the 83rd academy Awards, lakin lost to inception.
In chayachitr, bracketing is the saamaanya takanic of lene anek shots of the same vishay using alag camera settings.
Bracketing is upyogi or praayah anushansit in paristhitiyon ki make it mushkil to obtain a santoshjanak chitra with a single shot, visheshkar jab a choti vibhinnata in exposure parameters rai a comparatively large effect on the resulting chitra.
Autobracketing is automatic bracketing by using a setting on the camera to lo anek bracketed goliyaan ( in contrast to the photographer altering the settings by hand between prayek shot ).
Given the time it takes to accomplish anek goliyaan, it is typically, lakin not always, used for static subjects.
insulated glazing ( ig ), adhik commonly known as double glazing ( or double-pane, or increasingly triple glazing/pane ) hai doguna or triple kaanch window panes alag by an air or anya gas filled space to reduce ooshmaa transafar across a bhaag of the building lipapha.
insulated kaanch ikai hai manufactured saath glass in dayera of motaai from 3 mm to 10 mm or more in special applications.
laminated or tempered kaanch may also be prayukt as bhaag of the nirmaan.
sabase ikai hai manufactured saath the same thickness of glass prayukt on dono panes lakin special applications aise as dhvanik kshinan or suraksha may aavashyaktaa chaudee seemayen of thicknesses to be incorporated in the same ikai.
A sectioned aarekh of a fixed insulated chamkile ikai ( igu ), indicating the numbering sammelan used in this aalekh.
sataha # 1 is facing baahar, Surface # 2 is the andar sataha of the exterior pane, sataha # 3 is the baahar sataha of the interior falak, and Surface # 4 is the andar surface of aantarik falak.
The window frame is labelled # 5, a spacer is indicated as # 6, seals are dikhaaya in red ( # 7 ), the internal khulaasa is on the sahi haath paksh ( # 8 ) or the exterior windowsill on the baayein ( # 9 )
to reduce shear prabhaav on the sealed ikai ( a pramukh kaaran of asamyik vifaltaa ), nirmaataaon upyog a niyam of angootha ki permits a antar of 1 mm between the thickness of the panes of kaanch prayukt in the ikai and still maintain the varantee for the unit.
liye udhaaharan, a ikai may be ordered saath a 4 mm falak on the exterior or a 3 mm falak on the aantarik.
ye visangatiyaan hai anumat liye architectural or laagat reasons.
anya combinations can be specified or utpaadit but the nirmaataa may reserve the sahi to limit the term of the varantee or inkaar to varantee the ikai altogether.
liye aasaani of varnan the satahon of a doguna paned ikai hai namit according to the following sammelan : sataha # 1 ( facing baahar ), Surface # 2 ( inside of baahar falak ), Surface # 3 ( baahar of andar pane ) and sataha # 4 ( andar sataha of andar falak ).
applying the corresponding namakaran liye triple paned ikai parinaam in satahon # 1 through # 6.
The performance of insulating glazing can be parivardhit through the use of the following:
a theth sansthapana of insulated glazing windows with upvc window frames.
selenium is a chemical tatv with pratik se or parmaanu number 34.
it is a adhatu saath gun ki are intermediate between those of iske periodic talika column-adjacent chalcogen tatv gandhak or tellurium.
it rarely occurs in iske elemental rajya in nature, or as pure ayask yogicon.
Selenium ( unani σελήνη selene arth `` chandramaa '' ) thi khoja in 1817 by Jöns yaaqub Berzelius, jo vikhyath the samanta of the nai tatv to the previously-known tellurium ( named liye the dharti ).
selenium is mila impurely in metal sulfide ores, jahaan it partially replaces the sulfur.
commercially, selenium is produced as a byproduct in the refining of ye ores, sabase praayah dauraan tambe utpaadan.
khanij ki hai pure selenide or selenate yogicon hai gyaat, lakin hai viral.
the mukhya vanijyik upyog for selenium aaj are in glassmaking or in pigments.
selenium is a semiconductor or is prayukt in photocells.
Uses in electronics, ekbar important, have maharoom zyaadaatar supplanted by silicon semiconductor divaais.
selenium continues to be prayukt in a few prakaar of dc shakti surge protectors or ek prakaar of fluorescent kwantum bindu.
Selenium lavan hai vishakt in vishaal amounts, lakin tres amounts hai jaruri liye cellular falan in anek jeevon, sahit all pashu.
Selenium is a ghatak of the antioxident anzimon glutathione peroxidase or thioredoxin reductase ( jisase indirectly reduce nishchit oxidized anuon in pashu or some paudhe ).
it is also mila in teen deiodinase anzimon, jisase badalen one thyride hormone to another.
Selenium aavashyaktaayen in paudhe differ by prajati, saath some plants requiring apekshaakrit vishaal amounts, or anya jaahir requiring none.
The sanyukt rajya adhyakshiya election of 2008 thi the 56th quadrennial adhyakshiya election.
it thi held on mangalvaar, navambar 4, 2008.
democrate baraak obama, tab the junior seenetter isse illinois, defeated republican jon macken, the varisht Senator isse Arizona.
as the abhiyaan progressed, the War in iraqi or outgoing Republican President george W. Bush tha become increasingly unpopular, or the major-party ummidavaar bhaaga on a platform of badalen or sudhaar.
gharelu niti or the economy aakhirkaar ubhara as the pramukh vishaywastu in the pichhlaa few maheene of the chunaav abhiyaan baad the onset of the worst mandi chunki the 1930s.
obama would go on to jeet a nirnaayak vijay over McCain in both the chunavi or lokapriy vote.
obama praapt the sabase mat liye a presidential pratyaashee in amareeki itihaas, or jiti the popular or chunavi vote by the largest hashia in 12 years, as khub as the largest pratishat of the popular vote liye a democrate in nearly a half-century.
is thi the first u.S. adhyakshiya election in jisase an African amareeki thi elected, having bhi maharoom the pehla in which an africa amareeki jiti the nomination of either pramukh party.
is election thi bhi notable liye hone the pehla time in u.S. history ki dono major party candidates yahood sitting U.S. seenetteron, tabhi the third samay ( baad 1920 or 1960 ) ki koi baithe u.s. Senator was nirvaachit adhyaksh, and only the duusari samay ki the jeetna adhyaksh and vaais adhyaksh ( obama or biden ) yahood dono baithe U.S. seenetteron.
is was also the first election chunki 1952 in jisase neither of the pramukh partiyon ' nominees thi the incumbent adhyaksh or vaais President.
the sovereign prince or rajkumaari of monako is the reigning monarch or sir of state of the principality of monako.
sab princes or rajkumariyon have officially liya the naam of the house of grimaldi, lakin have belonged to vibhinn anya gharon ( Goyon de matignon, polignac ) in male line.
the reigning Prince is albert ii.
kalpana of fragmentation and tab of defragmentation
In the maintenance of sanchika systems, defragmentation is a prakram ki reduces the amount of fragmentation.
It karata is by physically aayojan the contents of the mass bhandar yantra used to store filein into the smallest number of sanlagn regions ( fragments ).
it bhi koshishen to banaaen larger regions of free spes using compaction to impede the vaapasi of fragmentation.
Some defragmentation upyogitaayen try to rakhana choti filein bheetar a single nirdeshika saath, as they hai often accessed in anukram.
defragmentation is laabhadaayak or relevant to file systems on electromechanical disk drive.
the gati of the mushkil drive 's read/write heads over alag kshetron of the disk when accessing fragmented filein is dhimaa, compared to accessing the sampurna saamagree of a non-fragmented sanchika sequentially without moving the read/write heads to seek anya fragments.
a service-level anubandh ( sla ) is a bhaag of a seva anubandh jahaan a seva is formally paribhaashit.
in practice, the pad sla is sometimes prayukt to refer to the contracted delivery samay ( of the seva or performance ).
As an udhaaharan, antarjaal service providers will commonly shaamil seva level samjhauton bheetar the sharten of unke anubandh saath graahak to define the str ( s ) of service being sold in plain language sharten.
in is maamla the SLA will typically have a takneekee paribhaasha in sharten of ausat samay between asafalataaon ( MTBF ), ausat time to repair or ausat samay to recovery ( MTTR ) ; vibhinn aankada daron ; throughput ; jitor ; or samaan measurable details.
sangh Station is a purv kharidari mal in Union nagar, georgia, in dakshinpaschim metro atlanta sata to antarraji 85.
baad nai swaamitv and renovations in 2006, the name thi badla from shainan southpark mal in 2007 to sangh stesan mal.
a pichhlaa naveekaran was kiya in the let 1990s.
the mall has maharoom closed since navambar 2010.
is map shows the sanlagn sanyukt rajya or, in insets at the nimnatar baayein, the do states ki hai nahin contiguous.
The contiguous United rajya hai the 48 adjoining u.S. rajya on the continent of uttar america that are south of canada and uttar of Mexico, plus the zila of Columbia.
the pad excludes the rajya of alaska or hawaii, or all off-shore u.S. territories and possessions, such as purto Rico.
saath, the 48 sanlagn rajya or d.C. occupy a sanyukt kshetrafal of, jisase is 1.58 % of the kul sataha kshetrafal of the dharti.
of is, is jameen, composing 83.65 % of U.S. land area.
officially, is water kshetrafal, composing 62.66 % of the swadesh 's water area.
the 2010 janasankhyikee population was 306,675,006, composing 99.33 % of the swadesh 's janasankhyikee, or a density of 103.639 inhabitants/sq mi ( 40.015/km2 ), compared to 87.264/sq mi ( 33.692/km2 ) liye the swadesh as a whole.
`` Why '' is the title of a song ankit by American country band Rascal Flatts.
it is the teesraa single from unke chathe studio album, ajey.
it thi released to radio stesan on sitambar 29, 2009 and debuted at # 44 on the u.s. billboard us billboard hot desh geeton chart liye the saptaah of October 10, 2009.
It thi likhaa by Rob Mathes or alan shamblin.
utilization prabandhan is the moolyankan of the appropriateness, chikitsa need or efficiency of swasthya parvaah sevaayen procedures and facilities according to sthapit maapdand or dishanirdesh or antargat the provisions of an lagu swasthya laabh yojana.
typically it shaamil new kriyaayein or nirnay aadhaarit upon the vishleshan of a maamla.
utilization prabandhan describes proactive procedures, sahit nirvahan niyojan, sanyukt niyojan, pre-certification or naidanik maamla appeals.
it bhi cover proactive prakriyaaon, such as concurrent clinical samikshaayen and peer samikshaayen, as khub as appeals introduced by the provider, payer or rogi.
As pre-certification or sanyukt punarvilokan of maamle grew, utilization management spun out of utilization review.
jabaki nahin synonymous, swasthya care professionals tend to use the terms as interchangeable.
the difference is utilization management is and intends to manage health parvaah maamle efficiently or laagat effectively pehle or dauraan swasthya parvaah prashasan.
utilization punarvilokan is adhik considering whether swasthya care thi appropriately lagu baad it was administered.
vahin hai chaar basic takneekon in utilization management:
maang prabandhan
Utilization punarvilokan
maamla prabandhan
beemaari prabandhan
the outsiders is a coming-of-age novel by S. E. hinton, pehla prakashit in 1967 by Viking dabaayen.
Hinton thi 15 when wo started likhane the novel, lakin did sabase of the kaary jab wo thi solah and a junior in high skool.
hinton was 18 when the book was prakashit.
The book follows two pratidwandvi groups, the Greasers or the socs ( sunaaya by the author as, choti for socials ), jo are vibhajit by their socioeconomic aukaat.
the kitaab takes place in tulasa, Oklahoma, in 1965, lakin it is never stated in the kitaab.
a filmi adaptation thi produced in 1983, or a little-known short-lived television shrenee appeared in 1990, picking up jahaan the movie baayein off.
The sanyukt rajya House of pratinidhi is ek of the do gharon of the sanyukt rajya congress ( a bicameral vidhanmandal ).
It is aksar referred to as the house.
the other house is the seenet.
the composition or shaktiyaan of the House are sthapit in aalekh ek of the United rajya samvidhan.
the pramukh power of the house is to pass sangheey legislation that affects the sampurna country although iske bills must bhi be passed by the Senate or further sahamat to by the U.S. adhyaksh pehle banane vidhi ( jabatak both the house and seenet re-pass the vidhaan saath a two-thirds bahumat in prayek kaksh ).
the House has anek vishesh shaktiyaan : the shakti to initiate revenue bills, to impeach officials, and to elect the U.S. adhyaksh in case there is no majority in the Electoral college.
prayek u.S. rajya is represented in the house in proportion to iske population lakin is hakdaar to at tanik one pratinidhi.
the sabase populous rajya, california, philhal rai 53 representatives.
the kul number of matdaan pratinidhi is fixed by vidhi at 435.
Each pratinidhi serves liye a two-year pad.
the spikar of the United rajya house of pratinidhi, who presides over the chamber, is nirvaachit by the sadasyon of the house, or is isliye traditionally the netaa of the House Democratic Caucus or the House republican sammelan, whichever party rai adhik matdaan sadasyon.
the house meets in the dakshin wing of the United rajya capital.
A supplai kadi is darasal a jatil and dianemic supplai or demand network.
( cf. wieland/wallenburg, 2011 )
a supplai kadi is a pranali of sanghathan, logon, kriyaayein, soochna, and resources involved in chalati a utpaada or service isse pradaayak to graahak.
supplai kadi kriyaayein roopantaran natural sansaadhan, raw materials, or components into a samaapt utpaada ki is delivered to the end graahak.
in sophisticated supplai kadi pranaaliyon, prayukt products may re-enter the supplai kadi at koi point jahaan residual maan is recyclable.
supplai chains kadi maan zanjeeron.
`` Purple haze '' is a song written or recorded by jimi hendrix in 1967, released as the duusari single by the jimi Hendrix Experience in dono the United kingdom or the sanyukt rajya.
it baad appeared on the American sanskaran of the band 's 1967 album hai tum Experienced.
`` jamuni Haze '' rai become ek of the `` archetypical cicedelik drug songs of the sixties ''.
`` Purple Haze 's '' guitar virtuosic techniques would be emulated by many metal guitarists.
A band up chitra of a ganda skin.
skin is the naram bahari covering of vertebrates.
anya animal chhatariyaan aise as the sandhipad exoskeleton have different developmental utpatti, structure or rasinic sangyojan.
the adjective cutaneous means `` of the skin '' ( isse latin cutis, skin ).
in stanadhariyon, the skin is the largest ang of the integumentary pranali bana up of anek paraton of ectodermal utak, or guard the underlying muscles, haddiyon, ligaments and aatanrik organs.
skin of a alag nature exists in amphibians, sarisrupon, or pakshiyon.
sab mammals have some bal on unke skin, bhi marine stanadhariyon jisase appear to be hairless.
the skin antarfalak saath the paryaavaran and is the first line of defense isse external factors.
liye udhaaharan, the skin plays a kunjee bhoomika in protecting the body viruddh pathogens and excessive jal ghaataa.
iske anya krityon hai insulation, taapmaana viniman, sensation, or the utpaadan of vitamin D folates.
severely damaged skin may changa by forming scar utak.
is is sometimes discoloured or depigmented.
the motaai of skin bhi varies isse sthaan to sthaan on an sajiv.
in insaano liye example, the skin stith under the eyes or around the eyelids is the thinnest skin in the deh at 0.5 mm motaa, and is one of the pehla kshetron to dikhaaen lakshan of vriddhavastha such as `` crows feet '' or jhurriyaan.
the skin on the palms or the sols of the feet is 4 mm motaa or the thickest skin in the body.
fer is dense hair.
primarily, fer augments the insulation the skin provides but can also serve as a dwitiyak yon characteristic or as camouflage.
on some pashu, the skin is bahut mushkil or motaa, or can be processed to banaaen leather.
sarisrupon and machhlee have mushkil surakshatmak taraazoo on their skin liye protection, or pakshiyon have mushkil feathers, sab bana of mushkil β- keratins.
ubhaychar skin is not a damdaar avrodh to dyodhi of rasayan or is praayah subject to paraasaran or diffusive forces.
liye example, a mendhak baithe in an anesthetic samaadhaan hota be sedated jaldi, as the rasinic diffuses through its skin.
Thomas scot
the rev. thomas scot ( 1747-1821 ) thi an influential preacher or author jo is pradhanthya gyaat for uske best-selling work A commentary On the Whole bible or the force of sachai, or as ek of the sansthaapakon of the Church mishanri Society.
danniel radcliffe, jo portrays Harry kumhaar, rai maharoom the icon of the filmi shrenee chunki the release of the pehla film in 2001.
kuch of the most prasiddh actors of the sanyukt kingdom or ireland have voiced or portrayed varna appearing in the harry kumhaar filmi shrenee aadhaarit on the book shrenee by J. K. Rowling.
danniel radcliffe, ruport grint and emma watasan have played harry Potter, ron visli or harmaini granger in sab the films.
When ve yahood cast only Radcliffe tha previously acted in a filmi.
complementing them on screen are such actors as helena bonham Carter, gym broadbent, jon Cleese, robi coltrane, Warwick davis, ralph Fiennes, Michael Gambon, brendan gleeson, richard griphith, richard haris, John Hurt, jesan Isaacs, miriam margolyes, hellen mccrory, Gary oldman, alan rickman, fiona Shaw, Maggie smith, Timothy spall, Imelda staunton, daud thewlis, emma Thompson, or juli walters, among others.
teraa abhinaytaon have appeared as the same character in sab eight films of the matadhikaar.
kuch well-known angrejon abhinaytaon who have nahin appeared in the shrenee, hai asked in jest why ve have not maharoom daal.
jab daud Yates thi directing the fifth filmi, Bill nighy, jo tha previously collaborated saath Yates on teen of uske television project, said that he joked with yets that sambhawatah abhi he would n't be the tabhi karta in England who had n't maharoom in Harry kumhaar.
`` But nobody pukaara '', nighy added.
lakin in 2009, Yates cast nighy as mantri of jaadu rufus scrimgeour in deathly hallows.
Nighy said, `` i am no longer the tabhi angrezi karta not to be in harry kumhaar and I am bahut prasann. ''
jude vidhi rai quipped, `` Nobody 's asked me.
i thi a bit too boodha liye Harry ''.
When a reporter compared potions professor horess Slughorn 's obsession saath famous names to the series ' conection to `` prayek notable angrejon actor, '' gym Broadbent, jo plays Slughorn kaha, `` khub, nahin every karta gets aamantrit.
i jaan kuch jo hai still pratiksharat. ''
saath the excepshan of kris columbus, each nideshak rai tha a chemiyo rup in uske sambandhit filmi : alphonso Cuarón appears as a wizard pakadakar a mombatti during a jhaanki at the teen broomsticks in Prisoner of azkaban ; mike newell is suna briefly as the radio presenter in Frank brice 's house in pyaalaa of aag ; or daud Yates suvidhaayen as a jaadugar within a jaadui moving portret in anukram of the Phoenix.
nirmaataa daud heyman bhi makes a cameo appearance as a jaadugar pradarshit bheetar a magical chalati portret in the third filmi, Prisoner of azkaban.
J. K. rolling diya a vaak during the world premier of the final filmi in the series— harry kumhaar or the deathly Hallows bhaag 2 —on 7 july 2011 in landan, england.
wo ghoshit ki wo could never have dreamt of the pratibhashali abhinaytaon or abhinetriyon jo have appeared in sab the Harry Potter filmon.
Rowling also ghoshit that there hai saat Harry kumhaar filmi shrenee cast sadasyon, who wo refers to as `` the big Seven '', ve hai Daniel Radcliffe, ruport grint, emma watasan, Tom felton, mathew louis, evanna lynch and bonnie rhite.
the suchi neeche is sorted by film or akshar, as kuch characters have maharoom portrayed by multiple abhinaytaon.
kunjee
( v ) indicates the actor or abhinetri lent tabhi uske or uske awaz liye uske or uske film character
( y ) indicates the karta or abhinetri portrayed the bhoomika in a flashbek scene or jab the akshar thi young.
( f ) indicates the karta or actress kiya not appear in koi nai footage liye the filmi ; footage from an pehle filmi or films was prayukt.
a light grey koshika ( aise as the ek in the `` Charity burbage '' pankti in the `` paras 's stone '' column ) indicates the akshar thi nahin in the filmi anukulan.
a twelve-step program is a niyat of guiding siddhanth ( sweekrut by sadasyon as 'spiritual siddhanth, ' aadhaarit on the sweekrut literature ) outlining a course of karrwai liye recovery from, majaburi, or other behavioral problems.
originally proposed by Alcoholics benaam ( aa ) as a vidhi of recovery isse alcoholism, the baarah Steps yahood first prakashit in the kitaab alcoholics Anonymous : the Story of kaisaa adhik than ek sau main have Recovered isse alcoholism in 1939.
the vidhi thi tab adapted and became the nyaas of anya twelve-step kaarykram.
as summarized by the amareeki manovaigyanik sangh, the process involves the following:
admitting ki ek can nahin control ek 's vyasan or majaburi ;
recognizing a higher shakti that can de shakti ;
examining past trutiyaan saath the sahaayta of a praayojak ( anbhavi member ) ;
bananaa amends for ye errors ;
learning to sajiv a nai jivan with a new code of bartaav ;
helping anya jo suffer from the same vyasano or compulsions.
gavaah mahabhiyog, in the vidhi of pramaan of the sanyukt States, is the prakram of colling into sawaal the credibility of an vyaktigat who is testifying in a vichaaran.
the sangheey niyam of Evidence contain the niyam shaasi mahabhiyog in sangheey courts.
party netao and whips of the United States house of pratinidhi hai nirvaachit by unke sambandhit partiyon in a closed-door caucus by rahasy bailat and hai also gyaat as floor netao.
the u.S. House of pratinidhi karata not officially use the term `` alpsankhyak Leader '' haalanki the media aksar do.
the house bajaay uses the sharten `` republican netaa '' or `` Democratic Leader '' depending on which party holds a alpsankhyak of site.
The vartmaan house bahumat netaa is republican eric Cantor, jabaki the vartmaan house alpsankhyak netaa is Democrat nancy pelosi.
the vartmaan house Majority chaabuk is republican kevin McCarthy, while the vartmaan house alpsankhyak chaabuk is democrate steny Hoyer.
Following the outbreak of World yuddh I in 1914, the German fouj kholi the Western Front by pehla invading Luxembourg and Belgium, tab gaining sainya control of mahatvapurn audyogic regions in frans.
The tide of the agrim was dramatically turned saath the battle of the marne.
following the res to the sea, dono pahalu dug in saath a meandering lakeer of fortified trenches, stretching isse the uttar samudr to the swiss frontier saath frans.
is lakeer remained essentially unchanged for sabase of the yuddh.
between 1915 or 1917 there were anek pramukh offensives saath is saamne.
The hamale employed vishaal artillery bombardments or massed infantry advances.
however, a sangyojan of entrenchments, machine gun nests, contile taar, or topakhane repeatedly inflicted severe hataahat on the hamalavar and counterattacking defenders.
as a result, no significant agrim yahood bana.
among the sabase costly of ye offensives yahood the Battle of verdun with a sanyukt [ estimated ] 700,000 dead, the Battle of the Somme saath adhik than [ an anumaanit ] lakh hataahat, or the battle of passchendaele with roughly [ an anumaanit ] 600,000 hataahat.
in an praytn to brake the deadlock, is saamne dekhi the parichay of new military praudyogiki, including zehar gas, aircraft or tanks.
lakin it thi only baad the apnaanaa of improved tactics that kuch oopaadhi of gatishiltaa thi lauti.
The germany Spring Offensive of 1918 thi bana sambhavit by the sandhi of brest-litovsk that chihnit the samaapt of the conflict on the Eastern saamne.
Using the recently-introduced ghuspaith tactics, the German sena advanced nearly to the west, which marked the deepest agrim by either side chunki 1914 or very nearly succeeded in forcing a breakthrough.
in spite of the generally stagnant prakruti of is front, is theatre hota prove decisive.
the inexorable agrim of the alide sena dauraan the duusari half of 1918 persuaded the German commanders ki shikast was aprihaary, and the sarkari thi forced to sue for sharten of an armistice.
The sharten of peace yahood sahamat upon saath the hastakshar of the Treaty of Versailles in 1919.
the following is a suchi of punaravarti and naaballig varna in the dijani channel asli shrenee The suite jivan of zack & kodi.
ye varna yahood regularly ghumaya, often disappearing liye long avadhi dauraan the shrenee.
the following suchi of varna rai been sorted alphabetically, by first naam.
kuch of the varna tha no pichhlaa naam or most yahood commonly referred to by their first name so this appeared to be the sabase logical vidhi.
In the maamla of shef poulo, jo tha no known pehla name, ve have maharoom soochibaddh by title.
the pehla mahila of the United rajya ( FLOTUS ) is the hostess of the White house.
kuki this sthiti is traditionally filled by the bivi of the President of the United rajya, the sheershak is sabase praayah lagu to the bivi of a baithe president.
the vartmaan pehla mahila is mishael obama.
baad uske husband baraak obama thi re-elected on navambar 6, 2012, wo is anusuchit to serve jabatak janvari 20, 2017.
septic shock is a medical condition as a result of kathor sankraman or sepsis, haalanki the microbe may be pranaligat or sthaniyakrut to a particular sait.
it can kaaran anek ang dysfunction syndrome ( formerly known as anek ang vifaltaa ) and death.
iske sabase common victims hai children, immunocompromised individuals, and the bujurg, as their pratiraksha systems can nahin saude saath the sankraman as effectively as those of swasth adults.
aksar, marijon ksht isse septic shock hai cared for in intensive care ikai.
the mrityu rate isse septic shock is lagbhag 25–50 %.
Kevin Brereton ( born farvari 20, 1972 ), behatar gyaat by his stage name k-os ( ; `` araajaktaa '' ), is a canadai rapper, singer, songwriter or ricard nirmaataa.
uske given naam may bhi be cited as Kheaven, a ssailing he baad adopted.
the alias `` k-os '', spelled saath a nimnatar maamla `` k '', was intended to be kam aakraamak than the pseudonyms of anya rappers whose names yahood all upper maamla, aise as krs-one.
it is an echronim for `` Knowledge of swah, '' haalanki in a baad intervyuu he kaha that it originally stood liye `` kevin 's asli dhwani. '' k-os ' music incorporates a chaudee variety of music jati, including rap, durgandh, chattan, or reggae.
the geet frequently fokas on promoting a `` dhanatmak message '' while at times expressing aalochana of mukhyadhara hip hop culture 's obsession with dhan, fame or glorification of hinsa.
A sangeetkaar as khub as a nirmaataa, k-os rai likhaa or utpaadit nearly every bhaag of all four of his album.
k-os praayah performs with a sajiv band, kuch ki is uncommon in the hip hop vidha.
he sometimes plays guitar and kunjeepatal both during live pradarshan or in the studio.
k-os received uske first musical exposure saath the single `` Musical essence '', released in 1993.
baad the release of uske duusari single `` Rise jaise the surya '' in 1996, he withdrew isse the industry because he was asantusht saath his musical style.
he reappeared briefly in 1999 or released uske debut album Exit in 2002.
the album received dhanatmak samikshaayen but bechi apekshaakrit few copies.
He released uske second album anand vidroh in 2004, jisase praapt platinum aukaat in canada.
A teesraa album,, was released in 2006 or bhi gai platinum.
uske fourth album, yas !
, thi released in 2009.
His paanchvaan album blike on sunahare thi released in 2013.
the official 2007 edition of the UCC.
bhi the gopneey ashisht drafts of the UCC yahood saved and published as a 10-volume niyat.
The vardi vanijyik code ( UCC or the Code ), pehla published in 1952, is ek of a number of vardi acts that have maharoom promulgated in sangyojan saath praytn to harmonize the law of sales or anya vanijyik tranjection in all 50 rajya bheetar the United rajya of america.
Multi-pitch chadhaai is the ascent of chadhaai root saath ek or adhik stops at a belay station.
prayek section of actual chadhaai between stops at the belay stesan is called a pich.
The netaa ascends the pitch, rakhkar gear or stopping to anchor themselves to the belay stesan.
The kaaran liye the stops can be sankalpit by chunaav, convention or necessity.
liye example:
the rassi is too choti to do the sampurna root in one pitch ( necessity ).
the netaa rai run out of protective gear ( necessity ).
vahin is a suvidhajanak protectable kagaar, or phixd bolts placed by pichhlaa chadhnaa, at the sthaan for a belay stesan ( sammelan ).
the netaa chooses to baaki or exange lead pehle the aglaa section of the chadhaai ( chunaav ).
the general purpose of ye stops is to allow the duusari to ascend to the point of the lead climber jabaki collecting the surakshatmak gear isse the root in the course of the lead climber 's ascent.
at the belay stesan, the surakshatmak gear is collected, sambhawatah exchanged to a new netaa, or the leader of the next pich ascends the route.
a aarekh prardashit an i gathan on thokar or a 4-3 gathan on defense
in amareeki footbaal, prayek team rai eleven players on the field at one samay.
The vishisht role ki a khilaadi takes on the field is called their sthiti.
Under the aadhunik niyam of amareeki footbaal, tiimon hai anumat aseemit subsititutions, that is tiimon may change any kramank of players after any khel.
is rai resulted in the vikaas of teen `` platoons '' of khilaadi, the thokar ( the team with the ball, who is trying to score ), the raksha ( the toli trying to prevent the other toli from scoring, or to lo the ball from unhen ), or the special tiimon ( who play in kicking paristhitiyon ).
bheetar those platoons, various vishisht sthitiyaan maujuud depending on kayaa the khilaadi 's main job is.
the niyantrit substances adhinium ( siese ) thi enacted into vidhi by the congress of the sanyukt rajya as Title ii of the vyapak Drug gaali rokthaam or control adhinium of 1970.
the siese is the federal U.S. drug policy antargat jisase the manufacture, importation, kabza, upyog or vitaran of nishchit substances is regulated.
the Act bhi parosa as the neshnal implementing vidhaan for the single sammelan on Narcotic davaayen.
the vidhaan nirmit paanch schedules ( classifications ), saath varying yogyata liye a substance to be shaamil in each.
do federal agencies, the drug pravartan prashasan and the khaanaa and Drug Administration, determine jisase substances hai added to or removed isse the vibhinn schedules, though the statute passed by Congress created the aarambhik listing, or congress rai sometimes anusuchit other substances through vidhaan aise as the hillory J. farias or samantha reid date-rape rokthaam adhinium of 2000, jisase lagaai gamma hydroxybutyrate in anusuchee i. vargeekaran nirnay hai jaruri to be made on maapdand sahit potential liye abuse ( an undefined pad ), philhal sweekrut chikitsa use in upachaar in the sanyukt rajya, or antarrashtriya treaties.
The wain root 23 pargaman bich is a New jersey pargaman park-and-ride stesan in wain, nai Jersey saath the montclair-boonton lakeer ki provides bas seva to nai york nagar or vibhinn anya points in the kshetrafal as khub as montclair-boonton Line tren service to New york, Hoboken, or intermediat points saath the line between hackettstown and montclair State University.
it is stith band of the southbound lanes of nai jersey Route 23 on west belt sadak, nikat the interchange jahaan Route 23, antarraji 80, or u.S. root 46 milen, aarpaar isse the willowbrook Mall.
the stesan kholi in janvari 2008 or rai 1,000 parking spaces.
New Jersey Transit intends liye this sanyukt rail or bas stesan to become an `` interceptor stesan, '' that hoga sahaayta relieve the habitual jamghat at the west belt sadak interchange, jahaan the teen pramukh rajmargon meet.
in addition, the construction of the stesan was meant to also ease the jamghat at kayaa thi then Route 23 park & Ride, a bas depot on Route 23 North that rai chunki been renamed Mother 's Park & sawari, or the Willowbrook Mall park & Ride ; the now-mother 's sait had simit parking jabaki njt was having trubal saath overfull parking kshetron at willowbrook.
The wain township bas garrej is stith on the vipareet paksh of root 23.
vahin has maharoom a prastaav to nirmaan a parking deck with another thousand dhabbe and develop the jameen at the station.
in jod to Montclair-Boonton trains, the pargaman bich is parosa by the following nai jersey Transit bas lakiraus:
75 to Newark Penn stesan or Butler
194 to Port praadhikaar bas terminal or Butler/Newfoundland
198 to Port Authority bas terminal or William paterson University
324 to Port praadhikaar and wain root 23
748 to willowbrook mal or paterson
The at chihn @ is bhi commonly pukaara the at symbol, ampersat, apetail or vanijyik at in english—and kam commonly a chaudee dayera of other sharten.
The fact ki there is no single shabd in angrezi liye the pratik has prompted kuch lekhak to upyog the french arobase or spani and portugali arroba—or to coin nai shabd such as asperand, ampersat—but none of these rai hasil chaudee karency.
Originally an hisaab or vanijyik chaalaan sankshipt arth `` at the rate of '' ( e.g. 7 widgets @ $ 2 = $ 14 ), it thi nahin shaamil on the keyboard of the earliest commercially kaamyaab typewriters, lakin thi on at least ek 1889 model or the bahut successful underwood model isse the `` underwood no. 5 '' in 1900 onward.
it is abhi universally shaamil on computer keyboards.
In haal saalo, iske arth rai grown to include the sense of being `` stith at, '' `` or, '' or `` nirdeshit at '', visheshkar in email addresses or social media, visheshkar Twitter.
the chihnit is encoded at.
The Catcher in the Rye is a 1951 novel by J. D. Salinger.
originally published liye vayaskon, it rai chunki become lokapriy saath adolescent pathak liye its vishaywastu of teenage angst and alienation.
It has maharoom anudit into lagbhag sab of the world 's pramukh bhashaaen.
around 250,000 nakal are bechi prayek saal saath kul bikri of more than 65 lakh kitabe.
the anokhaa 's samarthak or antihero, holden caulfield, has become an icon liye teenage rebellion.
The novel was included on times 2005 list of the 100 best English-language novels written since 1923, or it was named by Modern pustakaalayon or its pathak as one of the 100 behtareen english-language novels of the 20th sadi.
it has maharoom frequently challenged in the United States and other countries for iske udaar use of profanity or portrayal of kaamuktha.
It bhi saude saath jatil mudde of pahchaan, belonging, conection, or alienation.
Skeletal mansapeshiyaan homo sapiens
This is a talika of mansapeshiyaan of the insaan anatomy.
There hai lagbhag 642 skeletal mansapeshiyaan within the typical insaan, or lagbhag prayek mansapeshi constitutes ek part of a pair of ekasmaan bilateral mansapeshiyaan, mila on dono pahalu, resulting in approximately 320 pairs of mansapeshiyaan, as prastut in is aalekh.
nevertheless, the sateek kramank is mushkil to define kuki alag strot samooh mansapeshiyaan differently, e.g. regarding kayaa is paribhaashit as different bhaag of a single muscle or as anek mansapeshiyaan.
Examples dayera from 640 to 850.
the muscles of the insaan deh can be categorized into a kramank of groups jisase shaamil mansapeshiyaan relating to the sir or gardan, muscles of the torso or trunk, muscles of the upper limbs, or mansapeshiyaan of the nimnatar limbs.
the karrwai refers to the karrwai of each muscle isse the standard anatomical position.
in anya sthitiyaan, anya kriyaayein may be performed.
Bad ladakiyon klbon ( bgc ) is an amareeki reality television shrenee nirmit by jonathan mare liye the Oxygen television stesan.
the show centers on seven feisty and shararti women with different prishthbhumi or personalities, who have a kramank of manovaigyanik or behavioral samasyaayein.
They hai introduced to the dikhaaen off their pernicious bartaav or accomplish vishisht goals.
the cast, deemed `` karaab girls '', enjoy a luxurious jeevanstyli in a fine mansion for teen maheene, dauraan jisase they jarur obey nirdisht niyam.
unke lives andar – or baahar – of the house hai chronicled and ankit by the utpaadan toli.
The Bad ladakiyon Club is broadcast in five deshon ( sanyukt rajya, netherlands, australia, hungarian, or Sweden ).
it rai praapt rinatmak samikshaayen isse aalochakon, jo maananaa the show promotes hinsa by adolescent viewers.
furthermore, anek daal sadasyon bana vivaadaaspad remarks jisase outraged anek darshak.
the swaroop of the show rai badla from jaldi seasons.
if a `` bad ladki '' breaks a niyam, she is evicted from the show and, if it is jaldi in the ritu, replaced by a nai `` karaab girl ''.
There have maharoom nau puraa sizan of The karaab ladakiyon klbon, saath the dasavaan ritu philhal airing.
the chauthi ritu tha the ucchtam darja in the dikhaaen 's itihaas, banane its `` bhedan ritu ''.
vahin have maharoom teen spin-offs of The karaab ladakiyon klbon.
One of unhen, prem khel : Bad ladakiyon need prem Too, where past daal sadasyon seek sachcha love, rai gained unchi darja.
oxigen rai also released a mobile khel, comic strip or merchandise to prachaar the dikhaaen.
of the 92 pratiyogi, kerri harvick ( of ritu one ) thi a kaamyaab country singer before the show.
tanisha thomas ( of ritu do ) baad hosted Oxygen 's oxygenlive !
or the subsequent seasons of Love khel : karaab Girls Need prem Too.
thomas, jo rai maharoom utaavle the `` godmadar '' to all pratiyogi, rai her own television vruttchitr entitled Tanisha gets shaadishuda.
as of ritu 8 she 's maharoom the host of the punarmilan specials.
the iova Senate is the upper house of the iova General Assembly.
vahin are 50 site in the iova Senate, representing 50 single-member districts aarpaar the rajya with populations of approximately 60,927 prati constituency,.
Each Senate district is composed of two House districts.
the seenet meets at the Iowa rajya capital in des moines.
naapsand the lower house, the iova house of pratinidhi, seenetteron serve four-year sharten, saath half of the Senate ladkadhaate for re-election every two saalo.
There hai no pad had liye the seenet.
mechanical marammat
mentanence, repair, or parichaalan ( mro ) or mentanence, marammat, or overhaul involves fixing any sort of mechanical, plumbing or vidyut device chahie it become out of order or broken ( known as repair, unscheduled or casualty mentanence ).
it bhi includes performing routine kriyaayein jisase rakhana the device in working order ( known as anusuchit mentanence ) or prevent trubal from arising ( preventive maintenance ).
MRO may be defined as, `` sab actions jisase have the objective of retaining or restoring an mad in or to a rajya in jisase it can perform iske required function.
the actions shaamil the combination of sab takneekee or corresponding administrative, managerial, and paryvekshan kriyaayein. ''
MRO parichaalan can be categorised by whether the utpaada remains the property of the graahak, i.e. a seva is hone offered, or whether the utpaada is kharida by the reprocessing organisation or bechi to koi customer wishing to mek the purchase ( Guadette, 2002 ).
in the purv maamla it may be a backshop aaparishan bheetar a larger sanghathan or choti aaparishan.
the purv of ye represents a band loop supplai kadi and usually rai the paimaana of mentanence, repair or of the product.
The latter of the categorisations is an open loop supplai kadi or is typified by refurbishment or remanufacture.
the pramukh characteristic of the closed loop system is ki the demand liye a product is matched saath the supplai of a prayukt utpaada.
neglecting asset write-offs or asaadhaaran kriyaayein the kul population of the utpaada between the customer or the seva pradaata remains nirantar.
Prince William, duk of cambridge ( William arthur philip Louis ; born 21 june 1982 ), is the elder bete of charles, prince of wales, or Diana, Princess of Wales, or third-eldest pota of maharani elizabeth ii and Prince philip, duk of edinburgh.
He is duusari in the lakeer of succession, peeche his pita, to the thrones of sixteen independent sovereign rajya known as the rashtramandal realms : the United kingdom, canada, Australia, nai jiland, Jamaica, barbados, The bahama, haraa, papua nai gini, the Solomon islands, tuvaalu, sant loosia, sant vincent or the grenadines, beliz, antigua and barbuda, or sant kits and nevis.
prince William thi shikshit at chaar skulon in the United kingdom and praapt a oopaadhi isse the University of st andrews.
he kharch bhaag of a gap year in chile, beliz, tanzania, or kenya jahaan he rai jiya or holidayed anek times.
prince William rai bhi liya kiswahili adhyayan at vishvavidhyalayon in kenya and tanzania.
he thi commissioned as a leftinent in the Blues and royles Regiment of the household pyaade —serving saath his brother Prince harry —and, do years baad, arjeet uske wings by completing payalat prashikshan at royal air force college cranwell.
in 2009, he transferred to the royal Air Force, was prachaarit to udaan leftinent and underwent helicopter udati training in anukram to become a full-time payalat with the dhundhen or bachaav Force.
in 2010, he completed uske saamaanya or special-to-type helicopter training or went on to raf Valley on no. 22 Squadron performing co-pilot duties on falak a samudr King dhundhen or bachaav helicopter.
prince wiliam married uske longtime garlfriend, catherine middlaton, on 29 april 2011 at westminster abi.
Hours prior to uske vivaah, prince wiliam thi created duk of cambridge, arl of strathearn, or samant carrickfergus.
deandre cortez rasta ( born July 28, 1990 ), better gyaat by uske stage naam soulja ladke Tell 'Em, or simply soulja Boy, is an amareeki rapper, record nirmaataa, karta, or udyogon.
in sitambar 2007, uske single `` crank ki ( soulja Boy ) `` reached kramank ek on the billboard hot 100.
the single thi initially self-published on the antarjaal, or it baad became a number-one hit in the sanyukt rajya liye saat non-consecutive saptaah starting in sitambar 2007.
on agast 17 Way was soochibaddh at # 18 on the forbs suchi of hip-hop nakadi kings of 2010 earning $ 7 million liye that year.
rasta rai philhal released teen studio album or ek independent album : uske debut studio album Souljaboytellem.com ( 2007 ) thi certified platinum by the RIAA.
however, uske aglaa two album, isouljaboytellem ( 2008 ) or the deandre Way ( 2010 ) kiya nahin match the vanijyik kamyaabi of uske debyue, the latter tabhi selling 100,000 nakal, despite the kamyaabi of anek singles aarpaar dono album, aise as `` Kiss me thru the phone `` or `` phere my Swag on `` ( isouljaboytellem ) or `` pretty ladke Swag `` ( the deandre rasta ).
is thi mukhyatah due to negotiation samasyaayein with Interscope record jisase meant a limited raashi of record yahood bana uplabdhiyaan to the public.
as of 2011, Way rai pushti he is working on his chauthi studio album, hakdaar uese DRE, jisase will be released in 2013.
the electron hastantaran kadi in the sutarakanika is the sait of oxidative phosphorylation in eukaryotes.
the nadh and succinate utpann in the citric acid cycle hai oxidized, providing energy to shakti atipi synthase.
photosynthetic electron hastantaran kadi of the thylakoid jhilli.
An electron hastantaran chain ( ityadi ) yugal electron transafar between an electron daata ( such as NADH ) or an electron acceptor ( aise as o2 ) saath the transafar of H+ ions ( protons ) aarpaar a membrane.
the resulting electrochemical proton gradient is prayukt to generate chemical energy in the rup of adenosine triphosphate ( atipi ).
electron transport zanjeeron hai the cellular mechanisms used for extracting urja isse dhoop in photosynthesis and bhi isse radox reactions, aise as the oxidation of sugars ( shwasan ).
in chloroplasts, lite drives the parivartan of water to oxygen or nadP+ to nadph with transafar of H+ ions aarpaar haritalvak jhilliyon.
in mitochondria, it is the conversion of oxigen to jal, nadh to naD+ or succinate to fumarate ki are jaruri to generate the proton gradient.
electron hastantaran chains hai pramukh sites of asamyik electron leakage to oxygen, generating superoxide and potentially resulting in increased oxidative tanaav.
tramadol hydrochloride ( trademarked as conzip, ryzolt, ultracet, Ultram in the uese, ralivia, zytram xl durella { cr-100/200 mg } in canada or adolonta in spain ) is a centrally acting synthetic analgesic prayukt to daavat moderate to moderately severe pidaa.
the drug rai a chaudee dayera of anuprayog, including upachaar of amwaatiy gathiya, restless legs syndrome, motor neurone disease or fibromyalgia.
it thi shubharambh or marketed as tramal by the German pharmaceutical company grünenthal gmbh in 1977.
tramadol is a kamjor μ-opioid receptor agonist that bhi induces serotonin relies or inhibits the reuptake of norepinephrine.
tramadol is metabolized to O-desmethyltramadol, a significantly more potent μ-opioid agonist.
tramadol or iske major metabolite ( s ) are vishisht from anya more potent opioid agonists by relative selectivity for μ-opioid receptors.
barnard laurence `` Bernie '' Madoff ( ; born april 29, 1938 ) is an American purv stockbroker, nivesh salaahkaar, financer, or shwet collar dand.
he is the purv non-executive adhyaksh of the nasdac bhandar market, or the admitted oparator of a pension scheme ki is mana to be the largest vittiya fraud in U.S. history.
madoff santhaapit the wal Street kad barnard L. madoff Investment pratibhuti llc in 1960, and was iske adhyaksh until uske giraftaar on disambar 11, 2008.
the kad thi one of the top market maker vyavsaayon on wal gali, jisase bypassed `` specialist '' firms by sidhe executing aadesh over the counter from khudara brokers.
he employed at the kad uske bhai peter as Senior managing nideshak or mukhya Compliance Officer ; peter rai chunki maharoom sentenced to 10 saalo in prison.
peter 's beti Shana madoff as the kad 's niyam or compliance officer and attorney, or his sons andrew and chihnit ( Mark committed aatmahatya by hanging exactly do saalo baad uske pita 's giraftaar ).
on disambar 10, 2008, Madoff 's bete bataai adhikariyon ki unke pita tha confessed to unhen ki the asset prabandhan ikai of uske kad thi a vishaal pension scheme, and coted him as describing it as `` ek big lie. ''
the following din, epabiai agenton arrested madoff or charge use saath ek count of pratibhuti fraud.
The u.S. pratibhuti or exange ayog ( SEC ) tha previously conducted investigations into Madoff 's business practices, lakin kiya nahin khoj the vishaal fraud.
in kooch 2009, Madoff pleaded apradhi to 11 sangheey felonies and admitted to turning his maal management business into a vishaal pension scheme ki defrauded hazaron of niveshkon of billions of dollars.
Madoff kaha he began the pension scheme in the jaldi 1990s.
however, sangheey investigators maananaa the dhokhadhadi began as early as the 1970s, or those charge with recovering the laapata money believe the investment aaparishan may never have maharoom legitimate.
the raashi laapata isse claayent khate, sahit fabricated gains, was lagbhag $ 65 billion.
The court-appointed trustee estimated vaastavik losses to investors of $ 18 arab.
On june 29, 2009, he was sentenced to 150 saalo in thana, the adhiktam anumat.
prashasnic peshewar din ( bhi gyaat as Secretaries din or admin Day ) is an unofficial secular avkaash observed in anek deshon to recognize the kaary of secretaries, prashasnic assistants, receptionists, or other administrative support peshewar.
in North america, it is manaaye on the buudhvaar of the pichhlaa full saptaah of april ( April 24 in 2013 ).
in frans it is celebrated on the teesraa guuruuvaar in april ( April 18 in 2013 ).
in australia it is manaaye on the pehla shuukravaar in May
a quasi-judicial deh is an antity aise as an arbitrator or tribunel falak, generally of a public prashasnic agency, which rai shaktiyaan or procedures resembling those of a court of law or nyaayadhish, or jisase is obligated to objectively determine tathy or chithran conclusions isse unhen so as to provide the aadhaar of an aadhikarik action.
aise actions hai samarth to upaay a halaat or thopane vidhik dand, and may affect the vidhik adhikaron, kartavya or privileges of vishisht parties.
smarak of tycho brahe or yohaness kapler in praha
tycho brahe ( 14 December 154624 aktubar 1601 ), born Tyge ottesen brahe, thi a Danish nobleman known for uske sateek or vyapak khagoleey or planetary observations.
he thi born in scaniya, tab bhaag of Denmark, abhi bhaag of modern-day sweden.
Tycho thi khub known in his aaajeevan as an astronomer or kemiagar.
In uske de nova stella ( on the nai star ) of 1573, he refuted the aristotelian vishwaas in an aparivartansheel celestial frem.
uske precise measurements indicated ki `` nai stars, '' ( stellae novae, abhi gyaat as supernovae ) in particular ki of 1572, lacked the lamban apekshit in sub-lunar phenomena, or yahood isliye not `` atmospheric '' tailless dhoomaketuon as previously believed, lakin yahood upar the atmosphere or moon.
Using samaan maap he dikhaaya ki dhoomaketuon yahood bhi not vayumandaleey phenomena, as previously thought, or jarur pass through the mana `` aparivartaneey '' celestial spheres.
as an astronomer, tycho worked to combine kayaa he dekhi as the geometrical benefits of the copernican system with the philosophical laabh of the ptolemaic system into uske own model of the brahmad, the Tychonic pranali.
Furthermore, he thi the pichhlaa of the major nagn najar khagolashastriyon, working bagaiyr telescopes liye uske observations.
Tycho brahe thi granted an estate on the dweep of hven or the funding to nirmaan the uraniborg, an early research santhaan, where he nirmit vishaal khagoleey instruments and took many careful maap, or later stjerneborg, bhumigat, jab he khoja ki his yantra in the purv yahood not sufficiently sthir.
On the dweep ( on jisase he demonstrated autocratic akshar or behavior toward the nivaasiyon ) he founded manufactories such as paper-making to provide material liye mudran uske results.
After matbhinnata saath the nai danish king isai iv in 1597, he thi aamantrit by the Bohemian king or paavan roman emperor rudolph ii to praha, where he became the aadhikarik imperial astronomer.
He nirmit the new vedhashala at Benátky nad jizerou.
Here, isse 1600 jabatak his maut in 1601, he was assisted by yohaness kapler who later prayukt tycho 's khagoleey data to develop kapler 's kanoon of planetary gati.
guro zila ( guro-gu ) is a district of tseol, South korian, jisase thi alag isse yeongdeungpo zila on April 1, 1980.
stith in the southwestern bhaag of the nagar, jahaan besides Yangcheon District and geumcheon zila guro zila rai an mahatvapurn position as a hastantaran kadi jisase contains railroads, jameen routes isse the baaki of tseol to the south of the desh.
the Gyeongbu and gyeongin rail linon conect tseol to busaan and inchion.
in jod, Seoul mahanagar Subway lines 1, 2, or 7, and major rajmargon pratichchhed in Guro zila.
The naam Guro originates isse the legend ki nau ( ) old main ( korian : ro ) enjoyed aayu in the district.
a digital audyogic jatil is stith in Guro zila.
the Guro digital Industrial jatil, jisase nibhaai a agrani audyogic bhoomika mukhyatah with textile nirmaan, dressmaking or anya labour-intensive udyog in 1967, rai maharoom rapidly badla into an it industrial jatil.
is complex played a pivotal bhoomika in the economic growth of the South korian 's vikaas era, referred to as the `` chamatkaar on the haan nadi ``, or also contributed 10 percent of neshnal export in the 1970s.
twenty-one pratishat of the total kshetrafal of guro zila is a pratibandhit mandal to be used as a greenbelt with the tabhi arboretum in Seoul.
the mandal is changing into a jeevant zila as vishaal labour-intensive kaarkaanon hai chalati from the kshetrafal or the parishad is developing what it sharten iske chaar zones.
an `` e-government `` pranali aadhaarit on is hosted the international e-participation foram on farvari 7–9, 2007, with the bhagidaari of adhik than thirty-seven deshon.
the forum thi shubharambh with the theme `` Promoting Democracy or kshetreey vikaas '' or twenty-five mayors sahit andre santini ( Issy-les-Moulineaux, frans ), kevin foy ( chapel Hill, us ), Apirak kosayothin ( bangkok, Thailand ), uvais mohammad Emthiyas ( Colombo, Sri Lanka ), and sansar experts aise as Dr wiliam H. dutton ( nideshak of oxford antarjaal Institute at the vishvavidhyalayon of Oxford, uk ) or dr ari-veiko anttiroiko ( praadhyaapak at the vishvavidhyalayon of tampere, finland ) participated in the foram.
the guro Declaration, apanaaya dauraan the forum, aims to set up a portal site liye e-government vikaas or to sthapit a kancreet project in order to sethu the digital divide among the world 's cities.
is abhyaas rai maharoom recognised liye providing a nai important step in the vikaas of e-democracy.
the e-participation foram thi a key factor liye Guro to play the agrani bhoomika in bridging the digital divide among shaharon, to provide I.T. udhyamon stith in Guro digital audyogic jatil the avasar to launch into the antarrashtriya market, to improve iske chitra or become a global netaa to kancreet e-democracy.
The international e-participation foram on farvari 7–9, 2007
a wonton ( bhi spelled wantan, wanton, or wuntun in transcripshan from Cantonese ; mandarin : húndùn ) is a prakaar of pakodee commonly mila in a kramank of chinis cuisines.
Many logon yahood involved in the invention of radio as we abhi know it.
Several sambhavit vidhi of betaar sanchaar yahood considered, sahit inductive or capacitive preran or transmission through the maidan, however the vidhi prayukt for radio aaj exclusively involves the hastantaran and resepshan of electromagnetic lehren.
baad jaldi atakalein on the subject, experimental kaary on the conection between electricity and chumbakatv began around 1820 with the work of hans Christian orsted or continued saath the work of André-Marie ampear, Joseph henry, or Michael Faraday.
ye investigations culminated in the puraa siddhanth of electromagnetism viksit by james clerk Maxwell.
is siddhanth varnit the saidhantik aadhaar of the propagation of electromagnetic lehren.
baad maxwell 's siddhanth thi published anek logon experimented saath betaar communication, kuch intentionally using Maxwell 's theory some nahin.
it is considered sambhavit ki the pehla intentional hastantaran of a signal by arthath of electromagnetic waves thi performed by David edward hughes around 1880, haalanki this thi considered to be induction at the samay.
The first systematic and unequivocal transmission of em waves thi performed by heinrich rudolph Hertz and varnit in papers published in 1887 and 1890.
Hertz famously mana ye parinaam as hone of choti practical maan.
baad hertz 's kaary anek logon yahood involved in the development of components and theory shaamil saath the hastantaran or resepshan of electromagnetic lehren.
Others, notably Guglielmo marconi, were chintit saath practical improvements or the vanijyik anuprayog of radio to wireless telegraphy.
baad on reginald A. fessenden became the pehla to bhejein an audio signal by arthath of electromagnetic lehren.
Scurvy is a beemaari resulting isse a kamiyaan of vitamin c, jisase is jaruri for the synthesis of colejan in humans.
The chemical naam liye vitamin c, escorbic acid, is niklaa isse the latin name of scurvy, scorbutus, jisase bhi provides the kriyasheel scorbutic ( `` of, characterized by or having to do saath scurvy '' ).
scurvy often presents itself initially as symptoms of malaise and lethargy, followed by gathan of spots on the skin, spanji masoodon, or bleeding isse the mucous jhilliyon.
Spots hai sabase abundant on the jaanghon and taange, or a vyakti saath the ailment looks paale, feels udhaas, or is partially immobilized.
as scurvy agrim, there can be kholen, suppurating wounds, ghaataa of teeth, pilia, fever, neuropathy or maut.
scurvy thi at one samay aam among sailors, pirates or anya aboard ships at samudr longer than perishable fal and subjiyan could be bhandaarit ( subsisting bajaay tabhi on cured or salted meats and dried dane ) or by sainiko similarly deprived of these foods liye extended avadhi.
it thi described by Hippocrates ( c. 460 BC–c. 380 bc ), or herbal cures for scurvy have maharoom gyaat in anek native samskritiyon chunki praagitihaas.
scurvy thi one of the limiting karkon of samudri safar, praayah killing vishaal sankhyaayein of the passengers or kru on long-distance voyages.
This became a significant samasya in Europe isse the shuruuaat of the aadhunik era in the aayu of discovery in the 15th sadi, continuing to khel a significant bhoomika through sansar War i in the 20th century.
jabaki today scurvy is gyaat to be caused by a nutritional deficiency, until the algaav of vitamin c and direct pramaan of iske kadi to scurvy in 1932, numerous theories or upachaar were prastaavit, praayah on choti or no praayogic data.
is asangati is attributed to the kami of vitamin c as a pruthak avadharana, an aakshamata to reliably kadi different foods ( notably upasthit in bhais citrus, watercress, and ang maance ) to scurvy.
an atirikt avadharana jaruri to samajhe scurvy was the degradation of vitamin c by expozar to air and tambe or anya parivartan metal lavan aise as those of iron, yun changing the kadi of foods to scurvy over samay.
upachaar by fresh khaanaa, visheshkar citrus fal, thi periodically implemented, as it tha maharoom since pracheenta.
however until the 1930s, treatment thi asangat, saath anek aprabhavi upachaar prayukt into the 20th century.
It was a Scottish sarjan in the royal Navy, james lind jo pehla proved it could be treated saath citrus fal in prayog he varnit in uske 1753 book, a treatise of the scurvy, haalanki his salaah thi not implemented by the royal Navy for anek dashakon.
in infants, scurvy is sometimes referred to as Barlow 's beemaari, namit baad sar thomas Barlow, a British physician jo varnit it.
however, barlow 's beemaari may bhi refer to mitral valve prolapse.
anya eponyms for scurvy shaamil moeller 's beemaari and cheadle 's disease.
scurvy karata not occur in sabase pashu kuki ve can synthesize unke own vitamin C.
however, insaano or anya ucchtar primates ( the simians - bandaron or apes - or tarsiers ), gini boar, most or all bats, or some prajati of birds or fish lack an enzyme ( l-gulonolactone oxidase ) jaruri liye aise sanshleshan and jarur obtain vitamin c through unke aahaar.
vitamin c is widespread in sanyantr utakon, saath visheshkar unchi ekaagratha occurring in citrus fal ( oranges, lemons, limes, grapefruits ), tamaato, potatoes, pattagobhi, and green mirch.
aayran is a rasinic element saath the pratik Fe ( isse ) and parmaanu kramank 26.
it is a metal in the first parivartan shrenee.
it is the sabase aam tatv ( by dravyaman ) forming the planet Earth as a puure, forming much of dharti 's bahari or inner kor.
It is the chauthi sabase aam tatv in the Earth 's crust.
aayran 's bahut aam upasthiti in rocky grah jaise dharti is due to iske abundant production as a parinaam of sanlayan in high-mass sitaron, jahaan the production of nickel-56 ( jisase decays to the sabase aam samasthanik of iron ) is the pichhlaa nuclear sanlayan pratikriya that is exothermic.
is kalyankari radioskriy nikal to become the pichhlaa tatv to be produced pehle collapse of a supernova leads to the visphotak kaarykram ki scatter is precursor radionuclide of aayran abundantly into space.
Like other samooh 8 tatv, aayran exists in a chaudee dayera of oxikaran rajya, −2 to +6, although +2 and +3 hai the sabase aam.
Elemental aayran occurs in meteoroids or anya kam oxygen environments, lakin is reactive to oxigen or jal.
bhais aayran satahon appear lustrous silvery-gray, lakin oxidize in saamaanya air to de hydrated aayran oxide, commonly gyaat as rust.
naapsand anek anya dhaatuon which form passivating oxide paraton, aayran oxide occupy adhik volume than iron metal, or thus aayran oxide flake band or expose fresh satahon liye sanksharan.
Iron metal has maharoom prayukt chunki pracheen times, haalanki tambe alloys, jisase have lower melting temperatures, yahood used first in itihaas.
Pure iron is naram ( softer than aluminium ), lakin is unobtainable by smelting.
The saamagree is significantly hardened or strengthened by impurities from the smelting prakram, such as carbon.
A nishchit proportion of carbon ( between 0.002 % and 2.1 % ) produces steel, jisase may be up to 1000 times harder than pure aayran.
Crude iron metal is produced in dhamaakaa furnaces, jahaan ayask is reduced by coke to suar aayran, jisase rai a unchi carbon saamagree.
further refinement saath oxigen reduces the carbon content to the sahi proportion to make steel.
steels and low carbon iron alloys with other dhaatuon ( mishradhatu steels ) are by far the sabase aam dhaatuon in audyogic use, due to unke great dayera of desirable gun or the prachurtaa of aayran.
aayran rasinic yogicon, jisase shaamil amishrit or ferric yogicon, have many uses.
aayran oxide mixed with aluminium churna can be ignited to banaaen a thermite pratikriya, used in welding and suthra ores.
it forms shabdkosh yogicon saath the hellogence or the chalcogens.
Among its carbodhaatuk yogicon is ferrocene, the pehla sandwich compound discovered.
aayran plays an mahatvapurn bhoomika in jeevigyaan, forming devalayas with molecular oxigen in hemoglobin and myoglobin ; ye two yogicon hai aam oxigen hastantaran proteins in vertebrates.
Iron is bhi the metal prayukt at the kriyasheel sait of anek mahatvapurn redox anzimon dealing saath cellular shwasan or oxikaran or katautee in paudhe or pashu.
the blue cross Blue shield sangh ( bcbsa ) is a sangh of 38 pruthak swasthya bime sanghathan and companiyaan in the sanyukt rajya.
Combined, ve sidhe or indirectly provide swasthya bime to over 99 million Americans.
the itihaas of Blue cross tithiyaan waapas to 1929, jabaki the history of Blue shield tithiyaan to 1939.
the Blue cross sangh dates back to 1960, jabaki iske blue shield counterpart thi nirmit in 1948.
the do organizations merged in 1982, forming the vartmaan sangh.
a potato chip ( gyaat as a chip in American, Australian, New Zealand, Canadian, singaporean, hong kong, dakshin africa or jamaican angrezi ; as a kurkure in British angrezi or hiberno-english, or as either a chip or wafer in Indian angrezi ) is a patala tukdaa of aalu that is deep fried or baked jabatak crunchy.
Potato chips hai commonly served as an kshudhavardhak, paksh dish, or snake.
the basic chips hai cooked or salted ; atirikt kismein hai manufactured using vibhinn flavorings or ingredients sahit seasonings, herbs, masaale, cheeses, or kritrim editive.
`` Crisps '', however, may also refer to anek different prakaar of savory snake utpaada bechi in the United Kingdom and ireland, kuch bana isse potato, but may bhi be bana isse makka, tapioca or anya cereals.
an example of ye kinds of savory snacks is Monster Munch.
aalu chips hai a predominant bhaag of the snack khaanaa market in English-speaking countries or numerous anya Western raashtra.
the global potato chip market generated kul revenues of us $ 16.4 billion in 2005.
is accounted for 35.5 % of the kul savory snacks market in ki year ( US $ 46.1 arab ).
henry Clay, sr. ( april 12, 1777 – june 29, 1852 ) was a lawyer, rajaneta or skilled orator jo represented kentki in dono the Senate or in the house of pratinidhi.
he parosa three alag terms as spikar of the sanyukt rajya house of pratinidhi and thi also sachiv of State isse 1825 to 1829.
he lost uske campaigns for adhyaksh in 1824, 1832 or 1844.
mitti was a prabal figure in dono the pehla or duusari party pranaaliyon.
As a agrani yuddh hoque in 1812, he favored war saath britain or nibhaai a significant bhoomika in leading the swadesh to yuddh in the yuddh of 1812.
in 1824 he bhaaga for adhyaksh or khoyaa, lakin phenkaa uske chunavi votes to John quinci adams, who bana him sachiv of rajya as the jacksonians denounced kayaa they mana a `` bhrasht bargain. ''
he ran or khoyaa again in 1832 or 1844 as the pratyaashee of the whig party, jisase he santhaapit and praayah dominated.
Clay thi the foremost proponent of the amareeki pranali, lard liye an badhayen in tariffs to foster industry in the sanyukt States, the upyog of federal funding to nirmaan or maintain avasanrachana, or a damdaar neshnal bainko.
he opposed the annexation of Texas, fearing it would inject the slavery samasya into raajnneeti.
mitti bhi opposed the mexican-american yuddh and the `` Manifest niyati `` policy of democrate, jisase laagat use votes in the band 1844 chunaav.
Dubbed the `` Great pacificator, '' mitti brokered mahatvapurn compromises dauraan the nullification sankat and on the gulaami samasya.
As bhaag of the `` great triumvirate `` or `` amar tikdi, '' saath with uske sahyogiyon danniel webster or jon C. calhoun, he was instrumental in formulating the mizori Compromise of 1820 and the Compromise of 1850.
he thi viewed as the praathmik representative of pashchimi ruchi in is samooh, and thi given the names `` henry of the West '' or `` the pashchimi star. ''
a plantation owner, mitti yojit slave during uske aaajeevan lakin freed unhen in his hoga.
Abraham lincoln, the whig leader in illinois, was a great admirer of Clay, saying he thi `` my ideal of a great man. ''
Lincoln wholeheartedly supported mitti 's aarthik kaarykram.
In 1957, a seenet Committee selected mitti as ek of the paanch mahanatam u.s. seenetteron, saath saath danniel Webster, John C. calhoun, robert la follette, or Robert taft.
BJ 's holcel klbon, inc., commonly referred to bas as bj 's, is a membership-only godaam club chain oparating on the sanyukt rajya east coast, as khub as in the rajya of ohio.
the company is ranked # 232 on saubhaahgya patrika 's 2010 listing of America 's 500 largest public corporations.
the jaadugar of Oz, gyaat dauraan his reign as the Great and shaktishaalee oz, is the epithet of auskar Zoroaster phadrig ishaq norman henkel emmannuel ambroise diggs, a fictional akshar in the jameen of Oz, created by amareeki lekhak L. frank baum.
the akshar thi further popularized by the clasik 1939 film, wherein uske puraa naam is not ullekith.
kristinia jemi debarge ( ; born March 8, 1990 ) is an amareeki singer, songwriter, nartki or actress.
She first appeared on neshnal television in 2003 as a contestant on the American idal spin-off, American Juniors.
in 2009, debarge hastakshrit a anubandh with the Island record vibhaag Sodapop, releasing uske debyue album ujagar in July of the vahi year.
the first single, `` alavida ``, reached the top 20 in the us and canada.
The sise single ( `` krai bhediya '' ) from her benaam sophomore album thi released on sitambar 27, 2012.
The Hawaii Warriors footbaal toli represents the vishvavidhyalayon of hawaiʻi at mānoa in ncaa prabhag i FBS college footbaal.
The toli is coached by Norm Chow.
It was bhaag of the pashchimi athlettic sammelan jabatak july 2012, jab the toli joined the pahaad west Conference.
The hawaii Warriors yahood the third non-aq toli to khel in a bcs katori khel ; khone to Georgia 41–10 in the sugar katori on January 1, 2008 in nai orlions, louisiana.
marvin gaye ( april 2, 1939april 1, 1984 ), born marvin Pentz gay, jr., thi an amareeki singer-songwriter or sangeetkaar.
Gaye helped to aakaar the dhwani of motown record in the 1960s saath a string of hits including `` How mithi it Is ( to be Loved by tum ) `` or `` i Heard It Through the grapevine `` or duet ricarding saath mariyam Wells and tammi terrell, baad kamai the titles `` prince of motown '' or `` prince of aatma ''.
dauraan the 1970s, gaye ankit the avadharana albums kayaa 's going on and let 's Get it On and became among the pehla kalakaaron in motown to brake dur from the bagdor of iske utpaadan company.
gaye 's baad ricarding influenced anek r & B subgenres such as shant storm or neo-soul.
following a kaal in Europe antargat a kar nirvaasan in the jaldi 1980s, gaye released the 1982 Grammy award-winning hit `` Sexual healing `` or the madhyaraatri prem album.
chunki uske maut in 1984, Gaye rai maharoom posthumously honored by many sansthaanon, sahit the grami aaajeevan uplabdhi puraskaar or the chattan or phenken Hall of Fame.
sthaan of chernobyl nabhikeey shakti sanyantr
the abandoned nagar of pripyat saath chernobyl sanyantr in the alahada
abandoned awaas blocks in pripyat
the chernobyl disaster (, chornobylska Katastrofa – Chornobyl Catastrophe ) thi a anarthakaari nabhikeey durghatana ki occurred on 26 april 1986 at the Chernobyl Nuclear shakti Plant in yukt ( tab officially the ukraini ssr ), which thi under the sidhaa kshetradhikaar of the central adhikariyon of the soviet sangh.
an visphot and fire released vishaal quantities of radioskriy anu into the maahaul, which sprad over much of the pashchimi USSR or europea.
the chernobyl vipatti is widely mana to have been the worst nabhikeey power sanyantr durghatana in itihaas, or is ek of only do vargeekrut as a str 7 event on the International nabhikeey Event scale ( the anya hone the phukushima daiichi nabhikeey disaster in 2011 ).
the battle to contain the sandushan and avert a vrihad pralay ultimately shaamil over 500,000 workers and laagat an anumaanit 18 arab rubles.
the official soviet casualty ginati of 31 mauton rai maharoom vivaadit, and long-term effects such as cancers and deformities hai still being accounted liye.
mrs. clos says alavida to uske husband as he set band on uske yatra in this 1919 postcard
mrs. clos is the wife of santa clos, the christmas gift-bringer in uttar American and European christmas parampara.
wo is gyaat liye making kukies saath the elves and taiyaari toys saath uske husband Santa Claus.
uske first naam is a rahasy, haalanki wo rai maharoom referred to as mariyam, jesica, layla, Annette, hidi, or Martha.
hijackthis ( bhi HiJackThis or hjt ) is an kholen source enumerating aujaar liye microsoft Windows originally created by merijn bellekom, and later sold to trend sookshm.
the kaarykram is notable for lakshyikaran browser-hijacking methods, rather than relying on a database of known spyware.
it scans a upayokta 's computer quickly, and displays browser hijacking locations, prardashit kayaa pravishtiyaan hai vahin.
HijackThis is prayukt primarily liye nidaan of broujar hijacking, as uninformed use of iske hataanaa facilities can kaaran significant software kshati to a computer.
hijackthis karata nahin remove or detect spiware ; it suchiyaan sabase aam locations jahaan broujar hijacking activity can occur.
broujar hijacking can kaaran malware to be santhaapit on a computer.
on farvari 16, 2012, Trend Micro released the hijackthis source code as kholen sorce or it is abhi uplabdhiyaan on the sourceforge sait.
lathi Creek record is an amareeki ricard label aadhaarit in omaha, Nebraska.
prarambh as a college class project on udhyamita, the label was founded by Mike Mogis or justin Oberst in 1993 ( as lumberjack record ).
Mogis jald turned over uske bhoomika in the company to Robb Nansel.
the label is namit baad lathi creek sadak, a street ki katautee through the east paksh of midtown omaha, and the beginnings of a jhaanki whose members included Conor oberst ( tab a solo kalakaar, philhal of ujjwal ankhen, Conor oberst and the rahasywaadee ghati band, desaparecidos and rakshas of Folk ), tim kasher ( tab of Slowdown virginia, philhal of karsive or the shubh jivan ), and anya.
Collectively, ve yahood gyaat unofficially as the `` creekers ''.
Saddle creek pehla appeared in print on a show flyer, offering to `` kharch an evening saath lathi Creek '' ( baad to be the title of the label 's dvd. )
lathi creek became an incorporated antity as a result of a class project on entrepreneurship.
vitaran is handled by the vaikalpik vitaran Alliance, which is under the Warner Music samooh chhatariyaan.
lathi creek record continues to be the flagship label of a style of music pukaara `` the Omaha dhwani ``, characterized by a patala desh twang.
This is increasingly inaccurate, haalanki, saath the vruddhi of adhik electronic dhwani such as those favored by the faint or tutaa Spindles.
the eclectic dhwani of lathi Creek 's disparate sadsy bands is somewhat explained by unke itihaas ; a number of the asli members of the label attended grade school saath.
a `` sistar label '', of sorts, to lathi Creek is Team Love, prarambh by conor Oberst in 2004.
the label kholi bahen to their pehla bands nahin based in omaha in 2001 with relies by Now it 's overhead or Sorry parichay Dresden.
anya non-nebraskan kalakaaron followed, sahit los angeles 's rilo kiley, Eric bachmann ( formerly leader of archers of loaf or kutil Fingers from uttar carolina ), Georgie james ( washington d.C. ), do Gallants ( San francisco ), or sabase recently tokio police klbon ( toronto ).
in 2005, kharch an sandhya with lathi creek, a vruttchitr detailing the first ten saalo of the ricard label 's itihaas, was released.
the dvd suvidhaayen extensive interviews saath the Saddle creek bands, archival footage, and viral live performances.
On june 8, 2007, the label kholi unke apana music sthaan namit slowdown ( baad the samooh Slowdown virginia ), located in shahar omaha, Nebraska.
The following is a suchi of apisod for the television show puraa house.
in kul, vahin yahood 192 episodes filmaaya liye the dikhaaen over the course of iske aath seasons, from 1987 to 1995.
puraa House is a situation comedy jisase chronicals a widowed father 's struggles of raising uske teen yang betiyaan or the jeevandaan ki ve have touched.
the patriarch of the family, danni ( Bob Saget ), aamantran his brother-in-law jesi ( jon stamos ) or uske behtareen dost joy ( dev Coulier ), to help raise uske children ( Candace cameron, Jodie sweetin, and mariyam kate/ashley olsen ), after uske bivi was maare dauraan an automobile durghatana involving a nashe driver.
After apisod 88 or 89, jesi marries beki ( lori Loughlin ), or ve move into the ataari.
tab, after apisod 104 or 105, beki or Jesse have judwa boys named Nicky and elex ( Daniel and kevin Renteria/Blake or Dylan tuomy-wilhoit ).
the series ends with episode 192, `` mishael yatraayen Again Part 2 '', jab mishael loses her memory or the parivaar koshishen to restore it.
soochna of Stamp Act of 1765 in samachaarpatr
amareeki akhabaaron reacted to the stamp Act saath gussa or purvanumaan of the nidhan of patrakarita.
The stamp adhinium 1765 ( choti sheershak Duties in amareeki colonies Act 1765 ; 5 george III, c. 12 ) imposed a sidhaa kar by the angrejon Parliament specifically on the colonies of angrejon america, or it jaruri ki many printed saamagree in the colonies be utpaadit on stamped paper utpaadit in landan, carrying an embossed aay stamp.
ye printed saamagree yahood vidhik dastauez, magazine, akhabaaron and anek other types of paper used throughout the colonies.
Like pichhlaa kar, the stamp tax had to be paid in maanya angrejon karency, nahin in aupniveshik paper dhan.
The purpose of the kar thi to sahaayta adaa liye sainikon stationed in uttar America baad the angrejon vijay in the Seven saalo ' yuddh.
the angrejon sarkari laga ki the colonies were the primary beneficiaries of is sainya upasthiti, or should adaa at tanik a portion of the expense.
The stamp Act mili great pratirodh in the colonies.
the colonies sent no pratinidhi to parliament, or therefore tha no influence over what kar yahood raised, kaisaa ve were levied, or kaisaa ve hota be kharch.
Many colonists mana it a ulanghan of unke rights as Englishmen to be taxed bagaiyr unke consent —consent ki only the aupniveshik vidhanmandalon could grant.
Colonial sabhaaon bheja yachikaayen and virodh.
the stamp adhinium congress yojit in nai york City, reflecting the pehla significant joint aupniveshik jawaab to koi angrejon maap, bhi petitioned parliament or the king.
local virodh groups, led by aupniveshik vyapaariyon or landowners, established conections through patrachaar ki created a loose gathbandhan that vistaarit isse New England to georgia.
Protests and demonstrations initiated by the bete of Liberty praayah turned hinsak or destructive as the masses became shaamil.
bahut soon sab stamp kar vitarakon yahood sahame into resigning unke ayog, and the kar thi never effectively ekatrit.
Opposition to the stamp Act thi nahin simit to the colonies.
British vyapaariyon or nirmaataaon, whose niryaat to the colonies yahood threatened by aupniveshik economic samasyaayein exacerbated by the kar, bhi pressured parliament.
the adhinium thi repealed on kooch 18, 1766 as a matter of expedience, lakin parliament affirmed iske power to legislate liye the colonies “in all maamle whatsoever” by also guzar the declaratory adhinium.
There followed a shrenee of nai kar or regulations, likewise opposed by the colonists.
the apisod nibhaai a pramukh role in dhamak the grievances or enabling the organized aupniveshik pratirodh that led to the amareeki Revolution in 1775.
PT-105 underway.
pt naukaaye were a kismein of torpedo-armed tej akraman shilp prayukt by the United rajya navy in World War ii to akraman larger sataha jahaajon.
`` pt '' is the us hal vargeekaran symbol liye `` Patrol torpedo ''.
the pt naav squadrons yahood nicknamed `` the mosquito bede ''.
the japani called unhen `` shaitan Boats ''.
the original pre– sansar yuddh I torpedo naukaaye yahood designed saath `` visthaapan '' hulls.
ve visthapit up to 300 ton or the sheersh gati thi.
the pt boats prayukt in sansar War II yahood nirmit using the planing -type hal rup developed liye racing naukaaye.
ve yahood much choti ( 30–75 ton ) or tej ( 35–40 knots ).
dono prakaar yahood designed to strike at larger warships saath torpedoes, using relatively high speed to milengi close, or small aakaar to avoid hone spotted or hit by gunfire.
ve yahood much less mahangi than vishaal warships.
pt naukaaye were much tej, choti, or sasta than conventional ( visthaapan hull ) baratan.
During World yuddh II, American pt naukaaye sagaai dushman destroyers or numerous anya sataha shilp, ranging from choti naukaaye to large supply ships.
pt naukaaye bhi operated as gunboats viruddh enemy choti craft, aise as karaayaa barges prayukt by the Japanese shaktiyaan liye inter-island hastantaran.
shubh shuukravaar is a dharmik holiday observed primarily by isaayiyon commemorating the crucifixion of yishu messiah or his maut at kalvari.
the avkaash is observed dauraan paavan Week as bhaag of the Paschal triduum on the Friday preceding easter sande, and may coincide with the yahudee observance of Passover.
it is bhi gyaat as paavan shuukravaar, great shuukravaar, blike shuukravaar, or Easter Friday, haalanki the latter properly refers to the Friday in Easter saptaah.
aadhaarit on the vivaran of the canonical gospels, the crucifixion of Jesus thi sabase sambhavit to have maharoom on a shuukravaar ( the day pehle the sabbath ) ( ).
The estimated saal of the crucifixion is ad 33, by two alag samooh, or originally as ad 34 by Isaac newton via the matbhed between the Biblical or Julian panchang and the crescent of the chandramaa.
A third vidhi, using a completely alag astronomical drushtikon aadhaarit on a lunar Crucifixion darkness and eclipse model ( consistent with apostle Peter 's reference to a `` chandramaa of rakt '' in adhiniyamon 2:20 ), points to shuukravaar, 3 april ad 33.
The great jalashay is the largest kshetrafal of endorheic watersheds in uttar america.
it is vikhyath for dono iske arid conditions and iske jalashay or dayera sthalakriti ki varies isse the North American low point at badwater jalashay to the ucchtam point of the sanlagn United States, kam than away at the summit of Mount whitney.
The pradesh spans anek physiographic vibhaajan, biomes / ecoregions, and registan.
Raster may refer to:
raster graphics, aalekhiy techniques using arrays of pixel maan
Raster graphics editor, a computer program
raster scan, the pattern of chitra readout, hastantaran, bhandar, or reconstruction in television or computer bimb
rasterisation, or rasterization, parivartan of a vector chitra to a raster chitra
raster chitra procesar, or rip, a component of a printing pranali ki performs rasterisation
raster internet, a computer internet signal
Raster to vector, an chitra parivartan prakram
raster bar, an prabhaav used in computer demos
raster-noton, a record label
Rastrum, a device prayukt in madhyakaalin music pandulipiyon to chithran staff lines
raster Document Object, a file swaroop
biovulf ( ; boodha angrezi : ) is a legendary geatish hero or baad turned king in the apik poem namit baad use, ek of the oldest surviving tukade of sahitya in the angrezi bhashaa.
the akraman on Pearl harbar ( called hawaii aaparishan or Operation ai by the japani imperial saamaanya mukhyalay ( aaparishan z in niyojan ) and the battle of Pearl harbar ) was a aashcharya sainya strike conducted by the Imperial japani navy viruddh the sanyukt States naval aadhaar at parl Harbor, hawaii, on the morning of December 7, 1941 ( disambar 8 in japani ).
isse the standpoint of the defenders, the attack commenced at 7:48 a.m. Hawaiian Time.
the attack thi intended as a nivarak karrwai in order to rakhana the U.S. prashanth bede isse dakhal with sainya kriyaayein the Empire of Japan thi niyojan in Southeast asia against videshi territories of the sanyukt Kingdom, the netherlands, or the United rajya.
the aadhaar thi attacked by 353 Japanese senaanee, bamavarshak and torpedo planes in two lehren, shubharambh isse six aircraft vaahak.
All aath u.S. navy battleships yahood kshatigrast, with chaar being sunk.
do of these were baad uthaaya, or with the baaki four repaired, chah battleships laute to seva later in the yuddh.
the japani bhi sank or kshatigrast three cruisers, teen destroyers, an anti-aircraft training jalayaan, or ek minelayer.
188 u.S. vayuyan were nasht ; 2,402 Americans yahood maare and 1,282 wounded.
Important aadhaar installations such as the shakti stesan, shipyard, mentanence, and fuel and torpedo bhandar facilities, as khub as the pandubbi pier and mukhyalay bhawan ( bhi home of the pragna khand ) were nahin attacked.
japani nuksaan yahood lite : 29 vayuyan or paanch midget submarines khoyaa, and 65 servicemen killed or wounded.
ek japani sailor was captured.
the akraman aae as a profound shock to the American people and led sidhe to the American entry into sansar yuddh ii in both the Pacific or europea theatre.
the following din ( disambar 8 ), the sanyukt rajya ghoshit war on japani.
Domestic support liye non-interventionism, which tha maharoom strong, disappeared.
clandestine support of britain ( liye udhaaharan the neutrality patrol ) thi replaced by kriyasheel gathbandhan.
Subsequent parichaalan by the u.S. prompted germany or italy to ghoshit yuddh on the U.S. on December 11, which thi reciprocated by the u.S. the vahi din.
vahin yahood numerous aitihaasik precedents liye unannounced sainya karrwai by japani.
however, the kami of koi formal chetavanee, visheshkar jabaki negotiations yahood still jaahir jari, led adhyaksh franklin D. rujvelt to proclaim disambar 7, 1941, `` a tithi jisase will sajiv in infamy ``.
u.S. root 85 ( us 85 ) is a north–south sanyukt rajya rajmarg ki ranon for in the pahaad - uttari Plains rajya of the United rajya.
The dakshini terminus of the root is at the sanyukt states-mexico kinaaraa in el paso, texas, connecting saath mexican Federal rajmarg 45.
The northern terminus is at the United States-Canada kinaaraa in fortuna, uttar dakota, jahaan the root continues uttar as saskatchewan rajmarg 35.
In dono the sanyukt rajya and saskatchewan, Canada the root is gyaat as the canam rajmarg.
Sections of us 85 hai mana part of the theodor rujvelt expresve.
the sanyukt rajya adhyakshiya election of 1968 thi the 46th quadrennial presidential chunaav, yojit on mangalvaar, navambar 5, 1968.
The republican nominee, former vice-president richard nicksan, won the election over the loktantric nominee, laazim vice-president huebert humphrey.
nicksan ran on a abhiyaan that promised to restore law or anukram to the nation 's shaharon, torn by dange or aparaadhon.
vishleshkon have argued the chunaav of 1968 is a realigning chunaav as it permanently disrupted the nai Deal gathbandhan ki tha varchasv presidential raajnneeti liye 36 years.
coming chaar years baad Democrat lyndon B. johnson won in a aitihaasik landslide, the chunaav saw the laazim adhyaksh majaboor out of the res and a Republican elected liye the pehla samay in twelve years.
it thi a vidaarak neshnal experience, conducted during a year of hinsa ki included the hatya of civil rights netaa martin luther king, Jr., or subsequent res dange aarpaar the swadesh, the assasination of loktantric presidential pratyaashee robert F. Kennedy, widespread vipaksh to the vietnam yuddh aarpaar vishvavidhyalayon campuses, or violent confrontations between police or anti-war pradarshnakariyon at the 1968 loktantric neshnal sammelan as the Democratic party vibhajit again and again.
the chunaav pradarshit the strongest teesraa party effort chunki 1912 by purv albama rajyapal george wales, a Democrat.
kuki wales 's abhiyaan opposed sangheey hastkshep in the dakshin to samaapt skool pruthakkaran, he carried the gahan South or bhaaga khub in jaateey industrial jile in the North.
This thi the pichhlaa chunaav in which New york had the most mat in the chunavi college ( 43 mat ).
baad the 1970 janasankhyikee, california gained the sabase electoral votes and rai remained the sabase populous rajya chunki tab.
is is the naveenatam election jahaan a presidential tikat jiti without carrying the vaais adhyakshiya pratyaashee 's ghar rajya.
Windows kaary manager is a task manager or pranali monitor anuprayog included saath the microsoft khidkiyaan nt family of oparating pranaaliyon ki provides simit soochna parichay computer performance or kaaryshil anuprayog, prakriyaaon or cpu usage, commit charge or memory soochna, sanjaal kaaryaklap or statistics, logged-in users, and pranali services ( and as praayah is the maamla saath software tuls provided by Microsoft liye khidkiyaan, 3rd party tantra is available jisase bharta the aavashyaktaayen adhik thoroughly, e.g, `` Process explorer '', `` vistaarit Task manager '', `` anvir Task Manager '', `` prakram Hacker '', and `` System explorer '' ).
the kaary manager can bhi be prayukt to niyat process praathamiktaayen, procesar affinity, forcibly terminate processes, or shut bas, restart, hibernate or log band isse khidkiyaan.
khidkiyaan Task manager thi introduced saath Windows NT 4.0.
Previous sanskaran of Windows nt included the kaary suchi anuprayog, which had dur kam suvidhaayen.
the kaary suchi thi sakasham of listing philhal kaaryshil prakriyaaon or hatya them, or creating a nai prakram.
in khidkiyaan xp tabhi, a shutdown menu is also upasthit ki allows abhigam to standby, hibernate, phere band, restart, log band or Switch upayokta.
pehle versions of microsoft Windows ( Microsoft Windows 3.x, khidkiyaan 95, khidkiyaan 98 ) tha a kaarykram gyaat as kaary to display the kaarykram philhal kaaryshil.
is sanchika was chalaaya by kaaryshil the taskman.exe file isse the C : \Windows nirdeshika.
Kanji ( ; ) are the adopted logographic Chinese characters ( hanzi ) ki hai used in the aadhunik japani likhane pranali saath saath hiragana ( ひらがな, ), katakana ( カタカナ, ), hindu-arabic numerals, and the occasional upyog of the latin varnmaala.
the Japanese pad kanji ( ) for the chinis characters vastutah arthath `` haan characters '' and is likhaa using the vahi varna as the chinis hanzi ( ).
jon R williams ( may 4, 1782 – aktubar 20, 1854 ) was an amareeki sipaahi, vyapaaree, and rajaneta jo is most well known for serving as the first mahayor of detroit, Michigan.
in total, he parosa as detroit 's mahayor liye five anya sharten.
He also thi a brigadier saamaanya in the sanyukt rajya Army dauraan the Black hoque yuddh.
a saral shushk chumbakeey portable compass.
a smartphone ki can be prayukt as a compass kuki of the magnetometer inside.
an iPhone ki can be prayukt as a geological compass because of the 3-axis teslameter or 3-axis accelerometer andar it
a military compass ki thi prayukt during sansar yuddh I.
a compass is a navigational instrument that shows directions in a frem of reference ki is stationary relative to the surface of the earth.
The frem of sandarbh defines the chaar cardinal directions ( or ank ) – uttar, dakshin, east, or west.
intermediat dishanirdesh are also defined.
praayah, a aarekh pukaara a compass rose, jisase shows the dishanirdesh ( saath unke names usually abbreviated to adyakshar ), is chihnit on the compass.
jab the compass is in use, the rose is lakeer with the real dishanirdesh in the frame of sandarbh, so, liye example, the `` N '' mark on the rose vaaki ank to the uttar.
aksar, in jod to the rose or sometimes bajaay of it, kone markings in degree are dikhaaya on the compass.
uttar corresponds to zero degree, or the angles badhayen clockwise, so east is 90 degree, south is 180, or west is 270.
ye numbers allow the compass to dikhaaen azimuths or bearing, jisase hai commonly stated in is sanketan.
the chumbakeey compass thi pehla invented as a yantra liye bhavishyavaanee as jaldi as the chinis haan rajvansh ( Since parichay 206 BC ).
The compass thi prayukt in song rajvansh china by the sainya liye navigational orienteering by 1040-1044, or thi used liye meritime nevigation by 1111 to 1117.
the use of a compass is recorded in pashchimi europea between 1187 or 1202, and in faras in 1232.
The shushk compass thi invented in Europe around 1300.
is thi supplanted in the jaldi 20th century by the liquid-filled magnetic compass.
the inka samrajya or Inka Empire ( quechua : Tawantinsuyu ) thi the largest samrajya in pre-Columbian america.
the prashasnic, political and sainya bich of the empire was stith in kuzko in modern-day peru.
The inka sabhyataa arose isse the hilands of peru sometime in the jaldi 13th sadi.
isse 1438 to 1533, the incas used a kismein of vidhi, isse conquest to peaceful sammilan, to charitaarth a large portion of pashchimi dakshin america, kendrit on the andean mountain ranges, sahit, besides peru, vishaal bhaag of aadhunik ecuador, pashchimi and south central Bolivia, uttarpashchim Argentina, uttar or central Chile, or dakshini colombia into a state comparable to the aitihaasik empires of uresia.
the official bhashaa of the samrajya thi quechua, haalanki sainkadon of local bhashaaen or dialects of quechua were bolaa.
The inka referred to unke samrajya as tawantinsuyu jisase can be anudit as the Four regions or the Four sanyukt Provinces.
There yahood many local forms of ibaadat, sabase of them concerning local pavitra `` Huacas ``, lakin the inka netritv encouraged the ibaadat of inti —the surya god—and imposed its prabhutaa upar other cults aise as ki of pachamama.
the Incas considered unke King, the sapa inka, to be the `` child of the surya. ''
the kidneys are organs ki serve anek anivaary niamak roles in most pashu, sahit vertebrates or kuch invertebrates.
They are anivaary in the urinary pranali or also serve homeostatic krityon such as the viniman of electrolites, maintenance of acid–base santulan, and viniman of blood dabaav ( via maintaining salt and water balance ).
They serve the body as a natural filter of the blood, or hataayen wastes which hai diverted to the urinary blader.
in producing mutr, the gurde excrete wastes aise as uria and ammonium, or ve hai bhi jimmedaar liye the reabsorption of jal, glucose, or amino acids.
the kidneys bhi produce hormone sahit calcitriol, erythropoietin, or the anzime renin.
Located at the pasch of the abdominal guha in the retroperitoneum, the gurde praapt rakt from the yugma renal dhamniyon, or naalee into the yugma renal veins.
Each gurda excretes mutr into a ureter, itself a yugma dhaancha ki empties into the urinary blader.
renal physiology is the study of gurda function, jabaki nephrology is the medical specialty chintit saath gurda rogon.
rogon of the gurda hai vividh, lakin individuals saath kidney disease aksar display characteristic naidanik suvidhaayen.
Common naidanik sharten involving the gurda shaamil the nephritic or nephrotic syndromes, renal cysts, adhi gurda chot, dirghakaalik gurda beemaari, urinary tract sankraman, nephrolithiasis, and urinary tract rukaawat.
vibhinn cancers of the gurda maujuud ; the sabase common vayask renal karkat is renal koshika carcinoma.
Cancers, cysts, or kuch other renal sharten can be prabandhit with hataanaa of the kidney, or nephrectomy.
When renal function, measured by glomerular filtration rate, is persistently poor, dialysis and gurda transplantation may be upachaar vikalp.
haalanki ve hai nahin severely harmful, gurda pattharon can be dukhad or a nuisance.
The hataanaa of gurda pattharon involves ultrasound upachaar to break up the pattharon into smaller tukade, jisase hai tab passed through the urinary tract.
One aam symptom of kidney pattharon is a sharp pidaa in the medial/lateral khand of the nimnatar waapas.
lockton companiyaan Inc. is the sansar 's largest privately yojit bime brokerage kad, providing bime, risk prabandhan or employee laabh samaadhaan.
in jod to iske kansas City, Missouri mukhyalay, lockton operates 60 sthitiyaan in 17 deshon.
lockton is philhal home to more than 4,450 shariq worldwide.
the company thi founded by Jack lockton in 1966 or rai chunki become the world’s 9th largest bime brokerage kad.
lockton serves a chaudee sarani of udyog saath sevaayen that include risk prabandhan, casualty, surety, peshewar indemnity or adhik.
For 46 saalo, Lockton posted extraordinary organic vikaas, saath vaishvik revenues reaching $ 915 million in phiscal 2012.
lockton laabh samooh : lockton’s karmchaaree benefit’s toli works closely saath bime vaahak or prashaskon to banaaen vyapak or integrated laabh strategies liye client.
the lockton laabh samooh provides services sahit anupaalan, executive laabh, swasthya and welfare, swasthya risk samaadhaan, retirement or adhik.
lockton apnaapan : lockton Affinity, an sambhddha of lockton companiyaan, meets the insurance needs of apnaapan samooh, franchises, peshewar organizations, or association of sab sizes.
Lockton apnaapan offers a kismein of insurance product options and kaarykram.
Products shaamil : General deyta, Professional deyta, Property, Workers Compensation, nirdeshkon & adhikariyon deyta, vanijyik Auto, specialty kawarej, Excess, swasthya Plans or more.
lockton antarrashtriya : Lockton antarrashtriya operates offices in the uk or Ireland, as khub as karyaalayon throughout Asia and latin america.
In Europe, Lockton International is a partner in eos RISQ, europe’s agrani bime broking or risk prabandhan kansaltency.
eos risq is an equity-based europea saajhedaari of major swatantra insurance brokers with over 3,500 employees aadhaarit in more than 30 deshon in Europe.
lockton antarrashtriya provides specialized samaadhaan liye nijee linon, sme’s or pramukh multi-national client.
White chocolate is a chocolate derivative.
it commonly consists of cocoa makkhan, sugar, milk solids and namak, or is characterized by a paale pilaa or iveri rup.
the melting point of cocoa butter, its praathmik cocoa saim ghatak, is high enough to rakhana white chocolate thos at room taapmaana.
Donald leone `` don '' blankenship ( born kooch 14, 1950 ) was adhyaksh or siio of massey urja co., the chathe largest koyale company ( by 2008 production ) in the United rajya.
He parosa in those roles isse navambar 30, 2000, jabatak disambar 31, 2010.
Blankenship is an kriyasheel financial backer of the Republican party or bhagidaar in local and rajya raajnneeti, especially in uske ghar state of west virginia.
He has aksar bolaa out publicly parichay politics, the environment, unions, or koyale utpaadan.
u.S. pratibhuti or exange ayog filings dikhaaen blankenship was paid $ 17.8 million in 2009, the highest in the coal industry.
His 2009 adaa represents a $ 6.8 lakh uthaayen over 2008 or lagbhag double uske muaavje package in 2007.
blankenship bhi praapt a deferred muaavje package valued at $ 27.2 lakh in 2009.
on disambar 3, 2010, blankenship announced ki he thi retiring as siio at the samaapt of the saal, or hota be succeeded by Massey adhyaksh baxtor F. phillips jr.
dhanush wow is ek of the transcriptions prayukt in angrezi to describe a dog 's chaal.
dhanush Wow may also refer to:
dhanush wow ( band ), a japani mushkil rock/heavy metal band
dhanush wow ( rapper ), an amareeki rapper and karta
dhanush wow Sauce, a sos developed in the cotswolds pradesh of england
dhanush wow Wow, a uk nai wave band
`` Bow Wow '', a song by the fiery furnaces isse unke 2003 album gallowsbird 's chaal
`` Bow wow bluez ( my Mama daavat Me jaise a Dog ) '', a song rachit in the 1920s by Cliff Friend & Nat osborn
Negligence ( lat. negligentia, from neglegere, to neglect, vastutah `` not to chune up something '' ) is a failure to kasarat the care that a reasonably prudent person would exercise in jaise halaaton.
the area of apkrutya law known as negligence involves nuqasaan caused by carelessness, not intentional nuqasaan.
according to jay M. feinman of the rutgers University School of vidhi ;
`` the kor idea of negligence is ki logon chahie exercise reasonable parvaah when ve adhinium by lene account of the sambhavit nuqasaan ki they might foreseeably kaaran harm to anya people. ''
`` those who go personally or lao property jahaan ve jaan ki ve or it may aaiye into takkar saath the vyaktiyon or property of others have by law a duty daal upon unhen to upyog reasonable parvaah or kaushal to avoid aise a takkar. ''
Fletcher v rylands ( [ 1866 ] LR 1 ex 265 )
Through civil vaad, if an injured vyakti proves ki another person acted negligently to cause unke chot, ve can ricover kshatipurti to compensate liye unke nuqasaan.
Proving a maamla liye laaparvaahee can potentially entitle the ghayal abhiyokta to muaavje liye harm to their deh, property, dimagi well-being, vittiya aukaat, or antarang relationships.
However, kuki laaparvaahee maamle hai bahut fact-specific, this saamaanya paribhaasha does nahin fully bataaiye the concept of jab the vidhi hoga require ek vyakti to compensate another liye nuksaan caused by aakasmik chot.
further, the vidhi of negligence at aam vidhi is only ek aspect of the vidhi of deyta.
Although resulting damages jarur be siddh in order to recover muaavje in a laaparvaahee action, the prakruti and extent of those kshatipurti hai nahin the primary focus of negligence maamle.
a melanocytic nevus ( bhi gyaat as `` nevocytic nevus '' ) is a prakaar of lesion ki contains nevus cells ( a type of melanocyte ).
Some sources equate the pad mole saath `` melanocytic nevus ''.
anya strot arakshit the pad `` mole '' liye anya purposes.
the bahumat of auzaar appear dauraan the pehla do dashakon of a person’s jivan, jabaki parichay one in prayek 100 shishu is born saath auzaar.
acquired auzaar hai a rup of benign phulav, jabaki janmajaat auzaar, or janmajaat nevi, hai mana a minor malformation or hamartoma or may be at a ucchtar risk for melanoma.
a mole can be either subdermal ( antargat the skin ) or a pigmented vikaas on the skin, formed zyaadaatar of a type of koshika known as a melanocyte.
the high concentration of the body’s pigmenting agent, melanin, is responsible liye their andhera color.
auzaar are a member of the parivaar of skin lesions known as nevi.
the vyapak metabolic falak, or rasinic screen, ( cmp ; cpt code 80053 ) is a falak of 14 blood pareekshan jisase serves as an initial vyapak chikitsa screening tool.
the cmp provides a ashisht jaanch of gurda falan, jigar falan, or electrolyte or drav santulan, lakin it is far isse perfect.
asaamaanya values from a CBC may be a result of false positives or yun the cbc may need to be doharaaya for a rogi ( or replaced saath a adhik vishisht pareekshan ).
the cmp is an vistaarit sanskaran of the basic metabolic falak ( bmp ), which does nahin shaamil jigar tests.
a cmp ( or bmp ) can be ordered as part of a routine physical examination, or may be prayukt to monitor a patient saath a dirghakaalik disease, aise as madhumeh mellitus or hypertension.
pichhlaa names for the falak of pareekshan have maharoom chem 12, rasayan falak, Chemistry screen, sma 12, SMA 20 and SMAC ( Sequential Multiple vishleshan - computer ).
The pareekshan are performed on mashine aadhaarit on the autoanalyzer invented in 1957.
prakritik gas nishkarshan by deshon in ghan meter prati year.
prakritik gas is a naturally occurring hydrocarbon gas mishran consisting primarily of mithen, lakin commonly sahit varying amounts of anya hydrocarbons, carbon dioxide, nitrogen, or hydrogen sulfide.
Natural gas is an urja sorce praayah prayukt for heating, kooking, or vidyut peedhee.
it is bhi prayukt as eendhan liye vehicles or as a chemical fertilizer in the manufacture of plastic or anya commercially mahatvapurn sashulk rasayan.
prakritik gas is mila in gahan bhumigat prakritik chattan formations or associated saath anya hydrocarbon reservoirs in coal beds or as mithen clathrates.
petroleum is bhi another resource mila in proximity to or saath prakritik gas.
sabase prakritik gas thi nirmit over samay by two mechanisms : biogenic or thermogenic.
biogenic gas is nirmit by methanogenic organisms in marshes, bogs, landfills, and uthle sediments.
deeper in the dharti, at vrihad taapmaana and dabaav, thermogenic gas is nirmit isse dafn organic saamagree.
pehle natural gas can be used as a eendhan, it jarur undergo prasanskaran to hataayen impurities, sahit water, to milen the visheshtaayen of marketable natural gas.
The by-products of processing include ethane, propen, butanes, pentanes, or higher molecular vazan hydrocarbons, hydrogen sulfide ( jisase may be parivartit into pure gandhak ), carbon dioxide, jal vaashp, or sometimes helium or nitrogen.
Natural gas is praayah informally referred to simply as gas, visheshkar when compared to anya urja strot aise as aayal or koyale.
is page is parichay the Imagination Movers band.
For information parichay the tv show abhinit the band, see Imagination movers ( TV series ).
kalpana movers is a band formed in New orlions, louisiana, in 2003.
the lineup shaamil samrudh Collins, scot durbin, dev poche, or scot `` smitty '' smith.
Members of the samooh yahood longtime friends and padosi.
the samooh started as a television/music avadharana which was pitched to local pbs affiliates in New orlions.
wlae-tv thi the first to lo an byaaj in the samooh or baad introduced unhen to Beth Courtney, the President & Chief karypalika Officer at Louisiana public Broadcasting.
jald after, lpb began airing one-minute video utpaadit by the kalpana Movers themselves.
the movers built a sizable regional following by setting shaikshanik geeton liye bachche to melodies and lay ki adults kadra as khub.
They sold adhik than 100,000 nakal of unke self-produced cds or DVDs.
unke three indie cds : `` shubh vichaar, '' `` Calling sab movers, '' or `` aath Feet '' along saath unke grass jaden DVD `` halchal it Up '' have, sanyukt, jiti chaudaa neshnal awards, from aise groups as the National sangh of parvarish publications ( nappa ) or abhibhavak ' chunaav.
in jaldi 2005, dijani took soochna, or initiated negotiations to add the movers to the company 's roster.
These yahood baadhit in agast jab the baadh suraksha designed and nirmit by the fouj Corps of ejiniers to protect New orlions vifal.
the resulting floodwater claimed the band 's office, as khub as the gharon of Collins, durbin and poche – lakin the saude thi hastakshrit in the vasant of 2006.
in 2008, walt dijani record introduced the kalpana movers ' music to the swadesh with the relies of the movers ' pehla nationally-released cd, `` ras baksaa nayak. ''
In September 2008, a 30-minute dikhaaen featuring the samooh began airing on the dijani channel 's priskool programming block known as playhouse dijani, or philhal airs on playhouse Disney 's badalanaa, dijani junior.
The Movers write or perform sab the songs on unke show.
moreover, the kalpana movers have praapt najuk kudos for their sajiv concert pradarshan.
In aktubar 2009, the kalpana movers prarambh the `` Live isse the Idea godaam Concert Tour 2009 ''.
Traveling from mid-October to mid-December 2009 unke sajiv pradarshan include lot of their pasandida geeton or naachna, as khub as video dikhaave of godaam Mouse.
shuruuaat in early-February 2011 or wrapping up in let may 2011, the kalpana Movers prastut unke `` in a big godaam concert daure, '' playing more than 100 shows in 50+ cities aarpaar uttar america.
isse kooch to October 2012, the Imagination movers toured North america on unke post-disney `` Rock-O-Matic '' daure.
The show maintained anek elements of the original TV avadharana, aise as an on-stage `` vichaar emergency '' or anek sets isse unke puraani katalog ; however, saath the prasthaan of vendi Calio waapas to uske deshi Hawaii, the character `` Nina '', saath with uske musical numbers, is not upasthit.
the tour promotes the Imagination movers ' nai album/dvd relies, `` rock-o-matic '', jisase suvidhaayen all nai music isse the band.
The album itself is utpaadit independently of dijani or has a notably more mature, contemporary rock-and-roll dhwani, though still very appropriate liye children.
anek pradarshan tithiyaan yahood sthanantarit to later in 2012 to benefit isse the increased expozar of the kalpana movers tv dikhaaen abhi playing rose on dijani junior.
the platypus ( Ornithorhynchus anatinus ) is a semiaquatic standhari endemic to purvi Australia, sahit tasmania.
saath with the chaar prajati of ekidna, it is ek of the paanch extant prajati of monotremes, the tabhi stanadhariyon ki lay eggs bajaay of giving birth.
It is the ekmaatr jeena representative of iske parivaar ( Ornithorhynchidae ) or genus ( ornithorhynchus ), though a kramank of sambandhit prajati have maharoom mila in the chattan record.
the unusual rup of is egg-laying, batakh -billed, biver -tailed, otter -footed mammal baffled europea naturalists jab ve first encountered it, saath some considering it an vistrut dhokhadhadi.
it is ek of the few vishaiylla mammals, the male platypus having a spur on the hind pair ki delivers a venom capable of causing severe pain to insaano.
the adwitiya suvidhaayen of the platypus mek it an mahatvapurn subject in the padhai of evolutionary jeevigyaan or a recognisable or iconic symbol of Australia ; it rai appeared as a shubhankar at neshnal events or is pradarshit on the reverse of iske 20-cent sikaa.
The platypus is the animal emblem of the state of New dakshin wales.
jabatak the jaldi 20th sadi, it thi hunted liye iske fer, lakin it is abhi protected throughout iske dayera.
haalanki khilaate prajnan programmes have tha tabhi simit kamyaabi and the platypus is vulnerable to the prabhaav of pradooshan, it is nahin antargat any taatkaalik threat.
the Chupacabra or chupacabras (, from chupar `` to chus '' or cabra `` goat '', vastutah `` bakrii chooshak '' ) is a legendary cryptid rumored to inhabit bhaag of the americas.
it is sambhddha adhik recently saath sightings of an allegedly unknown animal in purto rico ( jahaan ye sightings yahood pehla reported ), Mexico, or the sanyukt rajya, especially in the latter 's Latin amareeki samudaayon.
The naam comes isse the animal 's reported aadat of attacking or drinking the blood of livestock, especially bakriyon.
shaareerik descriptions of the creature vary.
eyewitness sightings have maharoom claimed as jaldi as 1995 in purto rico, or have chunki maharoom reported as dur uttar as Maine, and as dur dakshin as chile, or bhi being spotted outside the Americas in deshon jaise rus or the Philippines.
It is mana a baari praani, the aakaar of a choti bear, with a pankti of spines reaching from the gardan to the base of the tail.
sighting reports of the Chupacabra have maharoom disregarded as uncorroborated or lacking evidence, while most reports in uttari mexico or the dakshini sanyukt rajya have maharoom satyapit as canids afflicted by mange.
Biologists or vanyajeev management officials view the chupacabra as a samakaleen legend.
The uttar amareeki Free vyapaar Agreement ( nafta ) is an anubandh hastakshrit by Canada, mexico, and the sanyukt rajya, creating a trilateral vyapaar bloc in North america.
The agreement aae into force on January 1, 1994.
It superseded the canada–united rajya free vyapaar Agreement between the u.S., Canada, or mexico
nafta rai do poorak : the uttar amareeki anubandh on Environmental sahyog ( naaec ) or the uttar American anubandh on Labor sahyog ( naalc ).
Thermal sukun is the condition of mind that expresses santosh saath the thermal paryaavaran or is assessed by subjective moolyankan ( ANSI / ashrae maanak 55 ).
Maintaining this maanak of thermal comfort liye occupants of imaaraten or anya enclosures is one of the mahatvapurn lakshya of hvac ( heating, ventilation, and air condishning ) design ejiniers.
the purvanumanit ausat Vote ( pmv ) model stands among the sabase pahachaanaa thermal comfort model.
it thi developed using principles of ooshmaa santulan or praayogic data ekatrit in a niyantrit jalwaayu kaksh antargat sthir state sharten.
Because the pmv model thi derived isse aankada ekatrit in a niyantrit climate, it is nahin suitable liye applications in naturally ventilated spaces which praayah have unchi levels of air gati.
is shortcoming prerit the development of a family of anubhavjanya sankhyikeey model of thermal sukun in naturally hawaadaar spaces gyaat as anukuli models.
Adaptive models of thermal sukun consider occupants as dynamically interacting with unke paryaavaran, or controlling their thermal sukun by means of kapadey or window-opening and closing.
This is in contrast to thermal sukun in sealed buildings, in jisase occupants anubhav the paryaavaran passively.
thermal sukun is affected by ooshmaa conduction, convection, radiation, or evaporative heat ghaataa.
thermal sukun is maintained jab the ooshmaa utpann by insaan metabolism is allowed to dissipate, thus maintaining thermal santulan saath the parivesh.
it has been long pahachaanaa ki the sensation of ahsaas hot or thanda is nahin bas nirbhar on air taapmaana alon.
Thermal sukun calculations according to ANSI/ASHRAE maanak 55 can be freely performed saath the cbe thermal sukun aujaar liye ashrae-55.
durante degli elegiyari, bas referred to as dante (, ; ; c. 1265–1321 ), thi a major Italian kavi of the madhya Ages.
His Divine kamedi, originally pukaara ' and later pukaara ' by Boccaccio, is widely mana the mahanatam saahitiyik kaary rachit in the italvi bhashaa and a kalakriti of sansar sahitya.
In Italy he is known as ' ( `` the param kavi '' ) or just '.
He, petrarch and boccaccio are bhi gyaat as `` the teen fountains '' or `` the teen crowns ''.
dante is bhi called the `` pita of the Italian bhashaa ''.
Headquarters ( Kobe, japani )
( ) is a tair or rabar company aadhaarit in japani.
it is bhaag of the Sumitomo samooh.
the company traces iske origins to 1909, jab the sumitomo samooh bana an nivesh in dunlop japani, the newly formed Japanese subsidiary of the angrejon company Dunlop rabar.
over the years Sumitomo and dunlop developed a band kaarobaar sambandh, or in 1963 the sumitomo samooh acquired control of Dunlop Japan or renamed it sumitomo rabar udyog Ltd.
in 1985, when dunlop rabar was liya over by btr plc, the company acquired the automobile tire asset of dunlop, sahit the right to upyog the Dunlop brands on automobile tires.
the adhigrahan kiya nahin shaamil the US and Australian vyavsaayon, which were separately swaamitv, but in 1986 sumitomo also acquired the Dunlop tair Corporation of the us isse iske prabandhan.
in 1997, Sumitomo formed a sanyukt venture saath goodyear tair or Rubber company, by jisase goodyear or sumitomo sahamat to manufacture tires liye each other 's bazaar, including dunlop branded tires.
as bhaag of the anubandh, Goodyear acquired 75 % ruchi in dunlop Tyres, the UK company which Sumitomo had formed, and in dunlop tair nigam.
goodyear or sumitomo bhi bana nivesh in prayek anya.
aaj, the company makes a chaudee dayera of rabar aadhaarit products, including automobile tair, golf balls or tennis balls.
microsoft Visual studio express is a niyat of freevare integrated vikaas environments ( idii ) viksit by Microsoft ki are lightweight sanskaran of the microsoft vizual Studio utpaada lakeer.
express sanskaran yahood conceived beginning saath vizual Studio 2005.
the vichaar of express sanskaran is to provide streamlined, easy-to-use or easy-to-learn ides for users anya than peshewar tantra developers, aise as hobbyists and vidhyaarthee.
the alps are ek of the great pahaad dayera pranaaliyon of europea stretching lagbhag across aath Alpine deshon isse austria or slovenian in the east, switzaraland, liechtenstein, germany, France to the west and italy and monako to the dakshin.
the kyu yahood formed over sainkadon of lakho of years as the africa and ureshian tectonic platon collided.
charam shortening caused by the event resulted in samudri sedimentary rox uthati by thrusting or folding into unchi pahaad chotiyon aise as mont blanc or the matterhorn.
Mont blanc spans the French–Italian kinaaraa, and at is the ucchtam pahaad in the Alps.
the alpine pradesh kshetrafal contains anek peaks higher than, gyaat as the `` four-thousanders ``.
The oonchaai or aakaar of the dayera affects the jalwaayu in europea ; in the kyu varshan str vary greatly or climatic sharten consist of pruthak zones.
vanyajeev such as ibex live in the ucchtar chotiyon to elevations of, and paudhe aise as Edelweiss grow in rocky kshetron in lower elevations as khub as in ucchtar elevations.
Evidence of insaan habitation in the alps goes waapas to the paleolithic era.
A mummified man, sankalpit to be 5,000 saalo boodha, thi discovered on a glacier at the Austrian–Italian kinaaraa in 1991.
By the 6th century BC, the celtic La tène samskruti thi khub sthapit.
hannibal may have crossed the alps saath a herd of elephants, and the Romans had settlements in the region.
in 1800 nepolian crossed ek of the pahaad gujarata saath an fouj of 40,000.
the 18th or 19th sadiyaan dekhi an influx of naturalists, writers, or artists, in particular the Romantics, followed by the sunahari age of alpinism as mountaineers began to ascend the chotiyon.
in World yuddh II the Third Reich invaded the Alpine deshon, saath the exception of switzaraland and liechtenstein ; adolf hitler rakhaa a aadhaar of aaparishan in the Bavarian alps throughout the yuddh.
the Alpine region rai a damdaar cultural pahchaan.
the paramparaagat samskruti of farming, cheesemaking, or woodworking still exists in alpine gaanvon, haalanki the paryatak udyog began to grow early in the 20th sadi or vistaarit greatly baad sansar yuddh ii to become the dominant udyog by the end of the sadi.
the sheet Olympic khel have been hosted in the swiss, french, Italian, Austrian or German Alps.
at upasthit the pradesh is home to 14 lakh people or has 120 million salanaa vizitor.
loise patrice griffin ( née Pewterschmidt ) is a akshar isse the animated television shrenee parivaar guy.
wo is voiced by lekhak elex borstein or first appeared on television, saath with the rest of the family in the 15-minute short on December 20, 1998.
loise thi nirmit or designed by shrenee creator seth macfarlane.
MacFarlane was poocha to pich a payalat to the Fox prasaaran company aadhaarit on laire or steve, a short bana by macfarlane jisase featured a middle-aged akshar namit laire or an bauddhik dog, steve.
After the pilot was given the green lite, the Griffin family appeared on the apisod `` Death rai a chaaya ``.
loise is the mother of the griffin family.
With uske husband peter, wo rai tha teen children : meg, kris, or stewie.
Lois is praayah portrayed as a stereotypical television maan, despite uske admitting to hone a drug user, a recovering meth addict kleptomaniac.
loise rai bhi tha anek afares, ek of jisase allegedly resulted in the dharna of meg.
wo has appeared in anya media relating to Family Guy—including a video game, commercials or books—and prerit an sampurna lakeer of merchandise.
loise 's distinctive nai york accent originated from a akshar in a stage dikhaaen ki Alex borstein tha performed in, jisase thi largely inspired by a saapeksh jo grew up on Long dweep, nai york.
parivaar transmission of bask language ( bask as initial bhashaa )
pratishat of students panjikrut in Basque language skulon ( 2000–2005 ).
sthaan of the basque-language praanton bheetar spain or frans
bask ( endonym :, ) is the ancestral bhashaa of the bask logon, jo inhabit the bask Country, a pradesh spanning an kshetrafal in northeastern Spain or southwestern France.
it is bolaa by 27 % of basques in all territories ( 714,136 out of 2,648,998 ).
of these, 663,035 live in the spani part of the bask desh and the baaki 51,100 sajiv in the French part.
in academic charchaayen of the distribution of bask in spain or France, it is prathagat to refer to teen ancient praanton in frans and four spani praanton.
deshi adhyakshon are concentrated in a sanlagn kshetrafal including bhaag of the spani autonomous samudaayon of the bask desh or Navarre and in the pashchimi half of the french département of pyrénées-atlantiques.
the Basque Autonomous Community is an administrative entity bheetar the binational ethnographic Basque Country incorporating the paramparaagat spani praanton of Biscay, gipuzkoa, or álava, jisase retain unke existence as politico-administrative vibhaajan.
ye praanton or anek kshetron of navara hai heavily aabaadi by jaateey basques, lakin Basque thi, at least jabatak the 1990s, nahin bolaa as a native bhashaa in sabase of álava, western bhaag of biscay and central and dakshini kshetron of navara, either kuki it tha maharoom replaced by spani along the sadiyaan, in kuch kshetron, or because it tha never maharoom bolaa vahin, in other areas.
in southwestern frans, the ancient basque-populated praanton yahood labourd, nimnatar navara, or Soule.
They and other regions yahood sanchit into a single département in 1790 antargat the naam basses-pyrénées, a naam jisase persisted jabatak 1970.
a manakikrut rup of the Basque language, pukaara Euskara batua, thi viksit by the bask bhashaa academy in the late 1960s.
euskara batua thi created so ki Basque bhashaa could be used—and easily samajha by all bask speakers—in formal paristhitiyon ( shiksha, mass media, sahitya ), or this is its pramukh upyog aaj.
the bhoomika of is standard Basque language depends on the bhashaai shaikshanik model of prayek pradesh and prayek skool.
in sabase kshetron of the spani Basque desh, the shaikshanik Model d, jahaan all vishay are sikhaaya in bask, magar `` spani bhashaa and sahitya '' ( jisase is sikhaaya in spani ) is now the predominant model.
in France, the bask bhashaa skool seaska and the association for a dubhashiya ( bask and french ) schooling ikasbi milen a chaudee range of Basque bhashaa educational needs up to the chathe rup, jabaki praayah struggling to surmount vittiya and prashasnic constraints.
alaava isse is manakikrut sanskaran, there are paanch main Basque dialects : Bizkaian, gipuzkoan, and apper navarrese in spain, or navarrese–lapurdian and Zuberoan ( in frans ).
Although they take unke names isse the ullekith aitihaasik praanton, the dialect seemayen are not congruent saath praant seemayen.
the President, nirdeshkon or Company, of the bainko of the United rajya, commonly gyaat as the First Bank of the sanyukt rajya, thi a central bainko, chartered liye a pad of bees saalo, by the sanyukt rajya Congress on February 25, 1791.
Establishment of the bainko was shaamil in a three-part vistaar of sangheey fiscal or monetary power ( saath with a federal mint or excise kar ) championed by Alexander hamiltan, pehla sachiv of the rajkosh.
Hamilton believed a central bainko was jaruri to stabilize or improve the swadesh 's credit, or to improve handlling of the financial kaarobaar of the sanyukt rajya sarkari antargat the newly enacted samvidhan.
officially prastaavit to the first satr of the pehla Congress in 1790, Hamilton 's Bank faced widespread pratirodh from opponents of increased sangheey power.
sachiv of rajya thomas Jefferson or James medisson led the opposition, which claimed ki the bainko was asanvaidhanik, or that it benefited vyapaariyon or niveshkon at the vyay of the bahumat of the population.
The First bainko bhawan is abhi a National aitihaasik landmark stith in philadelphia, Pennsylvania within swatantraaa neshnal aitihaasik park.
james westle marsters ( born agast 20, 1962 ) is an American karta or sangeetkaar.
Marsters pehla came to the dhyaan of the general public playing the lokapriy akshar spike, a platinum-blond yobbish angrezi pishaach in the television shrenee Buffy the pishaach slayer and its spin-off shrenee, devdoot, isse 1997 to 2004.
chunki tab, he rai gaye on to khel anya vigyaan fiction bhoomikaaye, such as the alian supervillain brainiac on the superman -inspired series Smallville, the omnisexual samay musfir captain jon Hart in angrejon science-fiction dikhaaen Torchwood or aatankwaadi Barnabas greeley in Sci fi 's caprica.
Marsters appeared in a supporting role in the 2007 movie p.s.
i prem tum and as the pramukh vipakshi, Piccolo, in the 2009 kaalpanik adventure filmi Dragonball evolution.
he appeared as a recurring akshar in the pehla ritu of the punaruddhar of hawaii 5-0.
In molecular biology, insaan chorionic gonadotropin ( hcg ) is a hormone produced by the nishechit anda baad dharna.
baad dauraan garbhavastha it is bana by the vikasshil placenta, or baad by the placental ghatak syncytiotrophoblast.
Some cancerous tumors upaj is hormone ; isliye, elevated levels measured jab the rogi is nahin garbhvatee can sise to a cancer diagnosis.
However, it is nahin known whether is production is a contributing kaaran or an prabhaav of tumorigenesis.
The pituitary analogue of hcg, known as luteinizing hormone ( lh ), is utpaadit in the pituitary granthi of males or mahilaon of sab ages.
, the epad rai prohibited the sale of `` homeopathic '' or over the counter hcg aahaar utpaada or ghoshit unhen beyimaan or illegal.
bayons Giselle knowles-carter, gyaat by uske stage naam Beyoncé ( ; born September 4, 1981 ), is an amareeki singer, songwriter, nartki, or abhinetri.
born or raised in huston, texas, wo performed in gayan or dancing pratiyogitaaon as a child pehle forming in 1990 a samooh with Kelly rowland or LaTavia roberson that thi aakhirkaar namit niyati 's child.
ekbar signed to Columbia record, the ladakiyon subsequently became ek of the sansar 's best-selling ladki samooh of sab samay.
The samooh thi plagued by internal virodh and vidhik turmoil or Knowles suffered isse avsaad ki lasted for a kramank of saalo.
dauraan the samooh 's antaraal, noles released her debyue solo album dangerously in prem ( 2003 ), jisase arjeet her five Grammy puraskaar or rai bechi a total of 4.9 lakh nakal in the us alon.
It shakhit billboard number ek singles `` Crazy in Love, '' mana by vh1 to be the `` Greatest song of the 00 's, '' or `` baby ladke. ''
following the disbandment of niyati 's child in 2005, noles 's second solo album b'day ( 2006 ) contained the sheersh five singles `` déjà vu ``, `` apurnty ``, or `` khubasurat Liar ``.
Her performance in dreamgirls ( 2006 ) arjeet her two sunahari globe nominations.
noles ' kaary playing etta james in ki filmi prerit uske subsequent album i am...
sasha fierce ( 2008 ) jisase spawned hits `` if I yahood a Boy ``, `` single Ladies ( put a ring on it ) ``, `` helo ``, or `` mithi sapano ``.
The album bhi helped noles earn chah grammys in 2010, todakar the ricard liye sabase grami puraskaar jiti by a maadaa artist in ek raatri.
Her chauthi album 4 ( 2011 ) deviated towards traditional R & b or became her fourth lagaataar kramank ek album on the billboard 200.
in janvari 2012, noles gave janam to daughter blue ivi carter, her pehla child saath husband jay-z.
Knowles rai bechi over 13 million album in the us or 118 million record worldwide ( as khub as a further 50 million record saath niyati 's child ), or is one of the best-selling music kalakaaron of all time.
The recording udyog sangh of America ( riaa ) pahachaanaa noles as the Top Certified Artist of the 2000s.
in 2009, Billboard named uske the sheersh Radio geeton kalakaar of the dashak and ranked uske the sheersh maadaa kalakaar and the fourth Artist of the dashak.
Beyoncé noles is the sabase manonith stri in Grammy puraskaar itihaas, receiving 17 awards ; other accolades include 12 MTV video music puraskaar, 7 billboard puraskaar sahit a milinium puraskaar, or a star on the hollywood chalanaa of kirti as bhaag of niyati 's Child.
`` engri All the samay '' is the sheershak of a song written by Bruce robison and pehla ankit on uske 1998 album lapeta.
It thi later covered by tim McGraw saath atithi vocalist aasthaa Hill.
released in july 2001, McGraw 's sanskaran thi the duusari single isse mcgraw 's niyat This sarkas bas album.
the song pahunche kramank ek on the Billboard hot desh Singles & treks ( abhi hot desh geeton ) chart.
deer jon is a 2010 amareeki romantic naatak - yuddh filmi abhinit amanda seyfried or chening tatum.
It thi released theatrically in North America on farvari 5, 2010.
the filmi was nirdeshit by lasse hallström, or it is an anukulan of nicholas sparks 's anokhaa of the vahi naam.
it folo the jivan of a sipaahi ( chening Tatum ) after he falls in prem saath a yang stri ( amanda seyfried ).
They decide to exange letters to prayek anya baad he is tainaat to the war.
the film thi filmaaya in 2009 in charlston, dakshin carolina.
despite receiving rinatmak samikshaayen, the film bana a damdaar box daftar pradarshan, knocking band Avatar baad saat saptahanth in first place or grossing a kul of $ 114,977,104 vishwavyaapee.
the film thi released on May 25, 2010 on DVD and Blu-ray.
These hai suchiyaan of the busiest airport in the sanyukt States.
hartsfield–jackson atlanta antarrashtriya Airport is the vyastatam single vimaanashetra in the United rajya.
however, sab of the nai york nagar mahanagar kshetrafal 's airport combine to banaaen the largest airport system in the United rajya, duusari in the sansar in sharten of yatri trekkic, or pehla in the sansar in sharten of kul udaan operations.
doraa the explorer is an American anemated television series created by kris gifford, vaileri walsh, or eric weiner.
doraa the explorer became a regular shrenee in 2000.
The show is carried on the niklodian cable television network, sahit the associated Nick jr. channel.
it aired on sibies jabatak sitambar 2006.
A Spanish-dubbed version pehla aired as bhaag of a Nick en español blaak on NBC saarvbhaumik -owned Telemundo through sitambar 2006 ; chunki april 2008, is version of the kaarykram rai been carried on univision as bhaag of the planeta U blaak.
santa fe ( ; ( tewa : ogha po'oge, ) ) is the puunji of the u.S. state of New mexico.
it is the fourth-largest city in the rajya or is the seat of.
santa Fe ( arth “holy faith” in Spanish ) tha a janasankhyikee of 67,947 in the 2010 janasankhyikee.
it is the principal nagar of a mahanagar sankhyikeey Area jisase encompasses sab of santa fe county or is bhaag of the larger albuquerque-santa fe-las Vegas sanyukt sankhyikeey kshetrafal.
the city’s full naam when santhaapit was la Villa Real de la santa fé de san francisco de asís ( “the Royal kasbaa of the Holy aasthaa of st. francis of assisi” ).
pepsy ( stylized in loarkes as pepsy, formerly stylized in uppercase as pepsy ) is a carbonated naram peya that is utpaadit or manufactured by pepsico.
Created and viksit in 1893 or introduced as bread 's peya, it thi renamed as pepsi-cola on agast 28, 1898, tab to pepsy in 1961.
1765 broadside
The bete of swatantraaa thi a samooh consisting of amareeki deshpremi that originated in the pre-independence uttar amareeki British colonies.
the samooh thi formed to protect the adhikaron of the colonists or to lo to the streets against the taxes by the angrejon sarkari.
ve hai best gyaat for undertaking the boston chaay party in 1773, jisase led to the asahneeya adhiniyamon ( an teevr crackdown by the British sarkari ), and a counter-mobilization by the deshpremi.
osaka kila
is a city in the kansai pradesh of Japan 's main island of Honshu, a designated nagar antargat the Local Autonomy vidhi, the puunji nagar of osaka prifekchar and bhi the largest bhaag of the keihanshin metropolis, which comprises teen pramukh shaharon of Japan, Kyoto, osaka or Kobe.
stith at the munh of the yodo nadi on osaka khadi, osaka is japani 's teesraa largest nagar by janasankhyikee baad Tokyo ( khaas wards ) or yokohama.
Keihanshin is the duusari largest mahanagar area in japani by population or ek of the largest metropolitan areas atyadhik ranked in the sansar, saath nearly 19 lakh logon, and by jidipi the duusari largest area in Japan and the seventh largest kshetrafal in the world.
historically the vanijyik bich of japani, osaka krityon as ek of the cmand centers liye the japani economy.
the ratio between din or raatri samay janasankhyikee is 141 %, the ucchtam in japani, highlighting iske aukaat as an economic bich.
Its nighttime janasankhyikee is 2.6 lakh, the teesraa in the desh, lakin in din the janasankhyikee surges to 3.7 million, duusari tabhi baad tokio ( combining the khaas wards of tokio, which is nahin a single incorporated nagar, liye statistical uddeshy ; see the tokio article liye adhik soochna on the definition and mechap of Tokyo ).
Osaka used to be referred to as the in saamanti Edo period kuki it thi the kendra of vyapaar for rice, creating the first aadhunik futures exchange market in the world.
the choti maramed is a 1989 amareeki anemated musical kaalpanik filmi utpaadit by walt dijani visheshta anemation or vitarit by walt dijani tasviren.
Based on the danish pari tail by hans isai Andersen, the choti Mermaid tells the story of a khubasurat maramed jo dreams of banane insaan.
likhaa, nirdeshit, and produced by ron klements and John musker, saath music by alan menken or harvard Ashman, the filmi suvidhaayen the voices Jodi Benson, Christopher danniel barnes, pat Carroll, Samuel E. Wright, Jason marin, kenneth mangal, Buddy hacket, or Rene Auberjonois.
the 28th filmi in the Walt Disney anemated Classics series, the choti maramed thi released to theatre on navambar 14, 1989 to largely positive samikshaayen, garnering $ 84 million at the baksaa daftar dauraan iske initial relies, and $ 211 lakh in total aaajeevan sakal.
baad the kamyaabi of the 1988 dijani / amblin filmi Who framed Roger khargosh, the choti maramed is die credit for breathing jivan back into the art of Disney anemated visheshta films baad a string of najuk or commercial asafalataaon utpaadit by dijani ki dinaak waapas to the early 1970s.
it bhi marked the prarambh of the era gyaat as the dijani Renaissance.
a stage anukulan of the filmi saath a kitaab by dag rhite or atirikt songs by Alan menken or nai lyricist glen slator kholi in denwar in july 2007 or began pradarshan on broadway janvari 10, 2008.
alt=Close-up photo of a metal spoon filled with a viscous, saaf purple fluid
Purple piya is a kathboli term liye a recreational drug lokapriy in the hip hop jatiyaan in the southern sanyukt rajya, originating in huston, Texas.
iske main sanghatak is nuskhaa -strength khaansee syrup containing codeine or promethazine.
khaansee syrup is typically mixed saath sanghatak such as sprite soft peya or Mountain os or tukade of Jolly rancher candi.
The purplish varna of jamuni piya aata isse dyes in the khaansee syrup.
vahin are numerous kathboli sharten for jamuni drank, sahit sizzurp, jhukna, syrup, piya, barre, jamuni jelly, Texas chaay, and tsikuni.
first/given, madhya, or last/family/surname aarekh with J. S. batch as udhaaharan.
J. S. Bach shared uske die name saath chah taatkaalik parivaar sadasyon and anek vistaarit parivaar members.
He shared his family naam with sabase family sadasyon.
a die name, in pashchimi contexts praayah referred to as a pehla naam, is a nijee naam ki specifies or differentiates between members of a samooh of individuals, visheshkar in a parivaar, sab of jinaki sadasyon praayah share the same family naam ( surname ).
a die naam is purposefully given, usually by a child 's abhibhavak at or nikat janam, in contrast to an inherited ek such as a family name.
A die naam is sometimes legally badla through a name change.
die names hai praayah prayukt in a parichit or dostana manner in anaupchaarik paristhitiyon.
In adhik aupchaarik paristhitiyon the upnaam is used instead, jabatak it is jaruri to distinguish between logon with the vahi surname.
the muhaavara `` on a first-name basis '' ( or `` on first-name sharten '' ) alludes to the apanepan of sambodhit another by a die naam.
The pashchimi style of having dono a parivaar naam ( upnaam ) or a die name is dur isse universal.
in anek deshon it is aam liye ordinary logon to have only ek naam ( a mononym ).
hydrochloric acid is a clear, colourless solution of hydrogen chloride ( h cl ) in water.
it is a highly kshayakaari, strong khanij acid with anek industrial uses.
hydrochloric acid is found naturally in gastric acid.
historically called muriatic acid, or atmaaon of salt, hydrochloric acid thi produced isse vitriol ( sulfuric acid ) or common salt.
it pehla appeared dauraan the Renaissance, or tab it was prayukt by chemists aise as glauber, pristli or davy in unke scientific shodh.
saath pramukh utpaadan starting in the Industrial kranti, hydrochloric acid is prayukt in the rasinic udyog as a rasinic abhikarmak in the large-scale production of vinil chloride liye pivisi plastic, and mdi / tdi liye polyurethane.
It has numerous smaller-scale anuprayog, sahit household cleaning, production of gelatin or anya khaanaa editive, descaling, or chamade prasanskaran.
About 20 lakh ton of hydrochloric acid hai utpaadit annually.
gehun ( triticum spp. ) is a khadyann anaaj, originally isse the levant region of the Near East or Ethiopian hilands, lakin abhi cultivated worldwide.
in 2010, sansar utpaadan of gehun thi 651 million tons, bananaa it the third most-produced khadyann baad maize ( 844 lakh tons ) or rice ( 672 lakh ton ).
gehun thi the duusari most-produced cereal in 2009 ; sansar utpaadan in that saal was 682 lakh ton, baad makka ( 817 lakh ton ), or with rice as a band teesraa ( 679 lakh ton ).
is anaaj is grown on more land kshetrafal than koi anya vanijyik khaanaa.
sansar trade in wheat is greater than liye sab other fasalon sanyukt.
Globally, wheat is the agrani sorce of sabzi protein in insaan khaanaa, having a ucchtar protein content than soybeans or the anya pramukh cereals, maize ( makai ) or rice.
in sharten of kul production tonnages prayukt for food, it is philhal second to rice as the main insaan khaanaa crop or ahead of makka, after allowing for makka 's more extensive upyog in animal feeds.
gehun thi a kunjee factor enabling the emergence of city-based societies at the prarambh of sabhyataa kuki it was one of the first crops ki could be easily cultivated on a vishaal scale, or tha the atirikt advantage of yielding a kataai ki provides long-term bhandar of food.
Wheat contributed to the emergence of city-states in the fertile Crescent, including the babylonian and Assyrian empires.
gehun anaaj is a stepal food used to mek aataa liye leavened, chapata or steamed breads, biscuit, cookies, cakes, naashtaa cereal, pasta, noodles, couscous or liye fermentation to make bear, anya alcoholic peya, or biofuel.
Wheat is planted to a limited extent as a forage crop for pashudhan, and iske straw can be used as a construction saamagree liye roofing phoos.
the puure grain can be milled to chhod just the bhrunposh liye white aataa.
the by-products of is hai chokar or rogaanu.
The puure anaaj is a concentrated source of vitamin, khanij, or protein, jabaki the parishkrut anaaj is mostly mand.
mudran
to prakashit is to make saamagree available to the general public.
jabaki vishisht upyog of the term may vary among countries, it is praayah lagu to text, bimb, or anya audio-visual saamagree on any traditional medium, sahit paper ( akhabaaron, magazine, katalog, ityadi. ).
the shabd prakaashan arthath the adhinium of prakaashan, or bhi refers to koi mudrit nakal.
melisa & Joey is an abisi Family asli television shrenee abhinit melisa jone heart and joy laurence.
it pehla aired on abisi parivaar on agast 17, 2010.
the shrenee folo local rajaneta mel burke ( melisa jone heart ) and Joe Longo ( Joey laurence ), whom mel hires to dekh baad uske niece or nephew after a pension scheme leaves use broke.
the shrenee thi navinikrut by abisi parivaar liye a second season of fifteen apisod, jisase began airing on May 30, 2012 or ended on agast 29, 2012.
Melissa & joy ranks as cabel TV 's # 1 telecast at 8 o'clock aarpaar target audiences 18–34, 18–49 or 12–34 janasankhyikee.
on agast 17, 2012, ABC Family navinikrut melisa & joy liye a teesraa ritu, niyat to premier in vasant 2013.
the dharman wheel, often prayukt to represent the pratishthit Eightfold path
The Noble eightfold path (, ) is ek of the principal shikshaaon of the buddha, jo described it as the rasta agrani to the cessation of ksht ( dukkha ) or the achievement of self-awakening.
It is prayukt to develop insight into the sachcha nature of phenomena ( or reality ) or to eradicate lobh, hatred, or delusion.
the Noble Eightfold Path is the fourth of the buddha 's chaar pratishthit Truths ; the pehla tatv of the Noble eightfold path is, in phere, an samajhnaa of the chaar pratishthit sachai.
it is bhi gyaat as the madhya path or Middle Way.
sab eight tatv of the Path shuru with the shabd `` right '', jisase translates the word samyañc ( in Sanskrit ) or sammā ( in pāli ).
ye denote completion, ekajutata, or coherence, or can bhi sujhaayen the hosh of `` purna '' or `` adarsh ''.
'Samma ' is bhi anudit as `` wholesome '', `` hikmat '' or `` skillful ''.
in buddha pratikwaad, the pratishthit eightfold path is often represented by arthath of the dharman wheel ( dharmachakra ), whose aath tiliyaan represent the eight tatv of the path.
the grami puraskaar for Song of the saal is an sammaan prastut at the grami puraskaar, a ceremony ki thi sthapit in 1958 and originally pukaara the gramophone puraskaar.
puraskaar in anek shrenee hai vitarit annually by the National Academy of recording kala or sciences of the sanyukt States to `` sammaan kalakaari uplabdhi, takneekee proficiency or overall excellence in the recording udyog, without lihaaz to album bikri or chart sthiti. ''
Economics is the soshal vigyaan ki analyzes the utpaadan, distribution, or consumption of goods or sevaayen.
the pad arthshaastra aata isse the pracheen Greek ( ', `` prabandhan of a household, administration '' ) isse ( ', `` house '' ) + ( ', `` custom '' or `` vidhi '' ), hence `` niyam of the house ( tham ) ''.
Political arthvyavastha thi the pehle naam liye the subject, but economists in the late 19th sadi sujhaayaa `` economics '' as a shorter pad liye `` economic vigyaan '' ki bhi avoided a simit political-interest connotation and as samaan in rup to `` mathematics ``, `` aachaar '', or so forth.
a fokas of the subject is kaisaa aarthik agenton vyavhaar or interact and kaisaa economies kaary.
satat saath is, a praathmik textbook bhed is between microeconomics and macroeconomics.
microeconomics examines the behavior of moulik tatv in the economy, including vyaktigat agents ( aise as households or firms or as kharidaar or sellers ) and bazaar, or unke interactions.
Macroeconomics analyzes the entire arthvyavastha or mudde affecting it, including berogari, mahangaai, economic vikaas, or maudrik or fiscal niti.
anya vyapak bhed include those between dhanatmak arthshaastra ( describing `` what is '' ) or normative arthshaastra ( advocating `` kayaa ought to be '' ) ; between aarthik siddhanth and applied arthshaastra ; between tarksangat or behavioral arthshaastra ; or between mukhyadhara arthshaastra ( more `` orthodox '' or dealing saath the `` rationality-individualism-equilibrium nexs '' ) and shaast arthshaastra ( adhik `` radical '' and dealing saath the `` institutions-history-social dhaancha nexus '' ).
aarthik vishleshan may be lagu throughout samaaj, as in kaarobaar, vitt, swasthya care, or sarkari, lakin bhi to aise vividh vishay as aparaadhon, shiksha, the parivaar, law, politics, religion, social sansthaanon, yuddh, or vigyaan.
at the phere of the 21st sadi, the expanding domen of arthshaastra in the soshal sciences rai been described as aarthik samrajyavad.
an increasing kramank of arthshaastriyon have called liye increased jor on paryaavarniya sthirataa ; is area of shodh is gyaat as ecological arthshaastra.
is is a suchi of Schedule IV drugs antargat the niyantrit substances adhinium liye the sanyukt rajya.
jaruri nishkarshon liye davaayen to be lagaai in this schedule:
the drug or other padaarth rai a kam sambhavit liye gaali saapeksh to the davaayen or other substances in schedule III.
the drug or anya padaarth rai a philhal sweekrut chikitsa upyog in upachaar in the sanyukt States.
Abuse of the drug or anya padaarth may sise to limited physical dependence or manovaigyanik dependence saapeksh to the davaayen or anya substances in anusuchee III.
the complete suchi of anusuchee iv davaayen hai as folo.
the prashasnic Controlled substances code Number liye each drug is shaamil.
US county household median aay 2009.
madhya us household aay, 2001-2011
Household income is a measure commonly prayukt by the sanyukt rajya sarkari or nijee sansthaanon.
prayek household is measured by the aay of prayek nivasee over the aayu of 15.
aay includes wages or salaries, berogari insurance, viklaangata bhugtan, child support bhugtan praapt, niyamit rental raseeden, as khub as koi nijee kaarobaar, investment, or other kinds of aay received routinely.
While inflation-adjusted ( `` real '' ) household aay had maharoom increasing almost prayek saal from 1945 to 1999, it has chunki maharoom flat and bhi decreased recently.
u.S. madhya household aay fell isse $ 51,144 in 2010 to $ 50,502 in 2011.
charam garibi in the sanyukt rajya, arth households jeena on kam than $ 2 per din pehle sarkari laabh, doubled from 1996 to 1.5 lakh households in 2011, including 2.8 lakh children.
The nivaasiyon of the household do nahin have to be sambandhit to the head of the household liye unke earnings to be considered part of the household 's aay.
as households tend to share a samaan economic context, the use of household aay remains among the most widely sweekrut upayon of aay.
ki the aakaar of a household is nahin commonly taken into khaataa in such upayon may vikrut koi vishleshan of fluctuations bheetar or among the household aay shrenee, or may rendor sidhaa comparisons between quintiles mushkil or bhi naammumkin.
the bitne rate is paribhaashit as the rate of ghati saath height liye an vayumandaleey parivartaneey.
The parivartaneey shaamil is taapmaana jabatak specified otherwise.
the shabdaawalee arises isse the word lapse in the sense of a decrease or manaahi.
jabaki sabase often lagu to dharti 's maahaul the avadharana can be vistaarit to koi gravitationally samarthit ball of gas.
blue Mountain rajya is an amareeki kamedi series ki premiered on spike on janvari 11, 2010.
the shrenee producers include kris Romano or eric falconer, or it is produced by Lionsgate Television.
the shrenee is parichay a fictional vishvavidhyalayon, Blue Mountain State, and iske footbaal toli, `` The pahaad bakriyon. ''
it portrays nishchit pahaluon of amareeki university jivan, sahit footbaal, sex, binge drinking, drugs, junglee party, and hazing.
In farvari 2012, it thi reported ki Blue Mountain rajya would not be renewed for a fourth ritu.
in kooch 2013, ed marinaro stated ki he is working on a Blue pahaad rajya film.
tehraana inc., formerly tehraana computer, Inc., is an amareeki multinational nigam headquartered in cupertino, California ki dizin, develops, or bikta upabhokta electronics, computer software and nijee computer.
Its best-known hardware products are the Mac line of computer, the ipod music khilaadi, the iphone smartphone, or the ipad tablet computer.
iske software includes the os x or ioes operating systems, the itunes media broujar, the safari web broujar, or the ilife or iwork rachanaatmakataa or utpaadan suites.
The company thi santhaapit on april 1, 1976, or incorporated as tehraana Computer, inc. on janvari 3, 1977.
the shabd `` computer '' thi removed isse its name on January 9, 2007, reflecting iske shifted fokas towards upabhokta electronics after the parichay of the iPhone.
tehraana is the sansar 's second-largest soochna praudyogiki company by revenue baad samsung electronics, and the sansar 's third-largest mobile phone maker baad samsung or nokia.
Fortune patrika named tehraana the sabase admired company in the sanyukt States in 2008, and in the sansar isse 2008 to 2012.
however, the company has received criticism liye iske contractors ' labor practices, or liye tehraana 's apana paryaavarniya or kaarobaar practices.
, tehraana maintains 394 khudara stores in chaudaa deshon as khub as the online tehraana store and iTunes store.
It is the second-largest saream traded corporation in the sansar by market capitalization, saath an estimated value of us $ 414 arab as of January 2013.
, the company tha 72,800 permanent full-time employees or 3,300 asthai full-time karmchaaree vishwavyaapee.
iske worldwide salanaa revenue in 2012 totalled $ 156 arab.
Section 8 awaas in the South Bronx
khand 8 of the Housing adhinium of 1937 ( ), praayah bas gyaat as khand 8, as repeatedly amended, authorizes the bhugtan of rental awaas assistance to nijee jameendaar on behalf of lagbhag 3.1 lakh low-income households.
it operates through anek kaarykram, the largest of which, the awaas chunaav Voucher kaarykram, pays a large portion of the rents or utilities of about 2.1 lakh households.
the us vibhaag of Housing or shahari vikaas manages the Section 8 kaarykram.
The awaas Choice vauchar Program provides `` tenant-based '' rental sahaayta, so a tenant can move from ek ikai of at least nunatam awaas visheshta to another.
it also allows individuals to apply unke monthly vauchar towards the khariden of a home, with over $ 17 billion going towards such purchases prayek saal ( isse ncsha.org vishleshan ).
the adhiktam allowed vauchar is $ 2200 a month.
khand 8 bhi authorizes a kismein of `` project-based '' rental assistance kaarykram, under jisase the maalik reserves some or sab of the ikai in a bhawan for low-income tenants, in return for a sangheey sarkari guarantee to make up the antar between the tenant 's yogadan and the rent for 1 cent in the owner 's contract with the sarkari.
a kiraayedaar jo pattey a subsidized project hoga lose access to the project-based riyaayat.
the sanyukt States vibhaag of awaas or shahari vikaas or sanyukt rajya Department of diggajon Affairs have a khaas khand 8 kaarykram called vash ( Veterans afares supportive awaas ), or hud-vash, which detaa out a nishchit kramank of khand 8 vauchar to yogya beghar or varanaa vulnerable us hathiyaarband forces diggajon.
restaraan categorized by type and information parichay these alag prakaar.
u.S. sangheey arakshit notes in the mid-1990s
the itihaas of the sanyukt rajya dollars cover adhik than 200 years.
